warning. This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up Jim bros, big Paul here today and I've got a really cool one for you. We are going to dig into the serostim somatropin for you bros out there. That's growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, HGH, the prescribing guidelines and phase three clinical trial data and try to unpack some of this and extrapolate some of what applies to bodybuilding in this prescribing guideline information in clinical trial data. They use dosing protocols of four, five and six milligrams daily. For those of you that don't understand milligrams and only speak bro, that is 15, 12 and 18 units of serostim and the most commonly prescribed dose for serostim for adult males is 18 units. I know that's going to make your head explode. We're going to dig into all that in just one second. All right. Let's dig into this fucker. Hit that like and subscribe button before we get started. If you don't like it, well you can go fly a fucking kite. Indications and usage serostim somatropin HGH for you bros in the audience is indicated for the treatment of HIV patients with wasting or cachexia to increase lean body mass and body weight and improve physical endurance. Dosages and administration. Serostim is administered subqtaneous by subqtaneous injection, not intramuscular subqtaneous. Serostim therapy should be carried out under the regular guidance of a physician who's experiencing the diagnosis and management of HIV infection. HIV associated wasting or cachexia. The usual starting dose of serostim is 0.1 milligram per kilogram. We're going to trenslate that for you here in just a second. subqtaneously once daily up to a total dose of six milligrams. Now think about that for a second. Six milligrams is 18 units per day. subqtaneously administered one, one time per day, noT3 times per day, not five times per day. So serostim should be administered subqtaneously once a daily at bedtime. Another important notice here, and I've talked about this a million fucking times. You take it before bed because you're in a fasted state. Then GH shifts you to lipolysis and if you take it during the day while you're eating food, you're going to end up making yourself insulin resistant. You're going to have high glucose levels. So the idea here, they don't really go into detail about it, but the reason why they do the nighttime administration is to prevent the rise in glucose levels that comes along with taking GH. So you take the whole bolus before bed. The dosage protocol weight ranges we have here greater than 55 kilograms. For those of you that are here in the USA, that's greater than 121 pounds. It was a six milligram daily dose of subqtaneous subqtaneous dosing. That is 18 units, 18 units of serostim daily at bedtime for 45 to 55 kilograms, 99 to 121 pounds. That would be five milligrams, 15 units for you bros, 35 to 45 kilograms, 75 to 99 pounds is four milligrams of serostim. subqtaneous daily and up to 35 pounds, 35 kilograms, which is 75 pounds. It 0.1 of that would be, um, three and a half. You know, if you were at 35 kilograms, it would be three and a half, three and a half milligrams or seven units or nine, nine, I'm sorry, 10 and a half units. My math is off there. Sorry. Treatment of serostim at 0.1 milligram per kilogram every other day. This is interestinGHere. Folks was associated with fewer side effects and resulted in similar improvement as compared with serostim at 0.1 milligram per kilogram daily. I have been experimenting lately with every other day dosing and have had great luck with it. It seems to keep your blood sugar in check. And we'll dig into some of that, uh, here at later. Therefore a starting dose of serostim at 0.1 milligram per kilogram every other day should be considered in patients at increased risk for adverse effects related to growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, i.e. glucose intolerance. So the primary way that they alleviated glucose intolerance during the trials was to go to every other day dosing and general dose reductions, reducing the total daily dose or the number of doses per week should be considered for side effects, potentially related to human growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone therapy. Most of the effect of serostim on work output in lean body mass was apparent after 12 weeks of treatment. So it took about 12 weeks for them to see effect. The effect was maintained during an additional 12 weeks of therapy for total 24 weeks of total Therapy. We're talking about six months, roughly six months. There are no safety or efficacy data available from the controlled studies in which patients were treated with serostim for continuously for more than 48 weeks. Now keep in mind, this is from the clinical trial data. If you want to go look at the FDA website, there is a collection of data for it. It was approved for pharmaceutical use, I believe in 1998 and it's been around for fucking 25 years now, um, 27 years, something like that. And if you go look at the FDA website, I'm not going to post a link. You can, you guys know how to use Google. I'm not going to Google it for you, but you can Google it yourself. The number one reported side effect with the serostim was glucose intolerance. That was the highest related one. The second most highest related, um, side effect was carpal tunnel, nerve, nerve pain. There were very few cases of acromegaly and no reported cases of significant organomegaly. So this whole thing about growing organs just doesn't seem to be true at all. There is some risk of, of acromegaly if you continue to use it for a period of time, hands, feet, nose, ears, things, head can grow, but it doesn't seem to grow organs like everybody seems to worry about that. That's just not even, not even a thing. Um, preparation for administration. Each vial of serostim has five or six milligrams reconstituted with 0.5 to one ML of sterile water for injection. Each vial of serostim with four milligrams is can reconstitute it with 0.5 to one ML of bacteria static water for injection for patients with sensitive to benzoyl alcohol. Serostim may be reconstituted with sterile water for injection. Uh, there's an interesting thing in here that they, they talk about. I'm not going to read through all this, but what basically what it is is the water that comes with the serostim is actually, um, not bacteria static water. It is, it is sterile water, which only holds the solution for 24 hours. So if you evidently, if you don't use the whole dose, it degrades quickly unless you use bacteria static water. So it seems that the way to properly use it, if you're breaking it up into multiple doses would be to use bacteria static water. They talk about that here for the multi-dose injection that your bacteria static water, um, is required. Uh, and it talks about it right here. Dosages and forms and strength. Single use administration is to be reconstituted with sterile water for injection included in the package. Multi-use administration, the four milligram per vial is to be reconstituted with bacteria static water. And I am assuming that most bros that are using this are making that mistake of using sterile water and maybe with your generic growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone or probably, um, using, using sterile, sterile water instead of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. And you're degrading your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone contradictions. These are things that it can cause problems with. growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone therapy should not be initiated with patients with acute critical illnesses due to complications following open heart abdominal surgery and multiple accidental trauma and acute respiratory failure. Uh, from what I understand from it, it's a seed warnings and precautions. I don't know that I'm going to dig into all that we may, but what it can cause pulmonary edema. So those of you guys going in for surgeries and things like that, you should probably yank it beforehand because of the water retention, potential complications because of water retention and pulmonary edema after trauma. So if you're having any kind of massive surgery injury, probably not a good idea to use it initially after that. Um, a active malignancy, this is something that we know about. If you've had an active malignancy or a pre-existing malignancy, AKA cancer, the treatment is supposed to be closely monitored and that growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone can increase indirectly through IGF-1 the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of cancer. So it doesn't cause cancer, but if you have an existing cancer, it can speed up the growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone of it. Anything that's going to increase IGF-1 all the stuff that we do in body building, um, potentially could have that effect in eating more food, taking anabolics, all of these other things. If you have an existing malignancy could potentially increase the risk of, of tumor growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Hypersensitivity. Serostim is contradicted in patients with known hypersensitivities to somatropin and it's excipients. Um, some people have allergies to growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. I've seen some people have immune response. Lymph nodes gets swollen up. Just bad luck, dude. Diabetic retinopathy. So if you're, if you have diabetes, somatropin is contradicted in patients with active or proliferative or severe non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy. So you have to be careful with diabetes. Um, warning and precautions. There's an additional, um, increased mortality with patients with acute critical illnesses due to complications from open following open heart surgery, abdominal surgery. This is the one we were talking about early with acute respiratory failure has been reported after treatment with pharmacological amounts of somatropin. Um, this, this goes back to the whole thing with the pulmonary edema, uh, that can cause because caused by somatropin after you have a injury or surgery. So just be fucking careful with it after that. Uh, we don't need to go that neoplasms. We already talked about that. Um, impaired glucose tolerance. This one is worth digging into. Hyperglycemia may occur in individuals due to a variety of reasons in wasting patients treatment with serostim. Um, every other day for 12 weeks was associated with approximately a 10 milligram per decaliter and six milligram per decaliter agree increases in mean fasting blood glucose level concentrations respectively. Um, I'm sorry, that was daily, not every other day. IMisspoke there. So on average, uh, it was approximately it, the, the, so the, every, the, uh, I'm sorry, let me go back 10 mil. It was a 10 milligram per milliliter increase in blood sugar, fasting blood sugar with the everyday dosing in a six milligram per decaliter increase with the every other day dosing. So it was about half of the impact on, on blood sugar. Patients with other risk factors and glucose intolerance should be monitored during serostim therapy. During safety surveillance cases of new onset impaired glucose tolerance, new onset type two diabetes and exacerbation of preexisting diabetes have been reported in patients receiving serostim. Some patients develop diabetic ketoacidosis, which is not fucking fun and diabetic coma in some patients. These conditions improved with serostim discontinued while others glucose intolerance persisted. Some of these patients required additional initiation or adjustment of antibiotic diabetic treatment while on serostim and clinical trials. Serostim patients with lipodystrophy and unapproved indication evidence of dose dependent glucose intolerance in related adverse reaction were observed with four milligram serostim daily and four milligram every other day. The lipodystrophy thing, um, from, from what I recall, you, you can actually have weird deposits or, or burning of fat. You have to rotate your injections. You actually get sometimes it actually will cause, uh, um, cause injection sites to, uh, actually have less fat in that area. So that's something to be aware of. And it was interesting that some people had, um, additional requirement for anti-diabetic therapy after discontinuing the, the GH. And it's also idiotic. Like bros are splitting it. I see it all the time with guys on contest prep guys will, will split. And I have done this in the past where I'll take it in the morning and at night because of the, because of the effects on lipolysis and increased fat burning. But now we have so many good fat burners, the metabolic aids, GLP ones, things like that, that we, GH is not really that effective of a fat burner, but the bros that are splitting it up into four doses daily or five doses, whatever the fuck they're doing. And then they get out of contest prep and they wonder why they're fucking diabetic. It's because, because they have not used the GH as it was designed. It's a, it's a known contra no known, known side effect that it's going to cause increase in blood glucose. And keep in mind these, these results here, we're on single daily dosing, not splitting it up multiple and pounding carbs like bodybuilders do. And dudes end up making themselves insulin resistant when they're on fucking contest prep when you shouldn't be. All right. Other potential side effects, intracranial hypertension, intracranial hypertension with papilledema, visual changes, headache, nausea, and vomitinGHas been reported in a small number of patients treated with somatropin products. Typically occurred within the first eight weeks after the initiation of therapy. Um, you know, I, I guess it's an accumulation of fluid in the, in the head and guys end up with headaches and vision blurred vision. I've never personally heard of anybody having those types of problems, but I guess it's problem. We talked about the hypersensitivity, the earlier fluid retention, carpal tunnel syndrome. This is another problem that bodybuilders are very well aware of. Increased tissue turgor swelling, particularly in the hands and feet and muscle musculoskeletal discomfort, pain and swelling and stiffness. I know guys that report having stiff muscles and joints while on HGH may occur during treatment with serostim, but may resolve spontaneously with analgesic therapy or after reducing frequency of dosing. They talk about moving to the every other day dosing schedule to, to lower those side effects. Carpal tunnel syndrome may occur during treatment with serostim. If symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome do not resolve by decreasing the weekly number of doses of serostim, it is recommended that the treatment be discontinued for a time period. I've seen this with people in doctors. You go in and see your orthopedic surgeon. They're going to tell you that you need surgery. A lot of times that that carpal tunnel that you have is acute. It's not a chronic thing. It could become chronic in something that does require surgery, but generally it resolves when you reduce dose, take, take time off. When somatropin is administered subqtaneously at the same site over a long period of time, tissue atrophy may result. This is where you get the divots where your fat disappears in that area. This can be avoided by rotating injection sites. Pancreatitis cases of pancreatitis have been reported rarely in children and adults receiving somatropin therapy with some evidence supporting greater risk in children compared to adults. I have not seen this, but I guess it is possible published in the literature indicates that girls who have Turner syndrome may be at greater risk of pancreatitis. Pancreatitis should be considered in any somatropin treated patient, especially when they develop abdominal pain. We're going to skip this clinical trial experience in the 12 week placebo trial patients were treated with serostim. The most common adverse reactions to be associated with serostim are muscular skeletal discomfort and increased tissue swelling. The hands and feet were frequently observed with serostim. I want to want to administer it on a daily basis. These symptoms were often subside subsided and with continued treatment or dose reduction. And that's what I've seen too. As you take growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone over a period of time, usually those side effects go away. Discontinuity let's see where it goes on here. Approximately 23% of the patients receiving serostim on a daily reported side effects in 11% of patients on every other day reported side effects discontinuance as a result of adverse reactions occurred in 10.3% of patients receiving serostim daily. 6.6% of the patients receiving the every other day dosing discontinued treatment. So it seems to be there's a great reduction in side effects with the every other day dosing. And as they reported earlier, it doesn't seem to have that large of an impact on effects. And really when you think about it, logically growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, what we're leveraging it for for growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is, is the effect on IGF one and IGF one stays elevated for 48 to 72 hours. Something like that. I don't, don't quote me on that. I'm sure there's going to be some science nerd that's going to tell me it's 36.2 hours after you take, take the dose. Okay, I get it. Motherfucker. Um, keep your autism to yourself. But, but what I would tell you is it does seem like there's a great reduction in side effects and it doesn't seem to that negatively affect the outcomes and maybe every other day dosing is something that our population should consider. Um, the most common reasons for dose reduction or discontinuance were, um, the hand numbness, uh, edema, carpal tunnel syndrome, sorry, sorry, water retention, nerve pain, um, elevated glucose levels and elevated triglyceride levels. Yeah. If glucose and let's unpack the elegant elevated triglyceride levels here. If glucose, uh, uptake is impaired, if there is temporary insulin resistance, what the body will do is start converting carbohydrates, glucose and to triglycerides to lipids. And you will see a right, that, that is a, that is a canary in the coal mine of insulin resistance. So if you have blood work done, a one C is fine, but triglycerides are high. It is an indicator that you probably have some sort of underlying insulin resistance going on. All right, we'll skip on ahead here. They have the table of the reported side effects with daily and every other day dosing. Um, you can see here, they must get, musculoskeletal system disorders, aches, pains, whatever. Um, in the every other day, 18 unit dosing or the everyday 18 unit dosing, it was, um, a pretty large percent, 24% reported, um, patients. Um, it, it was, uh, let's see an edema was 11.3%. Um, and every other day and 26% in daily, um, sorry, the musculoskeletal was 24% in the, um, every other day and 36% in the daily, uh, edema fatigue. Uh, you know, a lot of guys report fatigue. I get really tired from taking growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. It was three and a half percent in every other day, 5% in daily. Uh, edema was 11% in every other day and 26% in daily. So one in four had edema. Gynecomastia was three and a half percent in every other day, five and a half percent in daily. That is another side effect of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone that a lot of people don't realize it's a downstream effect of IGF one can increase gynecomastia growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. So people sometimes can get gyno. IMean, from the numbers here, we're looking at one in 20 roughly get gyno from, from growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Um, you throw the bros that are running, their estrogen levels super high. They're a little bit of that in there too. Um, the central nervous system disorders, parasthesia and hypothesia. It was a very small percentage. Um, edema generalized 1.2% on the every other day, 5.9. I don't know what it means versus edema. Oh, peripheral, their peripheral edema would be, um, the high percentage would be hands and feet peripheral edema. That's what they mean by peripheral edema. So it was 11.3 for hands and feet on the every other day, 26% on the daily. That is a pretty, pretty, pretty big difference between the two. IMean, it's a drop from 26% to 11% and generalized edema overall body fluid retention was 5.9% on daily 1.2% on, um, every other day. That's a pretty significant, uh, drop. And I'm not going to go through all of this. Uh, the lipodystrophy, uh, tables here. I'm not going to go through all that. Let's look at metabolism disorders. Hyperglycemia, um, blood glucose, blood glucose increase was 3.8% on every other day. Dosing that was at 12 units on daily dosing. It was 13.8% on 12 units. So there you go. And what was the previous table? Let's look back. This was, uh, this was the six, six, six milligram. That was the 18 units. So, um, glucose metabolism and other related adverse reactions during the 12 week treatment period studies one and two, the incidence of glucose related adverse reactions was 4% for the placebo group. So the placebo group had, had an adverse reaction. Um, that's hilarious. Um, and 13% for the four milligram every other day group. Um, that, which is different with a hat head up here. No, that's correct. Um, and then 4% for the, sorry, 13% for the four milligram every other day group. So it was about one in 10 and 22% in the four milligram daily group, which was 12 units, which is not what they have up here. So IMust've misread something up here. I'm not sure if I understand what the table said, but it looks like here that it was 13% of the people on the 12 units every other day group had rising glucose levels, 22% and the daily group had a rise in glucose level glucose levels. Now you dumb fuckers that are splitting your doses up throughout the day. It's probably even, even worse. Um, 23 patients discontinued due to hyperglycemia while serous, while receiving serostim during the phase of the studies, 3.2% of the 12 week induction phase, 2.1% in the extension phases. Um, let's see here. I'm not going to go through all that. Post marketing experience. The following adverse reactions have been identified during the post approval use of serostim. Keep in mind, the other stuff was the, from the clinical trials, it's all the same stuff we talked about. New onset of impaired glucose tolerance is the top reported side effect. Um, new existing, new onset of type two diabetes. It can cause type two diabetes. Um, for the bros that are throwing insulin at it to get their glucose levels down, you're just probably making your insulin resistance even worse. The, uh, the bros, uh, that are running a basal insulin like Lantus daily to get those levels back down. You're probably just making shit even fucking worse. Exacerbation of preexisting diabetes, diabetic keto, ketoacidosis, diabetic coma, um, 11 beta hydroxy steroid dehydrogenase type one. The microzomal enzyme is required for the conversion of cortisone to its active metabolite cortisol in hepatic adipose tissue. Somatropin, uh, inhibits 11 beta hydroxy steroid dehydrogenase. Consider that, that you can end up having issues with impaired glucocorticoid metabolism while on, while on a growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. That's just something to, to patients were treated with glucocorticoid replacement therapy for previously diagnosed. Hypoadrenalism may require an increase in their maintenance stress or stress following an initial initiation phase of somatropin. So, so keep in mind, um, I think, you know, I'm just speculatinGHere. Maybe some of the things that people have that are masked as adrenal fatigue could possibly be from growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone use. I see guys that get diagnosed with the adrenal fatigue. Um, so that's another thing to consider here. Uh, cytochrome P four 50 metabolized drugs, uh, limited published data indicate that somatropin treatment increases cytochrome P four 50 C Y P four 50 mediated, uh, clearance in men and man. Sorry. These data suggest that somatropin administration may alter the clearance of compounds metabolized by the CYP four 50 liver enzymes, corticosteroids, sex steroids, which applies to us, uh, anticoagulants, et cetera, et cetera. Therefore careful monitoring is advised when somatropin administration is combined with these drugs, um, that are metabolized by the CYP four 50 liver enzymes, however, form of drug interaction studies have not been conducted. Um, this, this, uh, from what I understand would increase metabolism of steroids from what I understand. And maybe it only affects oral steroids. Oral estrogen, uh, because oral estrogens may reduce serum IGF one response to somatropin treatment. So those are your bros that want to use your oral estrogen and things like that to get your IGF one levels up. You're actually making it worse. Receiving oral estrogen replacement may require greater doses of somatropin, uh, insulin or other injectable hypoglycemic in agents, patients with diabetes, mentalitis who received a concoctment treatment of somatropin may require adjustment of their doses of insulin and other hypoglycemic agents. So it, you're probably going to need more insulin. Us bros know that shit. I don't know what else there is here. Working with, um, worth looking at. There's no signs of hepatic impairment, renal impairment subjects with chronic renal failure tend to have decreased somatropin clearance compared to those with normal renal function. However, studies have not been conducted on serostim in patients with renal impairment. Gender effect, bioidentical, biomedical literature indicates that gender related differences in the mean clearance of recombinant human growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone could exist. However, no gender based analysis has been done. Overdose, a short term acute overdose, which could lead to initial hypoglycemia and subsequent hyperglycemia. Long-term overdosage could result in signs and symptoms of acromegaly considered with known effects of excess growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone. Now keep in mind, their clinical dosinGHere was four, five, and six milligrams, 12, 15, and 18 units. So I don't know what their definition of overdosing of it is. Um, let's see if there's anything else here from a, from a, uh, from a, uh, kinetics and from a dynamics effects on protein and lipid and carbohydrate metabolism. A one week study in six patients shown that the trippy treatment improved in nitrogen balance and increased protein, sparing lipid oxidation and had little effect on overall carbohydrate metabolism. We know that decreases in total Trunk body fat and increases in lean body mass were observed in the two double blind placebo controlled studies were administered for 12 weeks with, with patients with lipodystrophy. So we know that that is the case as well. It means it makes you grow muscle effects on nitrogen and mineral retention in one study treatment with serostim resulted in retention of phosphorus, potassium, nitrogen, and sodium. We know that from the additional fluid retention, the ratio of retained potassium and nitrogen during the serostim therapy was consistent with retention of those elements in the lean tissue, physical performance, cycle, ergometry, work output, treadmill, and performance were examined in the 12 week periods in both studies. Work output improves significantly with both the groups receiving serostim and subqtaneously versus placebo isometric muscle performance as measured by grip strength decline, probably as a result of the trensient increase of carpal tunnel absorption, pharmacokinetics, the absolute, this is something that we want to hear about here for us bros. The absolute bioavailability of subqtaneous administration was determined to be between 70 to 90%. The mean time after subqtaneous administration is significantly longer than seen in intravenous situation in normal male volunteers with somatropin approximately four hours versus 0.6 hours indicating that subqtaneous absorption of somatropin is a rate limiting process means it stays in your system for longer. Distribution, the steady state volume distribution following intravenous administration of somatropin in normal male volunteers. We don't really care about that metabolism. Although the liver plays a role in metabolism, GHGH is primarily cleaved in the kidneys. Um, elimination, uh, see we're given a dose of six milligrams subqtaneously was 4.28 to 2.5 hours similarly observed in normal male volunteers. The renal clearance of recombinant HGH after subqtaneous administration in nine patients with HIV was, yeah, we don't really care about all that. Pediatric gender, race, no studies, hepatic impairment. Um, let's see. And I think that's pretty much it. You know, this is the stuff that we care about. You know, you can see here the tables and the changes in body composition. You can see that the groups that were treated had an increase in lean body mass, a decrease in fat. We all know that from our experiences of taking it and they have the tables here with all the performance increases. Um, they talk about storage and handling. Serastam and dilutant should be stored at room temperature expiration, which is interesting. 30 degrees Celsius, 59 to 86 degrees. Single use after reconstitution water for injection. The reconstitution should be used immediately and the unused portion discarded. So if you're using the mixing solution with the, with just the mixing water in it, um, the sterile water in it, it's, they say to toss it right afterwards. Multi-use vials after reconstitution with bacteriostatic water for injection. The reconstitution solution should be held in refrigeration 36 to 46 degrees for up to 14 days. Avoid freezing vials of Serastam. This can damage the product. Um, and that's pretty much it guys. Uh, you know, some interesting stuff in here that we can extrapolate. IMean, just kinda to summarize, you know, my thoughts on it. Uh, there's a lot of stupid that we do. Uh, I don't know where guys came up with these three and four unit dosing schedules. Units are a measurement of fluid volume, not an actual dose. The clinical in the clinical setting and it's prescribed in milligrams, not in units. That's just a fucking bro thing. Uh, so the whole units thing is just, just butt stupid. IMean, we really, we don't talk about BPC one, five, seven in three units or four units. We talk about it in micrograms and grams. We don't talk about MOTC in units. GH is really the only thing that the really idiotic dosing schedules that guys have come up with where they're splitting doses up multiple times a day or likely making shit worse. Uh, uh, maybe every other day dosing is something that we should consider. If you have side effects such as glucose intolerance and water retention, it seems like that greatly reduces it and has very minimal effect on the outcomes. I didn't go into all that, but there's a table that shows the outcomes weren't that really different between daily and every other day dosing. So maybe a large bolus every other day, taking it before bed when carbs aren't present seems to reduce, uh, seems to reduce glucose intolerance issues rather than splitting it up all day long. Like, like a lot of idiots do. Uh, you know, maybe there could be a compelling argument for splitting it up on contest prep when you're trying to burn fat potentially. But I, you know, look, I, there's a lot of stupid shit that bros do and maybe guys aren't running enough of it to get anything out of it. IMean, they're giving children the four milligram or three and a half milligram, which is 12, 11 and a half units, right? If math is right, that's what they're giving kids. Um, so, you know, look, I'm not saying to run out and take that, but just some things to think about some things to chew on. Let me know what you think in the comment section below. See you on the next episode, motherfuckers.