WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle-tested. Expert-formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright folks, Big Paul here today with another anabolic Q&A. Today we're going to talk about Atlantis without GH, how long should your off-season and cutting phases be. We're also going to talk about whether or not fasting is a good idea for a regular gym goer. We're going to dig into all that in just one second. Alright, so first question here is from Reese Miller 99. Reese asks, thoughts on using Atlantis without HGH? I think the insulin thing is something guys get very confused on. I know there are a lot of people out there that have recommended Atlantis because Atlantis is sort of a safer option if you're going to dabble with insulin. It's pretty hard to go hypoglycemic with Atlantis. I'm not saying that it's impossible. You certainly can, so proper precautions still need to be taken. But I think you need to understand what each does. Atlantis is a basal insulin. Basal insulins are designed to replace the background insulin that your body makes all the time. So your body will make like a unit or two of insulin per hour, something around there, maybe a little more, a little less depending on the size of the person you are, how much food you eat, etc. Atlantis is a 24-hour insulin. Now it does tail off after something like 12 to 13 hours, something like that. But Atlantis is a 24-hour insulin designed to replace the background insulin that's present in your body at all times. You're not going to get much of a performance-enhancing effect from it like you would a rapid-acting insulin, which is designed to be used to deal with large boluses of carbohydrates at mealtime. So Atlantis, pulling this back and looking at it, how diabetics use insulin. Diabetics would use a basal insulin to keep their fasted glucose levels in check and to replace that background insulin that's present at all times. And then they use a rapid or medium-acting insulin to deal with mealtime boluses of food. Bodybuilders got themselves all confused here. There was an argument that Atlantis would be something decent to take a little bit of pressure off your pancreas and have a prophylactic effect if you're pounding a ton of carbs. With GH, GH tends to make insulin resistance rise. So your body will start making more insulin to keep up with that insulin resistance and you get in a spiral where you can end up with pancreatic burnout because of overproduction of insulin and eating a ton of carbs. Now there are things that we can do to sort of manipulate that and make it unnecessary to use Atlantis. Carb cycling is an example of that. What I do in my carb cycling diets is I will run high, medium and low days and then I just run insulin, usually a rapid-acting insulin, at meals one, three and five on my high days. Carefully measure things. I'm not encouraging you to take insulin. This is not a recommendation. I'm just telling you what I do. I'm a stupid, dummy bodybuilder. Don't go out and do this yourself. This is not recommended for everybody. This is not an amateur rookie move that you should make. But that's how I deploy insulin. I limit it to my one to two high days per week. The medium days are just a regular day. Sometimes I will use a little bit of rapid insulin pre-workout but on contest prep I do not. And then the low carb days, which are my off days from the gym, we pull the carbs down very low and give our pancreas a break and let insulin sensitivity reset a bit. So that would make running something like Atlantis unnecessary daily. Now there are some people that have pancreatic deficiency. I do. It's genetic. It runs in my family. I don't make enough insulin to deal with everything. So that's a completely different situation. I am a really weird type of diabetic type 1b diabetic where I don't make enough insulin. You'll hear me talk about it, but that where I use Atlantis. But that's why I use Atlantis. It's prescribed by a doctor. It's managed by a physician. I'm not just willy-nilly doing it. I would say for 99% of bodybuilders, unless you're jamming down 800, 900, 1000 grams of carbs every day for years on end, it's probably unnecessary. So I would consider carb cycling. If you're not runninGHGH, if you're not a serious competitive bodybuilder, then probably something messing around with something like Atlantis and other insulins is just completely unnecessary. This is more of an advanced bodybuilders technique that for most gym goers, 99% of gym goers, it's not going to be of much benefit or help. All right, folks, I want to take a quick break from this episode to tell you about the new e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together, the Scientific Principles of Antibiotics and PEDs. This is the most comprehensive PED e-course ever put together with over 80 modules, including intros to PEDs, major steroid profiles, competitor off-season cycles, non-competitor cycles, contest prep cycles, HGH fundamentals, insulin fundamentals, side effect management, safer use concepts, fat loss agents, estrogen management, and advanced PED and hypertrophy science. It is the best course out there of its kind. Go check it out. Link is in the video description below. If I do a 24 week bulk slash mass phase, how long should I do a cut phase for? Well, this just depends. I like to alternate back and forth between the two. I usually do one good size push per year and then I'll do one hard cut per year to get myself lean, to reset insulin sensitivity, get my body composition in a good spot, help with gastric emptying and get myself set up for a rebound to go do another off-season push. Now, what you'll find out when you push an off-season for a certain amount of time, the wheels just start to fall off after a while. Your body fat starts to go up, body composition declines, response to the gear declines, everything just sort of falls apart. Things just don't work anymore. You start getting achy, creaky. It's just not productive anymore. I find that that phase can last somewhere around 16 to 20 weeks. I have extended off-season a little bit longer than that before. I think 24 weeks is probably a bit long for most people unless you've stayed lean. If you get to the point where you can't see your abs anymore, you've gotten too fat. If you get to the point where you just can't complete your meals and you're not gaining any weight, you're probably blown out where you just can't handle anymore. If you're not progressing on the weights, it's time to pull back and take a break. So usually what I'll do is pull back for like six to eight weeks, just maintain, run a cruise, let my body clear out a little bit, let my body reset, and then I go into a cutting phase. Now with the cutting phase, usually 16 weeks is the most that I see as productive when you do a cutting phase unless you're seriously fat. 20 weeks being the outside, most people can't sustain a cut for much longer than that. After a while, what happens is your metabolism just starts fighting back against you. You get diet fatigue, your gym performance sucks, you just feel like crap. So I've found that 16 weeks is about the maximum that most people can handle a cut before you need to take a break. Now if you've gotten so fat that 16 weeks isn't enough time to get you lean, you're going to have to break it up into multiple phases. So usually what I'll do is do a 16 week cut and then a four to six week diet break and then back into a cut again. Usually what you can expect as far as fat loss, somewhere between one to two pounds a week is a reasonable fat loss on a fat loss phase. Much more than that, it's going to be hard to do. IMean you could do the math on it, a two pound per week fat loss is going to be a 1,000 calorie per day deficit. That is quite a bit and depending on what size you are, like a small woman probably can't sustain a 1,000 calorie a day net energy balance deficit. That would be a ton of cardio, hardly any food. A big dude might be able to do that. Some people can do more. Initially when you start a diet, you're going to have a big drop in weight but that's just water weight pulling off. Once you get set into the diet, that's going to level out and you're going to have somewhere between one to two pounds per week. I've also found that when you get more than two pounds a week, you tend to just start losing muscle tissue. So that's a realistic expectation. I would say on a 16 week cut, realistically a pound to a pound and a half per week on average. So you're looking at somewhere between 15 to 25 pounds of body fat that you can drop during a phase. That's why it's important not to let yourself get too fat in that off-season mass phase because the fatter you get, the longer you're going to have to push to get the fat off and the higher you are going to be at risk of losing muscle tissue. Casey Parker asks, how beneficial do you think metformin can be to someone trying to get huge? Would it be used as a stepping stone before insulin or alongside it? So here's the thing with metformin. I have sort of leaned away from metformin and used berberine as my first line of defense. We just talked about in the previous section about mass phase, how long you can push a mass phase. Metformin can be a tool that you can use to push a mass phase a little bit further. When insulin sensitivity starts to decline, you can recover some of that. HGH is or can have an impact on insulin sensitivity as well. So it sort of counteracts that. Berberine seems to have a similar effect without some of the problems that metformin comes along with. Metformin also, a downside of metformin that I have discovered is that it is a serious appetite suppressant. It affects ghrelin and leptin signaling in the body, similarly to what semi-glutide or Zempic, if you're familiar with the name brand, does. So I have in the past used metformin on contest prep to help with appetite suppression. One downside of it though you have to be careful with is that you can end up goinGHypo. Metformin, I've come full circle on it. It is a tool that it's in the toolbox if you get to a point where insulin sensitivity sucks, you need to get insulin sensitivity better. I would opt with berberine first and oftentimes it's just from pushing the gh and the food too hard. If you just clen up your diet, do a little bit of cardio, that'll probably fix things as well. It also makes it hard to eat in the offseason. So if you can't eat, it's going to be hard to grow. It has some stomach issues as well. It can cause diarrhea and bloating. So that can be a problem in the offseason as well. I really only use it anymore on contest prep phases at the end of contest prep. And even then I haven't used it probably in a year and a half or so. If you struggle with appetite and you need to suppress appetite and you need to lean up a little bit, it can be helpful there. But for the most part, I don't know how productive metformin is in the offseason. I've kind of changed my mind on that. It's one of those things I've come full circle on. I do think it was helpful when I first got back into the gym because my insulin sensitivity kind of sucked and I needed to reset it. I needed to get myself in a healthy spot. Now that I've added some mass and I'm in a better spot, I stay leaner year round, I find that I don't need it. Alright, next question is from MarcyB2023. Would a lower carb slash fasting protocol be better than a high carb diet as we age and for health than the average gym goer? Thanks. I'm going to pull this one apart for you. What we do to gain muscle and what we do to extend longevity are two very different things. I get people all the time that come at me when I post my food and my diets up for bodybuilding. They're like, that's not healthy. That's not good for longevity. No shit, neither is taking Tren. None of the things that we do for bodybuilding is good for longevity. For me personally, when I hang up the posing trunks and I want to focus a little bit more on beinGHealthy and doing longevity, I probably will eat less. Fasting does seem to help a bit, but at the end of the day, it's just a calorie deficit. It's just a different way of doing a calorie deficit. There are some additional benefits to it, but what we know scientifically that probably the biggest thing that you can do to extend longevity is to be in a slight caloric deficit and to keep yourself lean. Keep your body mass low. People that are smaller tend to live longer. It's not anything that's, you know, there's not some super secret diet that you can do. It's not anything that's, you know, there's some magic to a certain type of diet. You can look at different people around the world that have, you know, different populations that have long longevity and they tend to eat whole foods. They tend to be active. They tend to not overeat like Americans do. They don't eat calorie dense foods. Look at Japan. They have one of the longest lifespans in the world. They may even have the longest lifespan in the world and they mostly eat fish and rice. Pretty simple diet. So it's not necessarily the carbs that are causing the problem, it's being in a caloric surplus. So I would argue that probably the most calorically dense thing that we eat and the easiest thing to over consume would be fats and probably sugar. So if you stay with complex carbohydrates, if you stay away from a high fat diet, you know, moderate fat diet, lower carbohydrates, complex carbohydrates, a protein-based diet, you're probably going to extend longevity. I know for me, when I'm done with bodybuilding, I'll probably eat a Mediterranean style diet. Why a Mediterranean style diet? Because I just like that kind of food and it makes it enjoyable and easier to eat. IMay fast here and there. The only reason I would fast is because I have IBS and stomach issues and I found that when I do take some time off eating periodically, that it helps my stomach to recover. It keeps my digestion healthy. It gives my stomach a break. When I'm pushing food all the time like I am for bodybuilding, it can really stress my stomach out and cause digestion issues sometimes. So I would purely do it for that reason. But at the end of the day, it's just eatinGHealthy, clen, whole foods, whatever foods that you like. If you prefer to do a carnivore diet, if you prefer to do a keto diet, Mediterranean diet, whatever the case would be. Stay away from processed foods. Eat whole foods. Stay in slight calorie deficit. Keep your body mass index low. And that's probably where you're going to feel the best and have the best chance of being disease-free and living a long time. All right, next one is Jose Baepara. 15, I think I'm probably slaughtering this name. I've run two cycles. Cycle one was 300 milligrams of test only. Second cycle was 200 milligrams of test, 25 milligrams of antiviral daily. I gained 30 pounds in eight months on those cycles. What would you recommend as a sensible third cycle for a total milligram anabolic usage? Thinking about taking antiviral and adding PrimeraMast into this. I would be surprised if you gain 30 pounds of lean tissue, maybe as a newbie, but that's pretty, probably would be pretty unlikely. Most people in a first year, real lean tissue, not fat, not bloat, probably you're going to gain something like 10 to 15 pounds. IMean, think about how much a pound of steak is and imagine adding 30 of those to your body. You would instantly trensform from looking like a regular dude to being a national level competitor, borderline pro bodybuilder. So I don't think people actually gain as much as they think. If you cut down, it probably is more like five, 10 pounds of muscle, but people underestimate how much five to 10 pounds of muscle really is. Five to 10 pounds of muscle is a lot of lean tissue and you will look completely different. Now I'm not trying to poop on your, your, your gains there. I'm just saying that's realistically, that's probably not what you gained. I will tell you that I prefer to stay away from orals. Although Anolvar is the mildest of the orals. I know young guys, beginners tend to have a fascination with taking orals for some reason, I guess because they're easy. Even Anolvar comes with downsides such as skewed lipids, stomach issues, and it is going to cause some liver and kidney stress. My take on orals is they have all the negative side effects and not a lot of extra benefit over reasonable injectables, maybe outside of peaking for a powerlifting competition or maybe outside of coming in at the end of a bodybuilding show. I think if you want to sustain and do this for a long time, you really need to steer away from orals for the most part, except in those rare situations, maybe at the end of a blast to get a little extra bump. But I've, I think most veteran bodybuilders you will talk to that have been doing this for a long time, eventually come to the same conclusion that they can't sustain taking orals all the time and they steer away from them except outside of peaking for an event. The second compounds, I don't, you know, I run very basic cycles. I run test and primobolan, test and masteron. Find whatever anabolic works for you and has a high safety profile, stick with those. For me, it's three things primarily that I run, test, primobolan, GH, that's it. And then your doses just progress up as you get bigger. With the doses, I can't say for sure, man, I don't want to, I don't feel comfortable making a recommendation on a dose, but just if you're gaining and you're making gains, there's no reason to go up. Use the least effective dose and then go up as you need it. Try getting your diet dialed in. I think most people don't have their diet a hundred percent dialed in first. Make sure your diet is a hundred percent dialed in first. Make sure your trening is a hundred percent diet dialed in first and then use the PEDs as a tool to advance. And when you hit a sticking point and diet and trening adjustments aren't working anymore, then you add a little more. It's that simple. Next question is from Meathead Actual. Is there any data suggesting that injectable SARMs are better than oral SARMs? Well, my data says that SARMs suck, period. Don't waste your time or money on SARMs. SARMs, once again, I go back to what I said about oral anabolics in the last question. SARMs basically have all the negative effects without any real benefit. They don't do a whole lot from what I've seen. They aren't as effective as real anabolics. You're just wasting your time, putting your health at risk, probably for nothing. When it comes to this stuff, you want to limit exposure as much as you possibly can and maximize gains. So I don't know why you would waste time on something like SARMs. Realistically, I just don't understand why you would do it. I'm not encouraging you to do something illegal or to go out and do something that could be harmful to yourself, but that's a consideration that you need to make. Are SARMs actually worth it? Are you getting anything out of it that warrants the risk that you're taking? I would make a serious evaluation of that and think about it hard. All right, next question is God over government. During a fat loss phase and moderate carb day, what percentage of your calories do you recommend you come from fat? Or how many grams per pound of body weight? I'm about 15% body fat currently. So the way I do my diets, I do carb cycling on my high carb days. When carbohydrates are pushed high, I keep the fats as low as humanly possible. My medium carb days, I do somewhere around 0.2 to 0.3 grams of EFAs, added EFAs per pound of body weight, probably a little bit lower than that actually. You don't need a ton of fat. It really is a sliding scale. So if your carbohydrates are lower or if you're doing a zero carbohydrate diet, you are going to need some additional fats for fuel. If your carbohydrates are higher, then you're going to have to keep the fats low, but you do need a certain amount of EFAs in your diet for cellular repair, vitamin Trensport, other health benefits that you reap from essential fatty acids. I would say I do somewhere between 30 to 40 grams per day of essential fatty acids added to my diet. I keep my meat sources as lean as humanly possible protein sources because most of the time the fat that are in those sources are just saturated fat, which you don't need. Especially if you're a PED user, you have to be very, very careful with eating too much saturated fat. You're already going to have some lipid skewing as a PED user. So it would be beneficial in my opinion to keep saturated fats as low as possible if you are a PED user. And at the end of the day, saturated fats are just energy. Carbohydrates are just energy. Those are the knobs that you turn as you want to lose body fat. I keep the protein static in my diet at all times during a fat loss phase. If I need to pull more fat off my body, I will keep a minimum amount of EFAs in, something like 10 to 15 grams a day. I don't go below that. I will take the saturated fat down as close to zero as I possibly can. And if I'm not losing weight, then I'll actually lower carbohydrates down a bit. Carbohydrates, there are no essentiALCARbohydrates. Carbohydrates are just energy at the end of the day. But you do need a certain amount of carbohydrates if your brain's going to function well and if you want to have good workouts. Now, that's not to say you have to have them. You can get yourself in ketosis, keep the fats a little bit higher to sustain that and go zero carb. That is a possibility as well. Think about carbohydrates and most fats except for EFAs as a tool that you manipulate for bringing that energy balance down so you can lose fat. They're just a knob on the amplifier that you're turning up and down as you need to make adjustments to your diet. I prefer carbohydrates as a fuel source because they tend to work better for bodybuilders. You also have the ability to store carbohydrates as glycogen, whereas there's only one way you store excess fat and that is as body fat. That's it. Carbohydrates can actually be stored as glycogen so you can have a bit of a surplus of carbohydrates and not store body fat. But at the end of the day, to lose fat, it is net energy balance. So it's just playing around with those and finding which sort of diet works best for you. All right, folks, that's all I've got on this one. Hopefully you enjoyed it. Thank you for watching and I appreciate each and every one of your support. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.