Warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up, gym bros? Big Paul here with another anabolic Q&A. This is where I break down your questions on trening, nutrition, and responsible performance enhancement with a focus on getting better results while reducinGHarm from the stupid crap you know you bros do. I got some good questions from the school anabolic bodybuilding member site lined up for you today. I have a question about why I suggest avoiding protein bars and dairy while dieting for bodybuilding. What are the best rep ranges for leg growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone? How potassium can offset sodium and support healthy blood pressure in PED using bros? What diagnostic testing and blood panels matter for guys that are running PEDs? And I've got a bunch of other really good questions lined up for you guys today. We're going to dig into all those in just one second. ♪♪♪ ♪♪♪ ♪♪♪ ♪♪♪ ♪♪♪ All right, first question I got up here is from Chase C. from the school anabolic bodybuilding members site. Folks, if you want to join, it's 30 bucks a month. You get to answer questions. We have a cool group of dudes over there. About 140 or so members right now. It's a great place to ask questions. Chase asks, this is in virtue of the approved foods list I know you do for your clients, but also in general, you don't seem to be too keen on milk and dairy proteins and protein bars as well. Assuming one doesn't have digestion issues with dairy or sugar alcohols, obviously some protein bars are dog shit, but even a quality bar, why do you avoid dairy and protein supplements? Is it mostly for contest prep or is it always somewhere in between? Look, I eat protein bars here and there. I do incorporate some dairy into my diet. What I do find is that whole foods, whole protein sources, mostly animal meat-based proteins tend to work the best. I don't look at any protein bar as quality food, to be honest with you. I don't even look at the ingredients on any of them. Even the ones that are supposedly high quality, it's mostly trash. It's highly processed food. It's garbage. It's usually the crappiest quality whey protein that's in those things. They're really not that good, to be honest with you. And I have yet to meet anybody that doesn't get an upset stomach from eating too many protein bars. Now, if you want to eat one once in a while, if you're in a pinch, you need to run by the gas station and grab one. I look at it as a treat. Honestly, I'll opt for some beef jerky before I'll eat a protein bar. Usually there's less ingredients in beef jerky if I need some protein in a pinch, or I will just grab a whey protein shake or just a turkey sandwich at a gas station or even hit some fast food. Pretty much every fast food restaurant has a grilled chicken sandwich, which is going to be marginally better in quality than eating a shitty protein bar. As far as dairy goes, I find that most people, as they get older, have some sort of dairy intolerances, whether they know it or not. If anything's making you gassy or causing bloating, it's probably causing issues. I do incorporate some dairy in my diet. I eat one Greek yogurt per day. I find that Greek yogurt is well tolerated. It's very low in lactose, gets the calcium in that you need. I have a Greek yogurt incorporated into my diet daily. For the most part, I do stay away from milk. I have reincorporated some Fair Life lactose-free milk into my life lately. I'll use that when I eat cereal. I do eat cereal on occasion. But for the most part, the general rule of thumb, if you want to make the best progress and be the healthiest that you possibly can be while obtaining your body composition goals, you're always going to be better just to eat single ingredient, whole foods. It's really that simple. The best foods are going to be single ingredient, whole foods. The stuff that's at the edges of the grocery store. I think it was Mike Dolce. I don't remember, but maybe I'm giving credit to the wrong person. But I remember reading a book where they said shop the edges of the supermarket. The shit in the aisles is usually trash. The shit on the edges that's in the refrigerated section, you know, produce, meats, whole dairy products are probably going to be the best. You know, I stick with that. And if you look a little at dairy in your diet, it's fine. As long as you can tolerate it well. I just wouldn't overdo the dairy. I find that most times it's just going to cause more problems than it solves. Little yogurt here and there. A little bit of milk on your cereal is fine. I would opt for probably the lactose-free milk if you're pounding a bunch of food. Just keep it simple. Keep the protein powders to a minimum. If you do have protein powders, get a high quality isolate that's going to be well tolerated. No more than once per day. I would look at protein bars as a treat. It's, to me, it's just, it's really no different than getting a granola or a candy bar. Stick to single ingredient whole foods. You'll thank me later if you do. All right, next question I got here is from Dylan W. from the School Antibiotic Bodybuilding Members Community. Dylan asks, when somebody hits the food a little too hard, I think we're talking about eating like an asshole here, at the start of a gain phase, and maybe puts on a little too much fat on the firsT3 weeks, do you recommend pulling back a little bit to maintain? Or anything just to have a small washout, a recount period, asking for a friend. My friend Dylan, sounds like you might've fucked up on your diet. Fat loss and fat gain both are, for the most part, slow. IMean, we can do the math on it. If you put on two pounds of body fat that's a 7,000 calorie surplus, you have to fuck up pretty bad. And if you're on PEDs on top of it, you're going to increase metabolism and nutrient partitioning. So the probability of putting on significant amount of fat in a couple of weeks is pretty low. I'm not saying it's impossible. I've certainly seen bros do it. I've had some guys go off the fucking rails, go eat shit on the food, eat like an asshole and end up fat in a really short period of time. But you have to seriously binge. Generally, when I see weight jump up quickly from people eating like crap, it's not rapid fat gain. For the most part, what I see, it's from eatinGHigh sodium foods, you have a bunch of water retention, you just clen the diet back up, get back on plan and within a week, usually you're back down to whatever your baseline was before is what I've seen. It's mostly water retention. Now, you'll know after a week, if you fucked up really bad. I would say if you need to do a clenup three weeks into your bulk, you're probably too fat to have been starting a bulk to begin with. You should be very lean when you start your mass phase. I would say 10% body fat at a minimum, leaner if you want the longest runway. And if you screwed up really bad, what are you gonna be? 13% after three weeks of eating like dog crap. So you shouldn't be that far gone. What I found though is guys that yo-yo and go off the rails and they try to clen it up and go off the rails and try to clen it up. They do these couple weeks of dieting and then a couple weeks in a surplus, they end up just stalemating progress. That never works out well in the long run. You're better off just sticking to a phase, committing to it. If you screwed up, just do a little extra cardio, get back on plan, tighten your diet back up. Things should work themselves out. Get through your, whatever phase you're in, whether you're in a fat loss or a mass phase, finish that off and then clen things up later. I just never have found the two or three week clenups really do much of anything. They just cost you progress. They, and you end up in a yo-yo state where you just don't really go much in either direction. People just end up costing themselves progress doing this yo-yo back and forth dieting methodology. Next question here is from Jay Roberts from the School of Antibiotic Bodybuilding members community. Jay asked, Paul, what have you found to be the optimum rep range for compound movements for leg development? It seems that some recommend doing rep ranges as high as 20 reps for squats and leg press movements while others seem to go with the standard eight to 12 rep range. I'm currently splitting leg trening up into two times per week with posterior chain and adductor trening one day and a quad focus day. Yeah, IMean, that's exactly how I break up my trening. I have two leg trening days where I split it up into, split it up into different muscle groups. I think that's probably the smarter approach and I see a lot of guys doing that now. What I would say the issue with goinGHigher reps on these compound movements, like when I worked with Dante Trudeau back in the day, we used to do the Widowmaker sets, he would call them. Widowmaker where we would do 20 set, 20 rep sets of heavy squats at the end of a leg workout. Holy. I have found that trashing yourself with high reps on super heavy compound movements, all you're really doing is costing yourself a bunch of fatigue, central nervous system fatigue, and putting yourself in a really compromised state as far as recovery goes. If you do a 20 rep set of heavy squats, this is a question that you need to ask yourself, would you have been better off just doing 3 sets of 8 reps and providing a little bit heavier of a load and more stimulus? And ultimately we know that trening for hypertrophy is about mechanical tension. Would you have been better off, save yourself some central nervous system fatigue from doing that heavy set of compound movement with the squats by just choosing a different rep range or potentially using a different exercise? Maybe you would have been better off just getting on the hack squat, doing a couple sets of 10 reps, providing adequate mechanical tension to stimulate hypertrophy, which is ultimately our goal. I don't know that there is really a benefit for trashing your central nervous system with a high rep heavy compound movement. I don't know that that's really going to provide much benefit for hypertrophy. Now if you want to do it just to be a savage, IMean by all means, I used to love to challenge myself and do crazy shit like that. I wouldn't dare do it at 51 years old now, IMean it would be absolutely insane to do shit like that. IMean it's like going out and running an ultra marathon or something. There's also the limiting factor of cardiovascular fitness. Is your cardiovascular system able to even withstand that sort of heavy trening? Can you actually get to a point where you're near failure or have provided enough stimulus before your cardiovascular system fatigues and you just can't go anymore? What I noticed with those 20 rep sets on squats or when I used to do 40 rep set on leg presses, I would eventually hit a point where I would just gas out from being out of breath. I just couldn't go anymore. It wasn't muscle fatigue, it was cardiovascular fatigue. At that point you're just doing, you might as well just run on the stairs or something. I don't know. Personally I don't think it's much additional benefit. You're risking additional fatigue. I don't know that it provides any additional hypertrophy. If you want to do it just because you're savage, go right for it. I think that's perfectly fine. If you want to test your limits and your manhood, by all means go for it. I don't know. I wouldn't incorporate it in my trening at this point and I don't generally suggest that people do. I don't find a benefit from it. Alright, next question here is from Paul Baxter from the School Antibiotic Bodybuilding Members Community. Paul asks, I've seen a bit of content about using potassium to lower blood pressure. I add 4,700 mg of potassium citrate across 4 liters I drink, 3 of those liters during trening and cardio. Am I doing this right? Are there any signs that I should be looking out for, for better blood pressure numbers? I'd really like to have a clear system for incorporating this properly. So, what I've found is most bros vastly over consume sodium and under consume potassium. This is something I've become acutely aware of over the last couple years. And guys are using things like nabivolol and telmosartan to lower blood pressure which essentially causes, you know, telmosartan is going to lower aldosterone and cause potassium retention and increase sodium excretion which is going to lower blood volume and water retention and reduce blood pressure. A lot of times you can just fix this by just eating more potassium and less salt. Most people don't have potassium incorporated in their diet. They're eating sea salt. I see this is a problem that a lot of bros have. They pound the sea salt, they're not getting iodine, so I see a lot of guys end up deficient in T4. It's also a result from some of the PEDs that we take. But they're iodine deficient, they're potassium deficient, and they are overdoing the sodium from what I've seen. Potassium at a bare minimum should probably be 1 to 1 with sodium. Maybe even as close to, you know, 3 to 2 with sodium or 1.5 times what your sodium is. But at a bare minimum, probably 1 to 1 what your sodium intake is. So if you're doing 4 grams of sodium, you probably should have 4 grams of potassium in your diet during that day. You can do it through whole food sources, potatoes, bananas, shit like that. I learned this trick from Dr. Dean St. Mart. I started incorporating light salt from Morton's in my routine when IMake my foods. When I'm actually prepping my foods, I'm not really on a diet right now. But I will do light salt on my meals. Light salt has, I'm looking at my notes here, it has 290 milligrams per serving of sodium and 350 milligrams of potassium, which is perfect. So that's, you know, we're like 1.2 potassium to sodium. Some of your foods are going to have sodium in them regardless, so that probably works out to be about a 1 to 1 ratio of sodium to potassium. You don't even have to think about it at that point. You get the adequate amount of potassium in your diet. Now, something to keep in mind, a lot of bros are on telmosartan. They love being on the telmosartan tren. Telmosartan causes potassium retention, so you just have to keep in mind that telmosartan at higher doses can cause hyperkalemia if you are eating too much potassium. That tends to get worse as you're on contest prep, so just something to keep in mind. So how potassium counter-regulates high blood pressure. Think of it this way. Water follows sodium and sodium is going to pull water into the vascular system and you end up in a situation where blood volume is increased, you have more water retention, and blood pressure rises from too much sodium and not enough potassium. Potassium, on the other hand, promotes vasodilation and excretion of sodium through the kidneys, so you end up flushing that water out, relaxing the blood vessels, and causing a reduction in blood pressure from increasing the potassium and keeping the sodium in balance with the potassium. There's also cellular fluid balance that we have to consider. There's the sodium-potassium pump. The sodium-potassium pump pulls potassium in the cell and removes sodium out. This balance of sodium and potassium keeps the nerves firing correctly and water retention in check. If we get in a situation where sodium is too high and potassium is too low, everything gets out of balance and we end up with a bunch of water retention, hypertension, and you get really shitty muscle contractions. I know like every bro thinks that you need to have a shit ton of sodium to have good muscle contractions. You need a balance of sodium and potassium for that to work correctly. Now keep in mind, if you're sweating a lot, you're going to be excreting sodium, so your sodium intake needs to be higher if you're somebody who's out working manual labor. Potassium doesn't seem to be excreted as efficiently as sodium, so we have to keep that in mind that sometimes we can have that balance of electrolytes get skewed and you end up with an electrolyte balance and muscle cramps. If potassium gets too high, sodium gets too low, that's usually the situation that you get into where you have a bunch of cramps. Just ask anybody on contest prep that's overdid the diuretics. I've been in that situation before where I have been hyperkalemic and hyponatremic at the same time. High potassium, low sodium, you end up in a situation where you get diarrhea, muscle cramps. It's not a fun place to be. You get lightheaded, so that's just something to keep in mind, so we have to keep the two in balance every time. And the stupid shit that we do as bodybuilders can throw this out of whack, such as using diuretics on contest prep. Also, using things like telmisartan, which can skew the balance of sodium and potassium, but it's just things to keep in mind. So, long story short, most bros, in my experience, are not getting enough potassium. Everybody seems to be getting adequate magnesium now. That used to be a problem, but not so much of a problem anymore. I've been trying to steer guys away from sea salt lately because it's deficient in iodine and most dudes don't get enough potassium. And just pointing them more towards the light salt route. synamic plus cytogenics. If your blood pressure is high and you did not regenerate because of issues caused by a pandemic that's left to second thought, cold water drink curling when you've had water full of cocaine, rinsinGHot water, toilet water, cold water rinsing your clothes, etc, and hopefully you're offering alcoholic beverages, take them with good health management and antibiotics look at your potassium intake, potentially increase it. Keep in mind like I said that there are some drugs that cause additional potassium retention you need to keep that in mind. If you sweat a lot, you might need more sodium. It is a balance of the two. Hopefully this helps. All right, next question is from Philip Fuller from the School of Antibiotic Bodybuilding member site. Ask, I am an older guy in my 40s. I want to tren without putting stress on my lower back. What would be some alternatives to Romanian deadlifts for hamstring development? I do think that it's important to have both a hip hinge movement and some sort of leg curl movement with your hamstring trening. I'm not an exercise physiologist, so please don't quote me on this, but from my understanding is that you need tension on both the contracted portion of the movement and on the extended portion of the movement with the hamstring. I know it varies from muscle group to muscle group. So with the hamstring, that would be mechanical tension on the stretched portion of the movement with a leg curl potentially on the contracted portion. Now from what I understand, the way a seated leg curl works, if you have yourself strapped in correctly, your legs buckle down hard and you have the thing adjusted up where you're stretched at the top, that actually is putting some stretch, some load at the stretch portion that you might not get with a lying leg curl or potentially a standing leg curl. I don't know that it's going to be the same level of tension that you would get from doing some sort of hip hinge movement, but I usually like to pair, I have a tender lower back, I have some disc issues in my lower back, I do not do deadlifts at all anymore. I'm not conventional deadlifts with a barbell anyway. What I do for my hamstrings, I like seated leg curls, those are my preference for my leg curl movement for the reasons I just stated. I like to pair that up with either a stiff legged dumbbell hip hinge, where I really focus on getting a good stretch, I do not use a heavy weight, I try to kick my ass back, I get a wider stance, turn my toes out, that seems to engage my hamstrings a bit more, and I get a good stretch. Another potential thing that you could do is to use the cable machine, I'll do this sometimes where I put a straight bar on the cable machine and I will, what I will do is stand on a block and do a hip hinge that way, so I'm not really putting a lot of stress on my lower back. There's the reverse hyper, if your gym has one, that's another potential option. I honestly just, and I've also seen people on the hyperextension machine, I think Paul Carter had a video up demonstrating that where he was using the machine, it's not even a machine, it's the device you lay down and you do back extensions on it, the hyperextension device, and then you just hold on to a dumbbell and then use that as a way to get the hip hinge movement in your routine and you get a stretch on without really stressing your lower back out, but honestly my go-to is usually just dumbbells, stiff legged deadlifts with dumbbells, I keep the dumbbells lighter and I really focus on getting a good stretch on my hamstrings, I pair that up with my leg curl, whatever my leg curl exercise, or I'll use some sort of cable hip hinge, that's really it. I think that will keep your back safe, you don't need to do stiff legged deadlifts with a barbell or Romanian deadlifts, whatever the hell you want to call them, with heavy loaded weights, especially as you get older, I would just throw that in the trash and not risk injury. All right, next question here is from my friend Paul Robinson, Paul asks, planning on a full medical screening including organ imaging, if I can speak correctly, in the coming months, what would be on your short list for a suite of tests that you may do every couple years? I took the summer and I went through all the stuff that I tend to avoid while I'm on cycle because if I'm dying I don't want to know I'm dying like every other bro. Every couple years, especially as you're north of 40, if we think just, if we're looking at risk assessment, and that's the way I look at any of this stuff, cardiovascular risk is probably the number one thing that kills PED users, cardiovascular events, honestly any guy that's over 40, if you're in the ages of between 40 and 60, a heart attack or cardiovascular event are probably the most common thing that dudes in our age bracket die from, so that would, to me, I would start there with diagnostic testing, get your heart thoroughly checked out, go see your cardiologist, an echo with an EKG, getting a carotid artery ultrasound, getting an aortic ultrasound to make sure you don't have any sort of aortic aneurysm going on that's Boston Lloyd died from, there's been a few people that have had aortic aneurysms, basically a big bulge in your aorta that just pops and you fucking die in two minutes after it happens, that's something I would, you know, make sure that vascular health is okay, get a cardiac CT scan done to make sure there's no plaque buildup, I would just go see a cardiologist and get a full cardiology workup done, sometimes cardiologists are grumpy about it, it's really fucking weird, they only want to see sick people for some reason, it's, the guy I have is excellent, he stays on top of it, so I would start with cardiovascular testing first just to make sure that you don't have any sort of, any sort of cardiovascular disease, make sure that you don't have any plaque buildup, make sure that you don't have any LVH, make sure that you don't have any sort of valve issues, make sure that you don't have any sort of aortic aneurysms, anything lurking that could kill you instantly with your heart, because heart, most heart problems do not manifest until they're too late, it's, you don't know that you have an arterial blockage until you're pretty far gone, usually, or on the verge of a heart attack or having a heart attack, you don't know that you have a valve issue until it's too late, you don't know how you have an arrhythmia until you have a massive heart attack and fucking die most of the time, it's not something you walk around and really notice, so those are things that I would get checked out, secondary stuff, like if we think about risk factor for PED users, kidneys, I would probably get kidney ultrasound done to make sure that there's no cyst or atrophy of the kidneys, probably a 24-hour clearance test, make sure there's no protein in the urine, things like that, I would check on kidneys are a big risk factor, cancer, IMean, cancer is probably the second leading cause of death I would imagine in men over 40, and something that we need to pay close attention to, so getting a colonoscopy done, I know most guys want to avoid that, if you have the money to burn, get a full body MRI done, to make sure you don't have any cancer lurking anywhere, that's something that I would consider doing, that's something I would take a look at as well, might be worth checking on, making sure all your organs are healthy, check a liver ultrasound, that's another thing, make sure that there's no scarring or cirrhosis of the liver or fatty strips on the liver, that's another thing that I would probably check if you wanted to do a full battery of diagnostic testing, I really don't find that people die, most bodybuilders, I'm sure there's probably been somebody, but I have not personally heard of anybody dying from liver failure from the stupid shit we do in bodybuilding, but hey, if you want peace of mind, it might be worth something, might be something worth checking on, and a lot of times if you have non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, which seems to be common with the bodybuilding community, you can get out ahead of it and probably reverse it, especially now with GLP-1s, a hard diet, etc. Those are probably the things I would look at outside of your standard blood panels, there's another question coming up with that one, I'll address it there, but as far as diagnostic testing, I would say those would be the big ones I would consider. All right, next question here is from Will Davido, Will asks, I am currently coming to an end of week 10 of a 16-week balk, and I have been seeing only minor body composition changes, but nothing major. Prior to this cut, I've been working with a coach who over-dieted me for far too few calories for far too long on heavy trening programs. I only took a few weeks to reset my calories before starting this cut, not much of a break from that for before. proper carb cycling diet, my questions are, are there signs to look for when dietinGHas been going for too long or is your body just done? When is it time to switch gears? Will is one of my coaching clients. We actually had a discussion about this today on a console call. If you want to book a console call with me, I have them available on my website. You can, we can talk about blood work, your goals, safer use, etc. Anyway, Will and I discussed his situation. He has been in a caloric deficit for a very long time and I see this often with people and eventually your calories get to a point where you really can't take them any lower. We had Will's calories as low as I like to comfortably take them on a cut phase, diet phase, whatever the fuck you want to call it. His cardio, we probably could have pushed the cardio higher, but there also comes a limit on how much cardio you can really do too before it just becomes too burdensome and just dig yourself into a hole. And after a while, your body just stops responding. On average, what I've seen is about 16 weeks is the most that people can push a diet phase, maybe 20, just depends. After being in a deficit for that long, the body just kind of starts to fight back. Now, there are things we can do to prevent metabolic slowdown as we go. Certainly, there are PEDs that we can use, metabolic aids, simply the diet, carb cycling, having that high carbohydrate day throughout the week helps reduce metabolic slowdown. But eventually, nature catches up with us, your body is very adaptive, highly adaptive, and to prevent us from dying, our body adapts to lower food intake by reducing metabolism. And you can see it, there are people in parts of the world that are on basically starvation diets, eating 600, 700 calories a day in very extreme, harsh environments that don't die. They live for extended periods of time like this, not saying it's optimal, but those people live for a long time like that. And your metabolism will downregulate, and this is the thing we know from the adaptive process, that your body will slow down metabolism. It does not want to lose fat. We essentially have to trick our body into losing fat. That's why I like the carb cycling system as far as a diet goes, because we do have those refeed days built in where we are in a hypercaloric state, where you can push the calories high, give the metabolism a little bit of a kick, keep you feeling better, fuller, glycogen is topped off, I can go into all the benefits. I have tons of videos up on carb cycling if you want to watch them. But what I've seen is after about 16 to 20 weeks, you've got to take a break. You've got to push into a calorie surplus, you can do it gently, you need to reverse out. Usually what I like to do with guys, especially if you've been on a calorie deficit for a year or more, that's just way too long, unless you're morbidly obese. At that point, then you can probably stay on a caloric deficit for a lot longer, there is some nuance there. But what I've seen, usually what I have to do with guys, at a bare minimum, 6 weeks, probably 8 to 12 would be more optimal, maybe even longer. I like to take these periods of time where people have been dieting for a long time, we push into a caloric surplus. If you're not super lean, I don't do the full rebound that I talk about with my other clients, I'll just slowly start to reverse out. I'll add a little bit of carbs, I try to keep creeping in carbs as much as I possibly can, and eventually what you'll see is the metabolism picks up. We might add 25 grams of carbs a day, 100 calories, this week. Next week we add another 25, if weight doesn't change, body composition still looks good, we'll add in another 25 grams of carbs, see what happens. Now we've added 200 calories, might be a couple weeks we need to stay at this. And we incrementally start moving the food up, and I've had tons of guys that I've worked with over the years, I can think of one client that came to me where he was down eating below 1200 calories a day, 2 years later, bro's at 3500 calories from maintenance. We completely change this metabolism by incrementally moving the carbohydrate intake up. The carbohydrates essentially are just energy, but there is some metabolic advantage to running them, and we can look at it, you know, more glucose equals more insulin, which equals better, you know, more mTOR, lower AMPK, increased IGF-1 production, there's all these metabolic effects, increased, it seems to increase T4 and T3. There's all these downstream effects from having more carbohydrates in your diet that benefit you long term, as long as you incrementally increase them. Now, not everybody responds the same way, I know the keto guys are going to disagree with me, and that's fine, you find what works for you. But I, this is what I've seen work well with people, we incrementally start raising up the carbohydrates, see what we can get away with, get your metabolism built up, take at least a 6 week, probably 8 to 12 week break, maybe even longer if you've been dieting for a super long time, as long as 16 weeks. And then we go back into a cut phase and try to get the rest of that fat off. Aaron G., we got an insulin question here, Aaron asks, what are the metrics and their ranges that determine when and how much insulin to use? Thanks, Paul. I would, for most people, I would say that insulin use for performance enhancement is unnecessary unless you're going to be a highly competitive bodybuilder, then it might be something to consider. Trust me, I'm a diabetic, using insulin is a pain in the ass, there I got my diabetic plug in, people love when I talk about my diabetes. insulin, managing insulin, managing insulin sensitivity, managing your A1c when you're diabetic fucking sucks, you don't want to make yourself diabetic. And more insulin equals more insulin resistance long term and risk of being diabetic. Now with that said, I don't advise using insulin, but if you were to choose to do so, here's the thing with insulin, people think there's some sort of ideal dose, the blood glucose readings determine what insulin you need. How much carbohydrates you eat play a role in it. Guys think there's some sort of magic number that they need to increase performance, grow like big, like Samson Daouda or whatever your favorite bodybuilder who uses insulin is. What I like to do is I like to run it on high carbohydrate days. I start off very conservative, I will run one unit per 20 to 25 grams of carbs, every other meal of a rapid acting insulin, see how the body responds. IMeasure glucose levels before administering the insulin. Again, I will do something like, you know, if my glucose levels are below 80, I don't want to take the insulin. I'm probably going to go hypo if that happens and goinGHypo is no fun. I would say spend a little money, get a CGM. You can get the Lingo now, I think it's 50 bucks for a two-week supply, you can geT3 months supply I think for 250, something like that, it's relatively cheap. Monitor your glucose levels, see what happens when you eat carbohydrates and if you're going to poke around with insulin, get a blood glucose meter as a backup. Compare the two, see how your body responds. Start very low, be conservative. I would find out how your body responds to food first before you even get a glucose meter. Now with everybody using Ritatrutide and all these GLP-1s, your insulin sensitivity might be so high that you don't even need insulin. Your body is producing a correct amount, you just don't need it. I would find out how your body responds to glucose, see what your glucose levels are, go from there, decide from there first. Alan Evans asked about blood work. Paul, what are your go-to blood panels that you prefer your clients to get as far as markers? What is important, what isn't? I have thoughts on this. Everybody loves to see what their fucking testosterone levels are. I just don't give a shit. IMean everybody wants to have the highest total Testosterone level, it just doesn't make a fuck to me. If you're on exogenous hormones, your testosterone levels are going to be high and that total Testosterone number is sort of meaningless as long as you're making progress. I just don't even measure it. I don't even have guys waste their money on it anymore. We know it's going to be high. I've yet to see fake testosterone, so that's not even really a concern with me. I'm more concerned about the things that are going to be risk factors as far as health goes. The stuff I am most concerned with is looking at metabolic health, looking at lipids. We know the cardiovascular risk is probably a very important thing to keep an eye on. We want to make sure that lipids are relatively within range. HDL, LDL, ApoB, triglycerides, that's something we want to pay close attention to. insulin resistance is another big issue with bodybuilders that we need to pay attention to, so an A1c test is probably good. They test glucose levels when you get blood work done. It's pointless to even look at it. We want to pay attention to liver values, ALT, AST. GGT is probably a better indicator. creatinine and BUN are the typical ones that they use to calculate eGFR, creatinine is going to be elevated in most people that are treninGHard, have increased body mass and are also taking PEDs usually like I see most guys are like 1.3, if it starts getting up into 1.4, 1.5 we might have a problem, BUN is elevated in every single person that's on PEDs, blood urea, nitrogen, if you're eating a ton of protein it's going to be more nitrogen content in your blood, so it's just elevated in everybody that uses PEDs, so that sort of makes the standard eGFR calculation irrelevant for us in a bodybuilding community, but we do still want to pay attention to our kidney health, so a cystatin C score is probably important if you want to save money, the cystatin C test is usually expensive, you can see what the eGFR is, if creatinine is above 1.4, I tell guys man you gotta go get a cystatin C test done, let's see where it's at, you can also get a urinalysis done to see if there's any protein in the urine that's super cheap, they're like 40 bucks, that might be a cheaper alternative but if you have the money to burn I would get a cystatin C test, I go back and forth on C-reactive protein, guys that tren hard tend to have elevated C-reactive protein, if you tren hard in the last couple of days you're gonna have slight elevations in C-reactive protein, everybody's worried about their growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone being fake and they're getting IGF-1 levels tested, I just don't even fucking care, if you're growing, who gives a fuck, I find IGF-1 levels to be sort of irrelevant as far as muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone goes and they're trensient in nature, you know when you're on a diet, you're in a caloric deficit, they're gonna be lower, if you're on a surplus they're gonna be higher, if your estrogen's higher they're gonna be higher, I honestly have seen zero correlation between increased growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone and IGF-1 levels, I just haven't seen it make that much of a difference, I know there are people that are obsessed with finding out what their IGF-1 levels are but ultimately it seems to be localized IGF-1 that matters more and the only way we can test that is through a muscle biopsy, so if you wanted an indicator of how well your growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone is working, sure a systemic IGF-1 test can give you some clues to that, probably a serum GH test would be a better one for that because I've seen plenty of people on high growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone that have low IGF-1 levels, see Liver King, that was probably a result of his PED use and not eating carbohydrates would be my guess, that's probably why his IGF-1 was low on 20 units of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone or whatever the fuck he was running, but those are sort of the core ones I look at, heart health, liver health, kidney health, those are the big things we want to look at, lipids, electrolytes and all the other stuff, the immune markers, you know we want to make sure you don't have cancer if anything's flared up there, red blood cell count, hemoglobin, hematocrit, those are gonna be elevated in every single person that's on PEDs, just a matter of how elevated they are, my top end for hematocrit is I don't like to see guys over 55, but as long as there's not high platelet counts, you're probably at low risk of having a clot, so it's also probably not that relevant, it's just gonna be elevated in every single person. Alright, next question here is from Matt LeBlanc, Matt asks, running GH with MK-677, what are your thoughts and opinions on this? Yeah, you're wasting your money. MK-677 is just going to marginally increase your natural growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone levels, why would you take it if you're already taking exogenous growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone, it's sort of pointless, sort of like, I don't know, taking Clomid with your testosterone, IMean, because you want your natural testosterone levels to be higher, what's the point? The only compelling reason I can see to take MK-677 is if you're having issues with appetite, if you need increased appetite, MK-677 certainly will help with that, otherwise, save your money bro. Alright, next question here is from Eric Lubin, Eric says, yo Big Paul, I only eat carbs and proteins pre- and post-workout, but how long after trening would you resume eating fats? Is it simply 3 hours after my post-workout, if I'm eating meals every 3 hours, thanks Big Paul. Eric, so I like to keep fats low in the workout window, because in theory, insulin is going to be higher whether you are exogenously administering that insulin or it's just going to be higher from eating the high carbohydrates, sort of the idea here is if we're eating in a high carbohydrate state, we want to keep fats lower, because when you're in a high carbohydrate state, insulin is going to be increased, your body is going to be prioritizing glucose for fuel, and what happens to fats in that situation, those fats are likely going to be just stored as body fat. Now, once in a while, I will encounter guys that go hypo during their workouts, even without the use of exogenous insulin, and I'll put a little bit of nut butter in their pre-workout meal, just to help keep glucose levels stable. I don't know that there's an exact time period on the post-workout window, IMean, look dude, if you wanted to go, say, eat a regular meal, if you wanted to go eat a steak and a potato, you know, a fattier steak and a potato post-workout, that should be fine. I will just say this, the general rule of thumb is the higher the carbohydrate intake is in a meal, the lower you want to keep the fats. If you're pushing the carbs really high, you probably want to keep the fats as close to zero as possible, if you don't want to gain body fat. It's really that combination of simple sugars and saturated fats that make people fat. You want to get fat in a hurry, eat donuts all day long, donuts, french fries, they're both high-fat, high-carbohydrate, that's the way to make yourself obese in a hurry. That's the rapid fat gain protocol. So rule of thumb, high carbohydrates, especially simple carbohydrates, quick, fast, rapid-absorbing carbohydrates that are going to cause an insulin spike, keep the fats as close to zero as possible and it'll limit your potentiality of beginning to store fat and becoming fatter. Next question here is from Corey G. Corey asks, thoughts on one milligram of RETA a week instead of insulin to modulate glucose in an off-season setting while using GH? IMean, yeah, that's what bros are doing right now. RETA works great at increasing your natural insulin production, increasing insulin sensitivity, affecting glucagon, lowering lipids, all these other downstream effects. Now there is some evidence that GLP1s cause muscle loss. I would suspect if you're a bro eating plenty of protein, having GH, other PEDs in play that your risk of losing muscle while using RETA-Trutide are pretty low, probably zero to be honest with you. So I wouldn't worry about that too much, but it's just something to consider. Now one thing I do worry about with RETA-Trutide in an off-season setting, and I've seen this be a problem with some dudes on GLP1s when they're trying to bulk, is the lowered gastric emptying and the reduction of appetite. I have noticed, even at 1mg, I have noticed that I have pretty significant decrease in gastric emptying and appetite. I have a hard time, I literally forget to eat. I can go all day and not eat, even on 1mg, and not think about it. I notice that, you know, complete overshare here. I used to poop as soon as I would get up in the morning from whatever I ate the night before. Now it's like noon before I have to poop. I'm up for several hours before I have to poop. It has definitely slowed down my gastric emptying, and I've noticed now that I need like 4 or 5 hours between meals. So I can only eat like 3 or 4 times a day. Now when I get back into a bulking phase, I don't know what I'm going to do. I haven't been competitively trening for bodybuilding recently, so I haven't been on the 6 meal plan. I've been eating 3 to 4 times a day for the most part, and I haven't had to push food, so we'll see what it's like when we push food. So that would be my big concern, but yes, in theory, it's going to keep insulin sensitivity better. Yes, in theory, it is going to improve insulin production and all these other things that should benefit growth hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone hormone in the off-season, keep visceral fat lower, prevent the accumulation of liver fat, all of these other metabolic benefits that should, in theory, increase the productivity of an off-season. Alright, next question here is from George Peterson. Big Paul, what influencers do you consider good info? What do you watch on YouTube? What people provide good information? blood information, safety, well balancing safety and efficacy that you provide. I've seen, you mentioned vigorous Steve, but who else do you recommend besides resources that draw from general PED knowledge, diet, trening, et cetera, what channels are worth researching? I'll be honest with you, George, I don't really watch YouTube much anymore, I really don't consume social media that much. IMake my content, I respond to some comments, I generally unplug afterwards, I look at stupid memes on Instagram, I watch video game YouTube videos or sports podcasts, I listen to sports or history, I like history a lot, listen to a lot of history stuff, Tolden Stone is one of my favorite channels for history, I've been stuck on the Roman Empire lately, I've been listening to a lot of shit there, but as far as PED resources go, I really like Scott McNally's channel, I think Big Bodybuilding is really, really good, he's been around forever, Dr. Dean St. Mark has some really high quality information, vigorous Steve would be up there for me as far as, Kurt Havens has somEQuality information, although I don't know if Kurt's really doing much content lately, I think Kurt's kind of gotten away from doing content, I used to like Dr. Mike's older stuff, I love Mike, Mike and I are acquaintances, wouldn't say we're friends, but we know each other, I like Mike's older stuff on trening, if you go through and dig through his stuff, Paul Carter has some really good stuff on trening if you're looking for that, Dr. Peter Adia, I like Dr. Peter's stuff, there's another channel I like to watch that's pretty good, Drug Chug, I don't watch them much anymore, but they do really good breakdowns on pharmaceuticals, kind of inspired me on my PED profile videos that I put up, but Drug ChuGHas some really good interesting stuff, I think the guy's a pharmacist or something, those are some channels, Dr. Peter Adia has some really good stuff, Dr. Berg, I don't agree with everythinGHe says, but he has some really good stuff on gut health and digestion, I enjoy his channel a lot, as far as PED resources go, really, I just read and research a lot, I don't really watch a lot of videos or listen to a lot of podcasts on bodybuilding anymore, Dave Palumbo has some decent stuff up on his channel sometimes too, RxMuscle, Falad's channel I listen to occasionally for bodybuilding news and entertainment, they're just funny, I don't know that there's any really serious educational content on his channel, but it's funny and fun, those are kind of the channels I go to for my resources, but if I were going to pick one channel for performance enhancement, it probably would be Vigorous Steve's channel, I think he has the most comprehensive stuff, some of Derek's older stuff is decent, More Plates More Dates, I don't know that he's really making content anymore, some of Leo's in Longevity's older content is decent, John Meadows' stuff still holds up really well, John had some fantastic content on trening, John was the trening guru, but those are sort of the ones that come to mind when I think about stuff. All right, next question I got here is from Dave Nevarettes, Dave asks, what are your favorite exercises for building up your rear delts and upper back, well rear delts and upper back are kind of different, rear delts you're really limited on choices, you don't have a lot of choices when it comes to rear delts, IMean you have bent lateral raises, you have reverse pec duck, you can do a modified face pull, those are really it, what I find is that with rear delts most people do way too much weight, their form sucks, they're slinging weights around like I see these dudes with 30 pounds dumbbells doing bent over lateral raises, I'm like bro what the fuck is that doing, you're not, you're just basically doing a dumbbell row at that point, you're working your rhomboids, your rear delts are so freaking small that slinging a 30 pound dumbbell around doing rear delts is not doing shit, now keep in mind you're still going to work your rear delts when you're doing rowing exercises, I would say for upper back, low to high rows would be a good one, shrugs are just a good old-school way of doing upper back development, most of the upper back, upper middle back is going to be the traps, that complex of muscles that are in there, rhomboids would be you know dumbbell rows or probably lats, more lats, but any high row would be good, IMostly do braced rows anymore, my form on rows has been terrible in the past, I seem to have gotten that improved and fixed lately, but I would say really focus on your form, make sure your form is tight and that you're actually targeting those muscles. All right this has been a long one, last but not least is from Dave Fletcher, Dave asks what's the maximum volume of fluid you would inject into an injection site at one time, I inject twice a week and I find that two mls can leave my quad pretty sore for a few days, yeah two, when I get north of two it gets a little dicey, I would say two is sort of my limit, depends on the body part, if I am north of two, I start doing more injections, you know do inject more frequently, use smaller needles, a lot of times the soreness is not necessarily from the injection volume, but it's from using larger needles and the trauma that that will cause to the injection site, I like to rotate, I will see this when I'm on contest prep and the gas pedal is mashed down, I go to daily injections and I rotate sites, I do delt, delt, tricep, tricep, glute, glute, quad, quad, so I have eight injection sites, I'm rotating through each one once every eight days, I would say smaller body parts you're going to have less room for injection volume, delts I probably wouldn't exceed one maximum of two mls, quads and glutes you can probably get away with three mls, I know there are bodybuilders that injecT3 mls, but I've seen dudes with these giant gnarly knots on their shoulders and on their glutes, I can think of a guy recently I saw at a bodybuilding show, his glutes look like fucking basketballs, they were so full of oil and swollen and inflamed and irritated, it was really nasty looking, it wasn't a good look, so I would say rotate the injection sites, use smaller needles if you can get away with it, I use a 25 gauge 5.8 one cc, split those doses up daily if your injection volume is exceeding two mls, hell if two mls is bothering you, you might want to go to every other day injection protocol, reduce the volume of oil that you're injecting and rotate to more sites, lats are something that a lot of pro bodybuilders seem to like, I've never gotten the balls to do my lats, I don't have the sort of flexibility to reach around and get to them, but there's a lot of nerves in that area that scares the fuck out of me, I've heard of dudes doing their traps, that also seems fucking insane to me, a lot of nerves in there as well, the safer sites are gonna be delts, quads, glutes, those are probably the primary ones, I've heard some dudes say that they can't do quads, that those are dicey, for me my glutes are more dicey than thEQuads, but those are the ones I would stick to primarily, rotate through those and you should be good to go. Alright folks, that's all I got for you on this one, hopefully you found this helpful, I will see each and every one of you on the next episode of the Anabolic Q&A, I love you, rock on, peace out, we'll see you next week. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today, I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition and health, for more information shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com