 Warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up Jim bros, Big Paul here today and I am going to do a study breakdown for you. I got blown up in my DMs the last couple of days about this new meta study. I believe Mano Henselman's put it together. It's called The Effect of Carbohydrate Intake on Muscle Hypertrophy, A Systematic Review in Meta-Analysis. And dudes are sending this to me saying this means that carbohydrates have no impact on muscle hypertrophy. I'm going to break it down for you and tell you why I disagree and point out some of the flaws in this. We'll dig into all that in just one second. All right, before we dig into this, just a little rant. I get people send me shit all the time, studies and other people that have contradicted things that I say, which is fine. You know, you don't have to agree with me. I'm not always right about things. I'm always learning and growing. But it blows me away how many people will not take the time to actually sit down and read a study that they're sending me to look at. But they just looked at the title. I doubt they even read the abstract or the conclusion. Clearly, in this case, I don't think most people even took the time to even look at that. They saw a eight word headline on Instagram and then just automatically assume that carbohydrates don't grow muscle. They didn't actually take the time to read the study. They didn't look at the methodology. They did not look at the actual conclusions. They didn't read even the abstract from what I can tell. It's just amazing to me, man. Take the time. If you want to grow and learn and be better, take the time to read this stuff. So I'm going to have story time with you. We're actually going to read the study together. We'll go through bits and pieces of it. I'm not going to go through the entire thing. I've already read through it and took a look at it and talked to a couple other people about it. I held on to it for a day or two before I decided to make this video because I wanted to make sure I had all my thoughts gathered. You know, look, it's interesting information. There is some stuff we can extrapolate here. But at the end of the day, I don't think any of this means shit for our bodybuilding community. I'm going to say that. It's not that there's any bias in this. It's none that I could see. It's just what it is. It's a meta analysis. They took a look at, I don't remember, it's like 11 different studies comparing high carbohydrate intake diets to low carbohydrate diets and their effects on muscle hypertrophy. And in my opinion, a lot of this stuff, the stuff, it's not that, you know, I enjoy Mano Henselman's content. I have subscribed to his stuff. I read quite a bit of his stuff. I find some of it to be great. Some of it. And that's okay. You know, it's not a shot at him in any, any which way. And this is his gathering of a bunch of different studies, a meta analysis to see what commonalities all these, these studies have in common. And the conclusion was that there wasn't a huge difference in low carbohydrate intake versus high carbohydrate intake. But where I have a beef with this is if you actually go in and look at the studies that were examined in the meta analysis, they were all majorly flawed. In my opinion, I like in, in really have zero relevance to us as a bodybuilding community. I'm going to dig into this and I'll explain my thoughts. Why? And one second. And I think this is why we get, you know, you know, look, I I'm a nerd. I have a science based degree. I love science. And I think sometimes the science crowd is looking for justification for bros to be wrong and for them to be right. And then look, bros are the same way. There's some really idiot pro science shit that's out there. But, and I've tried to fight back against some of that stuff where possible, but I don't think we, you know, I hear. You know, I hear antidote antidote, you know, you know, these guys are genetically gifted. They're taking steroids, blah, blah, blah, blah. That doesn't mean we can, we, we throw out an entire cohort. I think there's been something like 20,000 pro bodybuilders, IFBB pro bodybuilders since the year 2000. So something like that. I don't know, but, but are you going to completely discount a pool of 20,000 of the most successful people in the world? Of getting big and ripped. Throw that in the trash and use a study that was done on a cohort of eight moms or eight grad students who trained for six fucking weeks, eating 300 grams of carbs a day as, as the definitive proof of what works and what doesn't work. Versus guys that have been training and in the gym for decade plus doing this shit 365 days a year, actually weighing and measuring their fucking food. I like, like, like, look, I don't know how the hell you, in a study where you are, unless you have people locked up in a prison, how do you control for what they actually eat? I can't even get, I can't even get, I don't even trust my clients to be compliant with their, but their diet a hundred percent. And sometimes it's not that people are being dishonest. They just don't know how to weigh and measure things. Like you get the dumbass that's dumping ketchup all over everything and think he's zero carb or getting the, the barbecue seasoning. That's got sugar in it and thinking the zero carb or using coffee cream or not counting that. I mean, like, like how the fuck do you even account for that? Especially when you're using house moms and grad students who are not serious athletes as your, as your cohort. I'm like, come the fuck on, man. Like that's going to, you're going to take that as definitive proof that something doesn't work. Give me a fucking break. All right, let's dig into this thing a little bit. All right. All right. The effect of carbohydrate intake on muscle hypertrophy. A systematic review and meta analysis. This was done by Mino Henselman at Henselman's sorry, Mino at all. I'm not even going to try to pronounce these other names because I'm a stupid American. Can't do that. Okay. So the abstract, which I think most of you motherfuckers have not even read. I'm, I'm in fact, I'm pretty confident that most of them that sent me this didn't even read. They just saw a headline in, in sent it over. High carbohydrate diets are often recommended to enhance resistance training induced muscle hypertrophy. However, the isolated effect of carbohydrate intake on muscle growth has not been systematically analyzed outside of ketogenic diet conditions. Objective. The meta analysis is aimed to assess whether high carbohydrate intake influences muscle hypertrophy under iso nitrodeninous conditions. Methods. A systematic search was conducted in the Medline, Sport Discus, Cyelo in Google Scholar databases to find and identify randomized controlled trials compared, comparing higher with lower carbohydrate intakes. Whether via supplementation or diet during resistance training in healthy adults with a measure of muscle size as an outcome. The search was last updated on the 26th of June, 2025. Random effects model was used to meta analyze standardized mean difference SDM scores, according to the preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta analysis guidelines. Heterogeneity was assessed using, and whatever, and prediction intervals. Risk bias was assessed using the Cochrane risk of bias tool. The certainty of evidence was assessed using grading recommendations assessment development approach. Study quality was assessed using the assessment study quality reporting exercise test X scale. Results. 11 studies met inclusion criteria. So I was right about the 11 studies. My memory was good there. A pooled analysis revealed no significant effect of carbohydrate intake or muscle hypertrophy. This is where I'm going to dig in here later and tell you why we can't determine shit from this. This is where I'm going to dig in here. People were not in a calorie surplus. Okay. I mean, all right. Can you determine anything from that? And those employing direct imaging muscle, e.g. ultrasound, also yielded non-significant results. Test X study quality ranged from fair to good with an average score of 9.8 out of 15. But grade certainty of evidence was low because of imprecision and a moderate risk of bias. Yeah. So basically, we can take that for what you will. It says right there that, I don't know. These studies weren't that great. Conclusions. A higher carbohydrate, keyword here, may not independently enhance muscle hypertrophy during resistance training. Though certainty of evidence is low. Folks, I don't know how many of you actually read this far, but clearly most people did not. But future studies should employ stricter energy intake control and utilize direct morphological assessment to clarify the role of carbohydrate intake independent of total energy balance. That's right. Like looking at it in a caloric surplus or a caloric deficit instead of just isocaloric. Oh, my God, man. Like, I just, people just did not even read this far. All right. And there's an infographic here. I don't know if you can see this guy that shows the outcomes. There's research, 11 studies. All we're doing is some sort of resistance training. We'll dig into that in one second. And the resistance training, I mean, wasn't well controlled for. I mean, it was different in different studies. There's some people who are doing fucking CrossFit. Some people that were just whatever. The duration, eight and a half plus or minus two and a half weeks. Training status, trained N equals nine. Untrained, N equals two. Muscle size measures, indirect N equals 10. N equals two. There was ultrasound, DEXA scan. They used in-body. It's like fucking fuck, man. In-body scans on some of these things. So we'll dig into all that. I'll talk about all that in just one second. I'm not going to go into all the details, the background, the study design and all that stuff. I think you guys will be bored the fuck out of that if you want. You can look the study up on PubMed. It's up there if you want to go out and look at it. There's a... I want to get down here to the overview of the studies. And I went back through and looked at some of the studies that they included in this. And I would suggest you do so. Grab this. Go look at some of the studies they included and not just the total meta-study. Table one provides an overview of the included studies. The average sample size of the trials was 20 plus or minus 5.6% participants. Sample size. Here's the group. We'll look at all of these. Usual diet plans with 500 kcals of either peanut-based high-carbohydrate snack. So 500 kcals of carbohydrates. Excess carbohydrates. That is 125 extra grams of carbohydrates. Sample size was 19 male and 13 female athletes. Duration was 10 weeks. They use DEXA scan to assess fat-free mass. So yeah, go back up here. So 20.6 average participants in each group. This one was a duration of 10 weeks. This one was 25% carbohydrate diet plus 70 grams of carbohydrate intra and post-workout versus a placebo. They didn't actually test the low carbohydrate directly, but they had an extra... It looks like they used an intra-workout shake if I'm interpreting this correctly. 18 resistance trained men. Four weeks. Now, what the fuck are you going to get out of four weeks? I mean, seriously. They used air displacement FFM bod pod. The bod pod to me is just a horribly inaccurate way of measuring this. Four-week study using bod pod to assess the results. So, to me, that's trash. Here's the next one. Usual diet plus a post-workout whey shake with 50 grams of carbohydrates. So they used an extra 50 grams of carbohydrates. 17 untrained men. Eight weeks. Maybe... I don't know how much you can determine from untrained men on an eight-week diet with the 50 gram extra carbohydrates. They used ultrasound cross-sectional area. Okay, fine. This one, a bigger difference. 55% carbohydrate intake. Western versus 5% carbohydrate intake. Ketogenic diets. Big difference. 19 male bodybuilders. Okay, that one's more relevant and probably worth a look at. Eight-week duration. And they used BIA, factory mass. Next one here is 15% carbohydrate versus 5% carbohydrate intake. Ketogenic diet. That's not that big of a difference, to be honest with you. In body scan. Jesus fucking Christ, man. Actually, the one before was bioelectrical impedance, too. I mean, anybody who knows anything about bioelectrical impedance, it's trash. Not worth the paper it's printed on. Just throw that. The only thing on here that I would use is maybe the ultrasound or the DEXA scan. Next study was a 55% carbohydrate intake versus a 10%, less than 10% carbohydrate intake. Use DEXA scan. Okay, 19 resistance trained men. Eight-week study. Next week's study. Adlibitum, usual versus ketogenic diet. So, a typical diet. 22 female and 5 male CrossFit trainers. I don't know how much you can deduce from... Do CrossFit people gain muscle? I use DEXA. The next one. 55% carbohydrate versus cyclical ketogenic diet. 30 grams of carbohydrates on weekdays and 70% carbohydrate intake. So, basically, the old school shitloading style of diet where you do a carb load on the weekend. They use the in-body scan. Eight weeks. To me, that's bullshit. Next one. Regular diet versus ketogenic diet. Doesn't really say. Doesn't discern. Use DEXA. 10 weeks. 16 untrained overweight women. Does that apply to a bodybuilding cohort? Next one. Usual diet ad libitum. Usual diet versus ketogenic diet. Seven males. Five female powerlifters from Olympic and Olympic weightlifters. 12. And they use DEXA. Okay, so that one's okay. Um, 55% carbohydrate versus 5% ketogenic diet. Uh, reintroduction of carbohydrates at week 11. They did an 11-week study. They use ultrasound muscle thickness in DEXA scan. So, out of these, we had the BOD pod, which is bullshit. Bioelectrical impedance, bullshit. Bioelectrical impedance, that's three. Uh, bioelectrical impedance, bullshit. Four. Um, you know, so, so, a third of these. Use bullshit measurement systems. There was really only one study that used bodybuilders. Um, and from what I understand, all of these were isocaloric. If you care to go into it, this is a analysis of all of the, what they would assess as the study quality. Um, I mean, you can see here. 11 out of 15, 10 out of 15, 8 out of 15, 11 out of 15, 10 out of 15, 10 out of 15, 7 out of 15, 9 out of 15. Some of them were a decent study. Some of them, I would assume the ones with the, I think this lines up with the ones that did the shit measurement systems that were low quality. So, let's look at the discussion here. The meta-analysis found no significant effect of carbohydrate intake on RT-induced muscle hypertrophy. And this conclusion remained consistent across sensitivity of analysis. Subgroup comparison, publication bias assessments, as well as individual studies in the analysis. Our results are consistent with prior meta-analysis examining ketogenic diets, which reported no significant differences in fat-free mass between high and low carbohydrate dietary regimens. Our results also are consistent with systemic review of Henselman's et al., which reported no significant difference in long-term strength development between high and low carbohydrate conditions in high carbohydrate conditions in high carbohydrate conditions. One study favored higher and one lower carbohydrate conditioning. Collectively, the findings challenge the prevailing hypothesis that high carbohydrate consumption enhances muscle growth. One plausible explanation for the null findings is the limited glycogen depletion typically induced by conventional resistance training. That's what they mean by RT here. Yeah, I mean, like, if you're not doing a higher volume style of training, I find that, you know, you'll hear, usually the guys you hear say that high carbohydrate diets don't work and don't help are the dudes that are doing HIIT training. They don't seem to reap the benefits from the higher carbohydrate approach. They're also the same dudes that say insulin does nothing but make them fat. Generally, if you are going to eat higher carbohydrates and do higher volume training, take insulin, all that stuff, you're going to see better results than you are going to with the low volume HIIT style training. And I think that's why a lot of those guys gravitate towards lower carbohydrate diets. As previously emphasized by Huntsman et al., training sessions involving greater than or equal to 10 sets per muscle group generally result in glycogen reduction, less than 40% of the general level, greater than or equal to 40%, a level generally insufficient to compromise neuromuscular performance, though higher depletion of type 2 fibers has been reported after higher training volumes. As I was mentioning. Moreover, mechanical tension is the primary stimulus for muscle hypertrophy, not acute metabolic stress or substrate availability. Okay. We can debate that one. I don't know. I mean, yeah, I mean, we know that mechanical tension is the primary driver of hypertrophy. That's pretty well established at this point. But what I think a lot of these guys fail to account for is the effect of increased glycogen synthesis, cell volumization and whatnot that happens from eating higher carbohydrate diets, doing higher volume training that may contribute to hypertrophy long term. You know, we've seen this in bodybuilding. Now, here's a key point I want to touch on here, too. It says, another potential reason for the lack of significantly greater muscle growth from higher carbohydrate intakes, maybe the condition differences between carbohydrate and intakes were not large enough. And, yeah, they weren't that big of a difference. I mean, we're talking, I don't know. I broke down the numbers, but I think it was like they were doing something like 2 or 3 grams per kilogram. You know, so, yeah, like 300 grams of carbs. That's my fucking low day. That's not high carbohydrate. So, it goes on to say, as we did filter for any minimum difference thresholds in the search, however, this explanation is hard to reconcile with similar absence of any significant effect of carbohydrate intake on fat-free mass and prior meta-analysis and measures of muscle growth in any included studies, including comparisons with low-carbohydrate ketogenic conditions. Moreover, we performed post-hoc subgroup analysis without Santos et al. as these studies conceptually differed in study designed by investigating supplemental carbohydrates instead of dietary changes along with the different nutritional timing between meal conditions and lower between conditioning differences in total carbohydrate intake than other interventions. Omitting these studies had trivial effects. Despite the consistency of non-significant effects in our prior research, the data did not completely rule out hypertrophic advantages of higher carbohydrate intakes. I just don't think anybody has done a study on big-ass, open, pro bodybuilders slamming 1,000 grams of carbs, taking insulin, doing all the things that we do that would probably show that there is a difference. I mean, can you imagine somebody the size of, say, Samson Diodo going ketogenic? He would likely, or Andrew Jack, in his off-season, they would probably shrivel up into nothing. The pulled SMD was not significant, but favored higher carbohydrate. Overhydrate intakes, while the observed heterogeneity was also non-significant. And the 95% prediction interval overlaps with the CI. I'm not going to dig into all the rest of this. It is also possible that some individuals respond better to higher carbohydrate diets than others, compared to a higher carbohydrate diet to a lower carbohydrate diet, and found that while there were no significant differences between the groups in fat-free mass or one-repetition maximal strength gains on their three measured exercises, there was greater proportion of individuals who met the author's definition of responsiveness in lean mass and arm curl strength gains. However, this was non-randomized retrospective analysis in self-selected carbohydrate intakes. And higher carbohydrate group also consumed significantly more calories and protein. Well, no shit when you're getting a caloric surplus from carbohydrates. Oh, man. Okay. Is there any positive effect of carbohydrate intake on muscle size? It may still not reflect contractile components of lean mass. Previous research has shown that reductions in muscle glycogen and associate water content during low-carbohydrate diets can transiently decrease muscle volume without affecting contractile tissue. Yeah, we know this. I mean, it's like putting air in the balloon and letting air out of the balloon. And as a bodybuilder, you know, really how you get that volume into the muscle doesn't really matter. We are trying to get on stage and look big as fuck, right? So if it is mostly glycogen and water retention, nitrogen retention, whatever it is, and not actual protein structures, what does that matter if it affects the overall look on a bodybuilding stage? I don't really give a fuck if it is glycogen or if it's real contractile tissue. I think some people, and this is just my opinion from what I have seen, have a higher capacity to synthesize glycogen as others. And what I've seen, especially with carb cycling diets, as you do them over a long period of time with insulin use and other things, what ends up happening is it seems that people increase their ability to synthesize glycogen and have some sort of super compensation effect. Now, you can't tell me long-term, maybe indirectly, not directly, that let's say if you can pack on an extra 10 pounds of non-contractile tissue and glycogen synthesis, that long-term that's not going to affect your ability to grow more muscle. It's going to increase leverage when you're lifting weights. You're going to be able to move more weights, have more mechanical tension. Because of the leverage that that extra weight gives you, I mean, anybody who knows that's blown up on glycogen knows how much, you know, post-show when you're depleted and you go in and pound the carbs, your strength will just dramatically increase within a week or two. It's not that you put on a bunch of new contractile tissue. That's likely not what's going on. But it's the substrate, the laying down the framework for additional hypertrophy. And I've seen it over and over and over and over again with guys that I've trained where we get super depleted, get dieted down for shows. We have this phase where we replenish. The rebound effect where we super compensate and then guys end up hanging on to that size. I don't think the initial weight gain that we see is contractile tissue. There's no way that you're going to put on 20, 30 pounds of contractile tissue in six weeks post-show for a rebound. But I think what that does is set the framework up. And maybe it's just because of the extra stuff that's in the muscle that you're filling the balloon full air and setting up conditions where you can get more mechanical tension because of, you know, basically you have a bigger cross-sectional area that's going to enhance leverage when you're lifting that, you know, maybe that contributes to the long-term muscle growth. And also just the metabolic effects of having the increased carbohydrate intake, increased mTOR, increased IGF-1 conversion, increased insulin production. I know that people say that that contributes nothing to size, but professional bodybuilders have proven this shit over and over and over and over and over again to be true. And yet these studies come out on these very limited groups, very limited timeframes that really don't apply to our cohorts that disagree with this and say that that's not true. And everybody's like pointing to these studies and saying, well, you're wrong and that doesn't work. But yet there is overwhelming anecdotal evidence out there that it does work. I mean, I've repeated this process over and over again with hundreds, hundreds of clients and have helped guys grow. So is this just a placebo that doesn't work? I mean, does what Milo Sarchev do with his clients, filling them full of carbs and insulin and, I mean, we've seen him repeatedly blow guys up and make them elite pro bodybuilders. Does that mean this doesn't work? I don't know. You tell me. Continuing on my rant here, I jotted down some notes before I recorded this video, some things that I took umbrage with, with, with this. And, and look, I can be completely fucking wrong, but I just, I've, I've seen this work too many times for it, for it to just, there to be no truth or validity to any of this. But when you look at the study, like their definition of what's high carbohydrate to me, it's not high carbohydrate. From what I saw, the average carbohydrate intake in these studies, what they considered to be high carbohydrate was three to four grams per kilogram. Um, you know, three grams per kilogram of body weight, you know, for a 200 pound male, you know, you, that's, you know, you, you weigh what, 90 kilos. We're talking about 200, you know, 270 grams of carbs. That ain't shit, man. I mean, I mean, seriously, like I think I mentioned to you guys, I'm doing 300 grams of carbs on my low carbohydrate days on my fucking contest prep. My, my medium days are 500. My high days are a thousand. And I've been up to 1500 grams, you know, you know, Jesus fucking crap, you know, and I'm what, 120 kilos, 130 kilos, 130 kilos, something like that. So I see bodybuilders often do 10 grams of carbohydrates per kilogram on a high carbohydrate day. Well, you know, a low carbohydrate day, like I mentioned, two, three grams. I mean, what they're considering a high carbohydrate to me just isn't high carbohydrate. And the difference between the high and low group, I mean, the, the, I think the average between, you know, there are some people that were truly doing ketogenic diets. If you trust what, what the people are reporting, I mean, who knows they're fucking telling the truth. That's the other thing. That's, that's a huge flaw here, but what, what, you know, one to two kilograms or grams per kilogram, I mean, so we're talking about what, what, you know, 150 gram carb difference between the low and high grip. That's, that's not that, that's not significant enough to, to really make, if I were training somebody, I wouldn't consider that anything can significant to make a big difference. The other thing too, is the training. And I mentioned it earlier is most professional bodybuilders are training with a fair amount of volume. The, at least the guys that are eating high carbohydrates, the guys that have figured that out, high carbohydrates, insulin, using insulin, using GH, all these other tools. The study variation here was in some of these people were untrained. Some of them were CrossFit people. Does that even fucking count? You know, maybe there, there was a group that was a body, bodybuilding group. There was a group that's, uh, um, you know, there were, there was a group that was an Olympic lifters. Okay. All right. All right. You know, so, or power lifter, Olympic and power lifters. Okay. Maybe, but they're also not doing the volume like bodybuilders do. I would, you know, argue that strength guys doing explosive one rep maxes probably don't need what we need in the bodybuilding community. Uh, and some of these people were even untrained. Uh, like what can you extrapolate that from that? You know, for people, the people should be training specifically for hypertrophy. We're going to measure fucking hypertrophy. How are you measuring for hypertrophy when they're not even training for hypertrophy? Bodybuilders train specifically for hypertrophy. Now, if you get a group of enhanced bodybuilders and like, let's say we went from like did a keto diet versus carb cycling diet, like what I do. And we had guys training 20 sets per body part per week on either a bro split or a PPL where we're training twice a week, having a trainer, follow them around and push them in the gym, making sure that they're training hard. Color me interested. That's the other thing too. How many of these there's, they saw no difference between the two groups. Really? None of them really grew any muscle from what I could see. And then there were the study lengths. I mean, what are you going to get out of a six to eight week on average study? And how much muscle are you really going to grow during that, that time period? I mean, how much is the diet going to make a difference in that? It fucked. Sometimes it takes my clients a month or more to get their diet locked in. Assuming that you even trust these people were following their diets accurately, which I wouldn't, I wouldn't have the utmost face that they were. Faith they were following their diets accurately. And so what does this study prove to me? And they even acknowledged it in the opening that it doesn't definitively prove anything. We have no guarantee that the people trained hard enough. The studies weren't long enough. I mean, eight weeks is not long enough to really determine if there was any significant hypertrophy. I want to see a year before I'm interested. 16 weeks, 20 weeks. What do we do for an off-season mass-season bodybuilding? 20 weeks, 16 to 20 weeks. They need to push the carbs higher. They need to have people actually locked in on zero carb diets to say that. Or there needs to be set parameters. I mean, like, you want to see the difference? Have some carnivore bros versus some guys doing carb cycling. And have everybody training the same way with enough volume, with enough intensity, over a long enough period of time. And then you got my attention. But until then, this doesn't mean shit to me. At all. Now, I appreciate Menno putting this together. I really enjoy a lot of his content. This is not a slight or meant as any disrespect to Menno. But, you know, this goes back to people wanting to draw. You know, I get all these skinny muscle nerds that reach out to me. Look, carbohydrates don't grow muscle. I'm like, no, bro, that's not what this says. That's not what this study says at all. If anything, it says that there needs to be better methodology before we can make that definitive declaration. And based on the current information that we have, we don't have proof of anything. Really. I can tell you from coaching people and from my own experiences and 30 years of doing this, you want to try it yourself? Go zero carb for three months and then try eating a thousand grams of carbs for a period of time and you let me know what happens. That's all I got to say about that. But anyway, this one got me steamed a little bit. I just like, you know, the people in and there's some people on social media, some rotten people on social media just posting stuff to get attention using this as a declaration that, you know, everybody's looking for confirmation virus. And fuck, you know, look, I am too sometimes. Right. We have to we all have biases. Right. And the carnivore and keto guys see this and they go, look, it doesn't work. No, it doesn't mean it doesn't work. It's not what this is saying. Um, and, you know, I can tell you from my own experiences that I've been able to make people grow. So I am leaning towards more and more. So especially like the, and I've said this before, I made an entire video about it. The most definitive study that you can possibly find on how to get huge in ripped is looking at the people that have fucking done it. There are tens of thousands of people that have been high level competitive bodybuilders and pro bodybuilders that have done it. And they all do things very similar. They all eat very, they eat meat and rice. They all train either a bro split or PPL. Most of them do moderate to higher volume. Some of them do low volume training, but they train really fucking hard. Everybody trains really hard. Everybody trains progressively. Everybody does it for a decade. Everybody eats a shit ton of food. They're not eating isocaloric diets. What the fuck can you do? Of course there was no difference in muscle gain because they were on an isocaloric diet. That's another thing, man, is most of these were isocaloric diets. Like, what can you tell from that? Seriously, of course you're not going to grow any significant amount of muscle gain. And there was no difference between the two groups because they both didn't really grow anything. Because they were isocaloric. You know, I, yeah. So, anyway, folks, I hope you enjoyed this. Take this for what it's worth. I appreciate each and every one of you. You know what works. I know what works. I still enjoy reading studies and talking about muscle science, but I think a lot of these nerds have lost their fucking minds. Watch, watch the people that have done it and done it at a high level if you want to know how to do it at a high level. Emulate what they're doing. That's, that's your best odds for success. All right, folks, I'll catch you on the next one. All right.