WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up gym bros? Big Paul here today and I've got a great interview for you with IFBB pro women's bodybuilder and top olympian Hela Trevino. She is one of the best female bodybuilders in the world and what's insane about Hela is she is 50 years old and has been in the top four in the olympia four times since 2020. She is an insane bodybuilder still doing this at a high level at what would be a master's competitor's age for most people. Still one of the best in the world. We dig into a lot of topics on this. We talk about trening, we talk about nutrition, we talk about PED use with women and how she got into bodybuilding. I think you're going to enjoy this one a lot. It's really great. Let's get into it in just one second. All right folks, Big Paul here today with olympian bodybuilder Hela Trevino. How are you? Hi Paul, I'm good. Thanks for inviting me on the show. How are you doing? Good. So you said you're in Africa right now? Yep, in Tanzania. In Tanzania. What brings you to Tanzania? Well, I live a pretty special type of life. I'm a digital nomad so I don't live anyplace in particular. IMoved to the States in 2012, lived in LA for 10 years. Of course, I wanted to live the gold in gym. I wanted to be serious about my career, tren with child glass for two years and all that. At some point, I just wanted to see the world and do something different. I'm still competing and was first at the Olympia last year. So I haven't stopped that part of my life. I just realized that you can travel and still bodybuild as long as you just have a place to live, a good bed, a kitchen, a gym. That's it. So for the pasT4 years, I've just been traveling. Yeah. IMean, that's what I would like to do when I get older. I still have my kids at home, but when my kids are teenagers now and they are out of here, I'd like to travel and experience other places. I've been in one spot pretty much my entire adult life, but that's the ideal goal long-term is to get out and do that. I admire people that are able to do that. I think, what's his name? Mike Sommerfeld. From what I understand, he bounces around everywhere too. He goes to a place for a while and then stays there, but that's an awesome... There's so much of the world to experience. What's the best place you've lived? Where have you enjoyed being at? It's really hard to say because every country has its culture and good things and bad things. I really love Brazil. Brazil is very diverse. You can really find anything from the Amazons, the rainforest, the beach, Rio de Janeiro with the carnival, and some of the best gyms in the world. So that's the place that I really enjoyed. I think because of the diversity. I had my prep last year in a gym in Sao Paulo called Iron Bird, and it is one of the best gyms, in my opinion, in the world. I also trened in Dubai and lived there for six months in Bemos, which is another great gym. But Iron Bird, it's really a bodybuilding mecca. You'll find so many athletes there. It's so inspiring. It's a very new gym. I think it opened in 2020. All Panada machines, about 450 Panada machines. They have a couple of other brands, but only maybe they have a Brazilian brand. What other brand? I think it's extreme, but they're really dominant in Panada, and that's my favorite brand. I really love trening in Panada. They have all the new stuff, all the new angles. If you go and say they have Smith machines, you know those powers that are sort of like a Christmas tree? It's so awesome for chest. It's exactly like a Smith. It's the same mechanism, and it's so smooth. They have it for delts, where you get into that angle. Once you're there, if you love working out, it's like a candy store. You just, oh, I got to try that one. I got to try that one. Awesome foot trap. The food is fresh. The food quality is really great. It's cheap also to live there, both with rent and with food. Now I'm in Santibar, in Tanzania, which is a small island out from the coast, about 50 kilometers from the main capital, the Dias Salaam. I really like it here too. IMean, what I like is when I get to a country and the people are really friendly. They're helpful. They're just, IMean, and then it's like, they love bodybuilders here. It's like, I don't know how, because it's not really like there's a bodybuilding culture here, but just, you know, everybody loves muscle here. Like if I walk down the street, everybody's like, oh, nice body, you know? There's a lot of gyms here, actually, not top-notch gyms, like regular good gyms. Some are a little worn down, you know, it's not a rich country, but IMean, it's decent. It's good enough. You know, they got what you need. Food is super cheap also. Everything's fresh. So yeah, I enjoy it here as well. But really like, what I like is like, I like the culture, you know, like even you say you're brought up in the United States, I'm brought up in Denmark. It's like, you've learned what you learned through your parents and through culture, but that's not sure that's the right way of living or, you know, you can't say everything is right for everybody, but maybe it's not the right living for you, but you don't know it since you haven't tried other things. So I like to explore different cultures and then I nip a little bit here and there that I like and actually implement into my own life, you know? IMean, for example, like Scandinavia is very known for like, the people are pretty reserved. Like you don't just get friends there easily. It's sort of like, once you made a friend and you know each other, they're good friends. But it's like, you can live in Denmark, Sweden, Norway forever without having any friends because people are very close-knit. They're very reserved. So IMean, I was never really quite like that, but I think after I traveled a lot, I really like open up. I like this like in many Southern countries, they have this heart warmth, you know? They're just, they have a lot of hospitality. It doesn't matter if it was Mexico or Colombia, Brazil, you know, I traveled a lot in South America as well. And they're all like that, you know, just warm. They're like, wow, where are you from? Who are you? They're curious. They invite you home for dinner and, you know, it's like really, it's like this. And I had friends, you know, I lived 10 years in LA and I had like maybe two or three friends. Now it's like, I have friends in Colombia. I have friends in Mexico and Brazil and Africa. IMean, all over, you know, because people just, they're that friendly. Yeah. I think that would be the part that would be attractive to me would be experiencing new cultures. And I'm sure you'd get attention. They don't see many people like you walking around. Especially not in Africa. IMean, Brazil, if you go to Sao Paulo, that's really like the bodybuilding Mecca. I'll say bodybuilding is really shooting up in Brazil. It's like so popular. But of course, if you go to the little villages, people probably never saw somebody like me stayinGHere in Africa. IMean, people look, but in a good way. Yeah. I'm sure they're curious. I have several clients in Brazil. Yeah. The scene in Brazil is pretty neat. And I know some Americans that are moving down there now because it's, like you said, it's cheap. The food's great. Culture's great. People love it down there. Gym culture is especially great in Brazil. IMean, you should look up Ironberg, Sao Paulo. They have some pretty crazy YouTube videos. Also, there's the world gym, actually Taiman El-Gindi owns a gym there in Sao Paulo also that I visited. Now I didn't live so close to that gym, it was about an hour and a half drive or so, so it didn't become my home gym, but it easily could have. It's also really well equipped and got all the good stuff like, you know, the pendulum squats and vertical, horizontal, everything, leg press, like you know, six, seven different types of variations, you know, so yeah, they got some really dope gyms. There it is, yeah, it looks great. There it is, yep. That's really neat. Of course. It kind of looks like my gym. IMean, the equipment is amazing because it's really, like I said, with the leg press, you get in and there's maybe like 10 different leg press, there's maybe like six different squat machines, like just in Panada, there's like three different types of squat machines, if noT4, and then there's a couple of extreme and a couple other ones. IMean, they're just, IMean, and then it's the land of the glutes, right? So, IMean, they got like at least two rows of just glutes and the gym is long. Well, Brazil is known for its glute development. Yeah, yeah. This is the country for glutes. Oh, yeah. So many wellness girls in there trening glutes all day. So, let's talk about what got you into bodybuilding. IMean, how did you get started in the bodybuilding? What got you interested in it? When did you start? Um, IMean, I started early, already 15, 16. Dabbled a little bit in high school, just kind of gym class, but didn't get like super serious before around 17. It was just right around the time I started college and, you know, all the school stuff, school sports I had in high school was kind of like, I was kind of finished with that. So, I was looking for something, you know, college was likEQuite a bigger demand of homework and I needed something flexible, you know, that I didn't have to be there every, you know, Thursday and Monday at five o'clock, you know. So, I was thinking, oh, you know, the gym is like, you know, you can go there alone, you can go there with a friend, you can go any hour. So, it was mostly because it kind of fitted into my school schedule and IMean, then I just fell in love with it, really. Just couldn't stop going. When did you start competing? When did you make that decision? Well, at first, like I said, I just started trening, really loved it. IMet a guy in the gym that was interested in competing. He hadn't competed before, but he was like super into it. Like, he went to all the shows and went to FIBO in Germany and, you know, kind of brought me into the competitive scene. And I learned a lot from him, like about food and nutritional supplements and trening styles and everything. So, that was kind of my entry. And it's kind of funny, he wanted to compete. And at that time, I don't know if you remember, there was like mixed pairs in amateur. Yeah, I remember that. Yeah, when they would do the couples stuff. Yep. The couples clothing. And I thought it was like super romantic. So, I said, if you'recompeting, like I want to do the couples clothing. But then it happened. So, he was really bad with the diet. You know, he just loved sweets too much. So, you know, we were dieting and he wasn't really like making a lot of progress. So, I ended up on the stage and he did it. So, yeah, my first show was the Danish Nationals. And I won. And yeah, IMean, I didn't know anything back then, you know, I was like, okay, I won. That's wild. I qualified for the Scandinavian Championships five weeks later. I went and won that one too. And I was kind of like, you know, something that started like fun. I was like, hey, maybe I can be good at this, you know. And then also, the head judge came up to me after the Scandinavian. So, the Scandinavian is Norway, Denmark, Sweden, Finland, those four countries against each other, like the best from each. And so, the head judge came up after the show backstage and said, he looked seriously at me and said, Heller, if you want to continue in this sport, you can go very, very far. And that was kind of like, okay, maybe we got somethinGHere. So, that kind of... Yeah, you know, right away, I always tell people, you'll know early on if you have what it takes or not. IMean, some people develop later, but IMean, it's pretty clear that people that have the genetics to do it early on, at least it's been my experience, you can shape something you're just born with. Yeah. And then, IMean, it's like, who knows if I was last place, you know, that I would have really continued, like it wasn't... IMean, it's not something I've always dreamt about, like, wow, I want to be a bodybuilder, you know, I just kind of started trening and loved it. And I was like, hey, it can be fun to do a show with my boyfriend. And then it turned out like, I just won everything right after that, you know, and I beat like the veterans of the country, you know, that's been competing for years. And, you know, some people were mad, like, where did this girl come from? We never saw her before. That's an awesome feeling. And then I got my pro card in 2003. So this was in 98. So it's quite some years ago. 2003, I got my pro card, did the Gentana Pro Classic. I won, that was weight classes at that time, I won the heavyweight and the overall, qualified for the Olympia, I was fifth that year. And that was kind of like, all right, I'm going to do this, you know. But unfortunately, the next year I suffered a herniated disc, it was really bad, and it retired. So I stopped competing, just went through a really long rehab and started coaching then, I started coaching just around that time, 2004. And just, I was just kind of like, you know, I need to be in the sport. So let me just get behind the sport instead of being in it. And I really enjoyed the coaching. I did miss competing. And at some point, I had actually rehabbed that herniated disc, and was back to being able to tren. IMean, it was so bad, like I couldn't do any legs, I couldn't have any load on my shoulders, I couldn't even do calf raises with any load here. I couldn't do bend over rows, like I could do like, chicken weights, you know. So I was like, I don't want to ruin my health. You know, for me, IMean, you know, bodybuilding is like, if it's the pros, of course, you got to push it. But I'm also, I've always been like, I want to be healthy, you know, like, it's not worth it to ruin yourself over this sport. But then, fast forward 2011, I was feeling pretty good. And there was a show in Germany, where, IMean, back then, there was nothing in Europe, you had to go to the States. So finally, there was a show, it was actually the FIBO Pro, they had a show there. And I was living in Denmark at the time. And it was kind of like, an hour flight to Berlin. And I was like, this is really cool. Like, I was starting to talk a little about it. And my friends and family were really backing me up. And they're like, we'll come watch. And I was like, wow, that's so cool. Because last time I went to the States with Giantana, it was like, you know, nobody there. I remember, so it was my first time in the States. And my first show, nobody knew me back then. And I remember when all the Americans came in on the stage, it was like, blah, blah. And then I came walking in, it was like, nobody even checked. Yeah, they didn't know who you were. No, no. So it was so cool. Because I had like, at least 15 people come with me for the FIBO. Just my friends and my family. That's awesome. Like my employer came. So yeah, it was super awesome. It was just nice to have everybody there. And then I also won the show. So that was something to celebrate. So I won. And then it was like, okay, I guess I got the Olympia. So I went, well, I actually, I decided to, okay, I still got it. Because, you know, I actually, I didn't compete for eight years. And everybody was like, oh, you can't take eight years from bodybuilding. You know, you can't just come back like that. And now you're older. And, you know, so I was kind of like, maybe I can't come back to what I was. But I'm just, I think just what I always had with me was like, Azure featuring, Azure facial recognition, Azure face recognition, down vision, Azure cashing, Azure face recognition, Azure trensceiver, iconic, ATI, in-house, in-house for the body. Ouch. And lastly, 있고요 to finish up, we want to give you this special invitation. How good does it feel to beents a full-time anesthesiologist, answder a VA, Viral Physician, incompetent in consent. 世知错意 what is stopping you from using appointments? Do your best and fall in love with the process. I think that's an important lesson to take. I remember seeing you at the Olympia last year. I was at the Olympia. Yeah. Yeah. You look great. Thank you. How old are you now? I am 50. 50. Yeah, we're the same age. Yeah. So that's crazy that you're still competing at that high of a level. IMean, yeah, I'm not that. I was just looking at my stats, and I've had 14 Miss Olympias or Rising Phoenix that I competed. And I say Rising Phoenix because, you know, they took women's bodybuilding out of Olympia between 2014 and 2020. So that's when Jake Woods, he founded the Rising Phoenix World Championships, and that was instead of Olympia. So I competed all those years that there was the Rising Phoenix, then Olympia came back. So out of the 14 Rising Phoenixes and Olympia that I did, I was top five in 12. Wow. So I think I have a pretty good track record. That's crazy. Are you planning on competing again or no? Yes, I do. That's excellent. For now, I've been down with a knee injury. IMean, of course, also getting older and have been trened as long as I have. IMean, we're talking 15 or we're talking 30, 35 years I've been trening, competing since 98, you threw the math. Of course, I have some wear and tear, and I don't have much cartilage left in my knees. So I had an arthroscopic surgery in February. Just to remove, I had some bone cysts and some cramp, bone spurs, all of that. It comes with osteoarthritis. So they clened that up. And then in September, I went to Germany and actually had a really groundbreaking treatment. It's a completely new treatment. And that is they are doing implants now. So actually, 80% of knee replacement can be avoided. So they inject liquid collagen into your joints and quite a bit together with exosomes. And this repairs your cartilage. It has two functions. The collagen implant, it's like a fertilizer. It acts like a fertilizer to your cartilage. You have to, of course, have a little bit left, which I still have some. So that cartilage, it grows into that collagen implant and becomes one piece. And it's able to recover my own cartilage as well. And already now, it's mid-September. So it's two and a half months ago. And I'm already feeling so much better. Like barely any knee pain ever from going from knee pain every day. So I'm excited to start trening. I have three months trening break where I have not been allowed to tren. Because, of course, cartilage, it's a slower process. So this takes up to a year to grow into this implant. So the firsT3 months are critical. So you're just feeling like you're not allowed to put load on or to any type of wear or tear on the knee. I've been doing a little bit of just rehab, just stability, a little bit of bands. But it has to be really mild because you don't want to stress anything. I know that life. I'm coming back from a shoulder surgery. I've been out of the gym for six months. Same deal. I had to have my shoulder redone and bicep tendons. Bicep and supraspinatus, yeah? Yeah, yeah. I tore it up pretty good. But I'm the same age. You know how it goes. You get some wear and tear. How are you? Just curious. You know what? I did the same in 22. So I know how you feel. Exactly the same. Bicep tendon and supraspinatus. January 22. And you came back from it, and you look great. I competed, yeah. That brings me to thEQuestion. How have you changed your trening as you've gotten older? I know I've changed my trening quite a bit as I've gotten older. What have you done different to keep going? Well, I go more for hypertrophy, so kind of volume trening. More like I change everything, but really I don't go so much for load anymore. IMean, of course, you've got to – I say it like this always. You've got to go to failure. I don't believe in this like RIR, like you should not go to failure. You should do so-and-so many reps from failure and all that. I'm like, nah, you've got to push the muscle. Of course, you've got to warm up and stuff. But I go to failure on all my sets that are working sets. But it depends on – it's not failure because I keep adding weight. It can be failure that say maybe my reps – I work a lot with seconds on sets. So it can be like say if you do a squat and you have like a six seconds down and a two to three seconds hold at the bottom and a six seconds up, I bet you you're going to get killed, but you can take a lot of weight off if you're trening that way. So I'm sparing my joints by doing often slower reps, supersets, giant sets, drop sets. So I just try to fatigue the muscle as much as possible in different ways without – when we were younger, it was just about loading the bar, just more in the next set, the next set more. And it's impossible to tren that way anymore. Maybe once in a while you can go heavy, but you can't go heavy on every trening. And I know I would have ruined myself if I would have done that. I've always been like very much like my style has been like change it up, change it up, change it up. First of all, IMean the body adapts. And also I get bored. When you tren as long as I have, 25 years, if you go in and do the same all the time – like me, I get creative all the time. I wonder if you go reverse on that machine, if you can use it for triceps, even though it really is a bicep machine. I wonder if I can use that shoulder press for something else. IMean I'm always creative about exercises. Yeah, that all makes sense. You want to enjoy your trening. Yeah, and I think that's kind of where I've been at. I've added more volume. I've tried to get the most out of the exercise, make sure I slow down, I control my form. I think that's something that people make a mistake with trening. It's really like I think with bodybuilding, if you want to last a long time, you want to try to get the most out of the least, make that weight as heavy. Really, it's the opposite of power lifting. I think the challenge is getting the most out of the weight and making the exercise as hard as possible. That's usually what I try to do. IMean I always say like if you can pick up 10 pounds and you can make that heavy, then you're a good bodybuilder. Yeah, IMean it's the exact – Apply time and attention. If you never have like a fully stretch or like – seasoned good guy girlfriend, térfrom GE, www. Milliardenuomo. It's www.Millianimms.com. And thank you very much, Marlo! Thank you, too, for beinGHere. And I would like to just do a quickitous out, and I will be back with you, just a little bit of得 continuing to ask a question. Matthew will try here. And it's at the end of it favourites, Fabio Lautner who is an MBA student here. The thing is, once you know that you can bounce back quick, IMean, you can bounce back so quick. Like, if you have the genetics, and you have trened a good amount of years, as soon as you get back into the gym, IMean, it's sort of like, I say, like, you know, when you do a cycle, and you want to have your receptors to get fresh again, and you've got to take a few months break. IMean, it's the same, like, with the trening. You come back after two months, and you start pulling some stuff, your body is just saying, boom, you know? And then if you also had a gear break, and then you start some stuff, it says double power, you know? So, I'm like a big advocate for taking breaks. Yeah, IMean, I'm experiencing it right now. I, you know, I really couldn't tren with the shoulder. So, it was really six months of just doing rehab, and I wasn't running anything. And I just started up just a small cycle back up about a month ago, and I'm up 25 pounds in six weeks. There you go. Yeah, it's pretty crazy how quick it comes back. IMean, I'm still not back at 100%, but yeah, IMean, you know it. You've experienced it before. IMean, it's a serious injury. It's just because anytime it has something to do with joints, it takes such a long time. It's almost like there's a lot of other injuries that are better just because, you know, is it a muscle tear or something? It doesn't take that long, but it's a full tendon tear. It takes time. But IMean, I had the tendon tear in January and had surgery. That year, it was lucky that Olympia was moved to December. And then thanks for my new genetics, I started trening again in June. So you see, I also had six months of, you know, recovering. IMean, I did some rehab stuff. I did go to the physiotherapy and all that. But in June, I could start trening for real. From June to December, I trened my ass off and still had limitations. IMean, it takes a while, especially with shoulders. So I didn't do chest very well, but then luckily for women, it's not so important. I also have implants, so it's kind of like, you know... Yeah, you can't really see it anyway. Yeah, no, so it's kind of like it didn't matter that I couldn't tren chest so well. IMean, I pretty much got everything else back. Now, when you take breaks from the trening, I assume you come off all PEDs and stuff, too? You just take a break from everything? I have, but since I'm older now, I've actually started to do a little bit of TRT. Yeah, just HRT, yeah. Yeah, that makes sense. Yeah, exactly. HRT. I had blood work done about a year ago where I had been off, like, how was I? Natty for a month, and then I had my blood work done. At my test, it was like 0.4. Yeah, that's not good. That's what the doctor even said for a woman, that's not good. So I don't know if it's because... IMean, there's very little research for women in this field. So I don't know if you're... IMean, I've been taking PEDs for, like, pretty much 30 years. So on and off, of course. So I don't know if it's the same with men, that it sort of gets shut down. Oh, yeah, it's the same. Yeah, or is this naturally also with aging? And I'm thinking a little bit of both. Yeah, it's both. IMean, I see, like, I look at a lot of blood panels and I do a lot of consults. And even women, once you get past 40, 45, if you're postmenopausal, hormones are going to be crashed, usually. Yeah. So, and then I also experienced, in that break, you know, my joints were aching. I was tired. Like, I had really no freaking energy for nothing. And I felt depressed. I didn't really just... I didn't feel good. So after I saw my test was that low, I started some HRT and immediately I felt better. So I'm just like, you know what, maybe I'm just that age where I need to do a little bit of TRT when I do my breaks. So, IMean, I just never feel better. No, it makes sense. IMean, that's what the guys do, essentially. You know, that's what I did for the last eight months, just ran TRT. Nothing crazy. Yeah. IMean, I've always been a big advocate for breaks. And I also, if you're younger, I think you should definitely take your breaks. But if you get older and your hormones are crashed, I think just by your health, it's hormonal therapy to do it. I'm not, you know, IMostly coach guys. I'm not that familiar with women. I know you coach quite a few women. IMean, what's, IMean, if you don't mind talking about it, what does a typical protocol look like for a female bodybuilder? Well, it's very, depending on a few things. IMean, of course, experience. Is it a female bodybuilder? Is she amateur? Is she just getting started? Is it her first cycle? Is it a pro bodybuilder that has been doing it for years? So it can really go from one thing to another. I'll say, like, if someone never took anything before, of course, you know, I've stopped with some anti-viral, I've stopped with some anti-viral. The mild ones, you know, Primo, anti-viral, Deca, maybe a little Vinstro tabs if it's like competition. If we're talking about more hardcore physique and bodybuilding, then we're talking also tests. I like with, if it's like, if a woman is new to tests, I like to do, to run the Proclinate because it's fast, so you can quickly pull it out. So if it's like, if she's getting, IMean, I'm really big on monitoring side effects with my women. So I always like, really like on my weekly check-in, I ask, like, I have like stand-up questions. Like, also like, how are you mentally? How is this week mentally for you? You know, because you can also detect things there. People, you know, get anxiety or depression or it kind of, you know, affects them in a negative way. And I also ask them just, you know, how they're doing in general. Like, I want to know, like, do you have stomach pains? They're running orals or, you know, do you have any sort of, like, virilization? And the first thing typically for women is the voice, that the voice gets a little deeper. I would say it's this side effect that's really hard to avoid because it comes, like, almost immediately. It's sort of like something you have to accept with a package, you know? Like, IMean, if you're willing to run 2.5 milligrams of Anivar, you're fine, I think. But if you want to be a bodybuilder, there's certain things. IMean, the same as being a male. There's certain things you just got to take. You know, it's like that, you know? So if you're willing to accept A, we can go to B. And that's the same I also explain to my clients, you know? I'm happy to help with whatever. If you just want to tren for health and have a little bit of assistance, fine, you can do that. But if you want to go where you want to go, just be aware of this and this and this and this can happen, you know? I was pretty fortunate myself when I started that, you know, I had a boyfriend at the time that knew a lot about it. He also had several books about steroids, cycles, all of that. I read all the books. So I knew exactly, you know, what I went into. It wasn't like you sometimes feel like, yeah, IMight go. внутravation, initial vagus nerve zone, vagus vagusnervus, vagus vagus semi vagus, vagus vagus erectus vagus, vagus severus, vagus vagus Yeah, yeah, for the acne, they have to, you know, go through hair loss treatments, they have to go through all kinds of things to really repair serious damage that could have been avoided. Because, you know, no women should take a thousand milligrams test a week. I don't even take that. Most of the time, it's crazy. IMean, you know, that was actually why we went together three pros to found a team. So I'm the co founder of team for pro coaching. And it's me, of course, then it's Irene Anderson, I don't know if you know her, she's been competing for a really long time as well.  Okay. From Sweden. And then there's Gina Cavallaro, who's also been competing a bunch. So we were just talking about we were all coaching, and we were talking about, you know, about the damage and what kind of clients we got in. And, you know, just, you know, some guys, they just don't have an understanding that when you have a woman, you can't just say, Oh, okay, she's like 40 pounds lighter. So I just lighten up the dose, the male dose a little bit, you know, it don't work like that. It's just stuff like that you shouldn't be using as a woman, at least if you want to be using it, you should maybe be a pro for 30 years like me, you know, like IMight use some things that rookies won't use, you know. IMean, when you're at the highest level, sometimes you got to do what you got to do. But yeah, that's, that's an experience thing. But yeah, so we founded Team for Pro because we really wanted to help women. So we mainly coach women. IMean, we coach men too, but, you know, the mission was, we want to help women, we want to help women, you know, get as little virilization as possible, get be as healthy as possible. We are big on health markers, we are big on blood work. We all know how to read blood work and how to correct many things for supplements. You know, there's a whole lot you can do that, that people don't even know about with homeopathic medicine. There's so many things you can correct just through diet and supplements. Yeah, yeah, 100%. So yeah, we just wanted to help women and just have, you know, healthier women and be, you know, put out a lot of information. We had a, actually a female pet seminar here a couple of months ago. Yeah, we had quite a few people on there and it was absolutely free. We're going to have more in the future. Just to, you know, you have here three pros together. We probably have something like, I don't know, 60, 70 years experience. You know, Irene is also 58 and has been a long time in the sport. So we got so much also, not just textbook experience, but practical experience on ourselves and also through coaching many years. You also let me know when that's happening again. Yeah, for sure. I'll get the word out and I wouldn't mind listening myself. IMean, I know quite a, IMean, I know quite extensive amount about pets and men, but I really don't know a ton about women. IMean, we actually had a few male coaches on there, which I think is great because, IMean, male coaches can learn a lot also listening to us women. IMean, we were also talking about menopause, you know, gear for menopause for women, because that's a little bit different than for younger women. So, yeah. And it seems like the, at least in my experience, female competitors are less open to talking about it than guys. It seems like guys, you know, they're, you know, guys aren't afraid to talk about it, but I really don't hear many female competitors talk about it at all. I think it's starting to open up, but there's not a lot that, I just think there's still like, what can you say, a bit stigma around it. Stigma, yeah. You remember back in the day, like, you know, when we started bodybuilding. Nobody talked about it. Nobody. Like, it was really like, you know, like, oh, like you were afraid, like if you had a sponsor, that if it got out, you'd get dropped. Or, you know, it was really like, you were a big time cheater if somebody found out, right? Now it's kind of like, well, we all know how, you know, so it's like, why beat about round the bush? IMean, I also like, IMean, I think it's, it's really awesome that we can talk about it because I think, I think trensparency is good. And I think who knows something about it, we get the opportunity to pass on that knowledge. So instead of people are just like, IMean, if people want to do a cycle, they're going to do it. So they're maybe going to ask somebody, gym freak down in the gym. You don't know if he knows anything, you know, he doesn't really, and he gets the wrong advice and he gets damaged. And, and that's really what we want to avoid, right? Is helping people not get that damage.  IMean, that's been my goal is to help get better information out there and help people from hurting themselves. That's kind of why I also love to come on podcasts like this and, you know, talk about it, be trensparent about it and, you know, hopefully help some people also in the process. Well, next time you do that seminar, let me know. I'll definitely get the word out. I would love to listen in myself. Yeah, for sure. I will. With, you know, moving on from that with diet, how do you approach diet? What is your approach with, IMean, how do you structure diets? What's your approach with nutrition? For me, I love carbs. Yeah, me too. Not just eating them, but also for the properties. I just know that there's been so many coaches that feel like, oh, you know, the low carb approach and this and that. IMean, low carb has a place, but not too early, you know, so I'm really. I think carbs pair up, you know, if you do a higher carb diet, it pairs up really well with the high volume trening is what I've seen. Yeah. I actually dabbled with my last, correct myself, trening twice a day. I've always trened once a day and pretty much did cardio, you know, a.m. and p.m. and then tren midday. So I actually didn't do cardio and just trened a.m. and p.m. Oh, how did that work out? I burned so many calories. Like, IMean, I tren hard. I tren like a beast. I can go down and burn off 800,000 calories in trening, which I can't do in the cardio, you know. So it worked out really well. There came some time in prep that I had to implement some cardio, but the majority of the year I trened twice a day. And I gained a lot of size and I got in a nice shape. You know, it's interesting. The old school bodybuilders, IMean, you, you would remember, but like all the, yeah, they used to do that. They didn't do cardio. They just trened more. Yeah. I just saw an interview actually with Jay Cutler where he said he was like, us guys, we always tren twice a day. It was like, nowadays it's almost like they tren less, you know? Yeah. It's bizarre to me. I've never understood how, IMean, there's a young crowd out there now that somehow think that working less gives you better results. Lifestyle, I don't know any other sport where you work less and get better results. ERIC LANDERS, MD, MPH, GPPIELONGANIMALDIVERSITY, Grandeville, NSW, PSAU , so I don't know either. I am the standard part, the recovery, but you know, it is like, that you should not go to failure on the stat. You should have a lot of recovery days. You should not overtren. IMean, I would ask you for that. If you're naughty, you need to be careful of overtrening, but if you're on gear, you're not going to get overtrened. It's really, really, really hard to overtren. Yeah. Like you, you, your repair is so fast. Like, IMean, I don't think I ever experienced overtrening. I've over cardioed, but I haven't overtrened. I think I've one time in my entire life, um, and it was on contest prep and it was a combination of things. I'd cut my calories too low. I was doing too much cardio and then I was trening way too much. And so there just wasn't enough there to support everything that I was doing. But I think most of the time that happens, I think it's too much cardio and too low calories. Yeah. That's a hundred percent. What got me in trouble? More than the trening, because if you get adequate calories, uh, IMean, now this approach with the twice a day trening, I'm just trying that on one of my clients. I don't know if you know her, Jay Hooks. She's a, um, IB pro female bodybuilder out of Switzerland. Big motherfucking girl, also like 200 pounds in the offseason. Um, and she's doing that now and she's got a lot of trening, but also plenty of risks. So the way the split goes is like, um, you tren Monday, Tuesday, twice a day, Wednesday off, Thursday, Friday, and then Saturday, Sunday off. So you might think three days is a lot to be off, but if you counted, you actually get eight trenings compared to if you tren like five, six days a week, you get five to six trenings. So you can really get a lot of work. Yeah. I just looked her up. Yeah. She's huge. Yeah. She's huge right now. And she loves it because it's sort of like, it's so hard to tren twice a day. And if you tren two days, you're really like you're just smashed after two days. So it's nice to get that mid day, mid week off day on Wednesday, and then you tren another two weeks, two days, and then you're really ready for, for two days in a row, like to really fully recover. So I think, IMean, it works so well for bodybuilding because you build a ton of size. Uh, also stuff like you say, okay, what's good to have in, in bodybuilding. If the big muscle parts, right. If you have a set of great legs and a great back, it doesn't matter so much. If you don't have the greatest arms or the greatest chest, if you have a great back and a great pair of legs, you go along. So what I do in this split is like in the morning, when you're fresh, it's the big body parts. So Monday legs, Tuesday back, Thursday leg and Friday back. And then I divide it into like upper back, upper lat, mid back, and then lower like erectors, you know, rack lifts, lower lats on the other, um, on Friday. And for the legs, it's got to bEQuad based, the first one. And the second one is hand boost. Yeah, no, that makes perfect sense. Yeah. And then in the evening you have the smaller body parts, like you have shoulder and one chest and one day arms and one day. So, and you can even get two body parts. I've usually did like, um, arms on one day and then shoulders. It depends. Like if I want to prioritize shoulders, I've had two delts days because we have four angles, right? So two delts days, an arm day and a chest day. Or I've had two arm days, a chest day and a delt day. So I can kind of rotate what I say I want to put my focus on, right? Yeah, no, that makes sense. Yeah. I've thought about trying to twice a day trening. I did a little bit when I was younger. Um, but, um, yeah, it, for me, it's just a time thing trying to find the time to do it. IMean, it does take time, but IMean, I, I really love it. It, it builds muscle good. And I, you really get nice recovery also because three days a week, it matters. Like it's sort of like tren hard and recover hard. I'm terrible about taking days off. I think I literally went like two years without taking a day off from the gym. I think your body would be happy if you did. Yeah, no, it's definitely happier with a little bit of time off. All right. I need to wrap this up. Is there anything that you want to promote your coaching, et cetera, before we go? Yeah. Um, IMean, if anyone is, uh, interested in signing up with us or havEQuestions even about, uh, what we've been talking about, then you can hit me up on Instagram, either team for pro coaching or hello to Reno. Um, yeah, like shoot me a DM, whatever it is. I appreciate you coming on. Thank you very much. This was excellent. I really enjoyed all the information. This was a great talk. I'll have to have you on again. Yeah, definitely. Cool talk. And I'm definitely going to check out the seminar the next time you do it. Yes. I'll give you a heads up. All right. Thank you for coming on. Awesome. Thanks a lot for the invite.