 warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Hey Jim Bros, it's Big Paul here today. We are going to talk some DC training. apr apr apr apr apr apr apr apr apr apr apr apr apr apr apr apr apr apr! But Dante trained me for, I don't know, three years or so, like from 2002 to 2005-ish, something like that. I don't recall the exact dates. And I did make a lot of progress under Dante's tutelage, and I hold him in high esteem. I think he's one of the sharpest guys out there when it comes to training and bodybuilding. He's made a lot of people massive. He's turned people pro. Most people don't talk about him because he's kind of hidden in the shadows over the years. He's sort of unknown. He's like an unknown trainer, I guess I would say, because he's helped so many people get huge. We are going to talk about this new blog post from Dante Trudel in just one second. All right. So anybody from the early 2000s remembers Dante and being on Intense Muscle and Muscle Mayhem. And I think it was Muscle Mayhem, but Intense Muscle is where I found him from what I recall. I also had a subscription to his newsletter, Hardcore Muscle, I think it was called, something like that, back in the day. But Dante is one of the sharpest guys out there when it comes to training. And his methodology for training has put a lot of size on people over the years. That's undeniable. And he's sort of kept quiet and in the shadows recently. He hasn't talked a lot about training. I've poked him and tried to get him to come on and talk on my YouTube channel about training. But he doesn't like coming on video. I get it. It comes with a lot of scrutiny. But I think Dante kind of went back into the shadows because of his supplement. He was focused on growing his supplement company. And he probably just got frustrated as f*** with people being idiots. I get it. I, on social media, I get people arguing with me every day. I literally have to block people every day from being assholes and idiots. But anyway, Dante recently put out a blog post. He said he's going to start talking about training again, which I think is fantastic. I haven't heard from him in years on what his thoughts are on training. And I don't know how they've evolved since I've worked with him. I just know what I knew from the time that I worked with him. I have one of his workouts posted up on my website for free. If you want to download it, it's sort of my take on the Dante Trudell DC training system. But it's, you know, this is what I knew from 15, 20 years ago. It's, you know, I don't know how current it is with what his philosophies are now. But we're going to take a look and read. I'm going to read through his article. We'll talk about it. All right. So I'm going to read through this. It's called Power in Numbers and Observation. And he posted this today. It's fresh off the press. One of my biggest pet peeves in bodybuilding is advanced bodybuilders who get amnesia and totally forget how they actually put on great amounts of muscle in their beginning years in the first place. Many, many years later, after they've built a great deal of muscle mass and can stay leaner due to the metabolic rate assets of all the muscle mass, they will shout to anyone within a thousand feet about the comfortable BS training they are doing now. That is greatly unlike the actual training they did to produce the muscle mass in the first place. Here is the question I want you to think about. When is the last time you heard of any bodybuilder say or think that the training they are doing at this moment right now is not working? Never. Never. So many people fooled themselves into thinking that what they're doing now is working when the reality is you see so many bodybuilders who look exactly, and I mean exactly, what they looked like five years ago. maintenance is not gaining. Of course you look better now. You put years of hard work into building all that muscle mass. And now you walk around leaner and you tell everyone and anyone that the way you are lifting now, which again is at best comfortable maintenance, is the way to do it. The scale in the mirror does not lie. A majority of intermediate and advanced people look exactly the same as they did five years ago. I mean, that's 100% true. I might be one of the guys he's talking about. I would say my training is probably more comfortable than what it was when I was doing with Dante. Although I do a lot of volume and I still train, I feel like really hard for a guy that's almost 50 years old and I have made some progress. So I don't know. I, my definition of training hard and other people's definition of training hard is different. I, you know, for me, if, if I'm not screaming at the end of a set, it's, it's not training hard. Although I don't quite do that anymore, but you know, he's right. A lot of dudes don't never progress. You go into the gym and you look around and you see the same people lifting the same weights that they did two years ago and they look exactly the same. They have not made any perceivable progress. All right. So let's continue on here. Let's see what he's got here next. I need you to open up your mind for a second and think about some things that are so important in what I am going to say in the following paragraphs. I'm a pub med junkie. I love to read pub med about drugs, supplements, health, the human body, et cetera. What irritates me to no end is when people will try to pub med brainwash groups of people to death to drive home a preconceived notion they all have in their mind. I proved this to a great many people on MD many years back by showing a study showing that fasted cardio being the best method for losing body fat. And in the very next post, I showed another study why fasted cardio did not matter. And doing cardio at any time of the day was just the same. Now, just think about it. If you were shown just the first study, you would believe it. Just think if you were shown the second study, you would believe it. People can pub med brainwash the heck out of groups of people to steer them in a certain direction, a direction they want you to go in. I've seen it done too many times over the years and it has become beyond annoying. I would 100% agree with him on here. I see so-called gurus on the internet, evidence-based gurus who like to cherry-pick studies that fit their narrative. I think we call that confirmation bias. You know, and a lot of times the guys that are cherry-picking these studies aren't that big, don't have impressive physiques themselves. So, I don't know. You know, I'm not saying that science doesn't matter, but you have to take a lot of these studies with a grain of salt. Well, and a majority of these studies, when you look at them, are not done on people that actually use PDs. They are not done on bodybuilders. They're just done on regular Joes. We are an extreme outlier of society. We do not fit in the bucket of normal people. We just don't. So, I don't know how much you can apply those studies to us. And a lot of times, bro science actually becomes real science down the road. I'm not saying that all bro science is right, but a lot of it tends to prove out to be true over the long term. In bodybuilding, we have vetted out over the years what works and what doesn't work. And really, when you look at physiques, physiques haven't significantly gotten much better in the last 20 years. They pretty much have stayed the same. So, the shit that was working 20 years ago probably still works. The stuff that people call bro science, if you want to get huge, still works. I'd say the one area that we have progressed in bodybuilding is being more health conscious. I do see people being more health conscious now, but confirmation bias is a real thing. And there are a lot of gurus that like to throw around studies and big names for things and, you know, get over complicated with shit. When it's just all a bunch of BS. They're just trying to sell you their BS. Alright, so let's continue on. So, this is my problem with PubMed studies on lifting and bodybuilding. And what have you? Example, we took a group of 24 male weightlifters and had them perform three sets of leg extensions at 60%. One rep max for 12 reps, etc, etc, etc. Stop right there. I want to ask you, the reader, something. If someone came up to you and said, Every person that goes to Stanford will become a great doctor. Every person that goes to Columbia will be a great lawyer. Exactly how do you measure hard work or fortitude? You're telling me that every single person in that classroom, in every subject, at that college, in every single year works extremely hard? I call bullshit on this one. So, when you have a PubMed study using weightlifters, how exactly do you measure individual genetics? Because I guarantee you, if you conduct a study at Salt Lake City, Utah, it's going to be far different than Atlanta, Georgia. And if you measure someone's intensity, how do you measure the hard work and a never-say-die fortitude in weightlifters? You can't. So, I generally take the lifting studies somewhat with a grain of salt, to be honest. Drugs, supplements, and other PubMed studies, the human body and how it reacts to drugs and supplements, etc. is somewhat universal in nature, disregarding genetics. But lifting studies? Very hard unless you want to do lifting studies using multiple sets of identical twins. I would agree with that. You know, even sometimes the drug studies are a bit subjective. They are not on our cohort. Like, you know, I've heard people cite studies, you know, animal studies when it comes to PEDs and relate that to humans. I don't know how much you can infer from an animal study. I mean, you can get a general idea, but animal studies when it comes to application to bodybuilding. I really don't. I really don't. So, you know, they are a guidepost, but they are not by any means the definitive word on things. All right. So, let's go on here. But I will tell you something that you can put in your craw and lock it up as a bona fide fact. Power in Numbers blows virtually any study out of the water. Power in Numbers does not lie. If 2,987 out of 3,000 people say that something works, it does not matter what four guys in lab coats say. Power in Numbers is correct. We had science come forward many decades ago with the AMA with its official statement on steroids saying they did not work. And it was a placebo effect. Um, sorry? Power in Numbers proved this to be absolutely false. We had a PubMed studies on HMB, Ribose, DAA, and other supplements lauding them as the greatest thing since sliced bread. What proved out? Power in Numbers. One thousands upon thousands of people came forward and said, nope, not great. And who was right? The power in Numbers were. Every highly touted drug, PFG2, MGF, FGF, that came down the pipeline of bodybuilding, ended up being thrown into the wayside no matter what the data and literature said the benefit was. That's because they did not work for the masses. I'll give you SARMs as an example. They're pretty much BS. You know, they work a little bit. But, you know, they were supposed to be the next. I remember when SARMs were supposed to be the next great thing. I don't know any poor bodybuilders that are using SARMs. They're pretty much BS. Um, so I would agree with him here. You know, things prove out when put into practical use. There's only so much you can infer, once again, from a study. Practical use does have some merit. All right, so moving on here. So let's go through the greatest studies ever put out on this planet, shall we? All you have to do is observe and look at the massive groups of people to show you the way. And those studies don't lie. 12 to 24% participants, they have millions of participants in them. The stats don't lie. The data is just there. Just open your eyes and look at it. So let's take that journey and look at the monumental amounts of people have to show us. Let's do our best to take genetics out of the picture because people with great genetics can grow no matter what they do. Even with bad deductive reasoning, they grow. They can curl milk jugs filled with sand while waiting in a pool and grow biceps. Thousands of you reading this right now trained 100 times harder, ate 100 times better, supplemented and enhanced better, and did everything that Paul Dillett did to be the best bodybuilder you could possibly be. Yet you still got dwarfed by Paul Dillett. Because genetics cannot be beaten. So us removing genetics to the best of our ability, let's look at the millions of people and make some determinations. A lot of you young guys probably don't remember Paul Dillett. He was a bodybuilder back in the 90s. He was an absolute freak and had a reputation for being completely lazy in the gym. You know, I don't know who an example would be today. I'm not saying Phil Heath is lazy, but you could do whatever you want and never beat Phil Heath. Or probably Big Rami for that fact. You know, some of these guys just have absolute freak genetics. I posted videos up about genetic advantage in bodybuilding. People like to blow it off. But the analogy would be being 7 feet and playing basketball. It doesn't matter how much you practice, how hard you work. If you're 5'4", you're not going to be a 7 footer in basketball. Doesn't matter. That 7 footer can half-ass everything. And you're not going to be better than that 7 footer. Alright, so moving on. A. Newbie lifters. This is you, me, anyone during their first 2-3 years of lifting. Everyone makes gains. No matter what you do, even if it's horribly incorrect during that time period, you will make gains to some degree because of the new stimulus presented to the human body. People gain sometimes 20-50 pounds during these years. They can gain a lot of muscle correctly and even a little muscle incorrectly. Hopefully they have the same mentors, guidance, and do it correctly. Across the board, newbies gain muscle mass. Note to everyone. What else is highly noticeable at that time? Training weights go flying upwards during this time. 20 pound dumbbells become 30, 40, 50 pound dumbbells. 135 pounds squats become 155, 185, 205, 225 squats for reps. All the training weights go up pretty dramatically during these 2-3 newbie years. And at the very exact same time period, every newbie puts on a great deal of muscle mass. A coincidence? No, it's not a coincidence. Take note of that. Let's move on. Yeah, so I know Dante's a big progressive overload guy here. When I worked with him, it was, you know, the bigger the guy, the more weight he can lift. And that is true to a certain degree. I do think you can, there is a caveat here, and I'm sure Dante would acknowledge that, that some people are just gifted with strength. I've seen some guys, I literally just saw a kid in the gym the other night. That was like 120 pounds, high school kid that was blowing out reps with 225, 275 in squats like it was nothing. Some people just have some sort of neurological connection or neural drive that other people do not have. There's also, in strength, there's also technique too. Technique, improving your technique, improving your form can improve your lifts. So I would say the caveat here, and I'm sure Dante will make this point, is lifting within the proper form for stimulating muscle hypertrophy. B, group two. This is the post three year mark when newbies are no longer newbies. Past three years is the point where things go down dramatically. This group right here is the majority of gym goers across the globe, comprising millions, if not hundreds of millions of members of this group. A lot of you guys reading this right now are part of that group. And what is the telltale side of this group? They never change. This group right here is the greatest human study ever done in bodybuilding on this very planet and shows exactly what not to do. And yet so many guys don't observe, notice, or learn from it. Go to your gym tomorrow, heck, or any other gym, and you will see millions of members of these gyms that are 20, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45 years of age. And look the exact same they did three years ago, five years ago, 10 years ago, 15 years ago, etc. You will say hi to them tomorrow, and you will go by five years now, and they'll look exactly the same and say hi. What is their telltale calling card? These millions of people never change. Members do not lift hard. They go in and do comfortable training and train about 70% intensity for years and years like clockwork. So when I hear the modern day cry, you don't need to lift hard to get bigger, and you can leave multiple reps in the tank, no problem. You will grow. Check the freaking scoreboard. The biggest study ever done is the ultimate proof that every gym around America and the globe, proving this to be untrue. And the members in group two is so large in number, it should be irrefutable at this point that not lifting harder does not work. Please, I'm asking you, go to your gym tomorrow and just watch. Look at the same guys there you've seen for the last five years doing the exact same thing. They're looking the same. They do not train hard, do they? If you don't have to train very hard to gain muscle mass, this group two would be comprised of the majority of individuals with a lot of muscle mass, first of all. And secondly, the groups of people pushing this, you don't have to train hard to gain muscle mass, mantra, should not and would not have used antibiotic drugs to overcome the limitations to what kind of lackadaisical training produces. I'm not calling anyone out specifically. I'm calling you the modern day group of bodybuilders. How the hell did we get to the point where we try to make everything easier when the hardest training bodybuilders in every gym, gym out there banging away at heavy slag iron have been the ones changing for decades. The sad reality is the drugs in the sport, which allow non-intense people to make gains, has skewered everyone's thinking. A lot of people need to go back to the natural training to remember how the heck you actually trained yourself to get larger when you were clean. A lot of answers become real clear when there isn't a bottle of testosterone helping things along the way. That, ah, no big deal, I don't have to lift that hard today as a natural guy trying to improve size of your quads. Of course, it's easy to do when you load up a turkey baster with steroids and exceed all plateaus. That wasn't done far and wide in the old days. Guys got after it in training wise and the drug dosages was one-fourth to one-half of what is used. Now, take out all the genetic marvels in people using drugs. Do you see anyone training at 70% to get huge? No, you don't. So, by my calculations, up to 95% of this group two here is not changing. It will not change. It will be the exact same in five years. The other 5%, that other 5% are actual guys over the corner grinding out heavier and heavier T-barbaros, doing progressively heavier squats, leg presses, skull crushers, CG presses, machine shoulder presses, curls for reps, and like their life depended on it. Those guys got to push through this stagnant point in the lifters with progressively heavier training for reps. These guys right here know their shit and figured out how to train and keep progressing. Yeah, I mean, he's not wrong here. I, you know, you guys know that I don't, I don't train to absolute failure, but it's not to say I don't train hard. So, that, that's, you know, you can progress. You can still progress load and hold back a rep or two from failure, I think. I don't know, maybe Dante would disagree with me on this. You can progress volume. I'm constantly pushing my weights up. I train hard. I would challenge anyone to come in with me in the gym and say that I don't train hard. I do think he's correct that people that do not progress their weights up, people that keep lifting the same weights for the same reps every frigging workout, that is trash. You're not going to, obviously, you're not going to progress if you keep lifting the same weights, you keep eating the same food, you keep doing everything the exact same. You've provided zero stimulus to progress. You're not going to grow. That, that, that is 100% fact. And I, I will say when I was making my best progress, I was pushing things. I still progress. I still push things. What I do differently now is I use more volume. I, I use higher reps, but I'm still trying to push my weights up when I can. Believe me, that's my training partner. We're, we're constantly pushing weights up where we can. And I, shit, I'm almost 50 years old and I'm still progressing my strength. And when I trained with Dante, man, we, we pushed it hard. I'll tell you, we pushed it hard and I, I, I did grow. All right, continuing on. Now, C, group three. This is a journey into being enhanced lifter group. I think he means enhanced lifter. This is really a really large group of individuals who come from myriad of different backgrounds and knowledge. Every single bodybuilder who uses bodybuilding drugs gains. That is a fact. This group is just like the newbie lifters that they can gain no matter what, even if they are idiots sometimes. Again, every bodybuilder that does, that uses bodybuilding drugs for those first two to three years makes gains. A lot of this group of people will gain 15 to 35 pounds of muscle. They could lift buckets of sand while riding a unicycle and would gain because the incredible advantage that the bodybuilding drugs give them. The majority of these guys think they know their stuff, even when they don't, because they give, it gives them a false sense of, I know what I'm doing. But it's the milligrams that are dictating the advance of muscle mass and not their intellect. Note to everyone. What else is highly noticeable at this time? Training weights go flying up. 60-pound dumbbells become 90, or 80, become 90, become 100, become 110, 120 dumbbells during this time. The 245-pound squat becomes 275, 315, 365, 405 for reps. All training weights go up pretty dramatically during these first two to three enhanced years. At the very exact same time that this enhanced person puts on 15 to 35 pounds of muscle. A coincidence? No, it's not a coincidence. Take note of that and don't overlook it. Once again, if you're getting bigger, you're going to get stronger. That goes to reason. D, group four. This is the post two to three years enhanced group period. This is the most dangerous group in bodybuilding. This group comprises a huge group of individuals who give a false information, a false hope, but let's point that out for a second. This is a massive group of enhanced bodybuilders. A majority of them are only as big as the drugs will allow them to be. What is so dangerous about these individuals is that they give out information to anyone within A-50-mile radius based on the look they have that the drugs impart on them. But they do not know their stuff at all. They are only as good as the drugs, let them be. But bodybuilders smaller than them listen to them intently because they don't know better. And heck, these guys look like they must know what they're talking about right. The majority of these guys get trapped. If they get off the drugs, they disintegrate because they never have learned how to train or gain muscle or keep muscle. They only have muscle mass due to the drugs and the milligrams use. So most of these guys never get off. And that's okay. I will give you one telltale sign of these guys and how you can tell they don't know their ass from an elbow, trading-wise. Like Group 2, after 2 to 3 years, they never get bigger. Ever. They reach their 15 to 35 pounds of muscle mass gained from the drugs and stay there. For the rest of their lifting career, they will be the same size unless they abuse the hell out of themselves with drugs to go past that set point. But that's another story altogether. That usually ends up with some of them dying in their 40s. Again, these are guys who are the most dangerous people to listen to in bodybuilding because they give advice on various topics. But 90% of what makes them up as a bodybuilder is the drugs and the milligrams they dare to use. Yeah, I mean, you can push past plateaus with drugs. That's 100% for sure. But there is only so far you can take them. I also think diet plays a huge role in here too. I think a lot of people don't make it past that intermediate stage because they don't pay attention to their diet like they're supposed to. This is one, you know, I agree with Dante about the training that you need to progress the training. But so many people don't focus on the diet and they don't progress the diet and then they end up stuck. They don't make progress from there. So they never actually go anywhere. Next, group five. These guys know their shit. Oh my God, do these guys know their stuff. These are the individuals who learned how to train progressively to gain muscle in the beginning years and carried it all this time right through the enhanced post D group and they keep gaining. This is the group that makes up the pro bodybuilders. People with good genetics, people with intermediate genetics and a whole bunch of other people in between. The telltale sign of these guys is three years after they became enhanced, they pull every trick out of their training bag and train viciously heavy for reps. And they keep gaining past group four stage while the majority of people stay in group four. Stop. I cannot give these guys enough. Supplier with this. And compliments. These guys in the 5% in group two are the true superstars of the sport. We figured out how to train to get larger continuously. Who are these people? An example you would know to look up a bodybuilder to get pro card. Most of them never get much bigger than that, do they? Now look at the ones who get larger after they get their pro cards. Sean Clarita and others like him. They get progressively heavier and heavier weights and they usually get larger and larger in the years after they got their pro cards. It's not a coincidence. Any guys in your gym that are past two or three years enhanced stage and continue to get larger, I guarantee you they're grinding it out. If anyone here thinks I'm talking about singles and triples reps, you're nuts. I'm talking about progressively heavier weights using 8 to 30 reps. Whatever you determine is your safe rep range, you want to train it. And trained by JP, Jordan Peters, look at him. Guy went to pro size and went to freak size. Guy went to pro size and said, I had a front view seat of that trip progressively weights and used the whole time. So I give my ultimate respect to this group right there in the 5% group. And number two, they figured it out. Respect. Yeah, once again, I go back to, you know, another missing agreement here. And I'm sure Dante would agree is nutrition. I 100% agree with him here that the people that keep pushing, keep pushing, get bigger. And there's only so far you can take it with drugs. And the further you want to take it, the more attention to detail you have to pay, the harder you have to work. The harder you have to work in the gym, the harder you have to work with your diet, the more detailed you have to be with everything that you do. That is 100% true. All right. So look above. Just observe these examples of massive groups of people. What stands out? Seems like the guys, they gain tremendous amount of strength for reps over time. Newbies enhanced also put on a great deal of muscle mass. And only the group of guys who sanely grasp that concept continue to get larger and larger over time. Once the newbie and newbie enhanced periods are over. Sure. It's sad to see so many people confused by both newbie gains and worst of all, by number of two to three years enhanced bodybuilders who get so brainwashed with what drugs give them as far as look. That they think that they know what they're doing training wise. People who train progressively, that suit of armor is theirs. It does not go away over time. It becomes dense, viable tissue that does not get lost in the dieting process. And large tissue, that suit of armor stays, let's see what he says, stays with progressive training bodybuilders on TRT. That's the point. I get a lot of guys saying that you can't maintain those gains when you come down to TRT. Fake gains, water gains you cannot maintain when you come down to TRT. I'm literally running 125 milligrams of testosterone right now. And I'm 275, 280 pounds. People don't believe me. I've had to block multiple people on social media that say I'm a liar. It's because I go in the gym and I train hard and I eat my damn food. Want to know someone who really knows his stuff? When they take a natural bodybuilder, enhanced bodybuilders who have been lifting for six to eight years who are trapped and get them to a whole new level of size. Then you know your stuff. I don't know why so many people in bodybuilding cannot step outside their own personal drug using box and say, hmm, what would a natural me do? Because the correct answer training wise to truly get the natural you bigger is the exact same answer when you're enhanced. It's a real eye-opening experience when you don't have the good old PED help in your back pockets. A lot of you would look at things much differently. I hope this gives you some thoughts to think about up above. Sometimes sitting back and making observations of large groups of people can shine some light on the correct path to take. Yeah, I mean, I can't dispute any of that. You know, so once again, I go back. I don't do DC training anymore. I shouldn't say that. I train progressively. I train with high volume. I train with high frequency. I train with high reps. I do still progress my weights. I'm progressively trying to push my weights and get stronger. Even if I'm doing, you know, like let's say if I'm doing bench press or hammer strength presses and I'm doing four sets of them, I will try to progress that weight on those four sets, you know, over my workout block. I might, you know, add a five pound, five pounds to it the next workout. But I try to get progressively stronger and you do get bigger. You can also, you know, increase volume too as a mode of progression too. There's, you do hit a point where there's only so far you can progress the weights. Um, and I'm not saying that progressing the weights isn't important, but volume matters too. And I think the diet matters a lot too. That is a missing ingredient that a lot of people do not consider. You have to progress the diet just like you do the weight training. If you want to go from 220 to 240, you can't eat like a 220 pound bodybuilder. You have to eat like a 240 pound bodybuilder. If you want to go from 240 to 260, you can't eat like a 240 pound bodybuilder. You have to eat like a 260 pound bodybuilder. If you want to go to 260 to 280, you have to eat like a 280 pound bodybuilder. I can't tell you how many people break on the diet. I work with a ton of people. People tell me, I just can't eat this. Well, you're not going to grow. So you got to train hard. You got to eat. You got to eat more. You got to eat properly. It's really that simple. Bodybuilding is simple, but it's not easy. All right, guys, let me know what you think in the comment section below. I really appreciate you watching. I'm going to give a quick shout out to my sponsor, First Detachment Nutrition. Discount code is AB10. Go over there and pick up the supplements from First Detachment. If you want to support me, support them. Thank you guys. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.