 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, Big Paul here today with my off-season vlog. I guess I'm in week two of the cruise now. This is really the boring part, but people want me to keep doing this. So, not a whole lot to report. Well, actually there is. I had a weird health week. So, well, I'll talk about it today. But we'll dig into all of it in just one second. All right, my vitals. So, fast it, wait. Uh, dropped this week. It's down to 262 and my daytime weight is down to 268. I had a, some sort of stomach bug this past weekend. It was, really bad diarrhea. I don't know if I had some bad food or something happened, but it really fucked my stomach up and my appetite is a mess right now. Uh, I've been doing my best to get the food in. Justin cut my food back for the cruise as well. So, I've been eating less this week. But my appetite has been horrible this week. Uh, my blood pressure creeped up a little bit. I did not realize. I, I always prepare my supplements for the week and I put them in a pill box. And I realized a couple days into it that I forgot to put my Telmasartan in the pill box. And I took my blood pressure one day and it was 140 something over 90. Like what is going on? And then I realized I did not have my Telmasartan. Um, and I think it takes a few days for it to build up. So, this, the blood pressure reading that I have the 132 over 81 was just after one day of taking it. So, it takes a few days for it to kick in. But, uh, that just shows you how effective the Telmasartan is. Cause usually I'm like in the 120 over 70 range. But without it, it was high. Um, even on cruise. I, my fasted glucose has been staying around 98. Um, I mean, it's been fine. Uh, the gyno on my right pec had flared up and, and people love to point it out in my pictures. Like what's wrong with your nipple dude? Is something deformed with your nipple? What's fucked up with your nipple? My nipples not fucked up. Well, it looks fucked up because there's a piece of gyno under it. Um, so I am addressing that. I am treating it. Um, I added it back in, in AI. Um, I think it was the MPP that caused the flare up. Um, but yeah, the stomach bug really like kind of messed me up all week. And my, my eating has been off. And I, I'll be honest, I haven't been getting all my food in this week because, which is unlike me. I don't miss meals, but I, I just like, if, if I feel sick, I feel like it's unproductive to eat. So I'm not going to force myself to be sick, especially when I'm on cruise. Um, so I, I'm doing some things to address it. I, I've been doubling up on the glutamine, trying to put some glutamine in. Um, some other things, but I don't know. Some, something really tore me up. Uh, progress picks. Uh, you can see here from last week that I definitely leaned up a little bit. Except it was one good thing about, uh, um, you know, being sick. Uh, my, my abs are showing, you know, you can see my serratus on the side. You know, for being in the two sixties, I feel like my body composition is not bad right now. I don't know what my body fat percentage is. People always ask me what my body fat percentage is. Don't know. Don't care. Don't care. I go by what I look like in the mirror. Um, and my rule of thumb is, is I always want to see at least an outline of, or shadow of abs. If I can't see that, then I'm getting too fat. Well, that's my rule of thumb. Um, so that's kind of what I do and everybody's different. Some people carry more fat in their abdomen. I don't tend to carry a ton of fat in my abdomen. My fat tends to be on my back, especially my lower back. Um, and my ass, I get, I get some fat on my ass. So, but rule of thumb for leanness is if I get to the point where I can't see my abs, I'll start getting rolls on my stomach. That's too fat. That's time to cut. So for those of you that are wondering if you need to cut or you need to bulk, if you can grab rolls on your stomach, you can't see your stomach and you want to be a physique athlete of some sort, whether it's bodybuilding, men's physique, class physique, whatever the fuck it is, you're too fat. You need to cut down. Um, you can see my back here. Uh, you know, I've definitely lost some definition of my back cause I'm just carrying more fat. Um, you can still see my hamstrings a bit, my adductors. Um, you know, not bad, not bad for, for being walking around close to two 70, uh, current diet. Nothing's changed since last week. Uh, Justin left everything the same. I cut down to one high day per week, which is usually what we do on cruise. We pull the food back. Um, the objective on cruise, you're not trying to grow on cruise right now. And this is something that people screw up all the time on cruise. It's just to let my body get healthy. Give myself a break from all the food. Give myself a break from the drugs. I pull my training back a little bit. I don't train as hard when I'm on cruise. You know, I still, you know, lift the same weights, but I pull the volume back is really what I do. So, um, I have been posting some training videos on Instagram as well. I know a lot of people have asked me about training videos, so you can see the volume and how I'm training on Instagram. So right now with the food on the low days, I'm doing 360 grams of carbs, 330 grams of protein, 60 grams of added fat. Uh, medium days are, um, 75 grams or 600 grams of carbs, 315 grams of protein and 40 grams of added fat. Once again, I remind everybody, this is added fat. I am not counting the fat that comes in the protein sources. This is added on top of it. My try to keep my protein sources as lean as possible. Um, right now in the offseason, it's mostly chicken, cod, uh, 95% ground, ground beef. Occasionally I'll get some flank steak a couple of times a week. Um, that's pretty much it. I mean, I don't eat really much else for protein sources. I have been eating some protein powder lately. That may be why my stomach is upset. Um, every time I introduce protein powder, I, my even whey isolate, I get high quality whey isolate. It always fucks my stomach up. That's why I tell people to be careful with protein powder. Um, I can go into the whole protein powder diatribe, but people get tired of hearing me talk about it. You just have to be careful with it. You don't want to use it for every meal of the day. I use it one meal a day, maybe like three or four times a week. And even then I noticed problems. Um, and I, I posted a video up about it recently too, with the FODMAP diet. Um, you have to be careful. If you start getting gassy, you start getting diarrhea, uh, you have indigestion, bloating, that is a sign that your digestion is fucked up in something that you're eating or a drug you're taking. Something is interfering with your digestion and it needs to be addressed. Simple as that. So I'm doing one high day per week right now that it typically is leg day. Um, high day is a thousand grams of carbs, um, 290 grams of protein and a cheat meal. Sometimes I don't do the cheat meal. It just depends. I don't know. I didn't do it this week. I didn't really, I wasn't really feeling it. My stomach was upset. So I kind of skipped it. Uh, uh, current PEDs, uh, 100 milligrams. 100 milligrams of test every other day. Actually I changed that up. Doing 125 milligrams of test two times per week. So that is incorrect. So it's 250 milligrams of test per week. I found a 250 milligrams of test. Usually when I get my blood work done, my testosterone levels are in excess of 1000. Usually they're in like the 1200 range. If you cannot maintain muscle mass on 1200 milligrams or 1200 level of test, I don't know what to tell you. People think it's impossible to maintain muscle mass on that, on that level of, of testosterone. It's just untrue. Now you're not going to gain, you're not going to get huge. Um, it's not going to, you know, push you over the top, but you can certainly maintain what you have on that. I dropped the NPP, uh, a week and a half ago. Um, doing 10 milligrams of tamoxifen every other day and added 12.5 milligrams of eczema stain every other day for the gyno. The gyno already has shrunken up. Um, it is certainly the tamoxifen I think that, that, that exacerbated it. Um, I reduced my GH to four units every day from six. I'm still doing a thousand milligrams of metformin every day, 1500 milligrams of berberine per day. Um, 80 milligrams of telmositin. Um, no humalog at this time. I am still actually the Lantus. I have 25 units pre bed. I dropped that down to 10, 20. Um, and keep in mind with Lantus, it's just a basal insulin. It's a background insulin. Um, I don't think my body makes enough insulin to keep up with the carbohydrates that I eat. And I'm really taking the Lantus more prophylactically than for, for growth. Um, it, it is a replacement to take some pressure off my pancreas and keep my fasted glucose. levels lower. Um, my fasted glucose levels tend to get higher when I don't use the, the Lantus and the Lantus is to help out with that. Training right now, I'm just kind of middle of the road volume. Um, not minimum effective volume, not that low, not, um, maximum recoverable volume, just kind of right there in the middle. Um, so nothing crazy right now. Um, same, same split I've always done the push legs, pull, push legs, pull all the way. Pull, push legs, pull off. Um, rep scheme right now. Um, if you want to see my Instagram training videos, I got another one coming out tomorrow. Um, it's going to be for my push session session that I did tonight. Um, the, all the compound movements are 10 to 12, 15 on isolation. That's what I'm doing right now. Nothing to failure. Everybody asked me how many reps in reserve. I really don't know. I'm just not going to failure. I don't, I don't know how you quantify reps in reserve, to be honest with you. Uh, cardio right now is 15 minutes to hit three times per week. I'll be honest with you. I haven't really been doing that. Sorry, Justin, if you're listening to this. Uh, I've been skipping some of that. I've been getting a fair amount of walks in, you know, been doing some walks here and there. So whatever, uh, coaches feedback. He told me if my weight drops below two 60, I, cause I did drop a few pounds this week, four or five pounds, something like that. Um, he told me if it drops below two 60, that we, I should increase the food on the high day to compensate for it. Uh, plans and thoughts. I, I, I honestly think I'm, I don't know if I get sick or what happened, but I think I'm having an IBS flare up. I always do this to myself. Like I start drifting away from the FODMAP diet that I talked about because I get tired of eating bland ass boring fucking food all the time. And then I'll start adding some spices back in. I'll add some peppers back in. I'll start eating a little bit of gluten. I'll start eating a little bit of protein powder and dairy and shit like that, that I know I can't get away with. And then the next thing I know I'm shitting my pants for a week straight. So, and I, I, I convinced myself that things are better and they are for a short period of time. And then boom, I'm right back into the same fucking problem I had before. So I think what I'm going to have to do is just go back to basics. Like usually what happens when I do have an IBS flare up and that's just eat goddamn chicken, beef and rice only with salt seasoned on it for a few weeks. Even vegetables fuck my stomach up. Even fiber supplements fuck my stomach up when I have an IBS flare up. It is sucks. I'll tell you that. I've been battling with this for a decade now. Uh, it's a long story. Uh, I had, I used to be able to eat whatever I wanted. So that's why I laugh at these young guys and say, Oh, you don't need to do this stupid FODMAP diet. I abused my stomach in my twenties and my thirties. And now I'm paying the price for it. Like I did damage from eating like too much shit, you know, just garbage food, hot sauce, lots of gluten, dairy, all this stuff. And then, and then it just adds up. And then I was power shoving food on top of it. And then it just adds up over a period of time. And then you end up with IBS when you're in your forties. So a lot of the stuff, you know, just because it's fine now doesn't mean it won't be a problem later. You young guys. So that's why I encourage young guys to try to be some, especially if you're eating large amounts of food, if you're trying to push food for size, stick to the basics and that it's easier, like it's easier to get that, that type of food down. If you're eating bland food, it's just, it's just as easier. Um, you don't get the stomach cramps. You're, you're ready to eat again when it's time to eat. You don't have the issues that you do when you're eating a high FODMAP foods. Um, so, um, strength is holding on crews. My strengths have been just fine. Um, yeah. And I go back to that again, like, uh, guys have this, this is a good thing. I have this notion. And I, and I think what it is, I, they, they think that you lose everything when you come down to a, to a cruise. And that may be true if you're doing stupid dbol and anadryl cycles and running these short cycles where you don't really accumulate any real contractile tissue. Um, that you just accumulated a bunch of fucking water weight from taking these, these steroids that add a bunch of water to you. So that 20 pounds you gain when taking dbol and anadryl is not real muscle. It's just fucking water. Um, and you, you're bloated up and yeah, you have more leverage. Yeah. You're stronger. Yeah. You might look bigger in the gym, but then as soon as you come off, it's like somebody lit the air out of you. We've, we've seen those guys look like somebody, they look like somebody put a tire pump up their ass when they're on these bloated ups. These steroids that blow you up. And then when they come off, it looks like somebody just took the plug out and they let all the air out of them. Dudes that have real contractile tissue don't look like that when they come off. As long as they maintain a diet, as long as they're having some base level of testosterone, we don't lose weight like that. When we come, come back down to baseline. We just don't. Um, so that's my two cents on that. I definitely health wise, I've been feeling back to normal. Um, I've been sleeping great. I have been having some anxiety. Um, just kind of low level background anxiety. I have social anxiety anyway. I don't like being around groups of people. It just bothers me. And, um, I actually have been feeling a little panicky at times. And, and I think maybe it is the MPP. I dropped the MPP a week and a half ago and it seems to have calmed down. Um, so I, I love Nandrolone and I love the size that Nandrolone puts on me. I love how it makes me feel, my joints feel. Um, but Nandrolone is synonymous with anxiety and a lot of people. And I think it might be hitting me a little bit right now. So I'm somewhat hesitant to run Nandrolone when I do my blast. I was going to run higher doses of it. So I may sub it out for Equipoise. Equipoise does not affect me that way. I know some people claim they get anxiety from Equipoise. I have never had that issue with Equipoise. Equipoise, I feel great. So, may, may go that route. Well, we'll, we'll see what happens. Um, I still, you know, I still got another good six weeks and maybe even eight weeks before I go back on blast. I'm probably going to go on my offseason blast sometime mid September, maybe even October. We'll see how I feel. I need to get my blood work done again here a few weeks. Uh, I did, I did like a month ago and things weren't that bad after coming off prep. It's probably the best it's looked ever coming off prep, but I just want to make sure that I'm okay to go back on blast. All right, guys, that's all I got for you tonight. Thanks. Thanks. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at big P3RD at gmail.com.