 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, Big Paul here today with a update on my progress. Um, uh, this is getting into the boring phase. I don't, I know people like me doing these every week. I don't know if they're, they're worth it right now, but I'll keep it up if people find these helpful. Um, but I'm getting ready to transition about two months post show right now. I'm getting ready to transition into my cruise. Um, and really the cruise, the goal of the cruise is just to get healthy, achieve some bit of homeostasis, just kind of hold where I'm at. So we're getting ready to move into that. Um, and you know, nothing fun happens during that time. I'm not going to be gaining any size. I'm not going to be doing anything crazy with the lifts. The diet's pretty, pretty boring and pretty straightforward. But I'll share it with you. So from week to week, it's not going to be much different. Anyway, we'll dig into it in just one second. One second. All right. Update for this week. Uh, my fasted weight yesterday or today. Sorry. Yesterday. Yeah. It was two 65. Um, my daytime weight was two 71. I have a picture of the scale down here. Um, I put a video up the other day about my weight. I was pissed off. Even some of the, I got on the scale. I got on the scale. Even some of the, I got on the scale. I got on the scale. I got on the scale. Even some of the shoes off guys, no shoes. Um, I got on the scale. I got on the scale. I got on the scale. I got on the scale. I got on the scale. I got on the scale. of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my weight of my trolls. There's always trolls that are going to, going to be haters and doubters. Um, I had some dude tell me he was going to call me out for being, being a fraud, uh, that he, that he had his eye on me. And I'm like, I'm like, all right, dude, whatever. Oh God, what is wrong with people? Seriously? I try to put good information out. I try to put solid. I try to be transparent about what I'm doing. Um, but there's always people that, that think you're lying. Um, I guess it's just how it goes. The internet's a weird place, people. Um, anyway, enough of that shit. Uh, my blood pressure, uh, it's been like the same. It's like once I've 120 over high seventies, um, fasting glucose is pretty much the same as last week in the high nineties. It's just been kind of hanging out there, but which is usually about as low as it gets with me. Um, my, I see some of my clients that run these really low fasting glucose levels of jealous, like they'll be down in the sixties and seventies in the morning. I mean, I never get that low, even with insulin. Um, you know, 90 in the high nineties, it's usually about as low as I get. Um, but I probably a little insulin resistant, but plus I'm running GH, you know, maybe it would be a little bit lower if I wasn't running the GH, but, um, anyway, um, that's pretty much it with the vitals. Overall, I think my health is okay. I feel okay. Um, allergies have been bothering me this week, but I get hay fever this time of the year. So if I stuffed up red eyed, that's why. Um, okay. So, uh, progress picks this week. Um, I am, I am at that turning point and there anytime when you're pushing calories and I've been pushing calories hard the last, the last seven weeks. Uh, anytime you're at that point, you, you, you hit a point where you start accumulating more fat than you do new contractile tissue. And I feel like I was at that point. Um, I, my body composition definitely got worse from, um, noticeably worse from last week to this week. Most people probably couldn't see the difference, but I definitely could. And, and so, uh, talk to Justin about it and we're, we're pulling calories back. Um, I'm getting ready to transition into my cruise anyway. So usually pull calories back during, during cruise. I get the fat face, man. My face just gets fat. I don't know what the deal is with that. I mean, I'm probably, I don't know where my body fat's at here. Probably 10%, 12%. I don't know. Some, somewhere in that range. Um, and, and my head looks like it's 30%. Um, a lot of it's water. I do know that. So, uh, but you know, you can see, I still have some separation in my legs. You can still see my serratus. You can still see the outline of my abs. Um, you know, I, I, I'm still fairly lean. I, I have a little bit of fat on my love handles. Still see my hamstrings a bit. You know, I'm not liking show shape or anything right now, but, uh, for the way I've been pushing food for the last two months, uh, not too bad. I don't think, um, the cruise diet. So I am transitioning into the cruise. Uh, Justin pulled back the food pretty hard. Uh, the goal in the cruise really, as I mentioned earlier, is just to maintain, this is to allow my body to get into some sort of state of homeostasis. So I pulled the food back. Um, my low day now is 360 grams of carbs, 330 protein, 60 fat. I only do one low day a week because I train six days a week. Um, and I always feel weird when I take off the gym. Like yesterday was my day off and I feel like I'm slacking or cutting myself short. I just love being in the gym and I'm a little bit neurotic about it. I probably go too much. Um, I don't understand people who don't like to be in the gym. I was talking to somebody who's trying to do like a Mike Mincer hit program. So they, because they don't like being in the gym and I'm like, why the fuck are you doing bodybuilding? If you don't like being in the gym, that's like, it's like saying I'm, I'm a basketball player and I don't want to practice. I don't want to play games. I'm only going to play one quarter. I, if you love it, you want, you want to be around it all the time. I don't understand the desire to do less. I, it just makes no sense to me. Um, anyway, off of that side rant. So medium days right now are 600 grams of carbs. I had somebody tell me that my low days are like their high day. Probably. I don't know. I'm, I'm a big dude and it takes a lot to keep it. So it's like fueling up a Mack truck. I mean, I'm only getting like eight miles to the gallon. You know, if you're, you know, 180 pounds, you're like, you're like, uh, you know, a Toyota Prius, you know, you're getting 60 miles a gallon. So it, uh, it takes more fuel to keep this, keep this body gone. Uh, I, I really, I don't know what my basal metabolic rate is, but I feel like around 4,000 calories. I start losing weight. If I dip below 4,000 calories, I start losing weight. Um, anyway, so, uh, here, uh, medium day, 600 grams of carbs, 315 protein, 40, um, fats. Um, that is added fat. I like, I clarify that every week we do not count the indirect fat that is in the meats because it's impossible to quantify because every cut of meat has, you know, a different, different amount of, of fat in it. I, you know, I have a buddy of mine that was a butcher and he's like, he's like, you know how we tell the difference between, you know, uh, 95% and an 80%. We look at it and we go, eh, that looks like 80% and they toss it in the grinder. So there is no science to it. So honestly, it's kind of pointless counting it. You just try to get the leanest meat you can get. Um, I, I've definitely seen like with hamburger, like the 95%, sometimes I get it and there's like no grease in the pan. And then other times there is. So a lot of times I'll rinse it or put it in a paper towel or something just to get the excess off of it. And then, so the added fats are usually EFAs. We get our added fats from EFAs. I am dropping from three high days a week and three cheat meals a week back down to one high day a week and only one cheat meal. High day is still a thousand grams of carbs, 290 protein, um, and zero added fat. Well, if you have the cheat, the cheat meal is substituted for the post-workout meal. So if you pull that out, it's there's definitely, there's fat. So that's a bit misleading. Current PEDs. I am transitioning into my cruise this week. So I'm tapering down. Um, but I'm going to start the cruise next week. I just put the cruise doses here. I'm going to do a hundred milligrams of tests every other day. I don't know what that works out to be, 275 a week, something like that. It's just, you know, I just put it there for measurement purposes. Um, I dropped the NPP. I, you know, I usually, usually tolerate Nandrolone very well. And I was getting some anxiety, um, and feel a little panicky at night, um, during my rebound. I don't know, maybe it was just my body coming back into homeostasis or if it was the Nandrolone. Um, I know a lot of people have really bad issues with anxiety with Nandrolone. And now I'm kind of second guessing myself if I want to run Nandrolone in my offseason blast. Um, I had bought, bought some DECA to run. Uh, but now I'm wondering if I should go with equipoise instead. I don't know. I'll have to give it some thought. Um, so still running the 10 milligrams of tamoxifen every other day. I may put an anti-estrogen in. I feel like my estrogen is a little high. I haven't got my blood panels done recently, you know, in I don't know, a month or so. Uh, but I feel like my estrogen is running a little high because my sex strap has been weird and the gyno has been flaring up. Um, and that may explain the anxiety too. Um, I reduced my GH to four units every day from six, um, thousand milligrams of metformin that just continues through 1500 milligrams of berberine that continues through. Um, 80 milligrams of telmosartan that stays the same. Um, I think I would drop the Humalog on the high days during the cruise just to let my insulin sensitivity reset. I don't want to be blasting more insulin than I need. And then the 25 units of Lantus pre-bed. Um, uh, people ask me why I run the Lantus. Lantus is a basal insulin. So operates a bit differently than, than, um, rapid acting insulin. Your body has a background amount of insulin in your system at all times. There's always just a couple of units running at all times. So, um, the Lantus kind of takes the pressure off your pancreas and allows for that. And I, if I don't take Lantus, my facet, uh, glucose runs high. So I don't think my body makes enough insulin to keep up with the demand. Um, so I don't know. I use the Lantus to take pressure off of, of, of the pancreas and help compensate for the, um, the high glucose. I don't think it's the Dawn effect. It's possible. It is, um, you know, I don't have one. I, one of my clients got one of those meters that tracks you 24 seven and it was pretty neat. He was having high fasted glucose and you could see it was clearly the Dawn effect because his glucose was dropping down and I think in the sixties or seventies, sixties during the night. And then it would pop up to like 110 right before he would wake. Um, so if you don't know about the Dawn effect, look it up. Uh, training, nothing much has trained with the, changed with the trading. I'm still running sort of a medium volume. I'll probably continue to do so. I just want to make sure I'm fresh, recovered, ready to go for my offseason blast right now. The object is to maintain, let my body get back into homeostasis, do no damage. Um, I'm not really trying to gain right now. If I gain a little bit, that's fine. But, um, for the next six to eight weeks, I'm not concerned about gaining size. So 12 to 15 sets per week, per body part split into two workouts. I'm still doing the six day a week kind of Renaissance periodization style split, push, pull legs, push, pull legs off or push legs, pull. Sorry. Um, the rep scheme, nothing to failure. People ask me what RPE. I don't, I just don't get that. That ain't all about it. You know, I just, I feel like, you know, I get to a point where I feel like I got a rep or two in the tank or if I go anymore, my form is going to break down and I stop there. It's just, I don't really think, think that hard about it. Um, so 10 to 12 reps on compounds, 15 on isolation is what I'm doing right now. Um, cardio, I'm going to crank up the cardio a little bit cause I've been slacking on it. So, um, um, um, I'm going to start doing a little bit of fasted cardio again, just, just to help with, uh, insulin sensitivity and, you know, maintaining body composition. Um, um, so, uh, current thoughts and plans, uh, the reduced food we're going to hold at the current weight, roughly, maybe, maybe, you know, that the idea is to kind of stay where I'm at for the next six to eight weeks while I'm on cruise. Let my insulin sensitivity settle down, let my body get into a, somewhat of a state of homeostasis, um, and just be ready for the offseason blast. I want to make sure my body composition doesn't worsen, um, and not really going to diet or anything, but just kind of hold where I'm at. Um, uh, started, I did start the cruise a week early. I just felt like there was nothing productive to be gained by continuing on. My workouts were kind of flat. My body composition was starting to take a, a turn to the negative. I didn't feel like pushing gear for another week or two or food for another week or two was productive at this point. Um, I feel like my body needs a break. I mean, I'm pretty much have been, last time I had a cruise was January, something like that. It's been a while. So I did a 16 week contest prep and then about six, seven weeks of, of, uh, rebound. So, you know, 23 weeks of being on higher than TRT doses. Uh, so it's time for a break. Um, I'm feeling mostly back to normal. Um, my, my sleep is still a little disordered, but I don't know when you get big, it's hard to sleep. It just kind of comes with the territory. Um, anyway, that's all I got guys. Thank you for watching. I appreciate each and every one of you.