 tame-de-de-gu bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla bla If you want your questions answered on the Q&A, you can join over there for $30 a month. I also have a great forum and some free coursework. Some of the questions I have lined up today include, do bodybuilders still do the old school two weeks on two weeks off clenbutyrol protocol, or are they using ketonafin to extend runs? Does using the sauna actually have health benefits, and if so, how often should you use it? If primobolin crushes your HDL, is it okay if LDL is low and all your other lipids are in order? I have all these questions and many more on today's episode. We'll get started on those in just one second. All right, my dudes, we're going to dig into all this. I'm fresh back from the Arnold Classic. That was crazy this weekend. Man, what a cool show. What a neat time that I had there meeting all my friends, meeting some of my clients, meeting people that I listened to. I probably met some of you. I did my best to overcome the social anxiety and hang as long as I could. It was pretty crazy there this year. I've never seen crowds that big, but the show was awesome. The expo was awesome. The whole experience was awesome. I really had a blast off to the Detroit Pro this weekend. So if you're at the Detroit Pro, come up and say hi to me. I'll be there as well. All right, first question I've got up here is from Jared T. Jared asks, do you agree with the classic two weeks on, two weeks off, clenbuterol protocol? I've also heard of people running it six plus weeks while using cototepin to extend its effectiveness. What are your thoughts? Okay, well, I haven't heard of anybody running the two week on, two week off protocol in a long time. That was some shit that we did back in the early 2000s. Now it seems most frequently that people just taper up as they go. There is some down regulation in the beta 2 receptor with exposure to clenbuterol that happens over time. But people compensate with that by increasing the dose. I can tell you from firsthand experience, I'm super sensitive to clenbuterol. Six, eight weeks into it, it is definitely still working. I can assure you that I still feel the effects of the clenbuterol. So I'm packing the clenbuterol a little bit. It is a beta 2 agonist. It's more selective to the beta 2 receptor. It does have some crosstalk with beta 1. Beta 2 stimulation helps with fatty acid mobilization. It basically just liberates fatty acids from the fat stores. And if you're in a caloric deficit and having increased calorie expenditure, you're going to burn those fatty acids up and thus lose body fat. That's sort of the idea here. It also is a pretty decent stimulant as well. There's some crosstalk with the beta 1 receptor. You get some central nervous system stimulation, increased pulse, all these other things that go along with that. So it does increase metabolism to a certain degree as well on top of liberating free fatty acids. It also has an anti-catabolic effect, which makes it a bit unique amongst fat burners. It's mildly anabolic, not enough to notice anything profound with using it. But women, it seems to be pretty profound. Men, not necessarily. But versus something like a GLP-1 where you might have protein loss, breakdown of muscle tissue, and other things like that that could potentially happen. And that doesn't seem to be the case with clenbuterol. But I guess if you push the deficit hard enough or train hard enough, you definitely could be catabolic. But clenbuterol is unique that way. To me, it's still my favorite fat burner. GLP-1s do seem to be a bit more effective. But as far as achieving that hard, grainy look, I really still like clenbuterol. But there is some down regulation. And you'll notice that after you've been on it for a couple weeks, it just doesn't work as well. And this is where I've heard of guys using ketofin. Ketofin is a... Hopefully I'm saying that correctly. I never know if I'm saying that one properly. I used to say ketofin, but there is definitely an extra T in there. But ketofin is an antihistamine. And it seems to help resensitize the beta-2 receptor, allowing the clenbuterol to work more effectively. There are, you know, when we're on contest prep, I hear dudes sometimes when they can't sleep and things like that, they'll run antihistamines. The problem I've run into when I've used it, it just makes me foggy and lethargic. I've tried messing around with it. I don't feel good on it. I don't feel great on it. And I honestly, I have never noticed that the clenbuterol really loses that much effectiveness. I can get away with a really low dose. I mean, I think on my last contest prep, I didn't get much more than 50 or 60 micrograms. And I've heard of people tapering up to as much as 100. I start off at 20. I think I went up to 40 and then kind of laid around there, maybe 50 or 60 at some point. But that was plenty to get me shredded for stage. I think guys often overdo it and overestimate what they need and are fearful of it not working. And that just has not been my experience. So the old two weeks on, two weeks off protocol to me seems kind of silly. I mean, it's, you know, are you taking off fat burning for those two weeks? And the way I use fat burners, I layer them in as I need them. And my last trigger that I pull when I'm running fat burners for myself on contest prep is I put the clenbuterol on last. And I start off with other more mild solutions, sometimes over-the-counter stuff. And I honestly, I mean, to me, I think I handle clenbuterol better than I do you am buying. But long story short, no, the old two-week-on, two-week-off protocol. Nobody does that shit anymore. I haven't done it. I just don't think it's necessary. And I, you know, if you wanted to play around, you know, I played around with the Katodafin. I did not like how it made me feel and the negative effects that it had. I didn't think the juice was worth the squeeze personally. But that's my two cents on it. All right, next question here is from Reggie B. Reggie asks, he goes, Paul, I have been interested in hearing your thoughts on the possibility of GHK-Cu possibly degrading BPC-157 and TB-500 in the GLO and CLO formulations. What are your thoughts? Look, I'm not a chemist. But from what I understand, that these peptides are super sensitive to pH changes. How sensitive? That's up for debate. We could probably test this stuff in the lab. And from what I understand, in theory, that the copper that's in the GHK-Cu could throw the pH off any way that could potentially damage the BPC-157 and TB-500. Now, with that said, when I was recovering from my surgery, I used GLO. I did not notice any limited effect. I went back and forth between just regular BPC and TB-500 and GLO. I felt like it worked effectively. It could have been a fucking placebo for all I know. But I was able to pretty much get back from my shoulder surgery, my bicep tendon repair procedure, pretty much back to full blast within six to seven months. And my doctor was surprised at how quickly I recovered. I wasn't even really running GH during my recovery. So it was mostly just TRT and these peptides that I used to help with the recovery. And it certainly seemed to speed things up. I was rehabbed, ready to go up and running faster than most people are coming out of that surgery. So did it work? It certainly seemed so. And it would be interesting to see if anybody has any lab testing to see if it does degrade the BPC and TB-500. But, you know, just my anecdotal experience, I didn't notice any difference between that and just running the two by themselves. And if you can take less shots, that's probably easier. All right, next question I've got here is from Luis M. From the School Antibiotic Bodybuilding Members Community. You can head over there and join if you want for $30 a month. Link is in the video description below. Luis asks, What are your thoughts on sauna for recovery? How often should someone use it? And how long should each session be? Man, I love the fucking sauna. There's studies that have come out that says, you know, that it increases, you know, increases pulse while you're in there. It causes vasodilation, lowers risk of cardiovascular events, increases heat shock proteins, which are protective. And there's all these other side benefits. But, man, for me, it's really just as simple. I'm old. I'm beat up. And sitting in the sauna helps me get loosened up. And I just feel good when I come out of it. You know, there's the cardiovascular benefits that come from it with the increased pulse and the vasodilation. You can just do some fucking cardio and get the same benefit. But, you know, look, everybody that does the sauna loves the sauna. I do know to get the benefit of the heat shock proteins. From what I understand, there's a certain temperature that you have to get to. From what I understand, the infrared saunas don't get hot enough to really get the full benefits of the heat shock stuff. Now, there are other benefits from the infrared therapy. But, for me, I want to be hot as fuck when I sit in the sauna. I'm actually looking at purchasing one for my house. I'm thinking about installing one in my garage. Because my gym does not have one. The gym that I'm currently at, I love. It's fantastic. Great gym. They have everything, but they don't have a damn sauna. I wish they had a sauna because I love sitting in the sauna. I used to sit in it before every workout. I'd sit in there for 15 or 20 minutes, get a good sweat going, get myself loosened up, get blood flowing through my body. It was just fantastic. I love it. You know, look, dude, I don't... If you like it, do it. If it provides some sort of benefit for you, do it. I don't know that it's the panacea that everybody says it is. But I love it, man. Even if it's a placebo, I love sitting in the damn sauna. I think it's an old guy thing to do. Really makes you feel good. Really gets you loosened up. It's just great for old, creaky joints. I don't even care about the cardiovascular benefits and the heat shock proteins and all that other stuff. If that's a side benefit of it, fantastic. Great. You know, who doesn't want to live longer and have better cardiovascular health? But for me, it's really just about making my joints feel good. And I want to get in there and get hot as fuck. I don't... I've been in saunas that just don't get hot enough for me. I want one that's super, super roasting. Could get me plenty hot. That's the kind that I want in my house. So I... After my research, I'm going to opt for the traditional saunas versus the infrared ones because I just want to blast myself and make sure that I'm getting super hot when I'm in there. All right. Next question I have lined up is from Richie Inn. He asked, Do you think it's feasible to string together multiple growth phases for maximum progress if they're broken up with four to five week mini cuts to reset insulin sensitivity and shed some body fat? Look, I'm not a huge fan of the mini cut thing. Guys do this thing where they... I don't know. I don't know where it came from. I'm not saying it's terrible, but I don't think it's the most optimal way to do things. Here, guys, they'll... They'll do their blast, their bulk, and they'll do it for 12, 14, 16 weeks, whatever they have it scheduled for. And they'll take four or five weeks and lose a little bit of body fat and then go back into a bulk. What I've seen is the net result of that is you end up not doing anything really well. You never quite get lean enough to reap the benefits of the rebound, which is pretty profound if anybody's ever experienced it. If you get yourself super lean, you're going to have this phase of super compensation where you come out of it. Your body is ultra sensitive to insulin. Your body has just primed for growth. You have this situation where myostatin is lowered. Gastric emptying is in a great spot. All of these things that are important for growth. And you just don't get that when you do a three to four week mini cut where maybe you take your body fat from 15 down to 12% or some shit like that. I just don't think that nets out much for you. And I also find, and I've talked about this in the past, that after you have done a growth phase, really the most productive thing to do is to let your body breathe a little bit. You've pushed hard, come back down to TRT doses, kind of hold your weight, let your body achieve some homeostasis, let your body breathe, let your body recover, let your body get ready for the next phase. And if you go straight into a caloric deficit, coming out of a bulk phase for four weeks, it's just, to me, you're just putting more stress on your body and creating an environment where you are not going to be efficient in moving forward. Look at bodybuilders. Bodybuilders, I don't know why more people don't look at this. The guys that make the most progress in bodybuilding are the dudes that compete. They regularly compete every year. They don't do fucking mini cuts. They do a full blown cut. They get themselves absolutely shredded. They come out of that absolutely shredded phase, have a rebound, grow a bunch of muscle, you know, maybe gain a little bit of body fat. They get down to 5% body fat. Maybe they go up to nine or 10 during their growth phase. And then they go back down to five again. And if you're just hanging out in that 15 to 20% body fat range or 12 to 18, whatever it is, doing mini cuts and balking, you just are never going to make any significant forward momentum. To me, that's just a recipe for spinning your wheels. And I look at the guys that do that. They just never improve. They look the same. They, they, they sit there, they spin their wheels. They, they, they come out looking the same every year. And look, Hey, if many cuts work for, for you, by all means, go for it. It's not my preferred methodology. I have not seen it work. I have not seen it be the most optimal way of doing things. And for me, when I'm doing shit, I, and this is the thing I spent a lot of time working on when I made my massive progress going from, you know, 185 pounds on stage to 250 and becoming a pro competitor. The thing that I tried the most to do is to find the most efficient way to make the most progress. And I promise you committing to a cutting phase, getting absolutely shredded, committing to a balking phase, 100%. 100%. Then taking breaks in between to let your body come back to some sort of homeostasis that allowed to breathe was the most optimal way to do things, in my opinion. And I, I, I never did any fucking mini cuts, not one time, not once. I tried it in the past. And when, when I would do these three, four week cuts, I just, it just ended up just spinning my wheels and not making any progress. And I think that's a half measure. People like half measures. They like to think that there's some way they can cheat the hard work, the, the grind that's necessary to get the best results. I promise you, man, if you want the best results, just do a, a, a hard 16 week cut, get super fucking lean, then put your size on. All right. Next question here is from Chris E. Chris ask, Prima Ball intends to crush my HDL and I tend to run it year round. Do you see long periods of low HDL as an issue if the rest of your lipid markers are in range? Um, so, steroids affect hepatic lipase. Some worse than others. And hepatic lipase, uh, is going to have an effect on your HDL. DHT derives. Steroids seem to be more aggressive at lowering HDL than say testosterone or 19-nors. Orals are the most aggressive at lowering HDL. So, so Prima Ball and Masteron are probably going to be more aggressive at lowering HDL than say something like Trent. I know that sounds crazy, but that's just what I've seen. Uh, they also tend to suppress estrogen, which also has an important role in regulating lipids. But here's the thing with HDL, uh, is, from what I understand, LDL to HDL, it's really the ratio of HDL to total cholesterol that matters a lot. If your APO B is in line, if your LDL is low and your HDL is mildly suppressed, it's probably not a problem. I'm not a cardiologist. I'm not a doctor. I'm not recommending this is what you do. But some HDL suppression is just unavoidable when you're on PEDs. It's the cost of doing business. Everybody that I see that runs PEDs has some suppression of HDL. Now, there are some things that you can do to mildly affect it. I have my lipid, you know, my lipid lowering protocol that you can grab on the website. It's for free. You don't have to pay for it. It's over there. Just go grab it. At anabolicbodybuilding.com. You can go over in the free stuff section. It's there. But there are some things you can do. Niacin has some mild effect on it. There's fish oil. But the thing we do have a big control over is our LDL. We can keep our LDL lower. A lot of that's just diet, keeping saturated fats low, increasing the consumption of VFAs. There are all sorts of things that we can do. You know, citrus bergamot, red rice yeast extract. In some cases, some people might need a statin to help do that. But I like to keep my LDL and ApoB down in the 60s if I can. And then my HDL is usually in the 30s. And when you're at that ratio, probably the risk of a cardiovascular event or cardiovascular disease long-term is much, it's significantly lower, much less on that, on those ranges than it would be, say, if you had a 150 LDL. I do worry about these bros that run these high-fat keto carnivore diets and they're blasting Anadrol, taking primavol and an Anadrol, or aquapoison Anadrol, and then they end up with a 10 HDL and a fucking 200 LDL. Probably not smart long-term. I know there's going to be somebody in the comments section that's going to be pissed off that I say that and that cholesterol doesn't matter. You do you, bro, if that's what works for you. But I personally am not taking that chance. Sort of like riding a motorcycle without a helmet. It's not the helmet that causes you to get in a motorcycle accident. But not wearing one is certainly increasing your risk. And that's the way I look at having high LDL. It's increasing the risk of a bad outcome when doing crazy shit, like taking PEDs, which is analogous to riding a motorcycle. Anyway, long answer, short, you know, I'm going to summarize this into a short thing for you. But as long as your LDL is low, as long as your APOB is in line, the risk is going to be much lower. And that's really the best that we can do is lower risk while we're endangering ourselves with risky behaviors such as taking PEDs. All right, next question here is from Marco M. Marco asks, John Jewett has recommended taking low-dose T3 and T4 year-round as thyroid HRT. At doses low enough not to burn muscle, what are the potential benefits of proactive thyroid HRT? And what are your thoughts on this approach? I'll have to ask John what his logic is on that. I haven't spoken with him in a while. I need to get him back on sometime for an interview. I find John to be probably the smartest bodybuilder out there when it comes to this stuff. John's very well thought out. I'm sure he has his logic and reasoning for doing that, if that's truly what he's suggesting. But on a surface level, I'd have to hear what his logic is on it. I don't think it's necessary in most cases. There are some people that are deficient in thyroid, and a lot of times there's some underlying reasons why. I've seen some issues where a lot of dudes are iodine deficient from eating sea salt. They don't get any iodine in their diet, and simply putting some iodine in the diet, because they don't have iodized salt in there, supplementing in some beetroot extract, or using iodine drops in their thing, or just getting some fucking iodized salt. Often is enough to fix the problems when there are thyroid issues. I generally do not see low thyroid in men. If anything, I see the opposite, especially bros that are blasting HGH. What I'll see with guys that are running HGH is we actually have an increase in T3 uptake. Free T3 is higher. Guys on HGH tend to have higher thyroids. It's the exact opposite problem. We do have a situation there when T3 uptake is increased. A lot of times T4 will be somewhat depleted. But as long as the active form of thyroid T3 is in a good spot, I wouldn't get too worried about T4 being low. When I look at my blood panels, especially as I get deeper into contest prep, a lot of times my thyroid actually increases. And I think that's a situation sometimes where, and maybe that's what he's talking about here, is when you're dieting, there are some situations where T3 sometimes will get a bit lower when you're on a contest prep phase. Some guys have some metabolic downregulation, and then they end up with low T3. But I found a simple and easy way to kind of counteract some of that stuff is with carb cycling. When I schedule in these high carbohydrate days, I don't care what the science says. I've heard people saying that it doesn't have that much effect on metabolism. I've seen otherwise. Especially when paired with growth hormone, I've seen when we put in these high carbohydrate days, and a lot of times I'll start increasing the high days as you get deeper into a cut, and we end up in a situation where the thyroid just sort of spins up. Not with everybody. It doesn't happen with everybody. Women do seem to be more sensitive to thyroid issues, low thyroid, than men. I almost never see guys, dudes, deficient in T3. It's very uncommon. It's not to say that it doesn't happen. It certainly can. I've had a very poor experience with thyroid myself. The problem with thyroid is that it's really great at burning fat and keeping metabolism as high, but in T3 is also pretty good at increasing protein breakdown as well, aka burning muscle tissue. I had a crazy experience with it. Now, granted, I was running higher doses of thyroid, but even on smaller doses, I've seen that. And I've seen it with dudes. They turn into string beans. So I could see maybe an argument for supplementing some T4 when you're running HGH since T4 does get depleted. But honestly, if you're having a low thyroid, I would just start off with some thyroid support, something that has some iodine in it, and see if you can fix it with that way. I'm not a huge fan of thyroid hormone. I think often that it just makes things worse, especially in men. And I also find that often that men just don't need it. But John probably has his reasons. Not trying to detract anything from John. I would be interested to hear what his thoughts are on it. So, John, if you hear this, let me know why. I would be curious. And maybe I just need to grab you on for an interview sometime. We can talk about it. I'd be curious to see what your thoughts are on why you are adding in T3. Maybe in an off-season. Maybe it's not. Maybe he's confused here. But that it's just on a contest prep scenario. I do occasionally think there are times when it's warranted in a contest prep scenario in some situations. But most often, we can get away without it. All right. Next question here is Stephen K. This kind of rounds off the earlier question about cholesterol. Stephen says, Todd Lee mentioned that TRIN didn't seem to impact HDL much. But that wasn't my experience. What have you seen? Everybody responds a little differently. I would say anytime that you're running any synthetic AAS, it is going to have an effect on hepatic lipase and the downstream effects on HDL and lipid metabolism. Now, Todd is correct from what I've seen that 19-nor seemed to be the gentlest on HDL suppression. And weirdly enough, TRIN is, you know, we think of TRIN as the nuclear bomb. It does a bunch of other stuff to your blood work. But TRIN is the nuclear bomb of AASs. It doesn't seem to lower HDL that much or have any really profound effect on HDL from what I've seen. The strongest are going to be your DHT-derived orals, Anadrol, Winstraw. You want single-digit HDL. Winstraw is the way to do that. Even gentle, mild Anavar with its solid reputation of being the safest oral seems to suppress HDL pretty aggressively. The DHT-derived injectables, Masteron, Primabolin, are more potent at lowering HDL than, say, TRIN would be. Testosterone is sort of the middle ground. EQ doesn't seem to be crazy at it. It does a bunch of other things I don't like. But, yeah, I mean, orals are the worst. Orals are going to be always the worst. They're going to have the most profound effect, even the injectable orals for you bros. First-pass metabolism doesn't mean it's completely... Missing the first-pass metabolism doesn't mean it's completely benign. They still have to be metabolized by the liver. And it does still affect hepatic lipase, which downstream has an effect on HDL. So, orals are the worst, followed by DHTs. 19-nor seem to be the gentlest, but they come along with their own set of problems. We all know the problem, you know. I'm not saying run out and take TRIN, my dude. It's not... Everybody's going to hear this and say, shit, Paul said take TRIN. It's the safest for your lipids. There's so many other problems with TRIN. The effects it has on your blood pressure, etc. And, you know, they probably cancel out any lessened effect on lipids that, you know, while it might be gentler on lipids and other things, it's not so gentle on every fucking thing else. Having your central nervous system in overdrive non-stop and increased blood pressure and all the other things that happen when taking TRIN probably aren't great for your heart either. So, I would think that's going to overpower any additional benefit of being five points higher on your HDL that TRIN would have. So, I'm not saying this is a license to go out and take TRIN, but, yeah, on paper, it does seem to be gentler on on HDL than some of the other injectable compounds. It's one of the few things that it does, you know, that might be safer for you than safe running Winstraw, for example. But, I'll take my chances with Winstraw rather than having insomnia and the other craziness that goes along with taking TRIN. All right, my bros, that's all I got for you on this one. I appreciate each and every one of you. There was a second question from Marco about the Arnold, how I thought about the Arnold. I talked about that at the beginning, but I did enjoy myself. Social anxiety was a little peaked. I had a great time meeting everybody and the show was fantastic. If you ever get a chance to go to the Arnold, if you just pick one bodybuilding show to go to, that is the one. I just, I hope and pray that the guys that promote the Olympia really take some cues to Arnold. Maybe reach out to the productions people from the Arnold. Figure out what they're doing. I mean, everything is just flawless. The show flows perfectly. Everything's on time. Uh, the production value is super high. The lighting's great. The expo's great. Everything is seamless. They treat everybody with respect and dignity. They actually let you use your phone and take pictures. They don't come around and yell at you and threaten to throw you out. If you take, take a picture with your phone in the age of social media, which is just fucking asinine that the Olympia was doing that. I don't know if they backed off of that policy, but I literally got threatened at the Olympia. I was, I was told that I would get my ass kicked if I took any more pictures or videos of the Olympia. I'm like, bro, give me a fucking break, man. Please. Really, I'm helping promote your event. I have a big social media platform. I'm promoting your event. You're going to tell me I can't take pictures or video with my shitty phone. Like, like anybody's going to be buying my, my video. It's not taking anything away from you. Sorry for the rant, but I, I, you know, for anybody who's been to the Arnold, so much better of an experience than the Olympia. The Olympia was just, I don't know, man. I, I, they need, they, they need to tighten their game up a little bit. And this is constructive criticism. I love bodybuilding. I want to see the sport be better. I want to see all of us have success, make money, grow the sport, bring more people in, into it, and threatening people for taking pictures with their cell phones is not the fucking way to do it. Having shitty lighting on stage is not the way to do it. Making it difficult for people to get back and forth from the expo to the event, to the hotel, and, and all of this other stuff is just not, not, not the way to do it, man. Um, treat your fans with respect. Put a high quality production on. Make sure things run on time. Make sure that the lighting is great for the, I'm there to see the athletes not to look at the fucking sponsors flashing on the background. Um, that, that, that's so, so annoying. It's like a, like looking at a moving billboard while the guys are on stage. I don't give a fuck about anybody's sponsorship that's behind the, I don't even look at that shit, man. Nobody is. So, anyway, Arnold's much better. Go to the Arnold if you want to experience a great time and see bodybuilding at its highest level. What a bodybuilding show should be like. The Arnold is the best, hands down. Nothing Comes Close. You'll love it. And my bros, I'll see you on the next episode. I appreciate each and every one of you. Those of you that came up and said hi to me at the Arnold, all the gratitude in the world, thank you. I appreciate your support. It means the world to me. See you guys on the next episode.