WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right folks, I've got a great one for you today. I recently did an interview with Will Whitlock from Leviathan Nutrition. Will is known as tuktaking on Instagram if you guys want to give him a follow. Will is a chemist and he and I discussed his supplements which are geared, pun intended, towards bodybuilders who are on PEDs and how he has built these custom supplements that will help people manage their health while on PEDs and we dig in deep and kind of talk about things such as astragalus which is one that's misunderstood and probably doesn't work that well and Will's going to explain why astragalus by itself is not that great and how you can actually make it work with one of the isolated substances astragaluside from. Astragalus, we'll dig into that. We talk about lowerinGHematocrit with supplements, some other things, managing blood pressure and other topics regarding PED use and how you can use supplements to mitigate some of the side effects that go along with PED use. While we're talking about PEDs, I want to remind you guys that I have the Science of PED eCourse up for sale on the Anabolic Bodybuilding website. Kurt Havens and I have put together an awesome course you guys should check out. It has something like 60 hours of video content in over 100 modules right now. I think it's probably the most comprehensive PED eCourse that is out there. I if you haven't checked it out, go check it out. I am very confident that you guys will enjoy it. I've had good feedback about it and Kurt and I are constantly adding things to it and we do monthly livEQ&As for our members where you can ask questions. And enough of that stuff, let's go to the interview. All right, folks. Big Paul here today with Will Whitlock, TUDCA King on Instagram if you guys follow him and from Leviathan Nutrition. What's going on, Will? Hey, man. How's it going? Thanks for having me. Good, good. Man, I wanted to get you on to talk a little bit more about supplements for PED users. I've noticed that your stuff seems to be completely geared, pun intended, towards my dad joke, PED users. I've always said that somebody would be brilliant to have a supplement company that's geared towards PED users and mitigating side effects, but you have some really interesting products. I've listened to you a few times and we did that podcast together. You have some really good information, man. But anyway, I wanted to have you on to talk about that stuff. Awesome, man. Sounds good. Yeah, IMean, we still don't have any other products. We don't have any pre-workouts, intros, or anything like that. Most of the products, we start with TUDCA, so all the products are basically health-oriented and how they're going to help bodybuilders. A big reason for that is just because I like making products that would benefit me too, because I'm into bodybuilding, I compete and everything. It's like, why not make something that can help me? It's also going to be very helpful for other people as well. That's kind of how it got started. Then my background is in chemistry, so it comes in handy when formulating different products and doing all the research and figuring out a lot of things that I've done compared to what's typically been known, like what we're talking about with Astragalus and Astragalus Side 4, is figuring out what exactly it is about certain ingredients that makes them beneficial for whatever it is they're doing. Usually, it's attributed to, if you have an herb or extract, usually it's going to be attributed to a very specific chemical compound within that. Most of our products, we standardize for a certain chemical in an extract or things like that. That's something you'll see on our labels a lot. Then all of our stuff, we really make sure that they're going to be dosed above and beyond what's typically found to make sure that someone who's 250 pounds, a 250-pound bodybuilder is still going to be able to have success using our products. Yeah, let's touch on the Astragalus thing a little bit. You briefly mentioned that for my audience. I've always kind of wondered if Astragalus was useless. When we were on that podcast together, you had talked about it and the reasons why. It's the Astragalus Side 4 that is what makes Astragalus help kidney health. I went down that rabbit hole and was looking into that. Can you talk about that a little bit? Yeah. I think Dante Trudeau is actually the one who originally found that Astragalus is beneficial for bodybuilding, for kidney health. It was Dante. Yeah, maybe like 20 years ago. Most of my stuff is just building on the work of other people like that. I think there's like six different Astragalus side compounds, ranging from one to six. And yeah, Astragalus Side 4 is the main one. You can look up studies that the Astragalus Side 4 content is really what is used as like a golden standard for Astragalus extracts. Even though most products that you see, you just see Astragalus root or Astragalus extract in the name and they're not standardizing for Astragalus Side 4, which they really should be. We have 25 milligrams of Astragalus Side 4 in our kidney support product. To get that amount, if you were just to use normal Astragalus, you'd have to take like between 50 to a hundred grams of actual Astragalus root. And the other shortcoming for that is, what was the percent? Thomas had an actual percent, but it was like, I think over 50% of Astragalus extracts don't even have any Astragalus Side 4 content in it. So you really have to make sure that the Astragalus root that you're getting does actually have a standardization for Astragalus Side 4 in the first place. And then even if it does, it's going to be a very low amount. So you really need to take, you know, that 50 to a hundred grams figure to be able to see, you know, a noticeable impact from that. So, and that's again, a big reason why our kidney support has had like some really great bloodworks. We've had a couple with people, their eGFR was down in the thirties. So that's like technically stage three chronic kidney failure. Yeah. And like, they've been able to come back from that, which is pretty incredible. So, you know, IMean, it really speaks for the potency of that, of that company. We have a couple other ingredients in the kidney support too, mostly just like antioxidants, that sort of thing. Cause antioxidant function will be also be helpful for kidney function, but the main, the main ingredient in there is going to be the Astragalus 4 for that purpose. And Astragalus, this also trenslates to an, a reduction in Cystatin C, which, you know, Cystatin C is going to be the main, the more accurate biomarker you want to look at for kidney function, because it's, it's going to set aside the noise that you typically encounter when measuring GFR creatinine regarding whether you're properly hydrated, or if you, you know, if you lifted weights before getting your blood work, that sort of stuff. So it does, we do have some blood work for the people who've gotten Cystatin C measurement to show that going down as well. So yeah, it's, it's a really, really awesome compound. We came out with that product back in 2019. So that's kind of, and you know, it's still been a very innolvative product. And one of, one of the, the products that I'm proud of, you know, being able to have on the market like that. Yeah. And it's, it's, I went down the Astragalus side for rabbit hole, brought up some of my notes. I was looking at that, that IMade, and I looked at some of the studies. It also seems to be a very powerful anti-inflammatory for, for, IMean, there's all kinds of other cool shit that it does. And it seems to also like some people have immune issues where that affects kidney filtration. And it seems to mediate some of that as well. It seems to reduce the immune response, excessive immune response that's related to some kidney issues. It's a really fucking wild. Um, I'm surprised they haven't made it into a drug or, or, or it may, didn't you, didn't you mention that they were looking into that or that, that there was some research going on? Um, for a struggle type four, I'm not, I'm not too aware of it. I know one issue with the struggle side four is the bioavailability of it is that's what it's not super good. Um, so that's why we have like bioprene, uh, black, black pepper extract, which would help for, for that specific chemical compound to improve its bioavailability. Uh, it's also why we have chitosan in the kidney support product. There was a study, um, where people used chitosan combined with the struggle aside for, and it improved the bioavailability of the astragalus side for itself. Um, and chitosan also has some data just of improving kidney markers as well, which is kind of a cool, like two in one feature of it. Um, so that's another reason why we included that. Um, and then, so astragalus side four is basically the, um, it has a parent compound that is called cycloestrogenol, which has some really interesting, like anti, uh, anti-aging benefits and, um, where it will kind of assist against the, the lengthening of telomeres, I think, which has like a, an impact on like the aging process in yourselves and stuff. So, um, both, both astragalus side four and that parent compound are really interesting molecules. Um, and they're both very expensive. I think the cycloestrogenol is actually more expensive, but it doesn't seem to have the, the data on like kidney function. It's kind of more for those anti-aging purposes, but it's a really interesting stuff. Yeah, really fascinating. But I, it's, it just kind of blew my head open when I was thinking about it. So like, most of the time, like guys just pounding or taking the, the Amazon, cheap Amazon astragalus are probably just wasting their money. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's my thoughts. Exactly. They're probably just taking a placebo. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's most products I'd say, especially if you're getting them on Amazon. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's, it's, um, you, you have to be careful with supplements. Let's talk a little bit about, you said you started with TOGCA. Let's talk a little bit about TOGCA benefits for, of TOGCA for PED users. Okay. Yeah. So what I like telling people is like, if you're using, if you're using oral steroids, if there's just one, one product that you can get for liver support, I would get TOGCA. IMean, you also have things like NAC, glutathione, which we also have, um, milk thistle, like milk thistle really doesn't have that much solid data behind it, but TOGCA is incredibly effective. It's actually a, so if, if you know what TOGCA is, um, which is urso deoxycholic acid, um, it's the, I'm trying to get into it. So TOGCA is the kind of like parent bile acid of TOGCA. TOGCA is just TOGCA with a taurine molecule attached. Um, TOGCA is used as a prescription drug in the United States for things like liver cirrhosis, liver cholestasis. Um, and then TOGCA is basically, it has a taurine molecule, which will increase its water solubility properties and its ability to function as a, um, as a detergent, which is what you want in your liver to be able to get rid of like more toxic bile, uh, bile that will build up, especially if you're using something like orals. So it has both of these fat and water soluble properties that can kind of purge those toxic biles out of your liver. And that's whenever you get a lot of that built up, of course, that, uh, that results in the elevation of liver enzymes. And that's also a big reason why people's appetites go to shit whenever they're using orals. So, uh, you know, using a good dose of TOGCA, you know, if you're going to use something like anadrol or something, which always would crash my appetite, uh, can definitely be helpful there. Um, it also helps to digest fats. If you're having like a higher fat meal, you can use TOGCA with that, but yeah, so the, the studies, they have a few studies comparing the effects of TOGCA to UDCA, which is the prescription drug. And, uh, in each one of them, TOGCA actually outperforms for, you know, how, how helpful it is for the liver, uh, which is really pretty cool. And yeah, I, I know that I think they've tried to make that a drug or like, cause sometimes whenever we'd, we'd import that raw ingredient, um, and it comes through customs in the U S uh, we would have trouble. Like the FDA, like would require extra clearance and stuff for, for TOGCA. I think just because it is so closely related to that prescription drug. And I think there's been some, uh, some drug companies that want to use it as a drug. Uh, but I, you know, I legality wise, I think it is safe as a, you know, as a status, as a dietary supplement. I don't think that they can change that, but IMean, they've tried to with things like NAC, uh, so I know they did with NAC. That was a big battle. What, like two years ago? Yeah, it was around like 2020. I think it was mostly for, um, cause it's helpful for, it was helpful for COVID in some sense. Um, NAC is also great for like breaking up mucus and stuff with the, uh, the sulfhydryl groups that are on the cysteine molecule in that, um, on top of the antioxidant benefits, which I'm kind of recovering from getting sick. So I was actually double dosing my NAC at 2,400 milligrams per day. So if you have a cough or something, that's also a great, uh, great thing to, to be taking. Yeah. Um, that those, those sulfhydryl groups on the, on the NAC are really helpful for that aspect also. Um, so yeah, if you have like a cough or, uh, you know, mucus buildup and something, uh, NAC can be helpful with that also. Now, I don't know how much truth there is to this. Somebody was telling me that you shouldn't run NAC all the time. Is there some truth to that or no? Um, I, I can't think of any, any reason why if, if they had a, if they had like a, a reason why, you know, I could probably address it, but I don't think there's any sort of like adaptation process. The, the only, the only like one of the more common ingredients that you see an adaptation process with is like going to be berberine, which there are studies showing that like for blood sugar, uh, berberine, you have to take for like five weeks. And like, as you take of those five weeks, it continues to improve blood sugar. And then the effect plateaus after about five weeks. Um, but from the studies that I've seen, it maintains that after five weeks. Um, and so it doesn't really, you know, I've heard somewhere that it, that it seems to lose its effectiveness after you take it for a while. So I don't recall, I could be dreaming that. Yeah. And like, that's another thing with sites. Most studies on, on these sort of ingredients, the longest are usually around six months. So like, if you're taking things, you know, for years, uh, some of these things, we don't really have data on. So what I would, I'll recommend that people sometimes is, and like, what I'll usually do is I'll take something for like a few months and then IMight take a week or two off and then just, you know, start it again, just in case, in case it does have, you know, some effect like that, you're kind of covering your bases doing that. I'm asking if you can check GPT, see what it says. It doesn't seem that they can't find any evidence that it does lose frequency over time. I I've, yeah, I've heard like, I don't remember where I heard that from. Somebody was saying that you should only probably use it periodically to, if you're using orals or after you use the orals to clen things up. Um, yeah, Tucka's fascinating because, uh, I know a lot of people struggle with bioflow just even, even, um, regular people as they age, it seems is a big issue, not just with bodybuilders. Yeah. Yeah. And also, uh, Tucka is something that's used for people who, who have had their gallbladder removed. Um, usually people will, who've had that procedure, they'll be using Tucka, you know, for the rest of their life, like with, with each meal and that kind of helps, uh, produce the, the bioflow that, you know, their gallbladder would all otherwise be contributing to. Now, how do you dose Tucka? Do you, do you take it with each meal or is it just something you take once a day? Um, so it depends on the, how much you're using. Yeah. Like if you're, if you're using multiple, like if someone's using orals, uh, I'll, I'll usually say use at least 600 milligrams and they'll also depend on the oral. Like if you're using multiple orals or you're using something more liver toxic, like super droll or something, you know, you probably want to be over 1200 milligrams or like 1500 or something. But yeah, I'll, I'll usually recommend spacing it out. And IMean the best time that you can take it without meals, but like the best time to take it would be with a meal, especially if you have, um, you know, fats in that meal. Cause it does help with, uh, breaking down fat and helping, you know, fats being digested. So it's kind of a two for one bonus in there. But yeah, I usually, let's say if you were doing four caps of type cap per day, you do 1200 milligrams per day. I'd probably divide that up into, into four different meals and space. Yeah. I noticed when guys are at the end of contest prep, the digestion really gets fucked up. Um, and I think it's the orals at the end that really do it to be, to be honest with you. And I, yeah, it's gotta be cause it's not going to be the food amount. Right. And that's, that's usually the biggest case. Yeah. IMean, gastric emptying sucks. It seems it's, uh, you know, a lot of guys end up either constipated or get diarrhea or both, um, towards the end. And I know like this past year I held off running my orals until like the last couple of weeks. And then I was also running Tucker milk, thistle, NAC, and I'm taking some ox bile at each meal and it seemed to keep my digestion, um, moving along just fine. My liver values were fine post-show and I was running 200 milligrams of, uh, Westall the last two weeks. So clearly the shit works. Yeah. I remember the same with me. Um, my last show was in 2021 I was doing like three different orals and I got my blood work like a week after my show and my liver values were still like, I think my LT was like 40 or something, which is like really great. Yeah. So it was, it was pretty, it's pretty impressive. Yeah. I've seen some gnarly ALT and AST readings from guys coming out of prep. I've seen guys over a thousand before. Oh my God. Yeah. I, I've seen 300 and I thought, I've seen a few over 300. I thought that was bad. A thousand like they should be in the ER at that point I think. Oh yeah. Well you usually end up there. I, I, I'll tell you what, I've seen iT3 times now that'll push your ALT and AST through the roof is DHB. I've had multiple people have acute liver failure. I've seen, they've come to me that DHB is pretty, pretty gnarly man. And I like, you can't find studies that show that it's, uh, at least I didn't see any that it's liver toxic, but every time. Yeah. Yeah. Cause I, I've never used it, but I've, I've heard that it can also raise CRP. Um, and yeah, it just, it just doesn't sound worth it to me. It seems like it does have a lot of, uh, potential downsides. And I think, um, whenever you use EQ, some of it gets converted to DHB anyways, small percentage, like two percent, something like that. Okay. That's small. Okay. Um, yeah, I don't, I've never, it's, uh, some people compare it to like a weaker tren, but even, IMean, even trens not really gonna fuck my liver up that much. If it's a weaker tren than just run tren. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Yeah. People are always looking for, for some secret. IMean, I honestly like this last prep, the one I won my pro card on, I just kept a basic man. It was just test masteron GH really for the most part. Uh, some, I did a combo of masteron a Primo. People ask me why. And I'm like, just because I don't know, because Primo is expensive and I don't want to run. Right. Yeah. No, no, honestly though, like just, um, and this is my weird logic when I don't know if there's any value to it or not, but Primo and the metabolites of it seem to act like a, there is a metabolite of provable and I forget the name of it that acts as a suicide inhibitor for aromatase. So it's, um, so you get that, um, aromatase inhibition from, um, Primo and then masteron seems to act like a, a SARM or serum, sorry, serum selective estrogen receptor modulator. So they work in conjunction with each other. I I've seen it work pretty well. I know a lot of pros on that combo of mast and Primo. Um, and then just, I hammered the one straw hard the last two weeks and that was it. Interesting. I didn't know that about the Primo. I, yeah, I know. IMean, I knew that like both Primo and Masteron have some sort of like anti-estrogen or properties. And I'd noticed that myself with, you know, if I'm running 500 tests, I'll as a standalone, you know, my estrogen will go through the roof. But if I do like 500 tests, 500 Primo or, or Masteron, um, you know, my estrogen doesn't really tend to get, get out of whack like that. But that's interesting. I didn't know the details on that. You would enjoy talking to Kurt Havens. Um, I do, I do some content with him. He's a biochemist. Yeah, I think I was, I think, yeah, Kurt was talking, yeah, he, he was a researcher, his PhD guy. He was a researcher at a pharmaceutical company. Uh, but he, uh, he had talked about the, I forget the name of the metabolite, but there's a metabolite that, um, from, from Primovolan that is a suicide aromatase inhibitor. So that's how the meth, the method that it lowers it. Um, EQ has a lowering effect. Um, sort of like through proxy. It's, it's weird how EQ works. EQ converts to reduces to, um, estrone, not estradiol. So you're, you're basically mop that, um, estradiol by converting it to estrone, which is mostly inert in men's men's body, but also probably why some people get, um, from what I understand why some people get the anxiety and whatnot from EQ. Oh, interesting. Estrone seems to affect to some people, um, psychologically. So that's, that's, that's the theory anyway. But, um, and then, um, Masteron seems to have like a serum where it blocks the, um, and if you think about it, it was, that was what it was designed for. It was, it was a breast cancer treatment and it was, it was sort of the version one of a, um, of a serum really that, um, so I, we don't know how anabolic, um, Masteron is too. It's, there's somEQuestion out there about it, but I do like running Masteron. I don't find it to be that anabolic. Um, maybe it is, maybe it isn't. I don't know, but I think the value of it is it allows you to run your test a lot higher and that's why guys can benefit from it. Yeah. Yeah. And that's why I, that's why I use, well, I, I've been using Primo on the offseason, but, um, I definitely see that. I love Primo. It seems like everybody eventually comes to the conclusion that Primo is the, it's the go to for your primary anabolic. Yeah. Yeah. Cause I've ran up to 900 milligrams of tests with Primo. I think my Primo would be like 700. Um, and you know, my estrogen would be okay. So, and that's without an AI or anything. I don't like to use AIs cause they'll be more, uh, it'd be harder on your lipids and everything. So try to stay away from it. So yeah, if I add in Primo or keep those doses at a good, uh, like ratio or whatever, um, tends to work pretty well for me. IMean, everybody's different, but it seems like what I've seen sort of as a whole is that 70 to 80% of your test dose and PrimoBulletin seems to keep your estradiol right in line. Yeah. And then, you know, so like, and my logic is, is, you know, rather than running an AI, why don't I run an anabolic that's going to lower my estrogen? You know, so, but sometimes some guys are heavy estrogen converters and need it. And then there's some dudes that their estrogen gets crashed. I had mine crashed post show. I've never had that issue before. So, IMean, that's just something to keep in mind with, with Primo. Anyway, I kind of got off track with, with the cycle, but yeah, I, it seems like most guys end up finding the test and Primo is their, their favorite combo. It's just Primo is expensive. That's the, that's right. People talk, there's no side effects really with Primo. I find that Primo is pretty much side effect free except for the damage it does to your wallet. Yeah, exactly. You know, I'll tell guys, like if you're limited on budget, I would run something else, maybe EQ or Masteron and save that money for GH. Right. Yeah, I do like EQ. It's, it's one of my more favorite ones next to, you know, test and Primo. A lot of people don't like it. I, you know, they'll say like the, the anxiety, they get the anxiety bad or something, but I don't, I don't really notice that on EQ. IMean, it works pretty well for me. I do like the, that it is a pretty long ester. IMean, that ester is so long. You, you don't even need to inject it twice a week. IMean, you can do once a week or probably once every two weeks if you really wanted to, but, and it's, it's also a nice 13 day half-life, something like that. Yeah. It's also nice that most EQ is like 400 milligrams per mil or something. Cause the, the actual raw of EQ is, is a liquid. So it's, it's really easy to get it at a higher dose, at a higher concentration compared to, you know, most, you know, your typical test e at 250 Migs or something. So it's less oil you have to inject and it's pretty pain free. So it's got a couple of good things going for it. I was going to ask you about EQ. There's some notion, and I think there was an old study. If I remember that one, I think it was Donald rabbits. I don't remember from the seventies where it showed that EQ may be directly kidney toxic. I have, yeah, I have heard of that. Like a, of EQ being more stressful on your kidneys. I don't really know the mechanism action as to why. One thing I would think that would play a role is just since it does increase your red blood cell production even more. IMean, all steroids do, but EQ set tends to do it even more so compared to other ones. So, you know, that can play a role in increasing blood pressure. And then of course, if your blood pressure is elevated for periods of time that can come down to affecting your kidneys also. So I think that's probably one of the, one of the routes. I'm not, not sure if there are other ones also that could be, that was my thought process. One of them probably has more to do with the increased red blood cell hemoglobin, hematocrit, just having thicker blood. Yeah. I do know, I don't get the high hemoglobin and hematocrit like most people do, but EQ does push mine up. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting. So we, we have a product Hemaflow that I kind of made for that reason to help keep your hematocrit and also works for blood pressure, but to help keep your hematocrit under control. And a lot of our customers are just people on TRT. So a lot of them, they'll have their hematocrit, you know, go out of range, even just on TRT, you know, 150, 200 milligrams, which, and like, that's almost the majority of our customers at this point. I didn't know that was that common, you know, even on low doses of testosterone like that, which is definitely interesting. You know, what I've noticed, man, I work with a lot of guys that are just on TRT and I look at a lot of blood panels is that dudes that it seems like there's no difference in the elevation from TRT to blasting a gram. It's, it's, it's like the elevation. You kind of hit that 53 to 55 hematocrit, and then you just kind of hang there. It doesn't matter whether you run 200 milligrams or, or 2000 milligrams. It's all the same. Now, every once in a while, there'll be an outlier. There'll be a dude that just gets crazy high hemoglobin and hematocrit, you know, like you'll see that dude that gets, you know, it'd be a 20 and then, you know, a 60 hematic, you know, hematic. Yeah. Yeah. It's just, you know, once in a while you'll run into that guy, but they, they probably have some sort of genetic underlying issue. I forget the name of that disease where your body just retains iron. Yeah. They probably have that. It's, it's common in certain men, but I, yeah, it's, so the Hemaflow product, what, what's in it that helps with the hematocrit and red blood cell counts. So the main ingredient for that is going to be dihydroquercetin. It's like a quercetin just has better bioavailability. That's mostly going to function as like an iron chelator. So, you know, it can chelate out iron and that's how it's going to improve hematocrit. It also has natokinase, which is not really going to affect the hematocrit number, but it's going to improve blood viscosity, degrades, it degrades fibrinogen, which is the, one of the main proteins responsible for the clotting process. So it kind of helps keep the potential for clotting down. And then we also have vasodrive AP in there, which is, you see that a lot of pump products, which, you know, so it helps with pumps. But that's also a natural ACE inhibitor. It's composed of two milk based tripeptides. So whenever IMade that product, I kind of went in to cover not just hematocrit, but also, you know, blood pressure. And those two tripeptides seem to have like a pretty good amount of research compared to anything else on how, how effective they are as far as natural ACE inhibitors go in controlling blood pressure. So that's why that's in there. So, yeah, it's just that combination that kind of addresses all the different things related to like overall hematology. So you're kind of covering a few different bases. And whenever it comes to things like blood pressure, like there's so many different things that can affect blood pressure. So that kind of tackles a few of them. But, you know, if you're, if you're someone who has sleep apnea, you know, and you don't have a CPAP or something that can also affect blood pressure, you know, people taking like calcium channel blockers, that sort of thing. It's another, another route that affects blood pressure. So there's a lot of different avenues that, that contributes to those things. And that's why, like for me, whenever I would use, IMean, I still take telmosartan, but it doesn't really seem to drop my blood pressure. I think like most of mine was just due to like sleep apnea and things like that. So especially whenever I get over like 230 pounds in the offseason, I'll have to use the CPAP and that makes a pretty big difference for me. But yeah, IMean, that's, that's the main, the main way that Hemaflow works for hematocrit. Yeah. Very interesting. How much of a decrease do you usually see? Most people, I guess it also depends like what they're, they're running and everything. So some people they've done like full-blown contest prep cycles or something, and there's, they'll still see a couple points reduction. I've seen people with up to like 10 points, you know, down on their hematocrit, which we, we do get that pretty commonly. Like people's, their hemoglobin will go down like three points or something, which usually your hematocrit is three times that amount. So yeah, it kind of varies. And those people, I'm not sure, like they tell me the results. I'm not sure what they're running. They might just be doing testosterone, you know, or TRT. But yeah, we have had people like on full-blown cycles who is still, it still goes lower and you know, that's without them doing any blood or anything. So it's pretty, it has been pretty impressive to see that. I'm going to have to give some of your supplements a try. We're going to pick up a couple of things. All right, man. Sounds good. Yeah. That, that product actually is our best selling product now. It's just, IMean, everybody that's on PEDs has high hematocrit. Yeah. Yeah. Like you said, even TRT. Yeah. And that's, that's why IMade it. I'd see so many people's blood panels where almost everything looks good, but then they see hematocrit at 55, 56 and you know, RBC count high as well and all this. So just like, damn, like there really is no way to control that. You know, unless you're constantly donating blood, but for a lot of people like on TRT, one thing that they run into with constant blood donation is that their ferritin will go too low. So, you know, that your ferritin just doesn't come back you know, uh, soon enough before it's time that you have to go and dump some more blood because your hematocrit is getting too high again. So it's kind of a, uh, losing battle with that. So yeah, a lot of people have just, you know, if they can take hemaflow instead of having to deal with that, um, you know, it's been a big pal for them. Yeah. I've seen tons of dudes that go overboard with the donations and end up with low ferritin and they have a low B12. Right. Yeah. IMean, they just end up anemic. Yeah. So, um, I was looking through your stuff. So you've got thyroid support. I don't see a lot of guys with thyroid problems. Women. Yeah. Yeah. I'd say that products, I think more women, uh, will get that product than men. It's interestinGHow men don't seem to get thyroid issues and it's, it's a huge problem in, in women. Yeah. Glutathione is interesting. Is that a oral glutathione? I thought, yeah, so that's a liposomal it's in the liposomal form compared, you know, normal glutathione is the bioavailability is pretty poor. I think it's something like 10%, but, um, whenever you, and this goes for a lot of different, you know, just about any other ingredient, if you can encase it in a liposome, that's going to increase the overall lipid solubility of the, you know, what you're taking of the molecule. So that is able to be absorbed through your lymphatic system rather than, uh, rather than directly through liver metabolism. Because the reason bioavailability of so many things is poor is because it has to go through your liver, you know, and then your liver will break it down into metabolites. So gain into liposome, um, you're able to bypass a lot of that. So that'll improve the, the bioavailability of that anywhere from 10% to like 60%. Um, so for me, I'd rather just take a pill. Um, and you know, I'm still getting 60% of that versus having to inject something like glutathione every day. So it's really going to be a, uh, you know, a question of how, how much, how much more do you like that convenience? You know, um, which I, I don't like to have something else that I have to inject. Um, you know, injecting gear is enough for me. So if I can take something in the oil form and it works decently, well, I'd rather offer that. Dude, that was my main issue coming out of contest prep. People are like, why do you, like, I don't think they believe like I would just came down basically to TRT for the last six months. And I'm like, I just get tired of fucking taking shots. Yeah. Yeah. I hate it. IMean, especially contest prep, like if you're running short esters and everything, you're doing that every other day or every day, every day. Yeah. Yeah. So whenever I do, whenever I do TRT, usually I'll just do like sub key doses too. It's just, it's just more convenient. IMean, you get the big weld, but sometimes I'd rather just have that than having to do intramuscular shots all the time. Yeah. I'll do like a shallow IM with a insulin needle or something, but nice. Yeah. Honestly, it probably ends up being subqte because it probably all leaks out of the muscle. Yeah. Yeah. Like I've done those in the glute before with just an insulin needle. So I don't know. It probably goes subqte, but yeah, it's probably not deep enough to even form a pocket to be honest with you. Yeah. Yeah. IMean, you can do subqte if the volume of the shots a lot, but I wouldn't want to be putting anything more than, you know, a few, a few. I'd say like half, half mil is easy. Yeah. IMean, that's what I go for women. Yeah. Yeah. At least for me. Um, all right. What else did I want to talk about here? Let me go back to your, your stuff. I don't know. I just don't see a lot of thyroid problems really. I haven't really messed around with glutathione much. I, I've, I know there's a lot of benefits to it. Um, I've used NAC. Yeah. And like they're, they're getting, those two are going to have some similar effects. Like NAC is a precursor to glutathione, right? Yeah. So the goal of NAC is to improve your, your levels of glutathione. So the, the cysteine on NAC and acetylcysteine. So the cysteine is what's used to produce glutathione and that's the rate limiting step of glutathione production. So it's like, you know, the most important part of the process. Um, but I, Thomas actually from strong actually made a little diagram I just posted a couple of days ago comparing, you know, glutathione to NAC. And so NAC, I guess as a, as a blanket statement, it'd probably be better just to take glutathione. So for some people, their ability to convert NAC to glutathione can be, um, hampered a little bit. Um, cause you also need a nut to be having enough glycine and, um, magnesium. And there was one other one glutamate also, but most people are not going to be deficient in glutamate, uh, selenium. So like if you're deficient in magnesium, selenium, glycine, and then there's one other one, um, you know, that might affect your process of converting NAC to direct glutathione. So like in those cases, um, using glutathione can probably get you better overall glutathione levels. Um, but also NAC has that, that unique ability to help with like phlegm and that sort of stuff. Like if you're sick, which I don't think that's something that glutathione itself directly can help with. Although glutathione does have, you know, some immune sort of support benefits. So it's kind of a couple, a couple of different like minor effects that each one can have. But the main, the main purpose of them is to increase glutathione for both. I'm going to have to remember the NAC for phlegm thing that I'd never heard that before. Yeah. That's, that's pretty cool. Yeah. Yeah. It's interesting stuff. All right. Well, look at where can people get ahold of you, man? How can they find you? Um, um, um, so our Instagram is just Leviathan nutrition. I think it's all together. So it's like Leviathan nutrition. So there's like two N's in the middle of it. Um, my, my personal Instagram is also Todd cooking and then our website is leviathan-nutrition.com. And I'll put all, folks, I'll put all that in the video description below and I'll have all, have all that in there. I appreciate you coming on, man. Thank you for, uh, this has been very helpful. I, you know, very interesting stuff. I, it was the astragalus side for that caught my interest. Awesome, man. Yeah. I appreciate it. Thank you for having me on. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.