WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. What's up folks? Big Paul here today with another video for you. Today I have a study on the purity and contents of UGL steroids that was published in 2025. The study was done by the Australian Professional Society of Alcohol and Other Drugs, APSAD for short. That sounds like a scary acronym, but what the study set out to do is establish the purity and contaminants that were contained in UGL sources. The research analyzed, I'm looking at my notes here, had 16 injectables, 10 oral tablets, two raw powders for a total of 28 samples, and what they found in the contents was pretty interesting. We're going to dig into all that and talk about it in just one second. So all right, before we dig into the study, I would appreciate it if you would do that thumbs up on the bottom for the video, that you like it, and subscribe to my channel. I get a lot of people watching, not a lot of people subscribing. It helps me out in the algorithm if you do so, and if you want to support me and the channel, that's the simplest and easiest way you can do it. All right, so let's dice this fucker up. We're going to talk about the study. It's called Led Astray, a very shocking title. The hidden contaminants in Australian anabolic androgenic steroid market and their potential health impact. That's such a dramatic title. Okay, so the authors received no specific funding for this work, so that is good. If you want to take a look at the study yourself, or whatever you want to call it, I don't know that it's really a study. An analysis, I guess I would call it. It's not a truly controlled study, but what I would say is you can go check it out yourself if you want to make an evaluation. I have a link in the video description below if you want to look at it. So let's take a look at the abstract. Introduction. Unregulated anabolic androgenic steroids, steroid markets, AASs for bro slang, are a global phenomenon with significant variability in product composition and purity. This study is aimed to determine the chemical composition of AASs sold in Australia. Methods. This study anonymously donated AAS samples. Samples were chemically analyzed by an independent forensic laboratory using gas chromatography, mass spectrometry, liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, and an inductively coupled plasma analysis to identify active ingredients, contaminants, and heavy metals with the results interpreted in context of harm reduction. Results of the study. Analysis of 28 AAS samples, 16 injectable, 10 oral, 2 raw powders, revealed that 15 samples were mislabeled or missold. That fucking sucks. When considering the 21 samples with clearly defined expected labeled dosages, 4 of them were within a plus or minus 5% deviation of the expected purity. Also fucking sucks. 12 heavy metals were detected in injectable and oral products with mean concentrations ranging from 0.7 to 62.54 micrograms per milliliter in injectables, and 1.94 to 47,901 micrograms per gram in orals. That is shocking. 7 metals were identified in raw powders. The mean 23.0 micrograms per gram range 0.96 to 51.73 micrograms per gram. Also, that is sucky and scary. The variability in contaminants of the AAS product posed significant health risk implementing comprehensive surveillance and testing system is essential. This approach would track trens, identify contaminants, and provide consumers with real-time accurate information to support informed decision-making in harm reduction. IMean, you want a simple solution for this? Just decriminalize steroids, have them regulated, and have them monitored. We can go and buy them from a real pharmacy or from a real pharmaceutical company, and we know what we're getting. I don't think any of us want to go through the UGL market to get our shit, but it's what we're forced to do because these things are stupidly criminalized in most countries, and decriminalization would be the way to fix this problem, and we wouldn't end up with shit-contaminated UGL products. So, there's a thought. I don't know, you know, maybe I'm oversimplifyinGHere, but there's a thought for fixing this potential discussion. Now, also, to make things even worse, here in the United States, where I reside, it is illegal to get your deer tested. So, you can't even find out here legally in the United States whether or not your deer is fake, underdosed, or contaminated. So, further limiting our ability to protect ourself and reduce harm, and at a bare minimum, I would hope that they would allow testing in the U.S. so you could at least determine if you're being safe. That would be a great way to reduce harm and protect the consumers, but, you know, we don't care about that. Introduction. Unregulated markets for antibiotic androgenic steroids are a global phenomenon. However, we have limited understanding of the full range of products circulating within these markets. The presence and purity of AASs are known to vary significantly, yet the extent of this variation and potential contaminants presented in the products remain largely unexplored. AASs commonly used for enhancing appearance, performance, and well-being are often being obtained through unregulated sources. No fucking shit. Once again, legalization is the way to fix that, leading to substantial variability in product composition. While the active ingredients may align with the labeled content, the possibility of adulteration, substitution, and contamination with harmful substances remains a pressing concern. Yeah. Yeah, no shit. I feel like I'm going to say that on repeat. The presence of cutting agents and unreacted byproducts in the AASs, both commonly in recognized adulterants in unregulated and falsified substances, pose significant risk to consumer health. However, beyond these expected contaminants, we currently do not know whether the AAS products also contain heavy metals, which introduces a far more alarminGHealth concern. In line with international and Australian guidelines, the Therapeutic Goods Authority sets to restrict limits of heavy metals and impurities in medicines ensuring safety. For example, permissible daily exposure to lead and orally administered byproducts with 5 UG a day, with similar thresholds for other metals like arsenic, cadmium. These limits aim to minimize consumer exposure to trace contaminants, which are unavoidable, but must be kept within strict ranges relative to the dose. Yeah, IMean, I've, I, you know, who knows where it fucking comes from, but I, when I do consult calls, I do consult calls with guys when they have messed up blood work, or they just want to be healthier. And when we take a look at blood panels for, for these dudes, I often see guys with heavy metal issues. I've seen dudes with lead poisoning. I've seen guys that have increased levels of mercury that could be just as simple as eating fucking tuna fish or something like that. Can't tuna fish, but we really don't know what's in a lot of the stuff that we get unless you send it off for full mass spectrometry testing. So it's a risky take when you're putting shit that was made in somebody's basement in your body, you know, injecting, you know, God only knows, you know, it's not like the guy that's running the lab that you're buying from online probably has any sort of quality control. I would say probably very, very minimal. They, at best, they might be sending their raws off for purity testing, but they're not testing for heavy metals. I would say I've never seen a report for any UGL stuff showing testing for heavy metals or contaminants. God knows how, uh, how the, uh, quality control is as far as safety. And IMean, are these dudes even wearing fucking, um, you know, they're, they're not in a safe room where, where they're free of contaminants. They're probably, you know, sitting over top of it, you know, leeching, whatever's coming off of their skin, you know, dandruff and whatnot into your vials. I, who the fuck knows, man, really seriously, who knows? Um, anyway, I'm not going to read into the rest of that. The methods, um, we can, we can look at this quickly. Samples were provided anonymously by members of the public with no identifying information recorded. Okay. And ethics committee was granted this research by Griffiths university ethics committee. Okay. Um, sample collection, people who use AAS anonymously submitted 28 product samples to an independent forensic laboratory. Um, you know, it talks about how the, how they were analyzed with, you know, we talked about mass spectrometry, early limit liquid chromatography, um, uh, inductively coupled plasma emission spectrometry, all these things that when you send your stuff off or you do your home lab tests that are not being, not being evaluated because it's incredibly expensive to do. Um, okay. So we've got here through the table. I'm not going to go into detail on the table, but it talks about which ones were evaluated. It was, you know, we have testosterone, EQ, test probe, trenbolone Nandrolone MPP. Uh, we have, uh, we, we have a primobolin on here. And of our, and a draw wind straw, um, in, in on and on and on. Uh, there's methanol and acetate testosterone and that date. All right. So the results, uh, the analysis of 28 samples revealed that 15 samples were mislabeled or missold. Uh, when considering the 21 samples clearly defined expected label dosages were four were within the plus or minus 5% deviation and expected purity in some of the work in this area. So only, only, only I'm going to repeat this four were accurately dosed. So when you're talking about your 78.5 milligram a week dose of primobolin, there's no way you can be sure that the stuff was accurately dosed. Um, in the analysis of the injectable and oral raw powder products, 12 heavy metals werEQuantified in both injectable and oral formulations, while seven metals were detected in raw powders. So I don't know what we can extrapolate from that because they don't have the raws of the, that the, uh, that the actual finished product was made from, but you know, we can possibly deduce that somewhere along the manufacturing process, along the way that there was some, some heavy metals that were introduced into the, into the solution that were not in the raw powder. So it's not necessarily, but some of the metals were detected in the raw powders, which is, which is pretty, pretty concerning to be, to be honest with you. And those heavy metal contaminants included lead, arsenic, cadmium. Um, the concentrations were sometimes extremely high, especially in the oral tablets from what it found. Uh, the exact number of the samples containing in each specific was not disclosed, which is to me, a shortcoming of this. I don't know how much of this study is just fear-mongering or how much of it's legit. Uh, we can extract some of the legit things. IMean, look, we know that the stuff is probably not made under close scrutiny in the same level of care that you would get from something that was manufactured in a pharmaceutical facility. Um, All right, let's continue on down through the study here. Um, for injectable oils, several compounds deviated from their label dosages. The most common were testosterone and anthate and boldenone, unduncated, uh, which is, uh, EQ alongside of tremolone acetate, methanolone and anthate, premobolin, and nangelone phenylpropionate, MPP. Uh, the testosterone and anthate labeled 250 milligrams per milliliter ranged from 209 to 245, um, which, yeah, okay. Uh, but one sample contained, uh, MENTolone acetate, which is concerning. You think you're getting testosterone and there's some MENTolone, um, in there with it. Uh, so that is a, uh, sorry, it was MENTolone acetate and testosterone cypionate. Uh, that, can you imagine getting testosterone or a female, uh, thinking that she's getting testosterone and there's, there's MENTolone, MENTolone in there. Oh man. Now my guess would be that it's probably cross contamination. It's not like this, these things are made in a controlled environment. So there's probably trace amounts of it in there, but who, who the fuck knows? Uh, boldenone EQ ranged from 101 to 206 milligrams per milliliter. That is a pretty wide margin when it was labeled for two, um, to label for 300. So none of it was actually 300. One sample was misidentified as testosterone and anthate and propionate, so there was actually EQ. Tremblone acetate was detected anywhere from 88 milligrams to milliliter in one sample, while another contained testosterone acetate. It didn't even have Tren in it. I don't, IMean Tren's pretty simple to see if it's real or not. You can tell by the way it looks, the color. Now maybe it was once again cross contamination because these guys are probably making these things in batches and who the fuck knows. Methanolone and anthate primo ranged from 75 to 190 milligrams per milliliter, a pretty wide margin of error when, when considering that it was labeled at 200. So 130, plus or minus 132 to 81 off on this stuff. Anandrolone phenolpropionate was labeled at 100 milligrams per milliliter and measured out at 83 milligrams and with an unknown compound also compound also detected in it. Probably dandruff. A total of 10 oral AAS samples were analyzed. Oxandrolone was the most commonly identified compound, but one sample came and contained meth androstenolone, which is D-bol, my friends. So once again, ladies, for the ladies out there, imagine getting your antivar and it actually has fucking D-bol in it. I've seen that before. I've seen that before. Completely wrong. Instead, and another contained no detectable compound whatsoever. So another was a placebo, had fucking nothing in it. Oxymethanolone, anandrolone entirely was, was entirely replaced with methanolone and stanzanolol was also undetected in both samples. So the wind straw had nothing in it. Oh man. Methanolone acetate contained no unexpected compounds. That is oral primobolin. So that one was actually okay with a measured dosage of 5.2 milligrams. The purity range for oxandrolone antivar varied from 2 to 6.8 milligrams in raw powders. Testosterone and anthate exhibited the presence of multiple unexpected compounds included androstenedione, methandryl, androstenolone. The purity range from 87 to 96%. All right. For the injectable compounds, heavy metal analysis identified a number of elements of which one ML was within PDE guidelines. See table two for relevant list of PDEs. If you want to look at the study, you can go look at it. For injectable, heavy metal analysis identified lead at 1.57 micrograms per milliliter, which is below the PDE of 5 micrograms per day for parenteral use. Cadmium was detected at 0.7 micrograms per milliliter, which is below the parenteral PDE of 2 micrograms per day. And arsenic was at 0.9 micrograms per milliliter, also within the 15 micrograms per day limits. Among other elements was copper, which was well below the PDE 300 micrograms per day. And chromium, which was under 1100 micrograms a day. And nickel, which was also below the PDE 300. So those were within range, but I guess it also depends on dose. Like if you're taking a super high fucking dose, then you're probably going to be getting more of this shit. For oral products, heavy metal analysis found a number of elements which one gram was within PDE five guidelines. See table two for relevant PDEs. For oral products, heavy metal analysis reported detected that 1.94 micrograms per gram remaining below the oral PED limit of 5 micrograms per day. If daily intake is under 2.5 grams, arsenic was found at 2.35 micrograms per gram within the 15 microgram per day oral PDE. And nickel was found at 27. Anyway, most of these were within limits, but once again, dosing matters here. So these were, these were, these were pretty, pretty, pretty shocking. So, you know, I don't know, I would, I would say proceed with caution when you're dealing with these UGL companies. I don't know if I want to go into the discussion here, but the study determined that the chemical composition of the AAS is still sold in Australia across 28 products. More than half were mislabeled or missold with only four meeting the expected purity within plus or minus 5%. These findings are consistent with seen with international researchers in Brazil, which found 42% of the AASs were counterfeit, including 65.2% of oil-based formulations. While Farvesi et al reported 80% of the AASs seized from French bodybuilders were incorrectly labeled. That's pretty fucking shocking. In Australia, a common community-led testing trial found that 13% of AASs contained different substances than expected, reinforcing the global consistency of quality issues identified. The current study also revealed heavy metal contamination in all product types. Every fucking thinGHad heavy metal contamination. Although the metal contamination is well documented in supplements, it remains largely overlooked in the AASs. These findings point to a largely unregulated hazardous AAS market where consumers are routinely exposed to mislabeled and impure products that contain toxic substances. Let's see, it goes on to talk about pharmaceutical-grade AASs manufactured under strict quality control guidelines, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. The substantial variability in composition and period of AAS is a key concern, blah, blah, blah. Yeah, we know this with the study. Offers valuable insight into the variability contamination of illicit AASs. There were limitations that must be acknowledged. The small sample size, while significant, may not be a representation of the broader Australian AAS market. Nonetheless, it is likely that untested AAS substances from unregulated market are similarly harmful. In addition, the study focused on the products were collected from 2022 to 2024. The composition of falsified medicines, which include AASs, is continuously evolving, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. It goes on. To address the evolving challenges of the AAS manufacturing, establishing a robust surveillance in testing would ensure that the latest trens in illicit AAS products are continuously monitored, enabling real-time updates and potential contaminants and hazards. Such a system could support informed decision-making and strengthen harm reduction methods. Yeah, let us get access to testinGHere in the U.S. And, fuck, man, IMean, it just, just, look, this goes back to the simple, simple thing I had talked about before. Just decriminalize this shit, regulate it, allow us to get high-quality pharmaceutical products, and then none of this is a problem. You know, I don't think anybody wants to have to deal with this. At a bare minimum, allow thorough testing to be done here domestically, which would help with harm reduction. We could have a situation where we can self-regulate to a certain degree and share information. And, you know, at least that would give us some power to ensure that we are being safe. But when you criminalize things, you create a black market and make things worse. We've just seen this over and over and over again. IMean, look, marijuana is a perfect example. The high-quality marijuana products that you can get now versus 20, 25 years ago, things that are safer, things that are accurately dosed. You can go to your local pot shop, get them without worry of being arrested and having to deal with a shady fucking drug dealer, and go home, smoke in peace, and live your life, and you're not hurting anybody. To me, it's just crazy that this stuff is illegal in quite a few places when you're literally harming nobody. Yourself, IMean, if we want to talk about that. But, you know, that's a whole other moral and ethical debate, whether or not the government should be in the business of protecting us from ourselves. At a bare minimum, let us get our own testing so we can see what this stuff is doing, how this stuff is being made, and we can self-regulate some of this. But anyway, folks, that's all I got for you on this one. Let me know what you think in the comments section below.