 WARNING, WARNING, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. WARNING, this video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, this video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right, folks, big Paul here today with another check in for my 2024 contest prep for masters nationals. All right folks, big Paul here today with another check in for my 2024 contest prep for masters nationals. All right folks, I am almost 13 weeks out. educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition. Battle tested. Expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right folks, Big Paul here today with another check-in for my 2024 contest prep for Masters Nationals. I am almost 13 weeks out. I'll be 13 weeks out on Thursday, I think. And things are rolling along smoothly. So far it's been easy, but I don't want to jinx myself. This is always the easy part of prep. We don't start digging deep until about 12 weeks out. Justin will start ramping things up. We are going to dig into my cycle, my diet, my trening, my current health protocol. Look at my progress picks in just one second. So this has been a weird prep. I have never had a prep where I gain weight and get leaner. I started off this prep at 255 pounds. Fasted roughly. I'm up abouT4 pounds. My daytime weight is up to 265. I think it was almost 266 when I weighed in at the gym last night. This has been wild. I've been getting leaner and harder at the same time. I think what the difference is, it's a little bit misleading because I was essentially doing TRT or TRT plus in the offseason. I was running 250 milligrams of test with just a sprinkle of primobolin, 100 milligrams a week of primobolin. And I was using that for estrogen management more than anything rather than using an AI. And four or five units of GH roughly a day, somewhere in that range, probably closer to four. It's what I was running for abouT4 months. And then I started ramping things up a few weeks before prep started up to the big doses I'm at now. But this is the first time where I've ever taken this really long of a break from running big doses. I think abouT4 months I was on that. And for a while, it was just TRT. It was just 250 milligrams of test. And then my estrogen started getting a little weird. Gyna was flaring up. So I threw in the primobolin just to deal with that more so than anything, not to really get anything out of it. 100 milligrams of primobolin is not really going to do shit for you, to be honest with you. But I would rather take that than run an AI. I guess an AI is an appropriate response to ultimately end up adding an AI in anyway. But that's sort of where I'm at. It's been weird. My weight's been going up. My body fat has been getting lower. And I think it's just a recomping effect from throwing the PEDs in. I didn't really let myself get fat this offseason. I never got any higher than 15 pounds over my stage weight, which really, a lot of that's water depletion. IMean, I was 239 the day I weighed in. And then I think three days after the show, I was back up to like 247. So I only put on like seven, eight pounds of additional mass. I'm sure some of it was fat because I wasn't for the first time in probably six or seven years following a structured diet in the offseason. That was a first for me. I just get tired of eating. I really don't eat that much. So sort of my offseason this year when I took a break, don't get me wrong, I was still treninGHard. I was in the gym six days a week. I was still going at treninGHard. Nothing slowed down with my trening. I just kind of took a break from the PEDs and from the eating. My diet was like three bodybuilding meals per day and then just one meal of eating whatever. I would occasionally get the two double cheeseburgers or two McDoubles from McDonald's post-workout. But when you look at the calories on that, it's only like 800 calories. It's not anything crazy from those two McDoubles. Sometimes I would pick up Chipotle, but I keep it lean. And then like once or twice a week, I'd go out and have a higher calorie cheat meal with my partner. And I just kept it simple this offseason. Didn't measure, weigh or measure anything. I'm pretty good at eyeballing stuff. If I were to guess, I was probably with the bodybuilding meals that I was eating, probably around 60 grams of protein, 75 grams of carbs. And then I would have my whatever meal at the end of the day. And I would always try to make sure that there was some sort of protein in and I wasn't like hammering ice cream or eating donuts and doing stupid shit like that. I would usually, if I were to go off menu, I would just get cheeseburgers. I have an affinity for cheeseburgers, but most of the time it was just, and I wouldn't say every day I was grabbing something out. It was two or three times a week. And one of those meals would be a higher calorie meal. And then otherwise it was just for essentially meat and rice meals, unmeasured meat and rice meals is what I was eating in the offseason. So probably my calories are actually up on the contest prep diet. So that's probably why I'm filling out a little bit from where I was at before. We'll dig into the diet here in a little bit. My height, for those of you that you care, is 6'1 and 3 quarters. I'm just a hair under 6'2", which sucks for classic if I wanted to do classic. Because if I went up to 6'2", I'd be in the higher cutoff weight and maybe could make classic. My blood pressure, I don't know, now that I'm 265 and pretty lean if I would be making classic though. I think it's 232 at my height and maybe 238 at 6'2", if I were to squeeze in at 6'2". BP right now is 122 over 82. It's up just a tad. I think the weight gain, probably the PEDs, it's just additional fluid water. The water weight is causing the blood pressure to go up. Fasting glucose is 95. Sleep is down a bit. I am sleeping seven to eight hours per night. I can feel my metabolism ramping up from the androgens kicking in. I'm, I don't know, four or five weeks into the cycle now, so everything's hitting full force. And this has always been my problem with tests in the past. I almost get like a tren-like effect from tests when I push the doses up high. I have it at 1,750 per week right now. I usually, if I get 1,500 has been my limit in the past. A lot of times in the offseason, I'll just keep it at 750 or 1,000, even on prep. I think last year at prep, I pulled it down as low as 375 a week and pushed the masteron up really high. But I have this tren-like effect when I push tests up high. I get night sweats. I get really hot. I can't sleep. I guess my CNS is in overdrive. I don't know, but I can feel it now. I'm getting a little bit of insomnia. I'm not using any fat burners or stimulants other than the cup of coffee that I have in the morning. I don't know if you saw my high day video I put out. If you have not checked it, but I go through my full day of eating, you'll see that I eat a cup of coffee or drink. Not eat, Jesus Christ. Eat, drink a cup of coffee in the morning. So it's pretty straightforward without it. Once in a blue moon, I'll do half a scoop of the pre-workout, the WTF pre-workout from first detachment. But that is very rare and on occasion. I only do that, I don't know, once a week, maybe twice a week on leg day. Sometimes I need a little extra kick in the pants or if I've had a long day at work and I haven't slept well, I'll do that. But I very rarely use stimulant-based pre-workouts. I just don't like them. I don't like the way that makes me feel and it affects my sleep negatively. Health overall right now, IMean, you can hear me breathing a little hard. My allergies are really bad. I have a deviated septum too on top of it. So I'm a mouth breather. People get, you know, like, oh my gosh, your breathing is very heavy. Well, that's why. My pec is still grumpy. I think I like partially tore my pec a few years ago, a year and a half ago doing incline benches. And it's just, I can just feel it. It's a little off right now. So I'm trying to be careful with it. I'm not pressing as heavy as I normally do. Just being careful not to tear because a lot of times when I notice when things feel wonky, I end up having tears afterwards. So that's sort of where that's at right now. Progress picks. I actually shaved all the hair off this week and got a tan and I'm way leaner than I thought I was. Yay. Pretty good spot for being 13 weeks out. These are actually from last week. I'm a bit leaner than that right now. This is from last Thursday. So this is almost a week old, this picture by this point. You can see me from the back. That's where I carry my fat. You can see my back doesn't, it's my lower back and my, I don't know, just all my back is where I carry my fat. It's really weird. I don't carry much on my glutes. I don't carry much on my legs. My legs stay really lean. You know, you see my hamstrings are random. They're veiny. This was from a gym pick. This was an in the gym pick. So you can see the difference between the shitty home lighting check-in pictures versus the posing room lighting. I always tell people when you look good in your home check-in pics under the shitty lighting, when you look ripped in those, you know, you're ready for the stage. Everybody looks more ready for the stage under the posing lights than they do in the home check-in lights. You always are going to look better in those. People always tell me, ah, coach, I look better at the gym. And I'm like, I know what you look like at the gym. I know what I look like at the gym. But I'm telling you, Justin Harris said it one time, Ronnie Coleman looks like Ronnie Coleman in his check-in pics. So you can see here, side chest. I definitely have brought up my hamstrings. I worked really hard to bring up my hamstrings and glutes this past year. So I definitely have more hamstring. This here, like you'll notice it doesn't hang. That has nothing to do with hamstring size. I have a hard time. I don't know what I need to do to get my brain to relax my hamstring on that side pose. I always contract it and then it looks like it's smaller. If I can get it to relax, it will hang a bit. So you can see, I'm very happy with the progress. I've never been this lean or this big 13 weeks out. So I'm 13 weeks out at, I don't know where my body fat is, probably 10%, 11%. So, you know, probably need to get down 15, 20 pounds to be stage ready. So that would put me on stage at 245. That sounds about right. Last year I was on stage at 239. So that would be five to six pounds up from last year. We'll see. I just speculating doing the math here. So don't know, don't care where I look the best is where we're going to get on the stage at. Justin lowered my food just a little bit this week. We lowered the medium days. He dropped 25 grams of carbs from meal one and meal two. Total macros for that day. I am down to 3,400 calories. I really start losing weight after 3,800 calories or losing body fat. Doing 370 grams of protein, 375 grams of carbs on that day, 47 grams of added fat. I do not, reminder, I do not count trace macros. I'm not counting the carbs from the rice. I'm not counting the two or three grams of fat that's in the chicken breast that is not being counted. It doesn't matter. It's all relative. If you want to go back, as IMentioned before, you can see my full high day of eating. If you're curious what it looks like, I have a video up for that. Right now, my high day total is 940 grams of carbs, 330 grams of protein. I have the cheat meal, you know, assumed a 1500 calorie cheat meal. Total calories for the day is 5710. Justin gives me leeway to have a 1500 calorie-ish, 1500 calorie-ish, if I can fucking speak. Cheat meal. So yeah, I'm somewhere around 6,000 calories on my high day. It's one day per week. Generally, it's done on a leg day. The way my schedule shook out last week, I ended up having to do it on a chest day. I try to line it up to where I can go to a cheat meal with a friend or my partner. Low day is any day I don't tren. It's one day per week. I do 360 grams of protein, 300 grams of carbs, 60 grams of added fat for a total of 3,180 calories. So really that 400 calorie or so difference between that and the medium day is really probably just going to offset the energy expenditure from the lifting workouts. The diet is sort of self-regulating. Current PEDs. This is where people flip their heads. These are daily doses, not weekly doses. I am doing 250 milligrams of testosterone per day. Primo is 100 milligrams per day. Masteron, I switched this out. I was doing 200 milligrams of Primo today and switched out Masteron to 100 milligrams per day. I've had multiple people ask me, why are you doing that? Why are you running two DHT derivatives? There's no logic. It's just how I've done it in the past. I'm superstitious. I've gotten good results running my prep cycles this way. I'm not going to change anything. The main reason I did it initially is because shooting two grams Primo is literal pain in the ass and you can get 200 milligrams per milliliter Masteron. Primo is also very expensive so it saves a little bit of money. And I also do think this is just anecdotal experience from what I've seen. And call me crazy if you want. There may be no difference at all but I do feel like Primo keeps me a bit fuller than Masteron does. So I like to leave some in there. Masteron really drives me out but I also think that Masteron can flatten me out sometimes if I run too much of it. I know there are a lot of people out there that like running Masteron but as the prep evolves I will be lowering the testosterone down and upping the DHT derivatives. Probably Tren will come in at some point. I've honestly given some consideration to not running Tren or any Orals at all this year and see what happens. I don't know if I want to play roll the dice on my pro qualifier but if for some reason I were to do well at the show and qualify or whatever. Maybe my next show. Whatever the case may be I'm going to have a second show that I'm probably going to do after this one. IMay roll into that one with no Orals and no try and see what happens. I think once you're lean it doesn't take as much to maintain that look so IMay just roll into that with Test Primo and Masteron and see how it goes. Estrogen management is a half a milligram of an estrozole every other day right now. Peptides 15 units of HGH. I will be lowering that to nine at some point. I'm running generic HGH. I will be switching to pharma and who the hell could run afford to run that much pharma. So I will be switching to that at some point. People freak out over the HGH doses and IMade a post about this. Like they like I don't know where the arbitrary numbers that bodybuilders come up with for HGH dosing came from. If you look at the therapeutic dosing of serostim it's 18 units for HIV patients. I think it's something like over 125 pounds. And so I feel like these doses that bodybuilders came up with were just made up and largely financially motivated because they just couldn't afford to take more. I've also heard that some of the bodybuilders from the 90s would lie about the doses just to throw other people off. I don't know. I talk to a lot of people and most people that I talk to are runninGHigher doses of HGH. Some are running less. Some are running more. And I've seen a big difference with running the higher dose of HGH. People talk about acromegaly and other things like that. IMean you would have to run some seriously high doses to get acromegaly. And I know people are pointing my head, my nose, like they're gigantic. Dude, they were gigantic beforehand. My father has, his head looks like a big toe and he's got a nose the size of a watermelon. Same thing with my grandfather. It's genetic. I was wearing, when I was younger in my early 20s, a long story for you, well actually short story, I used to ride a lot of motorcycles and I had to special order my motorcycle helmets because they didn't make them big enough. I had to get a triple XL motorcycle helmet because my noggin is so big. I can't find fitted hats that, that fit me. I have to special order fitted hats that fit me. My head was like that long before I ever took HGH. I, insulin, I run Humalog on the high days only. There's another controversy this week. I stared up and said, why in the fuck are people running insulin on contest prep or in calorie deficits? I don't think people fully understand how insulin works. The whole, for me, the whole purpose of what I'm doing insulin is to be able to push food harder and we're not pushing food hard right now. When you're in a calorie deficit, there's really no point in taking exogenous insulin on maybe a refeed day or a high carb day. It's going to blunt fat burning and it also seems to, you know, not, not, not that it's going to stop fat burning. Ultimately fat loss is about net energy balance, but it's sort of like rowing upstream. I just don't know why you would take a plus you're lowering your carbs. Your insulin sensitivity is going to be improving from losing weight and you're in a calorie deficit. Why would you risk running insulin in that situation? I also think guys just bring a better look to the stage when they cut the insulin out on prep. You maybe use it for a loading day, but that would be it. I've heard, uh, other top coaches. I think it was Hani Rambat. I'm pretty sure that he said that he does not run insulin with his guys on contest prep and nobody gets people more ripped than he does. It seems to me to run counter to the purpose of fat loss or the contest prep phase. Our goal during the contest prep phase is to get as lean as fuck. No fat burners right now. That'll probably be changing soon. We'll add in some clen and maybe an ECY stack. Current health supplements. I'm going to do a video up on my health supplement stack. People wanted me to do this, but berberine on high days. I run the suppressor max product from first detachment. You can use discount code AB10 to pick it up there. General health. I run a whole food multivitamin Twice per day. People get upset that I don't eat vegetables. They upset my stomach. I get my micronutrients from a greens powder and, and the whole food multivitamins and other supplements I take. People are worried about being a micronutrient deficient. You don't see many Western people that are micronutrient deficient. You just don't. Maybe it's possible on contest prep when you're starving yourself. I take 2,000 milligrams of vitamin C, 5,000 units of vitamin D. I think it has K2 in it. Cardiovascular health, 3,000 milligrams of fish oil for DHA and EPA, and 2,000 milligrams of flax oil for that as well. So a total of five grams of those oils per day. 1,000 milligrams of QNOL CoQ10 for heart health. 1,200 milligrams of citrus bergamot per day for cholesterol lowering effect. Same thing with the 1,200 milligrams of red rice yeast extract, if I can pronounce that properly. Liver health. I take milk thistle and tucker. No NAC right now. NAC seems to be one of those things that you probably just want to run in short spurts from what I understand from talking to people that are in the know. For kidney, I run the renal reset product from first detachment. You can pick that up as well with discount code AB10. They also have a liver health product that works very, very well called QRF. You can pick that up as well. Digestion. I run oxbyone high days, digestive enzymes, and psyllium husk nightly. I take just some Metamucil. I don't need any fancy psyllium husk powders. Our ex-Med is currently on Telmosardin, 40 milligrams. I had some people tell me when I posted my blood pressure up while running three grams of gear. People were saying, there's no way your blood pressure is healthy. And I posted it up. It was 120 over 79 or whatever it was. There's no way you're that much on that much gear. And then they were challenging me that I'm also taking a blood pressure med. Well, that doesn't count because you're taking a blood pressure med. The numbers are what they are, dude. Dudes. It doesn't matter that I take a blood pressure med. I think it's something like one in five adult males over the age of 40, maybe even higher, are on blood pressure meds. And I promise you they're not one in five are on PEDs. People are like, oh, it's okay to take tren, but by God, you know, you're a cheater if you take a blood pressure med. This logic does not resonate with me. I don't understand it. You know, obviously, this is something you should work with your doctor on. I prescribe this from a medical doctor. trening right now. I run an RP stylish PPL sort of program. My current split, I, it's not a true PPL because I only do chest and I only do shoulders once a week. I used to do both of them twice a week. And the reason I have changed that up is because my shoulder is completely screwed up. And I have to be careful with how much volume I throw in pushing movements at my shoulder. Otherwise, my shoulder starts getting grumpy. I have a torn labrum. So I found that I have to keep the volume a little bit lower on those. My shoulders are a strong point. It seems like I don't need a ton of volume to, on pressing movements to keep them strong. My current split is chest and trice, quad hams and calves. That's the leg day. The first leg day. Pull. I used to do a vertical and horizontal pulling days. I don't do that anymore. My second push day is delts and trice. Then I do a second leg day that's adductor glutes and hams focused. And then I do another pull day. I've been throwing more volume at back during this miso over the off, offseason back was something that the judges told me I needed to bring up. They said I had good width, but I needed to bring more density in. So I've been focusing on adding back density. I've also been focusing on addinGHamstring size, which I think I've done both. We'll see how it trenslates on stage. My current rep scheme, I go to mechanical failure. I, it is, it is a sort of reps and reserve, but the way I judge it is if I get to my, my last rep, and let's, let's put it this way. My last rep for me is where I start to slow down. If I get to that last rep and I'm like, I can barely eke it out. That's my last rep. So that's probably like one RIR, maybe two IR. That's what I do. And for those of you that think that you need to tren to failure when I reset, I've probably made more progress than just about any human on the planet from age 45 to 50. And I have almost not trened to failure at all during that time period. My volume is, we'll talk about minimum effective volume to maximum recoverable volume. I keep it somewhere in the middle. I used to have a programmed out volume that I would follow, but really during prep, I'm just listening to my body. If I feel good, I'll push a little more volume on some nights. And if I feel like I'm, have no gas in the tank, I'll back off the volume on some nights, but it's somewhere in the 10 to 20 sets per week per body part, somewhere in that, in that range. Reps in reserve. Like I explained that already. Cardio right now, uh, this actually changed. I have four by 12. It's not on there anymore. Justin switched me over to steady state cardio. I'm doing 20 minutes of lists four times per week. I feel bad for people that have to do a ton of cardio. I just don't have to do a ton of cardio to get lean. I, when I do a ton of cardio, I end up looking like a marathon runner. I just, my body just wants to be 185 pounds. Like I was in college again, and I end up not looking good. So I think last year IMaxed out at something like 30 minutes of cardio five days a week, something like that. Plans and thoughts, side adherence. I did miss one meal on Sunday. It was not for a lack of want to or discipline or anything like that. I have IBS and my stomach was upset last year during prep. I would just push through and eat those meals when my stomach was upset. And I found out what it would do is just trigger IBS flare up the next day. And then I would spend the whole next day hating myself and on the toilet. So this year I am going to listen to my body. If my stomach is feeling a little bit upset or off, I'm just going to skip that meal. So I skipped one meal. It's not the end of the world. Coach's feedback. He said the body comp, he was surprised at how much my body comp improved in one week. Maybe it was just because I shaved the body hair off. Um, then we're going to start ramping up the fat burners and the cardio at 12 weeks out. Justin always pushes, Justin Harris, my coach, pushes things in that 12 to four week window. There's like an eight week area there. He pushes things hard to get the fat off. And then he'll start creeping things back up around the four weeks out, pushing the food back up and fill you out. I am planning on two shows. We'll see how I feel, see how things go. Masters Nationals, July 18th. And my backup shows, North Americans at the end of August. And that's it. Let me know what you guys think in the comment section below. Thank you for all your support. I've been getting a lot of comments about kind of comments about my progress. I know I complain about the idiots on the internet, but really I get 80 positive comments for every one dingleberry that reaches out. And so you vastly outweigh the one dingleberry. I appreciate each and every one of you and thank you for all your support. It really means a lot to me. All right, folks, I want to take a quick break from this episode to tell you about the new e-course that Kurt Havens and I have put together, the scientific principles of, anabolics and PEDs. This is the most comprehensive PED e-course ever put together with over 80 modules, including intros to PEDs, major steroid profiles, competitor off-season cycles, non-competitor cycles, contest prep cycles, HGH fundamentals, insulin fundamentals, side effect management, safer use concepts, fat loss agents, estrogen management, and advanced PED and hypertrophy science. It is the best course out there of its kind. Go check it out. Link is in the video description below. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.