WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right folks, Big Paul here and I'm back from the Mr. Olympia contest. First time going to an Olympia live. I'm going to share with you my thoughts on the showdown between Hadi and Samson. Did Hadi get robbed? A lot of people on social media saying that Hadi got robbed. I'm going to go through and break down my thoughts for you, give you my recap of what I thought of the battle between Hadi and Samson and the Olympia overall. I'll share with you how judging works, at least my view on how judging works, and why the decision was what it was. And we'll get into all that in just one second. All right, so I don't think a lot of people understand how judging works with bodybuilding. And they'll see a guy come out and be in better condition than another dude and think purely that that should put him over the top. Conditioning does play a factor and play a role in how people place, but it's not the only thing that judges are looking at. It is a combination of size, symmetry, shape, and condition. They all factor in together. And it's not always the most ripped guy that wins. If you're a guy that lacks size or symmetry, sometimes you have to play the condition game to win. It's a chess match as a coach and as a competitor to know what your strengths are and to play to those strengths when it comes to being on stage. Like for me, I'm not the biggest guy out there. For me, I need to play the condition game and the symmetry game. So I need to present myself in a way where I demonstrate my symmetry. I think symmetry is a strength. Size is not a strength for me. I would probably need to be bigger. And conditioning is something that I can push. I'm able to get really lean. Some guys can't get super lean. It's just part of the game. And if you have a combination of all of the above, somebody like Phil Heath would be an example that had everything nailed. You're going to be unstoppable. And so you have to look at these when you're evaluating judging. And the way the judging works, they have seven panels, seven judges. They throw out the highest and lowest scores. So this whole nonsense about it being political is just BS. Unless they got to all seven judges and somehow bribe the judges. I thought the judging was very fair. Judging is not perfect. It's subjective. It is somebody's opinion at the end of the day. And it's not always the best person that wins. But you have to keep in mind, these are the best guys in the world. The differences between first, second, third, even fifth place are so subtle. Any of these guys would mop up at any other pro show unless they werecompeting against somebody in the top five. This is a battle between the best in the world. And it's nuance and little differences between the two. Just subtle, little differences. It's not like somebody just blew the doors off the other guy. It's very subjective. It's very close. The judges are looking at multiple poses and comparing who won those poses. The judges are looking at multiple rounds, how the competitors presented their physique over those multiple rounds and the IFBB. So there's a lot to this. And the scores are average. The lowest score wins. Top score, lowest score, throw it out, you know, just in case there is some bias with some. So it's an average of what's remained between the five. So let's take a look at some pictures here. These are the mandatory poses that we have between Hadi and Samson. First pose up is the front double bicep. And I'm not a judge. I've been coaching for a long time. I have competed many times. I do have my pro card. But let's look at what potentially a judge would be looking at here. So remember, size, shape, symmetry, condition. Samson here, when we look at this front, front pose, front double bicep pose, Samson clearly has more arm mass. He's clearly bigger than Hadi. Hadi has a bit more lat flare. Midsection wise, Samson really has improved his midsection. That was a weakness before that Hadi probably took him out on. I will say it was pretty clear at the Arnold that Samson got beat by Hadi. Hadi won at the Arnold. I could tell as soon as he walked out on stage that Hadi won. Sometimes it's so dominant that that's what what happens. You see the guy come out and it's just he just blew his doors up. Samson was in better condition at the show. Hadi was not quite in as good a condition as he was before. So not quite what it was at the Arnold. Samson got better. Hadi got a little worse. It's subtle. You can see here that Hadi's legs aren't as tight as maybe they were at the Arnold. His legs are smaller than Samson's. Look at thEQuads. Samson's quads are nice and full. Hadi's are not quite as full as Samson's. Samson's waist seems to come down. You look at this V taper that Samson has. Shape, symmetry, it's just massively improved and he is gigantic compared to Hadi. He's a giant. Better calves. Midsection, you may might be able to give that to Hadi. I don't know on this pose. But Samson really has done a good job of bringing down his belly. I see that he's keepinGHis gut under control. This one to me, this pose goes to Samson. It's not, you know, it's not a question. I don't think that Hadi beats him on this pose. So that's one for Samson, zero for Hadi. Next pose is the front lat spread. Same deal again. You can see the legs. Let's look from the bottom up. Legs are not quite on par with Samson's. You can see the feathering in Samson's quads in the vastus medialis. He doesn't, Hadi doesn't have that. Hadi doesn't have the same fullness in his quads that Samson does. Calves are better. Midsections arecomparable in this pose. Maybe you could say that Hadi's midsection is a bit better. Shoulders are much more round and full on Samson than they are on Hadi. Chest is much more full on Samson than it is on Hadi. Arms are bigger and fuller on Samson than they are on Hadi. To me, this is another one that's a clear advantage Samson. So I would say two poses to none. All right, third pose here is the side chest pose. This one, Samson, I believe in the past, if you were to ask me, I don't remember exactly what it looked like at the Arnold, but I'd say Hadi pretty much stomped him on this one. Hadi's conditioning from the side was a lot better. He had sweeps in his glutes. His hamstrinGHung a little bit lower. Now you can see here, Samson has better quad fullness. HadIMight have a little bit better, a little bit better hamstrinGHang than, than Samson does. Glutes probably a little bit better for, for Hadi. Calves are better for Samson. So it's probably about a push when it comes to legs here. Now we get to the upper body. Samson just absolutely dominates him on this one. Look at the size of the arms, the fullness in the chest. His, the back delt is, you know, showing the back delt. You can see here, look, Hadi doesn't have the fullness in the pop in the back delt, the, the, the delt that's furthest away from you in this pose that Samson does. Hadi in the Arnold classic had a lot of striations from the side with his, with his chest. The chest is just not as full. I don't see the striations that were there at the Arnold. Samson has striations from the side. Samson's chest is fuller from the side. Samson's arms are fuller and bigger from the side. Samson's shoulders are from the side. So I, I would say advantage to Samson on this one, on the upper body, a push on the legs. So this one I would give to Samson as well. Now rear poses is where Hadi was great before and where Hadi would shine with his conditioning from behind and thickness in his back. That was a strength that Hadi had. Let's go to those and see how those look. All right, rear double bicep. This is a tall guy's worst nightmare because you're stretched out and your back often looks smaller from this. Your arms look smaller when you're, Samson's about six feet tall from what I understand, or maybe just a tad under six feet. This one's a tough one for tall guys and usually the short dudes, tall guys on this pose. It's one I had struggles with myself. So let's, let's take a look. Let's start from the ground up here. Calves. IMean, Samson, once again, dominates him on calves. Hadi's calves, just to be honest with you, they kind of suck. He doesn't have very big calves. Hamstrings. Hadi doesn't have separation in his hamstrings like I've seen in the past. Samson has separation in his hamstrings. Hadi's glutes aren't as hard as they were in the past. Samson, it's always been the knock on Samson in the past that his glutes were a little soggy. This year you can see that he has the lines in his glutes. That's an area that he improved on with conditioning. Lower back, lower back thickness. You can see the lower back is thicker with Samson. His erectors are thicker. Samson had sort of high lats, which still is a little bit of a problem for him, but you can definitely see that he has filled out his lats. His lats are a lot denser than what they used to be. Some of this might be posing to that. Maybe he's tweaked and improved his rear double pose. It is one of, I think, in my opinion, it's the hardest pose to nail, especially for tall guys. You can see he's doing a better job keepinGHis arms down than what he did in the past. But delts, biceps, back, everything is just 3D. Everything is popping. Condition is good enough. Like I said, Hottie is in his condition as he was in the past, and Samson is in better condition. I would say Samson might even be on some of the poses in better condition than Hottie. This one, once again, this one I would give to Samson. So we're aT4 poses. Rear lat spread. Same situation. Let's go from the top or the bottom up. Better calves, better hamstrings. I don't know what he's doing with his glutes here. It doesn't seem like he's flexing them like he was before. Keeping your glutes contracted so the separation in the glutes show is very difficult. It's hard to do, but the hamstrings look fantastic here. Better. Better than Hottie. You can look here. You can see Hottie's hamstrings are a little washed out. Samson's are not. They're tight. Hottie's glutes are a little washed out. Samson's look a little washed out on this one, but that's just posing because we saw the separation in the other one. Same deal with the back. Samson's back, to me, looks thicker and wider in this pose than Hottie's does. Hottie's not as wide as it used to be. Maybe a little more lower lat density and width than what Samson has, but it's not anything significant. But you can see that the overall detail and depth of the back is better. The rear delts are better for Samson. Triceps are popping more for Samson. I, to me, I would give this one to Samson as well. So we are at, what, 5 to 0 right now. Now here's where things get interesting. Front poses. Hottie, in my opinion, has the best midsection in the open. Hottie's, the serratus muscle, muscles, the abs, his ab detail, there's nobody else that matches him in ab detail. Side tricep pose here. Samson is doing the Dorian side tricep pose where you kick your rear leg back. Kind of the idea with this pose, at least how I understand it, is if you have big calves, this is a way to show off your calf density. And you can see here, Samson's showing off your calf density. But the issue is here, he's just not quite nailing this pose right. This is a presentation issue, I think. Hottie does a really good job on this pose. This is a super strong pose for him. Everything just looks better. Here you can actually see a little bit of detail in his glutes. Although Samson beats him on the calves again, I would say quads are about a push on this. Glutes are better for Hottie, mainly just because he's showing them. Samson's not showing them correctly. Hottie's delts pop better on this one. You can see Samson's not gettinGHimself twisted enough to show his, you want to be able to see that back pec. You want to be able to see that back shoulder on this pose. You want to demonstrate width. Samson is straight up and down. He's actually makinGHimself look smaller on this pose when he is not smaller than Hottie. So I don't know, you know, just if I were somebody on his team, I probably would change this one. Maybe this is just one that he struggles with. He can't, some guys can't clasp their hands behind their back. Sometimes it's an issue with not, you know, mobility, not being able to twist enough. Although he twists on the side chest shot. But I, this one, to me, this one, Hottie blows him out of the water on this one. You can see the serratus, the midsection's better. Actually on this one, you can see some detail on his pecs. Maybe not quite as much as the previous Arnold Classic presentation. He looked better, leaner there, harder. But this one, this one I would give to Hottie. This is a way better pose for Hottie. So now we are at five to one. All right, next up we have the abdominal and thigh. This is one that Samson has improved on, but Samson's midsection isn't his best attribute. His abs are a little, little weird. And I'm not taking anything away from him. I love Samson, I love Hottie both. Also the way he is posinGHis quads on this one, he's makinGHis quads, to me, look smaller and he's losing detail on his quads on this one. You can see here, Hottie, you can see the separation in the serratus. I think this one's just a posing issue for Samson, or maybe it's structural flaws where he can't present himself well. And the midsection, IMean, there's just no contest in the midsection here between Samson and, IMean, between Hottie and Samson. Hottie just dominates him on this one. Samson has him on calves again, but whatever on this pose. This pose is really about the midsection and thEQuadricep. That's primarily what the judges are looking at on this one. And you can see here that the abs definitely go in favor of Hottie. The ab and thigh, or whatever you want to do, call it ab and quads, whatever you want to call the pose. Hottie's presentinGHis quads better than Samson does. Samson is, I don't know, something's wrong with this pose. He's pulling a vacuum on it, which is a choice that you can make if your abdominals are sort of weak. You can try to pull a vacuum on it to hide. His v-taper is great. He's got a narrow waist, wide upper body, but this one's a little weird. You can see here too, like, I don't understand the choice here. Usually on this one, you want to put your hands behind your head and put your knuckles together. And maybe he can't hold his arms up that way. That's a possibility because he is a big fucking dude. But he's claspinGHis hands over top of his head on this one, which is weird. And you can see here Hottie is doing the fist behind his head, which is going to make your arms pop a little bit more. It's just a weird choice on this one. IMean, there's no right or wrong answer when it comes to posing. I do think that certain physiques need tweaks in certain ways to present themselves better, but I don't know if this is the best choice on this pose. But overall, you know, yeah, I think he's improved on this one, but it's not where Hottie's at. Hottie kicks his ass on this one. So, you know, we're at, now we're at, what, five to two? Let's see, one, two, three, four, five. Yeah, yes. So, no, yeah, five to two. So, five to two in favor of Samson. All right, last one. Most muscular. Honestly, I felt like this could go either way. To me, this is a coin flip. There's a couple little things on here that IMaybe would give advantage to Samson. So, let's look from the top, or from, I'm sorry, from the bottom to the top again. Calves are Samson on this one. Quads, I would say, are Samson on this one. Just fuller, better filled out quads on this one. Samson's upper body is absolutely massive here. Hottie has more detail in his chest, more detail in his midsection. So, I would give advantage to Hottie for chest and midsection. Delts and arms and traps, I would say, Samson, this one could go either way. Honestly, I wouldn't be shocked if you would give it to Hottie. I wouldn't be shocked if you gave it to Samson. So, let's just tilt this one. I would say maybe, depending on what, this one's a toss-up because the lower body is definitely Samson. His arms are bigger. I like Samson's arms in this one. His shoulders are nice, big and full. But Hottie's midsection, Hottie's chest on this one, the detail on his chest, while his chest isn't quite as big as Samson's, I think goes in favor of Samson. So, I would probably give this one to Hottie. So, now we are at, after we've completed all of the mandatory poses, we are at five. Samson, five in favor of Samson, three in favor of Hottie. So, you can see this was a close contest. And here's the thing with Hottie. Hottie is probably one of the smaller guys out there in the open. I've heard that he's on stage around 220, 225, something like that. I don't know if that's accurate or not, but that's what I've heard. Samson's like 280, something like that. He's a big, big fucking dude. Samson massively outsizes him. And when you see the two standing next to each other, you can see that Samson just dwarfs him. So, a guy that's smaller, Samson has better symmetry, I think, better flow to his physique than Hottie. What Hottie has beat him on and beat other guys on in the past is Hottie's freak conditioning. When you lack in those other areas, you have to make up for it in another. And Hottie has to lean on conditioning if he wants to win. If he is the most conditioned guy on stage and it's no contest, he's the driest, he's the hardest, he's going to win a lot of times if somebody's off a little bit. Samson brought in conditioning that was good enough, the best that he's brought. Could he have been a little bit tighter? Probably, but he may have one of those physiques and one of those bodies where this is just about as far as he can push. Some people can't get that super dry look, no matter what they do. I don't know what it is. When I was there, the light kind of sucked. It was hard to see. So, I have to give the Gilko guys kudos for being... These pictures are from Gilko, so give some credit to them. So, I have to give some credit to the Gilko guys for being able to shoot and make these pictures look great. The lighting was not great when we were there. You can see it on the live stream where they were overcompensating for exposure with things being too bright. And you can see in person, some pictures I took in person where everybody, it was so bright, everybody was just washed out. I don't know how the judges judged from what I could see. And I was pretty far back, so it was really hard to see. I thought Hadi, initially, when I was there, I thought Hadi had won watching it on the big screen. But going back through and re-evaluating things from the pictures with the extra detail, I can see what the judges were seeing and I can see why Samson won. Samson had improved. Samson's condition had been brung up enough to be comparable with Hadi and Hadi was just a little bit off with his condition. Nothing major, but just maybe like a couple percent off from where he was at the Arnold. And if Samson's a couple percent better, Hadi's a couple percent off. That's enough for the scale to be tilted in Samson's favor. So I think this decision, I agree with the judges. I would have made the same call. I would have given this one to Hadi after looking at it, after comparing all the pictures. Sorry, not Hadi, but given this one to Samson after looking at all the pictures, it makes sense that Samson won. I understand what they were looking at. And folks, I know it's tough seeing your favorite bodybuilder not win. There's nothing against Hadi. I love Hadi. I think Hadi's a great champion. In the past, he looked amazing. He looked amazing at the Arnold. I was stunned how great he looked at the Arnold. I was very impressed with him at the Arnold. These are two great guys, great guys that both have been Olympian champions. Both are at the top of the sport. The differences are so small between the two. You have to really look at the nuance. And this is what I think, you know, once again, it's just my opinion. To me, it's pretty clear that Samson beat him. Anyway, folks, let me know what you think in the comment section below about the decision for Samson to beat Hadi at the Olympia. Do you agree with what the judges said? Do you have a different opinion from me? Put your comments in the in the description or sorry, in the comment section below and let me know what you think. I appreciate each and every one of your support. Thank you for watching. Take care. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com