 W Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang Yang champion. Wesley goes through his contest prep, his approach to nutrition, trening, and PEDs. This is a great one. I think you're going to really enjoy it. Big Paul here today with the one and only Wesley Vissers, back-to-back Arnold Classic champion, UK and the US. How's it going, Wesley? Yeah, thanks for having me. It's going very well after those two victories. It's been literally a dream come true. It's not just two Arnold Classics, but it's the show organized by Arnold Schwarzenegger himself. And for me, he has always been an idol. I'm, of course, a Classic physique competitor. And that class is based, in my opinion, on physiques like him, like his. IMean, it's called Classic for a reason. So referring back to the old days. And yeah, it was just a combination of meeting your childhood hero, basically, and winning the show. It's like, I always say this, but it's literally unbelievable what happened. And it gives me a lot of momentum for going forward. That has to be surreal, standing on the stage and havinGHim shake your hand and hand you the trophy. Yeah, it was, it went so quickly because I honestly, at the Arnold Ohio, I know I look great, but then still, IMean, Ramon Dino was doing it. I was like, they're never going to give me the victory here. IMean, he doesn't look bad. He's not, he's not really off or anything. But when I saw the pictures and the footage, I was like, I actually have a chance here. But then still, you're like, well, he's an established name. So I think they're going to give it to him. And, but then I won and I was like, I was genuinely surprised to win that show. And then, you know, like one minute later, you're standing there with Arnold shakinGHis hand and him making that comment about Lou Ferrigno. A lot of people told me, well, you should have said, no, I look like you. But in that moment, I'm like starstruck. Anyway, I just won unexpectedly. And then I'm standing there with Arnold. IMean, I was already happy with anything that's going to happen at that point. So super happy with it. Yeah, I wasn't sure if he was trying to give you a hard time or if he was being funny or what that was about. You never know with Arnold, but I think I thought about it and it was like, oh, Arnold is never going to admit anybody is going to look like him. No, Arnold is Arnold. So he wouldn't be Arnold if he would say, oh, you look like me. IMean, that would be actually strenge for him to say. So the next best thing would be to call me his rival, basically. So I took it as a compliment and it's still a golden era bodybuilder. So it was all good. Well, your physique looks nothing like Lou's. It looks like you. Yeah, I do agree. Yeah. So leading up to the show, IMean, we were talking about it in advance. This is always the mystery of doing shows. It's like, this is the best you've ever looked. Was there something you did different this year or is this just the culmination of years and years and years of effort? Yeah. First of all, it's of course a culmination of the effort, but also mentally knowing each and every time you do a prep, I can go one step further than the last time, because I think a lot of people have the fear of losing muscle when you try to lose more and more fat. And for me specifically, it was the glute striations because I know, okay, Urs, Michael, the bull, which you mentioned is the most conditioned guy you've ever seen in real life. So all of those guys have like striations in their glutes. And I was at that point, number seven in the world. And the rest of them all had striations, except, except for me from the back, like from the side, I have them, but from the back, I never really showed them. So I was like, is this genetic? Is this a lack of muscle mass? What is it? So then I was like, okay, each and every time I go a little deeper with my conditioning, a little longer with a duration of the caloric deficit. And I still remain just as strong in the gym. My fullness is still there. And as long as you manage the fatigue. So I was like, okay, now for this Arnold, I'm just gonna show that I do have those striations as well, at least as much as I could, as I could get them to show. And so I literally just went on for three more weeks on top of what I would consider. Okay. Now my conditioning is good enough, but instead of thinking this, I was like, I'm just gonna keep going until I see those striations while keeping fatigue in check, keeping the log book, making sure my strength stays high. And every time I took pictures in the morning, which I do on a daily basis for my coach, I could see more and more details coming in. And then like, all of a sudden you wake up, you see yourself in a mirror and you're like, hey, they're there. The striations that I was looking for are finally here. And I did not sacrifice any muscle mass. So the fear of going to that place is now gone because I know I can achieve it and still remain full and strong in the gym. Because I always thought, well, you hear a lot of bodybuilders say, you shouldn't go for that little last bit of conditioning if you sacrifice the rest of your physique for it. But as long as that doesn't happen, which means you manage your fatigue well, then you're only going to be better, which is what happened at the Arnold Classic Ohio. So the only thing I did is just went go, I kept going three, abouT3 more weeks on top of what I would normally do with the cardio, with a low caloric intake, basically, high protein, pretty much no carbs, pretty much no fats. And you would think after a while you're going to lose something, but I didn't. So now after each contest, I know I can go a little bit deeper, which I'm going to do for the Olympia as well. But this proved to be the package that could beat even someone like the number two in the world. So that's all I apparently needed was a bit more conditioning. And if I do the peak right and show that fullness on top of it and confident presentation, it evolved my physique, you know, a lot of steps beyond what I showed at the Olympia the year prior. So yeah, it was just an incredible experience to see everything come together and to actually get the victory twice in a row. Yeah, I would think now you would have the confidence to go stand up there next to Bumstead and give him a hard time. IMean, I don't see really a whole lot of gap between the two of you. It's interesting you talk about managing fatigue, that seems to be the big thing that I've learned over the years with people. That is the key is managing the fatigue when you get deeper in prep. That's when I think people dig themselves into a hole and end up looking like crap on stage. What did you do to manage your fatigue this year? That's a hard line to walk when you're on contest prep doing all the cardio, taking fat burners and all the other compounds that are in place. Yeah, that's very true. And the reason why IManage fatigue so much, and I think a lot of people who might be starting out are like, what is this talk about that boring fatigue? Why are they not just saying the harder you work, the more progress you make, but in bodybuilding, it's sometimes it's the other way around because in 2021 during the virus time, I had to go to Mexico for two weeks in advance as a lockdown procedure before I could go to the Olympia. So you had a different gym, different environments, different temperature. And I thought, okay, in 2020, I was off, my conditioning was off. So I'm going to work as hard as I can for a better conditioning. So what did I do in Mexico in a different gym, I did a lot of different movements with a lot less weight, but a lot more volume, drop sets, super sets, more time in the gym, cardio twice a day, and sweating a lot because the temperature was super high, no air conditioning anywhere. So basically, I was like, I was hammering myself. And I used the most PEDs also at the same time. Everybody in their career probably has one point where they're like, let's see what happens if I use just a bit more than I would. And the result was actually a worse physique, more inflammation, because when I look at those pictures now, you can see like a layer of water over my over my muscles, below my skin, even though you can see I'm very conditioned, but I'm flat. And it's like a blur layer on top of the muscles, like the, like an inflammation layer that I'm just doing way too much. Because mentally, as a bodybuilder, you can keep going regardless of how you feel. I've, we've all pretty much been there. I think when you're really want to achieve a goal, no matter how, how much hunger you have, or how tired you are, you're going to do it anyway. But sometimes you do got to listen to that feeling. So I'm mentioning 2021 because I looked my worst. I weight, my body weight was the lightest. So I should have been the most conditioned, but it just looked worse than the year before. Even, even though the year before I didn't peak correctly, I over spilled, but I still prefer that look to the chiseled out skeleton look I had in 2021. I'm a tall guy. So I need the fullness. So my fatigue was very high, which in turn just presented a worse physique on stage. So I did more, less calories, more cardio, but all of that did not result in a better physique. So I learned from the experience that more PDs does not equal better results and doing more in terms of more cardio, more trening, more everything doesn't result in better fat loss either, because I didn't, I didn't have either of those better than my previous showings. So what I now do differently is a little bit more of a scientific approach in terms of, okay, we all know if you're in the gym and you're performing exercises at the beginning of the prep, you have a certain level of strength. If you can maintain that strength strength with the same form and the same range of motion, you know, objectively that the performance is still there, which means the muscle mass must be still there as well. Otherwise, where is this performance coming from? If you start to get weaker, that's telling you that you're not recovering from the previous workout. So you can, for example, reduce the volume of your trening so that you can actually recover from the workout and still keep your strength at least in that first, maybe the first two sets as high as the beginning of the prep, which tells you objectively in the numbers and also mentally, you know, okay, all the muscle mass, all the strength is still there. So I haven't lost anything. Yes, IMay look flat. IMay look less muscular because I have less carbohydrates, but if the strength is there and everything else is the same as the execution, the range of motion, the movements, then you know your muscle is still there. So that's what I always do whenever I notice, for example, if you do a chest press and the first two sets, your strength is equal, but in a third set, it starts to drop, just drop that whole set out, just remove it because apparently you're not eating enough calories or carbohydrates anymore within your diet to still maintain that strength, that performance. So you can't recover. But we also know that to maintain muscle mass, you need less volume than to build it. So you can maintain a pretty low amount of volume and keep your muscle mass and keep the fatigue low as well, because if fatigue is high, your body is going to sacrifice the reason why fatigue is high, which is muscle mass. So that's what you want to prevent. So it might be the case that at the end of the contest prep, you might even do only half of the volume that you started with, but your strength within those sets is still as high as it was at the beginning of the prep, which objectively tells you the muscle mass is still there because otherwise I could not be able to lift this weight. And that's mentally a very nice thing to have because then you simply, you open your phone within the workout to, to log your lifts and you see the exact same weight and the reps, a lot of your sets, and you just know, okay, even though I feel tired, I feel not as energetic anymore. I look flat. I still have all the muscle mass at least. So the moment that you have a refeed or even in the peak week, you fill up with carbs, all that muscle mass you thought was gone is now back because it's simply filled up with glycogen and water weight again. And that's basically how I'm doing it in terms of the workouts itself. And then you, of course, have cardio. You kind of want to be done with cardio, with your max effort cardio a few weeks in advance, and then taper it down towards the show to also reduce the fatigue. For me personally, my legs have always been the weakest body part. So it's always a puzzle to find out, okay, how much cardio can I do? Because I do the resistance bike, for example, at home and how much cardio can I do and how long and how intense without it sacrificing my leg size during the prep. So for me, that's an important thing to, of course, take into consideration because the upper body will probably always be good on stage, but the legs is always the problem. So you also want to drop fatiguEQuite early as well in terms of the cardio that you do. So I take the approach of more neat expenditure, like walking around, making sure you're not sitting still too long. Just little things. I also have two children. So that keeps your need up pretty much automatically. Every time they go to bed, I clen the whole living room of their toys and stuff. And, you know, the whole day are pretty much busy with them also. So that just helps burning more calories without it really fatiguing your body as it's not high intensity stuff. So I like to keep the intensity cardio to a minimum and the steps and, you know, the other activities throughout the day quite high. So you're kind of busy the whole day burning calories, but it doesn't really fatigue your body as much and make sure, of course, that sleep stays high. So at the beginning of prep, your sleep is still pretty easy to get those eight hours in because you're not as hungry or you're still, your body is still not craving as much. But towards the end, you're, you can use some sleep aids like extra magnesium, melatonin, like 5-HTP and all of those supplements which you slowly, gradually put in to make sure your sleep quality is as high as possible towards the end. So that's pretty much a long story about how IMainly try to manage the fatigue. And that does bring out a much better physique than if you would be wrapping everything up too much. Yeah, you'll see examples of it if you go to regional shows or local amateur shows, the guys that push too hard and then they look like they look like they're sick on stage. And then you'll see the guys that are too fat as well. So there's usually almost nobody that nails conditioning at the amateur level. And I definitely learned that lesson the hard way myself where I've pushed too hard before with too, too many PEDs, not enough sleep, going too hard in the gym. And we can be a victim of our own desire to succeed by pushing too hard. And then you end up looking worse. I think this past year was the best I've ever looked. And I did, did the exact same thing. I pulled back at the end. I started doing lower intensity cardio. I pulled my volume back and then pushed my food up a little bit going into the show. And it was the best, best I've ever looked on stage with the, with the, it's interesting. You talked about with the PEDs. I think we've all been there too, before where you make yourself sick by taking too much, too much stuff. What was your approach? IMean, I'm sure it's pretty much what everybody runs on, on contests. What compounds were you running this year? Yeah. So I, I know what you're, you're doing and it's pretty much the same as I've been doing the last couple of years. So you always start with, of course, a testosterone base in combination with either Mastron or Primo to keep the estrogen in check to make sure that's at least at the same level. So it doesn't mask your progress with water weight or, uh, different, uh, physiques, physique pictures. For example, you don't want that water weight to influence, um, your decisions. So you want to keep estrogen pretty much stable and maybe lowering towards the end, but you pretty much start out with, with test Mast and Primo. Now the amounts that you use, IMean, of course you can be very trensparent about it, but everybody, it depends on how far in your development you are. So no, someone, yeah, it's relative. It's relative. It's like, I tell you, like, if you're a beginner and you go out in the gym and try to try to puT4 or five on the bench press and you're going to get hurt, it's the same. It's the same thing. Yeah. You slowly build up the amounts as you realize how much you need to maintain that strength in a gym. So for example, when I was talking about managing the strength in the gym as well, like the moment that you notice, okay. And usually this happens like six weeks, weeks out or something that your strength might decline. You might add something. You might increase like tren, for example, for a boost in strength or an of our, you might add it in as a pre-workout to keep strength high. So I like to use those compounds on a needs basis. So whenever you notice that your physique requires something, only then you add it in. It's not just a plan, you know, beforehand, okay, we're going to do this. And regardless of how you respond, this is the plan. IMean, it should be based on how you respond. Same with the fat burners. So to give like a summary, you start with test and mast or primo. I personally use mast because of the injection volume, even though you do daily injections, the volume with primo, if you go above a gram, for example, might still be a little much. And I've never noticed much difference between mast and primo for myself, even in my blood work, everything looks good with mastron. So, you know, if it works for you, why would you change it? Right. And test starts relatively high, maybe on a one-to-one ratio with mastron. And slowly you go down with the test and up with the mastron to ensure that the visuals look better and better. You hold less water. And I know some people do very well on higher tests because it keeps them full. But for me, fullness is not really a problem. So I can go down with test to like TRT levels basically. And then mastron might be like four times as high at the very end. And then only once it's needed, the tren is added at a low amount. I think pretty much like what you're doing, like 20 to 30 milligrams per day, just for that additive effect of, okay, a little more muscle retention, a little less cortisol and keeping the strength high as well. Because if you use more, which is what we both then experienced, your sleep might be messed up, night sweats, you're moody. It just, the net effects will be less, even though you're using more. So just use it as like cherry on top, basically on top of what you're already doing to give that extra effect at the end when you need it. And yeah, I, and honestly for orals, I don't really notice that much of an effect either way. It's like, I would just honestly might want to leave them out completely and see what happens then. Because whenever I do add them, I'm like, okay, I know I added them, but am I really noticing much of a difference here? And apart from the liver values going up and the cholesterol going the wrong direction, for example. But I do think like, if you can source a good anolvar, that does help with an initial boost in strength when you need it quick, because you could add like an injectable, but even tren acetate might not bEQuick enough to give you that boost for like the next day. If you want to tren legs and you know, okay, my strength is now down already, I need something immediate, then something like anolvar could really aid in this. So the important message here for people I want to be is that you use only what is needed when your body gives you the signal that it needs it. So not beforehand, try to guess how many milligrams you need or what your dose it should be or what compounds you should use, because then it might actually be a little too much, more than you need. And if I look at my history, I've only been going down with the amount that I'm, that I have to use to maintain muscle mass. Because as IMentioned, maintaining is far easier than building. Yep. So during the prep, everything's actually lower than during the building phase, usually. And yeah, in the fat burners, I am a fan of keeping the thyroid hormones at a hormone replacement level as well, right from the start, not higher. Because if you go higher, it might actually impact your physique negatively as well. Everybody thinks the more fat burners you use, the more fat you burn, but there's always a fine balance here, especially with the thyroid hormones. So do your blood work, and see, is your T3 and T4 within those reference ranges? You know, of course, preferably a little to the top of the reference range to know, okay, everything's working optimally. If that's the case, just keep using that dosage or only implement it once you see that the levels are going down a bit, to keep that going naturally as long as you can. But for most people, if you go really hard and very low in the body fat, your thyroid will be mostly impacted, especially at the end when you really want to get those deep striations or that last pound of fat off, usually having a healthy thyroid level does help you create that effect. And then you have like a clambuterole, which you use only also at the moment that you are hitting like a plateau, like the first part of your prep, the fat loss should come from a caloric deficit and your activity level. And once you have done a few steps in those, so your activity is quite high, calories are getting quite low, and then you start to hit like a slowing down of your progress, then you can put in something like a clambuterole. Again, based on the feedback that your body is giving you, okay, now things are slowing down. If I drop calories too much, it might influence my performance in the gym. And then you add in clambuterole instead, and you can still keep the carbs higher, for example. And that it's just a synergy that you're trying to create with all those things and to keep all the dosages as low as you can with the maximum effect. So that's basically what I like to do. And then you also have HGH, of course, which I used to use for facet cardio. But recently, I've discovered that just using it pre-bed, everything is just as effective. And since the peak concentration of HGH won't be achieved like four hours after the injection, so you might as well just do it before bed and then wake up fasted, do your cardio, still benefit from the fat burning effects from HGH. And then as your first meal, and you don't have to worry about timing it at all anymore. So that's basically a rundown of what I like to do. I've noticed with the HGH, when I take the whole bolus before bed, it also improves sleep. Yeah. So yeah, I've not. So yeah, and it's interesting you mentioned with the fat burners too. That's another thing where I think people think more is better. I've noticed with the fat burners, I want to use the least amount possible. And it seems like when I use more, it just results in a worse look. People end up looking stringy and depleted, especially with the T3. I've made that mistake of pushing T3 too high before. And you just end up looking stringy and awful. Same thing with tren. tren is a tempting one to push push because it, it, it, nothing makes me look harder than tren does. I don't know if you get that effect from it, but there is a line you have to walk between being able to sleep and not, you know, feeling like crap all the time. That's the thing with tren. It eventually catches up with you. And I like the approach of using the orals as needed. I've, I talked to, I think it was Roman Fritz I talked to that he said that last year that he, I don't think he ran any orals through all of his, you know, he, I don't know how many shows he did, like 10 or 12. I think he said he was just running testing Primo for everything, which is, which is interesting. Yeah. I, I coach, I've coached quite a lot of people for contests also. And they always ask, when are we going to put the orals in? When are we going to put tren in? I'm like, well, there isn't a set date or week that we're going to put it in because a lot of people like, are like, okay, eight weeks out, the tren goes in six weeks out, the orals go in. But if your body doesn't need it, like in Roman's case, if his strength stayed high, if he kept losing fat, why would you have to add anything extra if you're content with your progress? IMean, the less you can use, it saves you money, saves you your health. It saves the hassle of having to take it. So the less you can do, you have to take the better it is, in my opinion. So yeah, it's, it's very possible to do it with the very basics for sure. Well, all that toxicity accumulates. It's, it's interesting talking to a lot of pro bodybuilders. It's funny when we're younger, I don't know if you were the same way in your journey. You want to try everything and see, find, find the secret, but it seems like everybody comes back to the basics. And eventually everybody, it seems like arrives at the same conclusion that they want to run test and primo or test and masteron as their primary base with some HGH. And then it seems like everybody eventually figures out that orals often are make things worse. Yeah. You know, it, it crushes your appetite. And as your liver values increase, you just start to feel awful. If you feel awful, you're not going to be able to tren hard. I've been in that hole before where you've run orals too long and then you end up, it affects your performance in the gym. You get that initial kick from it and then it goes back down. I do prefer anivar if you can get real anivar. And then like you were saying, just use it as needed pre-workout. I think that is a smart approach. Once in a while, I'll throw in halo testing or something like that. But I generally stay away from orals and have my clients stay away from orals. Yeah. IMean, there's a reason why the steroids are made into an injectable form because it then bypasses the liver and a lot of the organs, the whole digestive tract, which doesn't have anything to do with what we want to achieve, which is either building muscle or burning fat. But then along the way, if you take orals, it damages all of those systems also. So you might as well stick to the injectables and go with like the more advanced stuff, which is designed to basically bypass all of those organs. And with advanced, I simply mean more modern, more thought out stuff. Yeah. Because yeah, I think the whole taboo around PEDs also comes from the needle that you have to use. Right. It's like, oh, you inject something and it's like associated with a lot of bad stuff like the hard drugs or something like, yeah, with, like with abuse basically. But there's a big difference between using and abusing and abusing orals is far easier than abusing something injectable because, uh, yeah, I like in the Netherlands, there are a lot of festivals during which it is popular to take like not oral PDs, but those oral drugs. Yeah. I'm not sure which like MDMA, I think. And yeah, I don't know. I have no experience with that at all, but I know that that's like a, almost like a gateway. Okay. Those festival guys, they want to look great there. So they also then take oral Anolvar or Winstrol for example, to, to look good for a temporary while, because in the winter they look very different from the summer because they only use those oral stacks. But in the meanwhile, they make less progress and they ruin their health a lot more than if they would have just used something injectable. So that would be the smarter way to go. Yeah. And you can, the interesting thing is you can run doses higher with injectables too. So, so, and not have all the side effects. So, IMean, my, my thought process is I want to, I want, I want to run the most I can while maintaining my health. So I, I don't understand. And then it's, you'll, you'll also see in a lot of older bodybuilders, guys that have been doing this for a while, they all end up with GI issues from pushing food and probably from abusing orals. You see a lot of guys end up with GERD and, and, you know, things like ulcers and digestive issues that I think a lot of times are from abusing orals. And if you can't eat, you can't grow. Exactly. You are literally in bodybuilding. You are what you eat or you are what you can absorb. And if your digestive system is messed up, IMean, the goal was to grow. The goal to use the orals was to make progress, but in the longterm is actually all the way around because now they're making less progress because of the very orals you're trying to take to grow. So it's like, okay, what is more important here? So eating and food will always remain number one. It is far more anabolic than any PD you can ever take. Yeah. It's interesting that everybody's been doing this for a while and that's the secret I try to impart on young guys. The food is the most important part of this really. At least I think so. What, what was your, IMean, what's your approach to diet? I've heard you talk about your, your diet before your, your rice that you make and balancing your diet. Your race is famous. So what is your approach to nutrition? How do you run your diets? Yeah. So I'm always a health guy, basically with nutrition. I like to not just like, there are bodybuilders who eat only for a function of providing energy and protein to build muscle and that's it. But I think you can do a lot more with nutrition because a lot of people, they don't realize that your metabolism requires vitamins and minerals to work. Literally, if you miss certain vitamins and minerals in your diet, your protein metabolism even won't be functioning a hundred percent. So I like to add in my nutrition, always a lot of fruits and vegetables. I know a lot of people don't like it. I know a lot of bodybuilders need so much food that adding that in will be difficult to then adhere to your diet because it's too much volume. But I always like a bit, like at least 20, 30% maybe of my carbohydrates come from fruit and a little bit from vegetables as well. Because to give an example right now, like each meal contains like either 300 grams of fruit or 300 grams of vegetables. And I always... The fruit thing, I don't mean to interrupt you, but it always perplexes me that guys think that fruit makes them fat. I've never seen anybody that's fat that eats fruit. I eat fruit with every meal. Yeah. IMean, it adds so many benefits. It adds the fiber needed to, for example, lower cholesterol, slow down gastric emptying, making sure that you can actually absorb all the protein. And it has the minerals and vitamins for your metabolism and you feel better and it tastes great and it provides a good source of carbohydrates. And I think it's like those previous literature stating that fructose is bad for you, but that's only in pure isolation, which never exists in nature anyway. And even if you eat only fruit, you're still getting glucose along with the fructose and the fiber and everything else. So it's never an isolated form. But as you say, with every meal you eat fruit. So it's like, okay, rice usually then is the base. And then on top is some fruit to actually create a synergy between the glucose from the rice and the fructose from the fruit actually helps the speed of absorption also. But yeah, I like to use a lot of whole foods in my diet in combination with certain supplements. Like I love to use a lot of whey myself. I just think it's a very useful tool and a delicious way to get high quality protein in. I've been using it like for years, every single day, pretty much up until the day of the show, the morning of the show, even at the high-dive. You don't have digestive issues with whey. A lot of people do. Yeah. I think it might have to do with the source and whether you are actually lactose intolerant or not. I apparently, obviously am not, so I can take all the way I want. And some people think, oh, it's because of the sweeteners or the additives. But yeah, I think there's so many brands out there and so many sources of whey that maybe, like if people talk negatively about whey, it might not be the whey itself, but the brand putting in stuff that influences the way it absorbs and causes bloating, for example. So a lot of people have different experiences with that, but I've not had any problems with it myself. It could be the artificial sweeteners and then also the type of whey. I noticed that a lot of whey that says it's isolate, if you actually look at the ingredients on it, it's a combination of isolate and concentrate. So it's not actually straight isolate. And then there's some, sometimes they load it with artificial sweeteners, which I think cause a lot of people gut issues. Yeah, I do think that's true. And it also depends which sweetener is used. And sometimes the amount listed on the label is not the actual amount that's in the product because the supplement industry is pretty loose with that. It's not really as regulated as a normal food, so to say. But yeah, I just, I love to implement it into my diet, but let's just say two meals would be with whey and four meals would be with either fish or chicken or beef, turkey, salmon, stuff like this. And pretty much every day, it's just a little different. I don't follow a plan that is super strict, like always chicken or always fish. It's pretty much a variety of protein every single day because I simply, I love to cook myself. I've also studied nutrition and dietetics during which we learned also to cook healthily and easily, quickly. And I, it's just one of my passions. So it does have to be in your wheelhouse to like to cook if you want to implement so many different foods in your diet. But then even, even still, if you just follow the protocol of, okay, every meal contains either some amount of vegetables and some fruits, then you already are miles ahead of a lot of bodybuilders for sure. And I've heard you speak about the FODMAP list yourself. If you eat vegetables and your experience is, oh, I'm getting bloated because of them, just look up the FODMAP list and choose from the low FODMAP part. So usually it's red or green and green is the low FODMAP version of all the vegetables that have low fermentable carbohydrates, which means they cause much less gas than fermentable sources, which would be broccoli, onion, garlic, cauliflower, stuff like this. And even in fruits, you also have some high fermentable versions, but just stay away from those. Stay to the low FODMAPs, which I do myself and you'll be in 90% of the cases totally fine. And you're still able to get all of the nutrients in. And if I'm honest, like during the very deep offseason, I of course reduce the amount of vegetables, but it never really goes below 100 grams per meal. And I think a meal tastes better. If you add a little bit of vegetables, then none at all, in my personal opinion. And of course, plenty of salt and pepper as well. With the salt, people are also always afraid, at least they used to be afraid, especially a few years ago, that it rises blood pressure and it's bad for you in general. But yeah, I think that the body is very good at regulatinGHow much salt you need by making it taste either bland or too salty. Like if a meal that you've made yourself without salt in it by itself, like if you eat a pizza, it's actually way too salty, but it still tastes good. So no processed foods. But if you eat whole foods, you're adding salt and it tastes perfect, then it's the exact right amount of salt for your body at that moment. But if it tastes too bland, it doesn't hurt to add some extra salt because apparently your body is telling you this concentration of salt in this meal is still too low for me to be properly getting in enough of that salt, of that sodium. So that's a very easy way for your body to tell you how much salt you might need. Or if it's too salty, like one time or a few times it happens, like you're making an omelet and you're putting some salt in it and by accident, the salt shaker, like the top falls off. It's like half of half of the salt is on there. IMean, no matter what you try and do, it tastes horrible. So you know by instinct, okay, this is way too much salt. And we think it tastes horrible, but it's actually our body telling you if I ingest this amount of salt now, it's gonna be bad for my health. So that's what your body's actually saying instead of just it tastes bad because that's what we associate with it. So that's an easy way to know if you're getting too much or too little salt. And yeah, that's pretty much my diet. And in terms of macros, protein quite high because of two things. I personally prefer protein. I like it. I like to eat it, but also there's never been research done on high level bodybuilders using PEDs with high amount of muscle mass, with intense trening. And when everything is dialed in perfectly, okay, how much protein does that guy need? Well, you might as well take a little too much to be on the safe side, then just too little and maybe 5% of gains then won't be made. So I like to eat, I think around 400 grams of protein a day. And I weigh right now, let's say around 260 pounds or something, because I have to convert from kilograms. That's like 120 kilograms. Yeah. Yeah. And the carbohydrates remain quite high as well. And the fat's always pretty low. The only meal that has some fats in it added would be the last meal because I love to include salmon in my diet because of the healthy benefits from the omega-3s and it just tastes amazing. And yeah, that's pretty much the only added fats that I use, but mostly carbohydrates are high, protein is high and fat is low, pretty much low to moderate. Yeah. Now, are you supplementing in EFAs for your fats or are you? Yeah. Also, I take two omega-3 capsules with every meal. So that's 12 grams basically of omega-3, which are high quality. So they contain a lot of EPA and DHA as well. And I think there's not really an upper limit to omega-3 in terms of the health benefits it provides. But for me, it keeps my cholesterol, my LDL cholesterol very low. HDL will always remain a bit low. It's not super low, but it's not within the reference range. But LDL is way below the reference range anyway. So that's the most important thing for me. And I do believe that high omega-3 does help keeping that low. Yeah, it definitely does. You'll see it happen on blood work. I'll have clients start supplementing in that and then you'll see it affect their blood work. Now, when you shift to contest prep and you start pulling calories out, are you pulling carbs first or how do you go into a deficit? Yeah, usually if I have any added fats to the diet, that pretty much goes first because I think fats in a contest prep for me are pretty useless. They don't provide energy, which means not direct energy, which you can use in the form of glycogen. So they don't provide like a performance benefit. We don't need it for our hormones because we inject those ourselves. And I always take the omega-3 capsules regardless of off-season or contest prep. That amount stays the same. So I'm like, okay, I'm getting the essential fatty acids and they're essential, which means you need to get them from your diet. So I got those ticked off. I'm eating a lot of meats, which in there is the low amount of omega-6 you might need. So pretty much the essential fatty acids you're already getting from automatically from the food and your supplements. So then the fat goes first, but always the carbs pretty much have a drop right away as well. And also all the extras that you do eat in the off-season mean I can be fake here and say I'm following a perfect diet, but I always eat a little bit extra here and there whenever I feel like it. Not extreme stuff, but there's always something. I have also two kids and when they don't finish their meal and it's a good meal, IMight finish it myself. So stuff like this, I would then eliminate on top of a bit less carbs and less fats and keep the cardio consistent and stuff like this. And that already keeps me going on a good roll for a few weeks initially. Now, if you have time, I'd like to talk about trening to what your approach is for trening. You have time to go through that? Yeah, sure thing. IMean, how do you tren? How has that evolved over the years? Are you trening differently than you were when you were younger? What's your approach to trening? Yeah, so when I was younger, I pretty much very much trened on instinct. I did have a trening plan that was the same every time. I trened six times a week, pretty much the push-pull leg split, but I didn't know it was the push-pull leg split, but it just happened to be that way. And I always did the same movements. And the only rule that I had, because my dad, he was also not really a bodybuilder, but he did tren. He was very strong. And he told me, as long as you can do 10 reps with a set, you can go heavier. But when you reach a set and you can't do six reps anymore, okay, this is your maximum weight. Then the next time you try to improve upon that set. And I've done that for many years, but also a lot of drop sets, super sets. I used to do like the Arnold plan with chest and back in the same workout, which was very intense. Triceps and bicep super sets. I followed that for a few months. Every year, like I did a few months of the super set workouts and then the regular trening. But yes, I did go to failure a lot because when you're young, you feel like you're indestructible. But after a while, you start to notice two things. Okay. Some joints are starting to hurt because yeah, you're trening like this for many years. And if you're doing skull crushers with like 150 pounds, sometimes, eventually your elbows will start to feel the effect. And, but I didn't know why, you know, you, you don't know the science behind it. You don't know. It's not really an efficient movement for the elbow joint and stuff like this, but you react basically to the pain and you start to choose different movements. But the other thing I noticed, okay, some muscle groups are responding well to this, like the chest, the arms, the back, pretty much the upper body, because genetically those apparently grow pretty easily for me, but the legs, they stayed behind because I did not really go through full range of motion. I didn't really tren with maximum mechanical tension on the legs because I trened that the same way as the upper body. And you get a lot, and you get tired a lot quicker with supersets and drop sets when you do it for the legs than for arms, for example. So I never really could push myself with high weights and full range of motion on the legs because I was like, okay, I'm a tall guy. I do a back squat. 90 degrees is enough. And I was taught this by everyone around me, the old school guys, like my dad or the owner of the gym or everybody was like, well, you're going to 90 degrees. That's deep enough. I, there was no YouTube or anything or science to tell you, oh, you should go as deep as possible for the maximum gains. So the legs, they stayed behind. And that's when you start to notice, okay, this type of trening works for certain muscle groups, but not for everything. And once you start to plateau, then you've got to change up your trening. And that's when I started to follow at that time, Jordan Peterson or Peters, Jordan Peterson, with a tren by GP. And he was like, okay, um, one working set and one backup set, that's way of trening. So you maximize the amount of weight you can do. And you progressively overload this weight in two different rep ranges. And I have to say the first year I did this, which was 2019, I really, and I, it was a true offseason as well. So I got to 133 kilos then, which was quite high for me. And in combination with that way of trening, so logging the lift, trening as heavy as I can, and then figuring out, okay, full range of motion is the best way to tren. That's when I started to make a lot of progress, especially in the legs as well. But then I came to the conclusion, I still went to failure. And at some point, your body again, starts to say, this is too much to recover from. You're feeling it too much in the joints compared to the muscle itself. And now, right now, my approach is, the volume is increased, but the effort per set is down a little bit, which means don't go to failure every single time, keep a little bit in reserve, as the stimulus for muscle growth hormone hormone is very comparable to going to failure. But the fatigue it causes is a lot less, which allows you to do more volume, which means more stimulus without the risk of injuring yourself or hurting your joints or tendons. So you actually feel good in the trening, you get more volume in some more muscle stimulus, a better pump, and less risk of injury. And all of this has resulted in my, my pretty much my jump from 11th at the Olympia to number eight, then number seven, and then winning the RL Classic Ohio and the UK. So that type of treninGHas kept me trening pain-free, still progressive overload within that rep in reserve. And yeah, I just feel the best in years, even though I'm older, I feel better than when I was 24, 25, basically. So that's been a great change in my approach. Dr. Justin Marchegiani It's interesting. That's another thing that I think you, when you talk to advanced bodybuilders, it's an evolution that everybody goes through. They've, they always start off with heavy progressive overload. And I think you probably, it's probably need to do that at the beginning, just to figure out one to progress your strength and one to figure out where that threshold is at. But then everybody eventually comes to the same conclusion that they need to hold a little back, tren with a little more volume and think, think critically about preserving fatigue a little bit and protecting joint and connective tissue integrity. And we all end up there. And the interesting part is, is that the science has caught up with that. Now, if you look at all the modern science, it shows that that probably is the more intelligent way to tren. You know, we, we see that now I've come full circle, but you know, but there's still that, that desire in there. You ever, once in a while, you want to go in and test your limits and see where you're at. But yeah, if I think about my younger years, I used to do like a one RM bench press pretty much every week, like on almost all exercises, even the squat, I wanted to know, okay, how strong am I? Because you, like you say, you haven't experienced the downside yet. And that's kind of a danger because the downside to that trening can be, Oh, I'm feeling a little bit sore in the joints now, but then you're lucky. It could also mean that you're literally tearing off a muscle or really injuring yourself in some way. And then, you know, it might already be over. So you might want to prevent that from happening. But I do think that the more advanced you become, like eventually, like the, the science says, Oh, even from five reps in reserve, you're already stimulating muscle mass enough to grow. But I don't really think that's true. If you're really advanced, I do think you've got to go pretty close to failure, literally maybe one to zero reps in reserve. So the next set, the next rep would be failure. So then you skip that. And maybe even on some isolation movements, especially of weaker muscle groups, you might actually go to that failure point, like a leg extension or a bicep curl, for example, which minimally fatigues your body systemically, but only locally. And if you can recover from this until the next workout, then I think it's fine. As long as you don't do it for every compound and risky movements. But I do think the more advanced you are, the closer you got to get to that failure point, because eventually your body is like, well, I don't want to grow anymore, because there has to be such a big reason now for me to go beyond what I'm now. Because it just takes up too much resources from the body. So yeah, then you got to go very close to failure, as long as you keep in mind that you keep your form and your range of motion the way they're supposed to be. So you actually recognize when that true failure point comes and not seek something that's beyond failure. Because I think even without a spotter, you can go beyond the failure point. If you change up your execution a little bit, like skip the stretch just a little bit to be able to get that one more rep. And that's the danger about logging your lifts and progressive overload. That sometimes you want to keep beating yourself. But if you if you can really control that, and recognize, okay, two workouts in a row on the chest press, I'm just not moving along this progressive overload, either pick a different movement that looks like it and progress on there, or take a little break from from pushing yourself in general, and reset after like one or two weeks to see, okay, my body simply needed to recover in its entirety, basically. Or maybe your sleep is impaired or nutrition isn't really up there. It could be a lot of things. But yeah, I think it's it's still a very interesting evolution, like even in, I think even in the last two years, even it's been evolved to this. So it's going quitEQuickly. So it makes me wonder what's going to happen in like another two years, how are we going to view trening then? And how accepted will it be? What we're talking about now? Because I do think the main consensus is still it's hardcore to go to failure. That's the way to grow the most muscle. We still all know those Ronnie Coleman videos during age videos. And yeah, I'm just curious how it's going to be in the future. Well, it's a risk versus reward analysis that you have to perform on every exercise you do and every way you tren. You know, so for example, you talked about, you know, doing it like a cable curl. IMean, the risk of going to failure on cable curls. IMean, you're the risk of tearing something or taxing your CNS is almost zero on a cable curl versus a heavy barbell squat. The that risk is going to be significantly higher. So it's, and that's another thing, like you're, you're at this advanced stage now where, you know, you're, you want to preserve your career. I would assume you want, you want to be able to do this for a while longer and take a shot at winning, winning in Olympia. So there, that's another thing that you have to consider in your exercise choice. I would imagine that's probably through your, through your head and how you, how you execute things. I think, yeah, I just interviewed yesterday, Dorian Yates, old trening partner. And he talked about how looking back on it, that Dorian said that he probably would have backed off a bit on contest prep and stuff, but he may, he may have extended his career. I think he had to retire in his mid thirties. Yeah. Early thirties. Yeah. So it's, yeah, but he would have never been Dorian Yates without the way he trened either. So yeah. Yeah. Same for Ronnie Coleman. IMean, those videos, even though we know it's not the correct way of trening, it's still motivates the head out of you when you watch them. Right. Yeah. IMean, there's something cool about going to battle. Yeah. One last thing I wanted to talk to you about before I let you go. I know you've got a busy day, but if you have the time is your presentation. And this is something I stress to young bodybuilders. I coach that I think is an area that they neglect it, how flawless your posing and presentation was at the show and how big of a difference that can make in where you place. But it clearly, you put a lot of effort into your posing and presentation at shows. Can you go into that a little bit? Yeah. So presentation is indeed could be, could make or break replacing at a lot of shows, especially at the higher level. Cause at first when you're an amateur, it's about, okay, who has the best physique and usually that guy wins, but it could happen that you don't have the best physique. But if you can't present yourself properly on stage, you could still win over that guy with a better physique. And I saw it happen a lot of times. Like you, when you have a good physique, you expect that person to present it well. And if they don't, it's like a disappointment. And when something is a disappointment, you start to place them actually lower in your mind, then objectively they might actually deserve. So that's something that's very important and not to be overlooked. And I used to be a horrible poser back in the day, like a, like a wooden stick on stage. But I watched Arnold Schwarzenegger's posing routine on slow motion on YouTube to see, okay, how does he move from this post to the next? How, why does it look so flawless and fluent? And then you can see the, that he takes one step this far. He pushes his hip, hip forward. Then his arm moves, then he opens his fingers and he closes them. And it's at first it was like a repetitive thing. I still have those recordings. I recorded myself on my phone until I, I look at the video and I was like, oh, now it actually looks good. And that took a lot. It's like hours of recordings. The first I look at Arnold's routine, and then I try to do those poses myself. And it took a long time before it actually went fluently. And I didn't have to think about it anymore. That's the thing. If you, if you have to think about how to do a pose on stage, the presentation will already be 50% of what it could be, because it should be automatic. Like, for example, if you look at trening, if you do a movement and you see, you know how to move on a chest press, you just, you feel it. You don't have to think about it anymore. And then it goes a lot smoother, easier. Like if somebody squats for the first time, it looks horrible, but you've been doing it for years. It's very smooth. You don't have to think about your placement of your feet or where you put the bar or how deep you have to go. It goes automatically. And with posing is the same. And the trensitions in the posing is just as important as the posing itself. And that's still what I'm working on. Because even though it looks good, I know what can be better. And especially when you have to battle, I guess, someone like Chris Bumstead, who also has a very good presentation, along with an incredible physique, of course, you, you, you have to, you can't let anything go to chance. Basically, you have to be perfect in your presentation, because it can make the pose and your physique look that much better. So to know, okay, what are my weak points? Like, okay, I have a slightly wider waist. So if I do my favorite classic pose in an angle, and I push my hand against my waist, it makes my waist look twice as small. But if I angle my arm the other way around, my arm still has all of the mass, my lat still comes out. And then you know, okay, I have good V taper, my weak points are hidden, my strong points are shown, and everybody has different strong and weak points. So for everybody, presentation will be different. I give, for example, posing classes as well, individually, one on one. And every time we practice a favorite classic pose or opposing routine, every time it's a different one, every time it's a different routine, because everybody has different weak and strong points that they gotta either show or hide. And most of all, it's just so much practice until, what IMentioned before, that you don't have to think about how to do it anymore on stage. In front of the mirror is one thing, you have a reference point, but you have to do it on stage, without a reference point. And the judges need to see your physique from an angle that is the most perfect it can be. And that just takes practice knowing your physique and quite a lot of work. So one big advice I can give, don't start this during your prep. Start it when you're in the bulk, because then you have the energy left. I speak from experience, whenever I'm in prep and I still have to practice my posing routine, it's just not going to happen until the last week. Because you're like, okay, now I have to do it. So I don't have a choice. So I'm better to come up with something. But during the whole prep, you're like, I've already done my cardio, the trening is going in sort of energy, less and less well. Like it feels more effort to do anything during the day. So you're like, I'm going to put it off until tomorrow. And then this keeps going for weeks until it's too late. And then you come up with a mediocre routine or mediocre presentation. So truly practice this during the offseason. So the only thing you don't have to do in a kind of prep as your body trensforms and changes, you already know all the poses, you already know your routine, only change the angles a slight bit, because then you see where you're like, how your body changes in comparison to the offseason, like, okay, now my waist looks like this, or now my, the conditioninGHere is better. So if I, for example, in the back double bicep, you can position your legs just a bit differently when you're very striated compared to in the offseason, because in the offseason, you can't really see the perfect placement to showcase the details in your hamstrings, for example. So, but once you already know how to hit every pose, the only thing you have to do is repeat it instead of practice, only repeat the poses from what you practiced. And then it takes a lot less effort to do. So that really is my biggest advice to already practice this in the offseason, to only repeat your practice in the contest prep and perfect your poses instead of having to start from zero from scratch, which nobody wants to do during a, during a prep. I love practicing posing during prep. I use it for talk about something to use for neat. That's one of the things that people don't realize how hard posing is. Another thing I think like with young guys that I think a lot of young guys are scared to get on stage. And they're always like, I'm going to bulk one more year. I'm going to bulk one more year. I'm like, if you want to be a bodybuilder, just get on stage. You're going to be awful at your first couple of shows. Just go out there and get the experience and learn how everything works. So what's next for you? Are you taking the rest of the year off until Olympia or? Yeah, the Olympia is my number one goal right now. The trajectory of my bodybuilding career has changed a lot. I actually wanted to do quite a lot of shows this year, but it simply would not be smart. This might be my only chance to challenge Bumstead with the momentum behind me. And the only thing I should do is grow my weak points and improve my physique and improve everything I can while I still have this offseason ahead of me, instead of just keep doing shows and pretty much staying the same a little bit throughout the year. Now I really want to, you know, improve basically. That's what bodybuilding is. And I still havEQuite a lot of weight left in my weight cap. So there's no reason not to improve right now. And it would be the smartest thing. A lot of people have given me that advice and I'm going to listen to it because this could be a very, yeah, it could be a very interesting Olympia, this one. How much weight do you have to give on the weight cap? Where were you at? Well, I'm allowed to weigh 249 pounds. And at the Arnold, Ohio, we weighed in at 10am. I already had breakfast. So one meal. And I was wearing pretty much what I'm wearing now, a t-shirt and joggers. And I still have three pounds to go. So I think that's like at least five pounds, which I can still put on. So even, even if this offseason would go absolutely perfect, I'm not going to put on five pounds of muscle. So I, how far are you? Almost six, three. So six, two and three, four fourths. And that's unfortunate. More than me. Yeah. It's unfortunate because if I was allowed to weigh six, if I was six, three, I would be allowed to weigh like eight pounds more than, than, than, than, yeah, it's like such a big difference, but it's, it is what it is. And I still have room to grow anyway. And yeah, so it's, it's, it's giving me great perspective for the future that I'm not super against the weight limits, uh, yet. So there's, yeah, there's the future is still bright in terms of improving the physique. What areas you're trying to bring up? Yeah. The, the legs in general, but mostly the hamstrings, the adductors and the glutes. So bit pretty much the posterior chain of my lower body still can improve. I think thEQuads themselves, they will keep growing anyway, but the Tyler Mannion himself said his quads take up as much space as Ramon Dino's do. So it's not like my quads are a weak point per se, but it's because my upper body is so dominant that my quads could use some more size. But in terms of the ranking of what I would like to improve the most, it would be the hamstrings and the glutes and the adductors first, and then thEQuads and the upper body is pretty much there. Of course it can always be better, but I think with a balance of a lower body that's bigger relative to what it is now to the upper body, that will be a very good package. That's always a challenge for a tall guy. Yeah, it is. And the problem is what I was talking about before as a tall guy, the full range of motion is always difficult to get if you don't have the knowledge. So right now I wear like weightlifting shoes, I only, I have my own gym, so I hand select equipment which allows me to go all the way down, for example. You've got to find stuff that works for your anatomy. The only way to grow thosEQuads and the other muscle groups is to go as deep in the stretch as you can. And you have to find a way to achieve this without compromising the rest of your physique. Like you don't want your lower back to be messed up or anything else. You just want, if you want to tren thEQuads, make sure to stretch your squats to the max without it messing up the lower back, for example. So for me, back squats would be not a smart choice. So a hack squat or a belt squat, those work for me, or a leg press. You just have to find what works for you to enable you to get full range of motion. And it took me a lot of years to find out that that's the way to actually grow those weak points. So that's why they are a bit behind the upper body. Because with the upper body, it's super simple, honestly, to go in that range of motion. But the legs was a lot more difficult. I don't know if you've tried any of the Atlantis equipment, but those are the best leg press hack squat I've ever found for a tall guy. It's the only one I've ever used that where I can get full range of motion without knee pain. Yeah, that's just, that's just very, yeah, exactly without, without knee pain or any pain. Right. Usually with a, with a leg press, if I go to a full range of motion, like it's my glutes that actually leave like the bench or the seat, which matches up the lower back, that's a big risk for me. So it's very difficult to find like a piece of machinery that allows you to, to, to fully stretch those muscles without it pulling anything else away, you know? So I I've been very soon, we're actually going to upgrade the gym and I've been already testing a lot of machines out and I'd never buy something without testing it out myself. So we are fully rebuilding the gym specifically for the Olympia, basically, because I want the best possible chance. I don't want to leave anything to chance. So since I have my own gym, IMight as well get stuff that maximizes the progress I can make on it. And meanwhile, everybody else who trens on it will have the benefit of trening on very good machines. But yeah, it's just so much my passion that this is what I live for. So IMight as well go all out now. Wesley, I appreciate you coming on. Thank you for sharing with us and good luck at the Olympia. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.