 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition. This video is brought to you by First Detachment Nutrition. Well, there's been more than others. I mean, you look, go online. You're a viral. You're dropping like flies. You're dropping like flies. And it's really insanity. You're. There's only a few things you need to take care of. You know. You're. You're. You're. You're. You're. You're. You're. You're. You're. You're. You're. You're. You. You. You. You. You. You. You. You. You. You. response to that is that it's working against the bigger pressure and so the heart muscle grows thicker the way the heart works is the muscle doesn't grow outside the heart it grows inside the cavity so the cavity gets smaller the heart rate increases the next thing it has to do to try to keep up with the filtration requirements because it can only beat so fast is it'll start its last move is to dilate kind of like a like a last-ditch effort you'll get dilated caromyopathy and then that'll damage the kidneys even more because your fluid volume will increase and then if you notice all these bodybuilders what everyone says you know their last yeah i saw him last week he you know he said he's dealing with pneumonia or i saw him last week he had some kind of chest cold he said he wasn't feeling so great but he's thinking he's getting better that's what it is because that end stage of that is the pulmonary edema fluid build up back into the lungs and that's why all these bodybuilders have pneumonia and it's silly because all of this could be prevented and you can push things pretty hard i mean i'm not you know i'm not one of those guys saying you know use baby doses you you know like the sport is the way the sport is but you can push things if you're just smart about it take care of your liver health keep your insulin sensitivity high track your blood pressure get your blood work and then when you get your blood work and you see things out of whack use a product like we have to fix that problem if your astl ALT are elevated get on qrf if your blood sugar and A1c are elevated get on suppressor you know it's all if your digestion is terrible before you get colitis before you know you get ibs like everybody learns of getting from pounding food for year and year get on canopy you know we we designed the digestion products everyone else designs digestion products based on like acidophilus as the only thing they put in all they care about is probiotics we put in a product that was like designed specifically for guys that are eating a lot so you don't develop ibs like every bodybuilder's got digestive issues after they've been in sport for 10 years if you're going to eat pounds of chicken and rice you need something to help that also and so that that's all it is you know just track things and be smart about it and you can you can be pretty aggressive with stuff for a long period of time and walk away without health problems yeah i think it's interesting like the uh uh the the core like the correlations of like a hardcore bodybuilder and some of the damages they'll have from getting bigger but it's kind of similar that like uh for the you know super obese or the uh metabolic syndrome people and like the general population have these issues because i have noticed you know getting some digestion digestive aid like they have like because they're eating so much they're obviously bodybuilders is different good quality food but they're still getting like the same some of the same issues where like the you know when people are eating just garbage for years too they're gonna they're getting those issues so um it's nice to see all those things that can that can you know help and kind of get ahead of that but um but yeah it's just it's just interesting to me that as the body gets bigger like it you know needs extra support and puts extra strain on it i mean i'm almost 50 and i'm still doing it you know i don't know if i should use myself as the example but i've always been pretty conservative with with uh my gear usage i think justin told me i was sub using suboptimal amounts one time you're in the low end for sure but you know i've always tried to play a conservative um and and then monitor my health as well you know i get blood work done i do things you know it's not it's still it's still a dangerous activity at the end of the day i tell people i used to ride motorcycles it's there you're increasing risk by getting just the very fact of getting on the motorcycle and riding it but there are things you can do to mitigate risk you know like wear a helmet drive safely take a defensive driving course it's just like with bodybuilding you know managing your blood pressure keeping an eye on your blood work like you said um you know not running stupid orals and training year-round uh you know the dumb shit that i see the 25 year old it's doing all the time deep on trend 365 days of the year yeah and you have because you have to consider that where are all the top guys in the sport what age are they 38 to 42 you know i mean guys aren't winning the olympia 23 anymore you don't reach your peak in the sport to around age 40 you have to consider that like you want to be the best 25 year old you could be yes but if being the best 25 year old means you're no longer in the sport when you would be your best bodybuilder and your best chance to actually make money in the sport then you're doing something wrong and so anything you're doing you have to consider the fact that if you're 25 you have 15 years before you're actually going to fully reap the financial rewards from that work and if you're doing stuff that means that's going to mean by age 30 you got health problems are out of the sport then then you i mean what was the point of it all because you you never even got to see what you could become because you blew yourself out before you got even anywhere near your prime and there's only so much muscle protein synthesis you can stimulate in a given time anyway you know it's it's the bell curve of you know when when you push things too far it it's the descending gains i i look at it as a as a cost versus benefit ratio you know where where is the top of that curve at and i want to be at the top of that curve not exactly behind it yeah not above it yeah this video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition battle tested expert formulated use discount code ab10 at checkout for 10 off