 This video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Alright, gym bros, it's big Paul here today with another video for you. We're going to talk about the cycle that every pro bodybuilder, the pro bodybuilder uses in the offseason. Everybody loves the pro bodybuilder, cycle talk and I have talked to quite a few pros over the last couple years and I've talked to a lot of top level bodybuilders and it's funny how they all seem to settle in on pretty much the same cycle and we're going to talk about that in just one second. Everyone obsesses about what cycles the pros take, how much they take and what those cycles look like. To be honest with you, it's nothing exciting, but I get it. When I was younger, I always wondered what are these guys really doing? Nobody would ever tell you the truth. There was always a bunch of misinformation. Now it seems that every pro says they're just on TRT or TRT Plus, which we know is bullshit. That's not true. There are some guys that run lower doses, but my guess is that a lot of these dudes were blasting higher doses of gear to get to a certain point and then pulled back. For example, somebody like Chris Bumstead. I would suspect to maintain his weight now doesn't take a whole lot. That's the thing that I have found over the years of doing this is once you have established a certain amount of size, it doesn't take an incredible amount to maintain it. It doesn't take the same amount that it does to blast through a plateau and get to a certain size. All right, Jim Bros, I'm going to interrupt this regularly scheduled broadcast to tell you about the new Science of HGH ebook by Kurt Havens. It is available on the Anabolic Bodybuilding website for download right now. There is a link in the video description below for the ebook if you want to pick it up. It is probably the most comprehensive ebook about performance enhancement use with HGH over 100 pages of information with references and it's awesome. Go check it out. One thing that I have seen though is that pretty much everybody goes through these phases of where they experiment and then they end up with the same thing. We start off everybody wants to dip their toe into the pool. I would say most dudes either start off with running an oral only cycle, something like Anovar or D-Ball or maybe testosterone. For me, it was oral only. And then they try that cycle and then the next thing they want to try, well, shit, I need to add another compound to this. You know, I'm going to give DECA a try. And then you add another compound to it. And then everybody goes through this phase of, well, let's push up the doses. Let's see what happens. And then they push up the doses. Well, then GH must be the missing ingredient. Well, maybe I should take some of the exotic compounds like mint or DHB. Maybe I need to mix like five different things together. Everybody goes through their trend phase where they want to blast high doses of trend just to see if that's the secret. But what guys end up doing is they figure out down the road that there's certain compounds that work the best and cause the least amount of side effects and allow you to push the doses up high enough to make progress. After you experiment with all this toxic shit, go through these phases, figure it out, screw it up, not make a lot of progress doing so, making yourself sick, screwing your blood work up. You then eventually figure out that there is a formula that works. And this is what most pros do. I will tell you that pretty much every guy that I talk to runs a testosterone base. They pick one, maybe two anabolics. Usually it's something like primobolin, equipoise. And then they might sprinkle in some nandrolone with it, either DECA or NPP. I prefer NPP because you can get it in and out quick. Some guys like DECA. But for the most part, those are the anabolics they run. There's some dudes now that run Masteron in the offseason, but that's a relatively new thing that's come about recently. I've never run Masteron in the offseason. I don't know too many pros that do run Masteron in the offseason. It seems to be the self-proclaimed gurus and safer protocol people that are saying that Masteron's great for the offseason. I've never found Masteron to be that great for putting on size. Just haven't. Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe I'm completely off base on this. There's no scientific information to back this up. It's just my bro experience that most guys end up taking equipoise. Or primobolin is their primary anabolic in the offseason, and then they add a little bit of nandrolone with it. If you need to do a body comp cleanup, they might sprinkle a little Trent in there once in a while. But for the most part, most guys don't run Trent in the offseason. Everybody goes through the phase two where they run a ton of orals, and then they realize that orals just make them sick as fuck. You feel like shit. You can't eat. And you get to a point where you get really bad acid reflux, and you figure out, well, running a bunch of anadrol in the offseason probably isn't the best for my progress if I can't eat. Guys eventually give up on that. And what usually they settle in is the sticking with injectables in the offseason. And then you'll toss in some growth hormone and insulin. The formula that most pro bodybuilders and advanced level amateur competitors settle in on is test base, probably equipoise, or primobolin as their primary anabolic. Maybe nandrolone or MPP is a third option. And then they'll run HGH and insulin. And usually with HGH, I used to be a guy that thought that people didn't run high doses of HGH, but I have come full circle on that, having run higher doses of HGH myself. One pro I talked to and another pro coach that I talked to and several people I've talked to said the rule of thumb with HGH is you run as much as you can afford and tolerate. If you get to the point where you can't feel your hands, you've got to back off a little bit. But the rule of thumb is as much as you can afford and tolerate. And that's what pros do in the offseason typically. They save the harsher stuff for contest prep. That's when you throw the kitchen sink at it. That's when things get nutty is on contest prep. And you limit that window of running toxic compounds to a very limited period of the year. And I even know pros that don't even get that toxic with stuff on contest prep. I hate talking doses because people, there's always the guys that'll say, well, that's too high. People are crazy running it that high. And then there's the group of people that say, well, that's too low. I know dudes that are running fucking 20 grams. There are outliers on both ends. I will tell you that. There are extremes on both ends. But what I have seen and what I've heard from people and what I've experienced for myself, what has worked well for me, is you push the test up as high as you can tolerate. Most of the time, that's somewhere between a gram and 1,500 milligrams per week. That's where guys tap out and the side effects start piling up. So you get the test flu and then you add in your anabolic on top of that somewhere between 70 to 80% of whatever your test dose is. Usually what I see guys doing in the offseason is something like a gram to a gram and a half of testosterone. And then something like 800 to 1,200 milligrams of their primary anabolic. And if they are going to throw some Nandrolone in on top of it, it's a very small dose. It's a sprinkle of it. Something like 300 milligrams or something is what I've seen dudes do. The sweet spot seems to be somewhere between 2 to 3 grams of total gear for the offseason. That's what I see guys run. Now there are dudes that run less. There are dudes that run more. I've heard of guys running crazy stuff. I think it was Nasser that said that you are doing a cycle unless you're running at least 5 grams. I think it was recently came out that he was running something like 400 or 500 milligrams of anadrol a day. But keep in mind that dude is dead. The people that run the really stupid high doses usually don't last long. It's just what we've seen. As far as insulin goes, insulin is not one of those things where more is better. The right amount is good. Too much is too much. And not enough is not enough. There is an appropriate amount and that's where insulin should be run. That appropriate amount depends on your dietary requirements and how many carbohydrates you're eating. So there really isn't a prescribed dose on insulin. If you want to take a look, I have an insulin basics video you can look at where I talk about how insulin works and pretty much the formula for running insulin and how it works in bodybuilding. You can take a look at that. But that's what I see. Growth hormone usually just boils down to budget. It's whatever guys can afford. There is a limit to budget. People always ask me, are guys running pharma grade HGH or are they running generic HGH? Once again, that comes down to budget. If you can afford pharma, I'm sure guys would prefer to run pharma. If they don't have the money to run pharma, you're going to run generic. The pharma is prohibitively expensive, so you can't run the doses that high. I've heard people speculate about pros running 15, 20 units of pharma grade HGH. If you did that, you would need to have some sort of NFL type contract where you're making millions of dollars a year because it probably would be a couple hundred thousand dollars a year with the pharma grade HGH. And I promise you that most pro bodybuilders are broke as a joke and don't have that kind of money to run pharma grade HGH year round. Recapping all of this, a testosterone base, a primary anabolic, potentially a secondary anabolic. HGH as much as you can afford with some insulin based on your carbohydrate intake. Most guys stay away from orals in the offseason. If they do run orals, they sprinkle them in here and there. The guys that have been longtime veterans eventually figure out that running orals is just too much. It crushes their appetite, destroys their stomach, makes their blood pressure go through the roof. Basically, orals, when you look at orals, all of the bad side effects for steroids mostly come from orals. So why would you want to push orals up high when you can just run a little bit more of injectables? It would probably be way safer. And eventually most people come to that conclusion on their own. But they do have to go through the stupid bro phase where they experiment and try everything. I'm guilty. I've done it myself. I'm not the one to cast the first stone in the glass house. I've done it myself. I've been that idiot. I did tons of orals when I was younger. And I don't do them now. All right, folks. That's all I've got for you on this one. Hopefully you found this helpful. If you want to support me, please support my sponsor, First Detachment Nutrition. Quality supplements formulated by the man himself, Justin Harris for Bodybuilders. Discount code is AB10. Use that for 10% at checkout. Discount code and link is in my video description below. Also, go pick up Kurt Haven's new HGH e-book. It's on sale on my website, anabolicbodybuilding.com. I'll have a link to it below. It is 100 pages of awesomeness about HGH. Probably the most comprehensive book on HGH ever written for performance enhancement. Thank you, folks, for watching. I appreciate each and every one of you. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.