 warning, warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. It is a cycle cheat sheet that I have up on my website that I have up on my website. It's half price. It's only 30 bucks right now, normally 60. You can pick that up if you would like. It is 30 pages of awesomeness. I have basically cliff notes on how to put a cycle together. I have common PED profiles including insulin, all the major anabolics that people use, how cycles are structured, insulin protocols, other things in there, side effects management. It is a handy little reference guide that people use. It is a handy little reference guide that you can use if you are a bro and like to do cycles. Check that out. Anyway, let's get to this video in just one second. People, that people, they're in the following, they're in the following, they're in their! I'm so touchy. IMean, I've always, I've always heard that he was the SEO guy. I'm, I'm going to pull a picture up, but I, I'm, Alvaro's here for the barbecue. Alvaro, you're, you're a good man. I love barbecue too, man. We can talk about barbecue. Josh, Josh makes me laugh. I can always tell when we lose the audience too, because the, the, you can tell by the pace at which the comments are coming in. Yeah. Yeah. They're coming in fast and furious. And if they just stop all of a sudden, I'm like, ah, fuck. We're, we're, we're, or they're coming in fast and furious about what the fuck are you talking about? I think the last time I saw that was when we had Mr. Planet Mike on the show. Planet Mike. Oh, God. Watch. God, that dude's had some epic content up lately. He's been getting some social media. He got called out on Penguin 01 or whatever YouTube channel, like 15 million followers. That dude, Charlie. If he focuses on you, oh, no. Oh, man. Yeah, look at, I don't know. What do you guys think is going on there? I don't know. I don't know. IMean, we've all seen worse, though. Like, we've all seen much more. Derek's when he had the giant lumps on him. Yes. I don't understand. Kurt and I were talking about it, I don't know, before our last livEQ&A for the Anabolics eCourse. Shameless plug there, folks. You can pick it up. It is still, I think the sale, winter sale is still running. Winter 20 if you want to get 20% off of it. But we were talking about, like, there's a lot of pro bodybuilders that like to shoot, in the lats. They put their gear in the lats. I guess it's a way to hide lumps. But I don't know, man. There's so many nerves and blood vessels and stuff in there. I would be, IMean, I'd be terrified to put them in my lats. How the fuck do you reach it? I just started, actually, after this show. So, like, the past 10 weeks, I'll put small amounts in my lats. But, yeah, it's a pain on the ass trying to get it there. But it's like butter. It's kind of a virgin muscle for me. So, it just goes right in and got no issue. Oh, you mean it doesn't have all the scar tissue when you're stabbing it in? It feels like you're tearing apart a T-shirt? Yeah. You have so much scar tissue you can't even, like, finish the injection. Yeah. You kind of jiggle it around. I love who's critiquinGHadi, though. This guy that's famous for his arm. I don't have a problem with Armand. Well, the picture disappeared. So, that was the only one I could find. I think they took it down. Oh, he posted another one, I think, on Instagram yesterday. His arms are straight out in it, though. And they still touch. Like, even with his arms, it looks a little bit better with his arms straight out. But his lats and his triceps are still touching. Yeah. Look at that tricep over here. There's definitely something going on there. It looks like he's been hit with a Photoshop tool. IMean, I'm not saying, like, that's the case. But it looks like something's off. Yeah. Photoshop going wrong. I don't mean to beat up on the guy. IMean, he's fucking one of the best bodybuilders in the world. Like, two or three. My favorite. I like Hadi a lot. IMean, he's about the only dude in the open that gets shredded. Yeah. Yeah. Paul, if you pull up his Instagram, the picture he posted yesterday is actually, it's interesting. All right. Let me find Hadi here. Oh, there's Hadi. God damn it. Hang on. Give me a second. I'll find it. I think it's just like anything else. You've got to have balance. It's like, I really don't have a problem with the guys. IMean, more advanced guys. You know, like when they are picking on Rami for using a little SEO, it's like he's just pinpointing these small positions. He's not trying to blow out his arms like you see these SEO freaks on Google that you Google. You know, and it's, you know, that's the point is if they're filling in a small little weakness and it works for him, that's great. But if you mess it up, it's good. You should be penalized. I don't see why not. You know? Yeah. Here's his page. I agree. I agree. It's like anything else. The one has the grass behind it. Wife and his kids. Man, the unibrow runs strong in his family. Oh, come on, man. I'm just saying. Oh, Jesus. I got the ugliest face on the planet, man. I got a big old fat head and a big nose. This one? Yeah. The outside. Yeah. I shouldn't talk about his kids. Yeah. IMean, he's a big motherfucker. Yeah, it's insane. He's huge. Yeah. The size of his legs. You know? Insane. Wow. You talk about world class. There it is. Yeah. You know what's crazy, though, is he's only on stage at like, what did I hear? Like 225? 225? Yeah. Wow. Discussing sharing muscle in session is so important. It wasn't just me, man. It wasn't just me. It was me. Well, you know, it's not surprising. You know, would anyone be surprised he uses a little bit of SEO or whatever? IMean, the guy is the definition of he'll do anything to be the best on the planet. You know? IMean, that's the dirty little secret of bodybuilding. Nobody ever wants to talk about it. Everybody uses SEO. Right. It's just... They just all do. I was going to use it for the first time for my next prep if everything that happened didn't happen. But, yeah, it's meant to be pretty useful. Just, yeah, polishing the physique. Yeah. I've used it in the past. I've used a little bit of it in my arms just because, like, when I get really depleted at the end of prep, I lose some fullness. But then, like, Kurt last year on my prep, like, it was like, I don't know. I usually start abouT4 weeks out. You could see it bleeding down. Yeah. Kurt's like, man, you can see it on your brachialis. You mean, like, moving? Wasn't it? It was like moving. When he would hit a back double by, you could, like, you should see where the shoulder ties in to the arm. And it was blurry. But he was lean enough that you should see that. It wasn't like a fattish. Because he was lean everywhere else. It was just the tiniest bit of, like, film under his skin. So I asked him if he was pinning in his shoulders. Because it looked like, you know, sometimes it'll track. That's what it looked like. But it was the SEO, I guess, that was tracking. Yeah, it was the SEO I was using on my bicep, my outer bicep head. But I just figured for nationals, that's the kind of stuff that's going to matter. Yeah, no. And I yanked it out. I pulled it out abouT3 weeks out. And then it clened up. Yeah, I don't know. I got big arms anyway. I don't know why. Just like I get, I have zero bicep peak. And it always bothers me. I'm like, maybe I can get a little more bicep peak if I put a little bit in there. But I've used Boston's 3CC, the one with the arachidonic acid in it. I think it is. Yeah. He has, there's different formulations. But according to Roman, that's what all the guys use. Yeah, and I think that's supposed to drive like inflammation to the arachidic acid or whatever they call it. Supposed to make it look inflamed, not just all oil. And what was that shit that Ilya Gollum and Rich Piano was using? I forget the name of it. I did a video about it. The stuff that was the dermafiller. It wasn't Echisline or whatever. No, no, no. It was that shit that's the plastic beads. You would know about it, Amy, that they use it in plastic surgery. Yeah. Well, they don't use it in plastic surgery. They use it in like dental stuff. I feel like it's like a dermal compound that they use for like, yeah, like building stuff up in dental procedures primarily. Yeah. That's freaky. That video that you did was eye-opening to me. I didn't really know as much about that world of injection until watching your video. Yeah, the name of it's totally – I did some research on it in an interview. Well, talked to some people in private and they were telling me. You can look at the guys that use that shit. You can see it like their muscles never contract or relax. They just look like they're full. Like if you look at Piano, he looked like he was flexed at all times even when he was relaxed. Yeah. And from what I understand, like he couldn't lift – his muscles got so stiff, like he couldn't lift that much weight. Like he was just like – the guys are having to use the 20-pound dumbbells for curls and shit. God damn it. Man, the cat's going wild there. Yeah. I'm going to mute myself. I'm sorry. I'm trying to remember the name of it. It has an acronym. I can't remember the name of it off the top of my head. Oh, there we go. Someone in the comments, PMMA. PMMA, that's it. Yeah. Yeah, PMMA. That's the shit. That's some fucking crazy stuff. It's basically – it's permanent. And they use it – from what I recall, they use it as a scaffolding for tissue collagen to form around. And it's a microplastic. Like it's a – it's a silicon-based microplastic. And they inject it. Screw that. Yeah, yeah, dude. And collagen forms around it. So like you have this permanent addition. So evidently Rich Piano was going down to Mexico and just getting tons of it put in. And he – from what I understand, he taught – I think Ilya Golan was his protege. But the guys that have this, evidently it ends up causing like massive issues with their kidneys and shit. I can't – like the toxic load of that. IMean people are freaking out now that there's microplastics in tea bags. Yeah. But there's bodybuilders literally injecting it into themselves. Like when we do a facelift on somebody who's had – it's called Sculptra is the brand name for it, which is like a dermal matrix like that. Like you inject it super deep like right on the periosteum and then it kind of encourages collagen synthesis in the area. Like we actually have to cut it out. Like it's – yeah, it's a problem. IMean – oh, and there's these crazy fillers people do along their jawline too. And like there's a lot of crazy fillers in the cosmetic world, but it's nothing like what bodybuilders do. Yeah, polymethyl methylchorylate is the stuff. You can look it up if you want it. But there was a girl – oh, God, I'd heard about this. She was a competitor. It might have been a wellness competitor that had her glutes done and then ended up having one of her glutes like fucking amputated. Fuck. Well, you can still get infection and abscess. IMean and injecting in the glutes is especially dangerous because of major blood supply there. You could get a PE. IMean like there's – it shocks me that people are just like out in the wild injecting like crazy dermal matrix into the glutes. Whereas like the SEO is more temporary. It's just oil or the – you know, some of the stuff just causes localized inflammation and then it goes away. Yeah. Yeah, and you could still hypothetically get a fat embolus from an SEO injection, but it would be so much more rare and like would be – probably just get a little bit of like thrombophlebitis in the area and it would be kind of cleared up morEQuickly. But you put something that's permanent in there and you get it into a major blood supply. Like that's a real problem. Well, not only that, you messed it up. Now you screwed up your physique for life. You know, IMean – Yeah, how are you going to get that out? Yeah. Alvaro says, I remember some Brazilian chick had PMMA on her legs and got it so bad she ended up with a hole in her leg. It went viral a few years back. Jesus Christ, man. IMean, if you're not metabolizing it and it's staying permanent, it just sounds terrible. IMean, I'd like something to metabolize, get out of me so I can at least fix a mistake. Well, you've heard – Have you heard – IMean, I've talked about this before, but Mila Sarchev, his story about when he accidentally injected SEO into his vein. Yeah. It's terrifying. Yeah. Yeah, he said he ended up – he said, oh my God, I ended up in the hospital. Yeah. I just had a pulmonary embolism from –