 perHHDIHDIH.HDIH.HDIH. health advice for PED users. And I figured we would get together and we're going to talk about some of this stuff. I think maybe it was a lipid thing that I commented on. I don't recall directly, but I figured we'd go through some of the common problems that we see with bodybuilders. I do a ton of consults annually. It's almost always blood work stuff. And it's really the same stuff that I see over and over and over and over again. And I figured it's worth having somebody who knows the stuff better than me. I wanted to talk about it. So Dr. Nathan, why don't you tell the audience just a little bit about your background before we get started? Yeah. So I'm based in Sydney, Sydney, Australia. I'm a junior GP working out of Campbelltown at the moment, but I've moved around a little bit and I'll probably continue to move around a little bit for the short future. And at the moment, I'm probably the only, if not one of very few GPs who actively tries to help the health of anabolic steroid users in Australia, Sydney. And on the side, I'm, yeah, like we discussed earlier, I'm trying to create a company that's specifically targeted towards that population, anabolic steroid users, young, old, whatever it is in between, um, to hopefully get that population healthy. Um, cause I've had enough of seeing people come past with chronic kidney disease and heart failure and all that sort of stuff. So yeah, that's pretty much it. Yeah. It's, uh, it's kind of frustrating for bodybuilders. I know a lot of them have just kind of given up on mainstream doctors. I know I've had my frustrations. I'm working with a new GP right now and she doesn't seem to know anything about PED use at all. And not that I'm just on TRT at this point. I'm not really doing anything crazy, but I tried to explain to her some of the stuff that's going on and the things that I need help with. And, and, uh, I don't think they understand a lot of times, and I honestly, I have doctors that come to me for consults sometimes just the one to learn a little more about the PEDs, uh, in general, but let's talk through some of the most common issues that you see with guys. What are the things that you see presented most often with health issues with PED users and bodybuilders? So I guess it can be broken down into systems, right? So, uh, so obviously we've got heart issues. Um, I actually don't see as much, uh, you know, left ventricular hypertrophy as I think is put out there on social media. Um, I've got some really, really big guys that I look after and probably only a handful of them have mild left ventricular hypertrophy, um, which doesn't really, you know, cardiologists say that they're sort of happy for them to continue bodybuilding for a few more years still. Um, the lipid, the lipid, the lipid skewing though is obviously a massive issue. Every single, every single bodybuilder within the first year of touching any sort of anabolic has skewed lipids essentially. Um, so that's a massive issue. Um, yeah, the, the lipid thing drives me nuts, man. And it's also, I, I, I seem to upset the guys when I say it, but I see so many bodybuilders that go on high fat diets. They do like high fat, low carbohydrate diets on top of taking PEDs. And then they take the worst PEDs for lipid skewing. They they're slamming orals all the time. And I constantly see it. And it's like you said too, I, I've very, I know of a few people that have had, um, mass, you know, bad, uh, LVH, but it's usually just a cascade of other problems. It seems like that lead to that, that just, they have just ignored over the years, but I've been using PEDs off and on for 30 years. I'm in my fifties. I just saw my cardiologist actually yesterday. And he said, my heart is in great shape. I have just a very, very slight bit of LVH, but I've had it hasn't changed since I was 40. Yeah. It's exactly the same. I get an echo down every year at this point, but yeah, the look at thing is crazy. Yeah. I agree. I think I say a lot of bodybuilders sit around that ejection fraction of, you know, somewhere just above 50 below 55 for quite a while, actually. Um, it, I think it takes, it takes a little bit for it to, for it to get to, for it to get lower than that actually. Um, yeah, the lipids. Yeah. Mine's always been right around 55 is what it's been for the last, it's, it's the same for the last decade and a half. Yeah, exactly. Exactly. And the lipid thing is, is, um, or as big of an issue as it is, it's not, I don't think it's that hard to fix. Um, IMean, there's obviously like very simple lifestyle diet and lifestyle decisions that you can make, like increasing cardio and, and having, you know, that, that typically healthy diet with lots of fruit and veg. Um, and then there's heaps of supplements that you can take as well. Um, it seems like people don't really know too much about these supplements and I guess doctors don't really, don't really know about any supplements for them themselves. And the only sort of thing that they come to is pretty much the use of statins. Um, and that's pretty much like end of the line sort of option, right? Yeah. And what, what supplements are you suggesting, suggesting that guys use? Well, so, IMean, the big one is probably citrus bergamot. Yeah. Yeah. Which works quite well. And then obviously because with anabolic steroid use, you've got this sort of, um, abnormal production of HDL and LDL. So HDL comes down, LDL goes up. So obviously you want to supplement with HDL. So fish oil pretty much, and you've got to take a lot of it. Um, unfortunately mainstream sort of brands that you get from, you know, your local pharmacy, um, underdose their fish oil quite a lot. So you, you end up having to take, you know, somewhere like eight tablets a day, which is obviously pretty difficult. And I don't people, I don't think people get that message across often. Um, and then there's things like, uh, IMean, there's other supplements like nice and obviously Coke, Coke, you 10 or ubiquinol as Coke, you 10, um, there's vitamin D and K2 as well. Um, that sort of like plaque formation. Uh, IMean, they're probably the big ones that stand out in my head. Um, there's a few more that you could probably look up as well, but, but they're probably the big ones. Yeah. That's the exact stack that I run and I have my clients run that I coach. Exactly. The only thing I, I add in there is, uh, some red rice yeast extract, which kind of acts like a mild stat. And I forget the one that it's, it's the same as, um, um, off the top of my head, but yeah, the fish oil thing, you got to takEQuite a bit. I get the, there's, I get, forget the brand, but there's a high potency fish oil that I get that has three grams per pill. Um, I also take some flax as well, but the niacin thing, I think a lot of guys overlook that and the vitamin D with K2 as well. I see everybody overlooks that as well. Yeah. Well, it's not, it's not even, it's, it's actually crazy. So like, IMean, doctors push, um, there's like, there's the theory that doctors push statins. I don't, I don't necessarily think that all doctors push statins hard, but there does come up, come a point where you don't really have another choice. Um, but the thing is with statins, if a doctor prescribed statins, they don't tell patients to, to take ubiquinol and K2 at the same time, which to me is pretty crazy because statins cause that, you know, that mitochondrial toxicity, which essentially deprives, deprives them of, of ubiquinol and K2. Um, and that's what gives you that, that, that muscle, that muscle weakness essentially. So there's nothing to offset that. So, you know, no wonder so many patients are so non-compliant with, with statins. Um, so, IMean, yeah, they're super important. Yeah. And I know, uh, resume a statin seems to be, if you do get on a statin seems to be more well tolerated for, for guys that left. I, if I remember it correctly, it has to do with, uh, the other statins. What I, you can correct me on this, but one's hydrophilic, one's lipophilic and it has an effect on how it, how it's, how it, how it, um, affects muscle issues. But yeah, I always do ubiquinol with, uh, with K2 and, uh, vitamin D. Can you touch on a little bit so people understand why K2 is important with the vitamin D? Yeah. Well, so IMean, vitamin D is quite important for general heart health and general health altogether. It's good for your brain. It's good for your heart. It's good for your skin. It's good for your immune system. IMean, you name it, it's pretty much good for, um, K K2 essentially prevents, it's as simple as that it prevents the, well, one, if you're on a statin, it prevents that sort of mitochondrial toxicity effect. And two is, um, it essentially just prevents plaque formation in your arteries, um, which is what ends up causinGHeart disease, heart attack, stroke, so on and so forth. Um, and you were right before about the resuvastatin being, being the preferred, in my opinion, is the preferred statin. So there's, there's two that I'd prefer. One is resuvastatin, um, flabastatin, but the second one is a little bit weaker. Um, so if I can, I would rather choose the resuvastatin resuvastatin, they don't go into the, they don't tend to have that, that effect. They don't go into the mitochondria and have that toxicity effect. But that being said, like I say plenty of, oh, it also doesn't cross the blood brain barrier as well. So you don't get that sort of, um, brain fog, I guess that you can get with others, but I still see, um, other statins like atorvastatin is super, super popular still. Um, in my opinion, like, IMean, I wouldn't prescribe it. So yeah. What was crazy is my doctor didn't even know that resuvastatin had a, had a, had a, I was explaining to her why it was better for guys that lift weights. And she didn't even know that it was, yeah, it was, she was sitting there Googling it while, while, while I was, while I was there, that, that, that's a warm and fuzzy feeling. I was explaining to her, she's like, I didn't know that. Like, okay. You'd be, you'd be surprised how much we, we like, we get taught a lot. It's, it's definitely not easy getting to this point, but you'd be surprised at how much we, we don't get taught as well. Um, a lot of this stuff, I think for my daughter's actually getting ready to go into medical school, but I, from what I understand, you have to know a little bit about everything to be a general practitioner. That's sort of, sort of like the guy I see my cardiologist, he's an actual certified lipidologist, which is probably if you're having lipid issues, I'm, I'm actually getting DNA testing done. IMean, so my lipids are always, I just, I have to run a stat, even if I eat clen and take fish oil and everything. So I'm interested to see the results of that. He was telling me about some interesting stuff coming down the road, like CRISPR editing and whatnot for dealing with lipid issues, genetic lipid issues. Yeah. Some of the other stuff I see too, and I don't know, maybe you can touch on it, but, um, oral steroids specifically seem to dramatically skew the, uh, HDL you'll, you'll see HDL be radically suppressed on, on oral, oral steroids. And I, from what I understand it, it has to do with liver metabolism and how it affects the, uh, affects the limits. But like, I, I just generally tell guys, if you're going to run oral PEDs, you gotta just limit it to very, very just specific time periods where you have a certain need that you're trying to address and, and you just limit your exposure to those types of things. I think that's another thing that guys mess up on is they run the most toxic shit year round and then end up with, with issues. Um, generally if you stay with the bioidentical hormones, testosterone, growth hormone hormone hormone, things like that, I, from what I've seen, blood panels stay relatively in line. Um, yeah, I think I, I agree in general. Yeah. Uh, I remember seeing a 24 year old kid who was just finishing off his cycle with, with some orals. IMean, he'd been on cycle for 20 weeks, so it's, it's quite some time anyway, but I think he had done maybe another eight towards the end. He had done eight weeks of adding in some orals. I can't remember what it was at this time, but when I, by the time I saw him, his, his HDL was like less than 0.1 or something. I don't think they even recorded the number. It's yeah, that was, that was wild. Yeah. I'll see guys at the end of the contest prep when they're hammering orals, um, and crushing their estrogen on top of it. That's another thing is, you know, crushing your estradiol down to nothing. And then, then you see just like HDL will be in single digits. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Estradiol's a hard one to sort of get on top of. If it goes one way too high, then you get issues. And if it goes too low, then you get issues. So, IMean, if it goes too high, sometimes it can cause a lot of, a lot of liver derangement as well. Um, and then if it goes too low, then you get lipid issues and, you know, and then there's all the, all the other sort of hormonal related issues as well, like sex drive and, and gyno and all that sort of stuff as well, depending on which way you go. Yeah. That's a complicated topic. Yeah. Not one I'm going to get into today, but yeah, generally what I'll see is most, most guys tend to run it too high, but it, the guys that are on contest prep, it's a thing in bodybuilding that you've got to smash your ass. You're going to go into a show. And there's, I try to limit guys to just like a week or two window. I'm doing it. I know it's not medically the smart thing to do, but it's, it's part of the game of bodybuilding. But yeah, I, I, I've seen some crazy HDL numbers on blood panels. I guess the good thing on contest prep is usually LDL, the L, the L, the L, the L too, because the guys are dietinGHard, doing a shit ton of cardio. Yeah. Um, you know, so there, there is that as well. Can you, uh, explain to the audience? I don't think a lot of people understand why HDL is important. Yeah. IMean, so HDL is generally, um, cardio protective. The, the thing is, the main thing is when you look at cardiovascular, cardiovascular risk. So I'm not sure what sort of calculator tool you use in America, but in Australia we have something called an OSD risk calculator, which is a, so it's an assessment tool that we can use in Australia. Uh, and you can use it internationally. The only problem is, is it uses postcodes, um, as part of its risk, risk calculation, actually funny, funnily enough. So it's a risk calculator that in which you sort of plug in a few details about your health, right? So, um, say whether or not you have diabetes, whether or not you have CKD, um, uh, there'd be, so total cholesterol is something that you plug into the, into the calculator and HDL is something that you plug into the calculator. So LDL actually doesn't really come into it. IMean, it's part of total cholesterol, but it doesn't really come into the full extent of the risk calculator. So in a weird way, I know a lot of people get scared about LDL, but it's almost as though HDL is a little bit more important when it comes to calculating someone's cardiovascular risk. Um, that's, that's, that's, that's why I place so much emphasis on it anyway. Yeah. And almost every blood pen, obviously has suppressed HDL. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The guys that are using PEDs. Um, IMean, just pretty much everyone, uh, it just, just, you know, I, I think a lot of it is diet too. Guys don't eat properly and cardio plays a role in it too, but isn't it, uh, also, I think, you know, maybe you can talk a little bit about this as well, but the ratio of HDL to LDL is also important too, isn't it? Yeah, it's, it's important, but same, same thing. So in, in our calculators, it's actually the ratio of total cholesterol to, to HDL. Um, that's the thing, but IMean, LDL comes into it as well. So in a weird backwards way, LDL is definitely, is definitely part of it. I'm just not too sure what, what that ratio is. Um, but there's definitely a component to the HDL to total cholesterol ratio. That's definitely important. Yeah. If I recall correctly here in the U S it's five to one, which is I think where they consider it. Although it's probably too high from what I understand, but that's the ratio total. Uh, let's talk about, uh, lipoproteins a little bit too, if you don't mind, um, uh, lipoprotein B and little a, if you want to dig into that a little bit. So, okay. So, IMean, I think, I think, so this is a pretty new thing that sort of come out. Um, and I think bodybuilders are almost at the forefront of, of asking for apolipoproteins, A's and B's and lipoprotein A's. And at least in Australia, I have a feeling pretty much worldwide. It's not necessarily a well recognized, uh, way of determining someone's cardiovascular risk or, or need for, for, you know, pharmacological management. And if I'm honest, because it's so new and there's not too many sort of, um, criteria around it, I, I have had patients come to me asking for apolipoproteins A and B and all that sort of stuff. And, um, I can order it, that's fine. But once we get the result, I'm sort of put in this position where I'm, I'm not sure if it really needs too much more management than I would have done for someone in whom I would have just calculated LDL and HDL. And the other thing is for people that are listening, um, I think when you go to see your GP, if you start sort of telling them to, to ask, to do all these sort of odd tests that a lot of them wouldn't have heard about that, I'm sure there are more GPs than not who wouldn't have heard about apolipoproteins. I think if you start asking them about all these sort of like niche blood tests, I think that might be a little bit of a quick way to sort of get them off your side. Yeah. So it's, it's something that you got to be a little bit careful asking. IMean, if you're on good terms and, you know, for example, like if you're my patient, like that's fine, we can have a discussion about it. Um, but it's, they're important for sure. Um, and they're becoming more and more important. They're becoming more and more recognized by cardiologists for sure. Just in, in the general practice setting, um, there's not, yeah, they're not, they're not, they're not too, they're not too known yet. Yeah. It seems here in the U S guys are well from, people are starting to test APOB a lot more. Uh, my, my cardiologist, he does, he always does an APOB test. Um, um, yeah, let's okay. So let's move on from the lipid thing. Uh, we know that it's important, uh, you got to manage it. HDL is probably the most important thing. Correct. If you know, if I, you know, if I were to simplify it, uh, triglycerides are another thing that sometimes I'll see skewed on guys. Uh, can you talk a little bit about triglycerides? Yeah. So triglycerides, um, so also one of the sort of, one of the bad fats comes from excess carbohydrates and fats as well. Um, I think I've heard Kurt Havens talk about how carbohydrates sort of impact triglyceride levels, um, which is super interesting on your podcast. Um, in, in Australia, actually the first line management for raised triglycerides is actually fish oil. Um, I think it's a minimum. Yeah. So it's, I think it's a minimum of four grams of combined EPA and DHA is actually the first line management, pharmacological management option for triglycerides. So it's, yeah, like again, the recommendation for fish oil is pretty strong. Yeah. Kurt was talking about, uh, flack. He actually likes flax oil, I think, cause it has tends to be, have a better rate from what I understand, a better, um, dose of, uh, DHA and EPA in it than fish oil does even. Um, I don't, yeah, but, uh, yeah, he talked about flack. So I, and usually when I see, and maybe you can talk about this a little bit, but a lot of times, like when I see guys with high triglycerides, uh, it's almost like the canary in the coal mine that there's some sort of insulin resistance going on. There's, there's some issues there that it seems like, uh, lip or, um, glucose metabolism is screwed up in some way. And that seems to, from what I've seen, I don't know if you can talk about that a little bit, but that, but that seems to blow up triglycerides. Um, and a lot of guys, I think like when they can, we're constantly pounding food and balking continuously, like guys never take a, take a, take time to actually diet down and get lean. That's a lot of times, like when I'll see triglycerides get high, it's almost always some sort of insulin resistance that's going on, uh, underlying insulin resistance, or at least the beginnings of it is what I've seen. I wouldn't be surprised. Uh, I don't think I've seen them that go that high, but hyper triglyceridemia, it can be associated with increased risk of something like pancreatitis, which is, you know, inflammation of the pancreas. So, uh, I wouldn't be surprised if, if what you're saying is, is right. Like it totally makes, makes total sense. So if I have patients that, um, if I have patients that present with quite high triglycerides, then I sometimes screen for pancreatitis at the same time as well. So, yeah. Yeah. It's, uh, and I think, uh, insulin resistance is a lot, something that happens with a lot of bodybuilders that they just don't pay attention to. Um, I I'll see guys sometimes that they'll have, uh, their a one C will be okay. And then, but you, you have a fasting insulin test on and their, their fasting insulin levels are through the roof. So I, yeah, I, I, you know, I look, I'm not a doctor, but my guess would be that that is probably a sign and then, you know, triglycerides will be high on top of it. And my guess would be that that is some sort of underlying insulin resistance going on. Yeah. Can I, can I ask you, um, so if you measure a fasting insulin as opposed to a fasting glucose, or doing something like an oral glucose tolerance test, do you find that one is more accurate than the other out of those three? Um, usually what I, you know, look, I'm not like, this is not my area of expertise, but what I have seen is that guys often like when there's some insulin resistance going on, you'll see the high fasting glucose level. And then usually what I've seen the doctors here do is then they'll do a glucose tolerance test afterwards. Yeah. Same, same. So no one really measures fasting insulin in America, like in terms of doctors. No, you have to ask for it. Yeah. Same. Yeah. It's, it's not something they, they, and even a one C is not something that that's, that's commonly done. They just look at your fasting glucose levels, which to me just seems like that's just a snapshot of time. I don't know that that really gives you an indication of, of anything that's going on. And they're also not used to seeing our, our population, our group of, of, you know, your guys sitting around eating a thousand grams of carbs and doing, doing, you know, crazy diets and balking and things like that, that happened. Uh, there's also some things that go on with this drugs that could create insulin resistance, like high, high growth hormone hormone hormone use and other things like that that go on as well. Um, sometimes it's just as a matter of just backing off the growth hormone hormone hormone for a while, taking a break from the growth hormone hormone hormone or pulling the doses out. I, I, I'm a, I'm a diabetic, so I'm, I'm intimately with managing glucose. I'm a type, uh, one and a half diabetic. I've been pretty much my entire life, but it's, I, I'm constantly aware of my markers for these things. And I, I will notice them myself. Like if I not managing my glucose levels, that my triglycerides will go through the, through the roof sometimes. And then, you know, if I'm more proactive with managing things and then they come back down, but it definitely seems to be a correlation between the two. Yeah. Yeah. IMean, yeah. HbA1c is, is it, I don't see why it shouldn't be measured to be honest. Um, our, our, like Medicare, like our public healthcare system covers four HbA1Cs per year, per patient. So, um, so, so I'm doing it pretty often for, for people. Yeah. Yeah. It's just crazy to me that it's not tested regularly here. Like the, generally it's just a metabolic panel. Uh, IMean, it's very basic stuff. Uh, of course we have a private insurer system here where it's just sort of the bare minimum, unless you present, uh, other symptoms and they don't test for stuff like that. But like for bodybuilders, the guys that are pounding food, and taking growth hormone hormone hormone, I, I, I usually tell them to go get an A1c test on regularly to see where they're at. C-reactive protein. Another one that doesn't seem to get commonly tested on blood panels. What's, what's your theory behind the, the CRP? Um, IMean, it could be, IMean, we, we, we know that it could be an increased risk of cardiovascular. It could be inflammation in the cardiovascular system, right? From what I understand, but that's the way doctors look at it. But there's other things that are going on with bodybuilders, just chronic inflammation from, from overtrening from reactions to the gear they take. Yeah. Um, I've seen guys have, uh, some, some of the shitty carrier agents in the UGL gear they take. Sometimes I'll see C-reactive protein go through the roof and it's just from something like ethyl oleate being used in the gear and they remove that from their, their protocols. And then the C-reactive protein goes back down. Um, I also have to wonder if overtrening plays a role in it being, being elevated. Um, you know, there, there's just all kinds of crazy shit that, that is, that I see, but I, I would worry about it with cardiovascular risk as well. But it seems like, uh, there's just like this acute rise and C-reactive protein that I see with a lot of bodybuilders, especially when they're treninGHard and runninGHigh doses of, of things. So there's some sort of chronic inflammation that's going on. Yeah. IMean, um, IMean, so I had, I had this discussion with, with a patient of mine, not too long ago actually, because his coach who his coach sort of said that he's at increased risk of cardiovascular disease because his CRP was, I think, well, that's roughly four, but from my, that's not necessarily true, right? No, no, no. Uh, yeah, exactly. So it's not, it's not necessarily true. Um, in fact, this, this guy actually had other stuff going on. Like he was recovering from, from shingles and a bunch of other stuff as well. So it's not accurate, but, um, um, so from my understanding, see CRP is not a specific marker, nor an accurate marker for just general. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think when it comes to patients who have a background of some sort of chronic disease, um, autoimmune condition, like rheumatoid arthritis or SLE or something, and you see it sort of rising up, I think that can be an indicator of, then it can be an indicator of impending cardiovascular disease or acute, acute MI or something like that. Right. But in the general population, I don't, yeah, like, I don't know that I'd necessarily do it too frequently for people, but if something was, if something was off, um, if something was like off about the patient, like they had some sort of like weird symptoms that I wasn't really sure about what was going on, then, then for sure I'd be doing a CRP. Yeah. Yeah. IMean, it just, I know guys, they obsess about it, but yeah, it was kind of a point I was getting to. It could be just, I would think that if you're trening super hard and just beating the shit out of yourself, that that could make it go up as well. Yeah, no, you're definitely right. For sure. For sure. Um, and I, you know, and yeah, I've there, and I don't know, this is another thing I've wondered about too. And I see a lot of bodybuilders that ended up with autoimmune problems. And I wonder if it's from running the high doses of, of PEDs or reactions to some of the, some of the solvents and crap that's in some of the, the, the steroids they take. Yeah, man, I've got a, I've got a patient at the moment. He's one of the best bodybuilders in Australia. He's going for his pro card this year. Nobody knows how many sort of autoimmune conditions he's, he's battling through. He's got, I don't, I don't know if I can shout him out or not, but, um, he's, he's a monster. He's got, he's got, um, type one diabetes. He's got celiac disease. He got misdiagnosed by a previous GP because they cared so little about gear users as havinGHashimoto's thyroiditis without actually testing any auto antibodies or anything like that. Um, so he's been living, he's been living the past few years thinkinGHe's got Hashimoto's like, just because his GP didn't, didn't care enough about gear users to, to even test for auto antibodies. Yeah. I was told, I was told I had, uh, lupus. I was misdiagnosed as having lupus and was treated for lupus for years. And it turned out that I had Lyme disease is what, what, what it was. And I went to a doctor and he's like, if you saw an infectious disease specialist, he's like, have you ever been tested for Lyme's disease? I'm like, no. And it turned out that I had chronic Lyme's disease. So all these years I had been treated for lupus was not even correct. Yeah. It's yeah. It's crazy. It's crazy. IMean, it was years. It was years. I was, I thought I had lupus and I was living in misery. Yeah. This was in my thirties. I had given up bodybuilding at that time. Cause it was, it wasn't so much pain, my joints and everything was so much. Yeah. I see, I see that frequently, but yeah, I see a lot of guys end up with IBS and Crohn's usually a lot of times digestive things. I see IBS Crohn's all sort of colitis, a bunch of, a bunch of shit that dudes end up with. Yeah. I'm, I'm not sure. It's, it must be a combination of both drugs and just the amount of food that you eat as well. And just the, the stress of trening and prep and orals and just everything comes together. It's just impossible. Yeah. Yeah. It's probably a combination of things, you know, the massive amounts of food and then the orals, the orals definitely are not great for your, your GI. That is for sure. Another reason why you shouldn't be taking them all the time. Another thing I see, you know, and like, to me, like, I don't know, maybe you can touch on it, but like I've been at this for 30 years and the biggest risk factors I honestly see with guys like chronic long-term PED users, like the biggest risk of death or illness that I see with guys is cardiovascular disease and then kidney issues. Everybody's stressed out about liver. I very rarely ever see guys with any sort of really permanent damage to liver. I see acute things happen like when they're blasting orals and whatnot, but generally they resolve when they, they, they come back down, but kidney disease is another one that I I've seen quite a few people come, come down with chronic kidney disease. They don't even know they have it. Yeah, exactly. It's, it's a complicated, it's a com, I think it's a complicated issue when it comes to bodybuilders. So I've got a patient who came to me after having chronic kidney disease. So his eGFR was, I think 13, much, much lower, lower than 15. So he had an eGFR of around 13 for two years, for two years before seeing me. And he had no, and he had, and he had no symptoms for two years. Sometimes his P was a little bit frothy, but aside from that, no, no symptoms at all. And I think it's, it's easy to miss because generally bodybuilders lead, lead such healthy lifestyles that it can almost mask chronic, chronic conditions. It's, it's actually, it's actually pretty interesting. So this guy I've sent to an, to a nephrologist and the nephrologist is so surprised, but he's never, I don't think he's ever seen any patients with an eGFR of 13 and have absolutely zero symptoms. So he's going for a biopsy now that he's, he's probably going to end up on dialysis, which is unfortunate because he's in his early thirties with a young child as well. So yeah, it's a, it's a complicated issue. We can go into the, the, the whole blood testing and, and all that sort of stuff behind kidney disease as well, if you want. Yeah. Let's talk a little bit about that and maybe what your, your thoughts on what leads bodybuilders to having kidney disease, what are some things they can do to prevent that from happening? Yeah. Um, IMean, I think preventing, preventing kidney diseases is, is pretty difficult on, on, on anabolic steroids. It's probably going to be just trying to sort of minimize your exposure to super physiological levels of, of androgens really is probably going to be the main, the main thing. And then obviously avoiding the nephrotoxic, the more nephrotoxic compounds as well. Um, you know, things like tren, obviously like is a massive, is a massive one. Um, you know, it's funny as I hear, I hear guys say that trens, not nephrotoxic. And I, I've, you know, if you look, I couldn't find any studies that show that it's nephrotoxic, but I have seen so many guys that run tren that end up with low eGFR. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's clear, clearly something is going on and you can, you can, uh, I like, you can take tren, like those, those of us that have taken tren, uh, like your, your, your, your pee will change colors. You start pee, pee and foamy pee. It's just like it, it not, not good, not good things are happening when you've taken tren. Yeah. Yeah. I think, I think anyone who sort of speaks in absolutes when it comes to anabolics, I think that's a little bit of a red flag just to say that something doesn't cause something or something absolutely causes something just, there's not enough. There's not enough research and literature on, on the topics. Yeah. IMean, there, most of the stuff there haven't been really any, any effective studies done in 30, 40 years on, on a lot of this stuff. Like, I don't know, like I could not find anything in studies that showed that, that, that tren had nephrotoxicity, but it clearly has some sort of effect on, I'm glad, I'm glad you brought up tren because I've had people argue with me about this before. And I've seen so many guys come, come through my view that have, have just terrible. It's, it's not a coincidence. I don't think, IMean, I guess it's anecdotes still, but I've seen so many guys with screwed up eGFR, screwed up kidneys that are chronic tren users. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe it's just as simple as tren blows your blood pressure up. And yeah, that, that, you know, indirectly is what's causing the kidney, kidney issues. But I'm not, I'm not shitting it, man. You can start a cycle of tren and within two weeks, your pee is brown. Yeah. I get you. I fully, I fully get you. That can't be, IMean, it's just an anecdote, right? But nothing's good. Nothing good is going on if you're, if your pee looks like honey. Yeah. No. Yeah. You're right. I was going to say, yeah, the blood pressure, the blood pressure thing is also a big thing. Like chronic, chronic hypertension is, is obviously something that you'd want to prevent to, to prevent kidney disease. The other thing is I've noticed a lot of is a lot of coaches and, you know, like educators and all that sort of stuff. They're tellmasatin, ARBS and ACE inhibitors. They become really, really popular in the bodybuilding population. And a lot of people are telling their clients to, to jump on tellmasatin or, or ACE inhibitors just from the get go, essentially like without, without any measuring of blood pressures or, you know, determining if there's any actual true need to do it. And a lot of them don't realize that ACE inhibitors and ARBS can actually cause kidney issues in and of themselves, hyperkalemia and, and you know, a reduction in, in kidney function. So technically all these people are supposed to be getting their renal functions tested two weeks after commencing, commencing those medications. But see, when, when your coach tells you to start tellmasatin, then you go to the GP who doesn't care about you because you're a gear user. So then you ask them for tellmasatin, they give you the tellmasatin, then they don't care to test your renal function two weeks later. And you never realize that you've actually ended up with a degree of lost renal function because of that medication. So it's this. Yeah. Yeah. That, that's another one that drives me nuts is guys proactively taking drugs that aren't even necessary for a potential. A lot of times guys don't even have underlying blood pressure issues. No, you know, the, you know, it's, and it, and the, the funny thing is, is most of the time when I see dudes that have high blood pressure, just simply, simply, usually it's just simply, there's too much sodium, not enough potassium in their diet, their, their diet sucks. They're not doing cardio. Yeah. Yeah. IMean, just a little simple shit that you can do to, to, to fix things. Uh, sometimes the, the PED choices have a role in it, but most of the time it's, you can fix it just with diet. Yeah. I'll see it with guys a lot of times, like we'll go on contest prep. This, this should be an example when they start doing cardio and eating clener, and then they, they have hypotension. Well, they're on their telmasatin and that should tell you all you need to know that it's, it's not even, that's not even, it's water retention. Uh, you know, there's a multitude of things that can cause water retention. Sometimes, uh, too, I see guys that let their estrogen go way too high and then they end up, you know, a bloated water bag. And of course your, your blood pressure is going to go up when you're, you know, carrying an extra 10, 15 pounds of water or running things like dbol or shit like that. That's just going to blow you up with water. Yeah. Yeah, no, exactly. For sure. For sure. Um, the estrogen thing is for sure. Like you're definitely right. Um, but it's, it's odd. Like there's some people who can really, like they truly do toleratEQuite high estrogen surprisingly. Yeah. I have no, it's such an, it's such an odd, like, I don't think anybody really knows why or how that sort of happens, but IMean, when you've got, oh, it's definitely, it's, it's crazy. Yeah. It definitely seems to be unique to the person. Yeah. I've seen guys with 200 estradiol, you know, which is more, you know, similar to an ovulating woman and they'll say, I don't feel anything. Yeah. Um, yeah, me, me, I, you know, I get up about 50 or 60 and I'm bloated mass and I start growing guy now. Yeah. It's so individual. It's so interesting. Um, the other thing I was going to say when it comes to, to renal function is so, um, everyone with high blood pressure needs to, needs to have a once yearly kidney check. And what that means is having your, your three, three things checked, right? So one is your blood pressure to, IMean, the users should be checking their blood pressure daily, like way, way more frequently, but one is blood pressure. Two is, um, an eGFR level and three is a urine albumin to creatinine ratio, which I think I've heard you speak about, which is sort of like the, the pro the protein in your urine. Yeah. Um, so that's essentially what that calculates. Um, and a lot of patients come in just being worried about the eGFR or C-statin C has become really, really popular now, which is fine. Um, but urine albumin to creatinine ratio is something that's, that's quite frequently lost, um, in, in the bodybuilding population. Essentially what that calculates is, is the degree of protein in your urine, right? So, um, especially when you have, when you're in a, in the micro albumin urea stage, so sort of like the early stages of kidney disease, your eGFR actually stays very, very stable. And so the only accurate, the more accurate marker of your ring of function is the urine albumin to creatinine ratio. As it starts to go higher and higher, that's where you notice your eGFR start dropping faster and faster. So to actually catch it earlier, the urine test is, is actually very, very important. Yeah. I've been having guys grab a urinalysis when, when they go on and get their, their, their, their blood work done. Yeah. That. And, um, sometimes like if there's any 24 hour clearance tests, they're super, super cheap to get done. Um, here in the U S I don't know how you feel about the 24 hour clearance test, but that's another thing that another thing that guys can evaluate if they, if they have issues. Yeah. Yeah. IMean, there's a few tests. There's this system say, uh, the other thing I was going to mention with the system say is there's actually a calculator that people can put into, into, there's a calculator online that you can find. It's called the Cockroft gold equation, which is essentially where you put your eGFR in as well as your, your lean body mass in as well. And so if the body is quite accurate actually, because, because we're just so lean and, and big at the same time. And so it ends up sort of, um, adjusting your eGFR to, to that of a normal person. Um, and you'll notice that body builds with an eGFR of 60, if you put it into a normal person, it's actually an eGFR of like 120. Um, so there's no, there's no real need for concern actually. Yeah. Here in the U S uh, the national kidney foundation, they have that calculator on their website. Yeah. Yeah. Um, so yeah, you can go there and plug, plug it in. Um, for guys that are watching this. Yeah. I do. I do see a lot of guys with, with the kidney kidney issues. I, the only steroid I know that was shown to be direct in, in studies, and that's not to say that there aren't others that, that aren't, uh, that are directly nephrotoxic is equipoise. I've seen some studies that indicate that equipoise is directly nephrotoxic. Uh, another thing that I've run into two, um, and I don't know if you want to touch on this one a little bit is chronic abuse of NSAIDs. That's another thing that I see a lot of guys are swollen, beat up, and then they're just running NSAIDs all the fucking time, uh, end up with kidney issues. And then, uh, uh, I've had a couple guys I've run into that have used chronically abused proton pump inhibitors for the, for their, uh, acid reflux they have from eating all the orals and shitty food. And, you know, that's another one. I think the people overlook that there's some proton pump inhibitors, I think that are nephrotoxic from what I recall. Hmm. Yeah. So, um, NSAIDs, NSAIDs can be a problem, especially when they used for, one, if they used it very high dosages, um, more than recommended. And two, if they used for prolonged periods of time, um, to say more than a couple or a few weeks. Oh, I know guys that will take them every day for years on end. IMean, it was, it was, it was common here. It was common here in bodybuilding. And there was actually, you can, there's, there was a study done in the NFL kind of, I'm going to probably get myself in trouble saying this kind of covered it up. I work with some professional football players, but, uh, there was an issue where they were, there were, there was a ton of NFL players, specifically the bigger guys, the linemen that were showing up with chronic kidney disease and kidney failure in their forties. And they were just like handing out NSAIDs like candy. The treners were at, at the, the, the football facilities, these guys were taking 800 milligrams, you know, multiple times a day. Um, and these dudes were ended up with, uh, with, uh, kidney disease and kidney failure from just years and years and years of doing that day in and day out. Um, yeah. And I, I, I've run into a lot of knuckleheads that just like, I'll ask them about NSAID use and they're like, yeah, I use it every day. Yeah. And a half for years. Yeah. Yeah. I've seen a few patients like that. I've got, I've got one guy who who he's not young. He's not young at this point, but he was using neurofin, um, something like Advil, I guess every, every day for the past few years for a, for a headache. And he came and he ended up being, I ended up diagnosinGHim with C, with CKD. And he was like, how's that possible? I'm so fit. And he's, he's really, really fit on the outside. He, he looks amazing for like someone that's in his sixties. Um, but he has chronic kidney disease probably only because of that, like doesn't drink alcohol, doesn't, doesn't do anything, does cardio every single day. So, um, yeah. And the other issue is when you start combining it with other medications as well, um, it tends to put too much pressure on the kidneys because different medications sort of act on, you know, the, the input of the kidneys and then other medications act on the output of the kidneys and some act on, you know, the actual inside of the kidneys. And so when you start hitting it from hitting them from all the angles, um, there's a really, really sharp decline that you notice. Yeah. It, it, yeah, it's yeah. Multifactorial, right. You combine that with high blood pressure, certain, certain PEDs they use, um, not taking breaks from things. Um, yeah, IMean, it's, it seems to be multifactorial and just years and years of abuse. I think what guys don't understand, IMean, you can maybe talk about that, but once there is damage to the nephron, there's really no coming back from that at a certain point. Yeah. So the kidneys don't recover as easily as, as the liver, um, for sure. I'm pretty sure you could lose the majority of your liver and you'd still sort of be fine. Um, with kidneys, there is a degree of, there is actually a degree of recoverability. That's, that's possible. I'm not sure about the actual nephrons, but in terms of the function of the kidneys, there is a degree of recoverability. So say you have a CKD when you start, when you start, nephro protective medications, say something like an ACE inhibitor or an ARB, you would sort of be hoping for a roughly a 15 to 20% increase, like return in function of your eGFR. And there's other medications as well that you'd start that are nephro protective. So, um, you know, things like, um, even like SGLT2 inhibitors as well can be nephro protective. Um, same thing when you start those again, you'd sort of hope to have about a 15 to 20% sort of recovery in your, in your renal function as well. Um, so it is recoverable to an extent, but it's, it's difficult to get on top of for sure. I didn't know that about the SGLT2 inhibitors. Yeah. So, IMean, so they've always been, well, not always. So for the past, maybe four years or so, um, they've sort of been heralded as, as quite cardio protective. So people with heart failure get put on SGLT2 inhibitors pretty much automatically. Yeah. So, and now there's, they've actually passed a few studies where they've determined that they're, they're kidney protective as well. There's a criteria in terms of how low your renal function has to be and, and what your degree of, um, albuminuria has to be. So how much protein there is in your urine. But, um, once you sort of pass that criteria, which is probably a lot of people that have CKD, then you're pretty much, you're, you're, you're pretty much to start on SGLT2 inhibitors. Um, and if you have diabetes at the same time, then I'd probably be starting it. Um, earlier, potentially before raising the dose of metformin, if, if that makes sense, like as a second line, as like a second line therapy for that diabetes, just to help with the CKD. Yeah. And can you explain to the audience what an SGLT2 inhibitor is? Yeah. So it's a, IMean, all it is, is it's, it's one of the, one of the core foundational, uh, medications in terms of the treatment of, of diabetes. So with diabetes, there's sort of like a, a stepwise approach to, to management in terms of which medications you use. So you've got a bunch of options. The first one is always metformin pretty much. So bodybuilders are really familiar with metformin. Um, second line is pretty much SGLT2 inhibitors, I'd probably say, but there's other medications, you know, things like sulfonylurease. Um, there are also, you know, GLP-1 and DPP4 inhibitors as well. So they're all sort of, they're all, um, diabetes medications, but SGLT2 inhibitors seem to have a significant cardioprotective and nephroprotective, um, effect in, on top of its, in top of its improvement of, um, glucose control. Fantastic. Uh, yeah, let's talk about the other thing I'll see skewed, um, in Gus freak out about, you know, and I'm not saying that you should, should ignore liver health, but liver markers. Those are another thing that I see the, the, like, it's kind of the three things that I'll see off is, well, there, there's that there's, um, also hemoglobin hematocrit and red blood cell count, but maybe we can start there. Let's, let's, that's, that's probably the most common thing that I see. That's just on everybody's blood panels, elevated hemoglobin hematocrit and red blood cell counts. Yeah, that's a, like this one's, this one's a pretty complicated topic. Um, because I don't know that they've studied it too well in anabolic steroid users. So I've heard it a lot. I think you speak about a lot about not being too worried when your hematocrit or your hemoglobin gets a little bit higher. The thing is, it's hard, in my opinion, I think it's hard to determine where that limit is. So I understand there's, there's limits on paper and maybe you can push that a little bit, um, for sort of athletic purposes, I guess, in terms of your blood carrying more oxygen so that you can perform better. But at the same time, what's that called? That called is that's called erythrocytosis or also called secondary poly polycythemia, right? Yep. Um, so it secondary polycythemia does carry an increased risk. I understand that people talk about how it doesn't carry it necessarily carry an increased risk of clots, but from what I've read, it does carry a slight increased risk of generALCARdiovascular disease. And so sometimes I can allow patients to push it just a little bit further than the cutoff, especially if they're say they're in prep or, you know, they have some sort of like limitation to, to, to lowering it. But for the most part, I don't know that I'm necessarily too happy with it running with those hemoglobins and the hematocrit is running too high for too long. Um, but also you have to see in, in combination with other things. So whether or not they have preexisting cardiovascular disease, um, you know, if they have any other sort of issues in the background as well, um, and those patients end up needing to go on aspirin as well. IMean, aspirin is not a bad medication for people on, on, on gear anyway, in general, just because gear is pro thrombotic in and of itself. Right. And then you add secondary polycythemia on top of it. You're sort of asking for a little bit of, you're asking for a little bit of trouble there. Um, but before, before we get to the management of it, um, obviously you need to rule out other secondary causes. So really huge things with big bodybuilders is obstructive sleep apnea is a massive problem that can drive it up. Yep. Um, so that's something that you can get, you can get taken care of. I'd probably recommend getting sleep studies done once a year, um, for bodybuilders probably. So it'd be something like every offseason, maybe something like that when you're, when you're really big. Um, and then you need to have the, if you do have a mask, you need to get the, you need to make sure that you follow up with your, um, sleep physician to have the settings adjusted quite frequently as well. Um, and the other thing that can drive it up is, um, oh, dehydration. That's the other thing. So people that are not drinking enough water before their blood tests. So I usually recommend about one to two liters before their blood test, which is difficult first thing in the morning, but, but it's necessary. Yeah. It seems everybody from the lowest TRT dose up to multiple grams of running. It's, it seems like it comes up and then it just hangs out. Like I, everybody I see is somewhere around the 53 hematocrit. Yeah. Occasionally you'll see a guy that's way higher. Something else is going on there. And like you said, it's most often what I've seen is just, it's sleep apnea. Yeah. Um, that that's, that's the big issue or sometimes there's something else going on. Uh, but what, the, the thing that I, this is the thing that I've run into recently, that's been a chronic issue is guys will just go donate blood way too much. Yeah. And then they end up with low ferritin and B12 and make themselves anemic and feel like shit. I I've seen, you know, they, I know guys that'll go to multiple blood banks and go donate blood and then they make themselves sick that way. Yeah. So, so, okay. So with blood donations, um, so if you get secondary polycythemia, if it's for a prolonged period of time, I probably would end up recommending blood donations. Um, yeah, it has to have, it has to happen eventually. Like you're not going to be, I wouldn't be happy with you running, runninGHigh levels for too long. So you're going to end up needing a blood donation. I would probably try and stick with a maximum of two blood donations per year. Yeah. That's usually what I tell guys. Yeah. So I think it's a, when you've gone above two blood donations per year, that's when you, that's when you really start to run into risk of nutrient deficiencies one and two, you actually have this sort of rebound effect where instead of reducing your risk of clotting, you actually increase your risk of clotting. Um, especially after the first, especially for the first few months after, after donation. Um, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I've seen that, seen that be an issue. There are, uh, you know, that's another thing that guys, I've seen a few, few guys die from is clots. You know, that does seem to happen. You guys throw clots, you know, so that is a, that is a, a concern. I don't know, you know, and I, I, it's part of my personal protocol. You know, my cardiologist, he has me taking a low dose of aspirin every day. Yeah. I do that. The fish oil helps too. Yes. Another thing that fish oil helps with as well. Believe me, I learned my lesson the hard way about fish oil. I forgot to stop taking it before surgery one time and ended up with a massive hematoma. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Aspirin, aspirin's a, it's a good medication. Um, I don't, I don't have too many bad things to say about it. IMean, obviously if you have a history of significant bleeds or it doesn't sit well with you in terms of your stomach, um, and your, yeah, things like that. But aside from that, if, if you tolerate it pretty well and you're an anabolic steroid user, um, there's not too many reasons not to be on it. I don't think, um, uh, yeah. Yeah. It's the low dose one. I think it's what 87 milligrams, somewhere around there. I don't remember exactly the exact amount you can get, but the, something like that, um, even, even taking it every other day, um, uh, is, is beneficial. Uh, let's talk a little bit about liver health, um, one with PED users and what you monitor and look for and, uh, the things that you see with liver health. Yeah. Uh, okay. So I just made a post about this recently. So obviously with most gear users, you get a rise in your trensaminases first and foremost. Um, how high that rise is, um, tolerable is still, I still don't think I've got a grasp of, of how high I'm happy, happy with it sitting in terms of just being able to push it off to being as a result of hard trening and lots of muscle mass. I think somewhere up to about 20 points above the reference ranges is probably okay. That being said, if it goes higher than that, or if it's raised for a prolonged period of time, I still tell patients to get an ultrasound just in case, um, because it's relatively cheap. And you know, if we catch something that's random that we wouldn't have caught otherwise, then, well, then we've caught it. Right. The other thing that I do is, is so I really, I don't like assuming things, um, about patients. So one of the first bosses that I ever had as a GP told me pretty much never assume. Right. So if, if a patient has prolonged periods of, of raised liver function tests, especially if they don't come down with supplements like TUDCA and, you know, NAC and all those sorts of things. So if it's, if it's quite resistant to those supplements, because usually they actually work quite well. So if it's resistant to those supplements, then I actually do start screening for other, um, unusual liver diseases, things like autoimmune hepatitis, hep, um, uh, EBV, CMV, a bunch of different viral screens, autoimmune conditions. Like I, I do go to that extent for, for patients. Um, because I, I personally have seen, have seen those things pop up in people when you sort of don't, when you don't necessarily expect it. So, um, I think that's another thing that a lot of one GPs miss because they don't sort of care too much about anabolic steroid users. And two, I think it's something that a lot of coaches miss and just push to the side or like, IMean, it's difficult to know about if, if you're not medically trened as well. So, um, yeah, I, I've seen quite a few guys end up with, uh, um, uh, non-alcoholic fatty liver disease too, from years of just pounding food and abusing steroids. I, I don't know if that's something you encounter, but I, that's another thing that I've seen dudes end up with where they go in and get a ultrasound done and then they have, uh, you know, fatty infiltration of the liver. Yeah. Oh, massive, massive issue. I think as soon as you start seeing any sort of rise in, in liver function, you'll probably end up seeing, you'll probably end up seeing a degree of, of, um, fatty liver and very potentially you may end up being dized with, yeah, NAFLD or, or MAF, I think it's called MAFLD now. So metabolic associated fatty liver disease. Um, um, yeah, it's, it's pretty common. It's pretty common condition, I think at this point. Um, and then obviously there's the other liver markers. So you've got things like, um, so you've got GGT as well. Um, which generally is more related to alcohol, I would say more than anything, but there's other conditions that can cause it as well. Even like, I think diabetes can cause it as well. Um, there's Billy Rubin as well. Um, so Billy Rubin usually tends to be slightly raised due to people being fasted at the time of being blood tested. Um, so I think it can go up to about 90. Uh, I don't know what the reference ranges are in America, but it goes up to about, it can go up to about 90, I think in Australia before you start being concerned. And the, the way you sort of determine if it's because you're fasting or not, is you just do another blood test when you're not fasted and you see if it gets brought back down. I have seen guys with gallbladder issues. Yeah. Um, yeah, you know, gallstones and stuff like that, especially like the high fat diet guys. Yeah. That can be a problem as well. That's, that's more so diagnosed. I think when you look at the ratios of, of AST, um, ALT to ALP, it's, it's the ratios that start, that start becoming, um, indicative of, of other issues going on as well. Um, so that's something else that you gotta look out for, not just the numbers in and of themselves, but the, the ratios. Yeah. Interesting. Yeah. I didn't know that. Yeah. Something new. Yeah. I have had some guys in the book. It seems to be more common in women. I don't know. This is just my anecdotal observation, but I have seen quite a few female competitors end up with gallbladder issues. Yep. Uh, okay. I'm not too sure about commit competitors, but so the typical the typical patient that gets gallbladder issues is the three Fs. I think there's more Fs actually, but so there's a female forties and fat there. So they're there. That's like your typical patient that ends up with gallbladder issues. I think there's one more F I forgot what it is though. Um, but that's your typical patient. So yeah. Yeah. And it could be just that that's, I, I've, I've had quite, quite a few female competitors I've encountered that have had gallbladders removed. It could be, I don't know if it could be hormonal related as well. Um, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's a little out of my wheelhouse. I don't know, but I, I have, I have had a couple of guys end up with that and then, you know, like some weird stuff that I've seen, uh, you know, guys end up with pancreatitis as well. It's another thing I've seen from a few people. I don't know if it's drugs that are doing it or if it's just constantly pushing food. Yeah. Um, uh, that that's a little more uncommon, but I, I, I've seen some crazy ALT and AST after contest prep. I had a guy one time that was over a thousand or both. Yeah. Yeah. He ended up in the ER. Um, he's like, I don't feel good. And he went, he, he, let's get some blood work done. And they were both like 1100, 1200. I'm like, dude, you gotta go to the hospital now. Yeah. That's that's like, I'm like, how did you do it? How did you do a show feeling like that? I think that's another issue that you run into with guys. And I I've been guilty of it myself. You're just so used to feeling like shit and pushing through pain that you, that you just, you just, that just becomes your normal. Like I I'm having shoulder surgery in a week and my labrum's torn, my supraspinatus is torn and my bicep tendon's just like hanging on by a thread. Yeah. And when I saw, saw the, uh, orthopedic and he's like, he's like, are you still trening? He's like, are you, are you in pain? And I'm like, are you taking pain pills? I'm like, no, I'm not taking pain pills. IMean, yeah, it hurts. That's why I'm here, but yeah, I'm still trening. Yeah. Yeah. It's crazy. It's crazy what we can, yeah. What we can get, get away with like how we've sort of like, not just trened our body, but our, our mind to, to just tolerate all this crap that a normal person couldn't tolerate on their best day. I've seen some, some guys that are severely ill and that are still pushing and treninGHard. You know, the, the, the, the EG low eGFR is the, you know, guy, you know, still trening and pushing through with an ejection fraction of 15 and wondering why he's not feeling good. Yeah. Um, that's another thing to, you know, before, before I let you go, but I, it like just keeping an eye on that. It's not like you said, it's not that common to see people with low ejection fractions and, and high, um, you know, just, you know, they're left ventricular hypertrophy, but another thing that guys look for, like if you have weird water retention, like I'll see guys that end up with, um, just their ankles look like they're just blown out, you know, guys that are lean, you know, if you're, if you're walking around with cankles, something's going on. Yeah, I agree. Um, there's people that say that. And I think, I think a lot of, a lot of some, some people in the fitness industry arEQuick to sort of blame hormonal issues or just water retention because of, I don't know, who knows what. And they sort of start saying that you, you need to lower your estrogen levels, or you need to start taking Telmosad and to reduce, to have that sort of diuretic effect, but they've missed the big picture. Um, you know, that the person's got some sort of organ failure, essentially. Um, yeah. Yeah. So, IMean, that's where, that's where I getting an echo cardiogram done, maybe like somewhere between every one to three years or so, sort of depending, depending on the one that you've done previously. So obviously if you've got a perfect heart one year, maybe you don't have to do it every year. You could probably push it to two or three. Um, yeah. Yeah. IMean, my, my cardiologist, he's great. And he told me like, you know, with my situation, he's like, you need to get one done every year. Yeah. You want to do, but I like, yeah, I'll see dudes all the time that are just like, they'll, they'll send me, I'll have guys come in for consults and they'll send me pictures of their ankles. They're like, Hey, you know, what do you think could be causing this? Like, man, you need to go to the doctor, get, get checked out. That's not, that's abnormal. My friend, people don't walk around with ankles that, you know, look like that, that aren't, that aren't 300 pounds of fat. So something seriously is wrong. Especially like if I, I specifically know of one guy that was walking around with, um, one ankle that was blown up and then ended up throwing a clot and died from the clot. So it was actually, it was actually, I think a thrombosis that was in his calf. Um, that was, uh, and then broke loose. Um, Yeah. So, yeah. So, IMean, IMean, a good general rule of thumb is if you've got both legs swollen, then you're sort of worried about organ failure. So heart, liver, kidneys, if you've got one leg swollen, then you're probably worried about a, something like a DBT. Um, so a deep vein thrombosis. So that's, that's sort of where you start throwing clots and stuff and it goes in, you're worried about it going into your lungs, to your heart, to your, to your brain, um, could go anywhere to be honest. Um, but that's, that's pretty much the two, the two things that you should be worried about, I guess, as a bodybuilder is if, if both legs are swollen or, or one leg is swollen, that sort of tells you what, what could potentially be going on and what you need to get checked out. Yeah. This was a guy, um, I know I've specifically had been on a flight. Yeah. Got to his vent. Yeah. Complained about his foot hurting and it was all swollen up and he went and laid down and never woke up. That was it. Yeah. Immobility, massive issue. Yeah. So that was a, that was a scary thing. Yeah. I, and you know, clots are, are something that you got to keep an eye on. I, I've, I would say that's probably the last thing that I say that, that I've seen that, that I've seen a few people drop, drop dead from. There's been some guys at shows that have, uh, I've heard of several guys that, especially at the end when you're dehydrating, guys are using diuretics and they're already runninGHigh hemoglobin and hematocrit. And there's a whole bunch of other shit going on that, that leads to an unsafe environment, especially like when they're dehydrated. I've heard of several guys dying of clots going into the last week before a bodybuilding show. Yeah. Well, I guess, yeah, a hundred percent. So, IMean, not only hemoglobin and hematocrit, I've seen patients with, with raised platelets as well. I think it's a lot more unusual, but I have seen, I have seen raised platelets as well. And there's no, like, you don't do blood donations to lower platelets. You, you just have to go back down onto a cruise or something like that to try and let it settle. Um, so, and you could have clots sort of almost hiding anywhere. Um, so, you know, say, say one's hiding in your heart and then you have some sort of odd arrhythmia because, you know, you've raised your potassium for show day or something like that. So you get some sort of odd arrhythmia for a moment and, and then it shoots the clot off to your brain. You have a stroke and you die. So, um, but the echocardiograms should sort of pick up those, those thrombi and stuff. So, yeah. Yeah. IMean, I've, I've heard of that happening. I've heard of, there's been a couple of guys that, um, I've heard of dying from aortic dissections. Um, the, that, that, that happens, you know, I would assume that that's probably part genetic, but probably from chronic high blood pressure, I would imagine. Right. Yeah. Yeah, no, exactly. That, that is scary. That is very, very scary. Um, yeah. If you've got pain in the front that goes through to the back, you have a, you have a big issue on your head for sure. Yeah. There was a, what's his name? A popular influencer, Boston Lloyd, a couple of years ago, that's what he died from. Wasn't he had a host of other problems going on too. He was in kidney failure and a bunch of other diseases. Yeah. Um, but yeah, I believe he just died from an aortic dissection. There was a, oh God, I can't remember his name. There was the pro guy that had one and then lived. I don't know how the fuck he lived. They said it was like a one in a million. Um, he's right. Yeah. He just got lucky. Yeah. Um, and lived. I can't, I can't remember the guy's name. It was, it was a while ago, but yeah, I've heard of that. I've heard of that happening to a couple of guys too, but that probably goes back to managing blood pressure. I would imagine. Yeah. Blood pressure, blood pressure is definitely a big thing. Um, it's definitely a big one. It can probably be managed a lot by cardio. I've got, I've got guys who are weighing 120 kilos, um, probably like 300 pounds in the offseason there. Their blood pressure is actually really well controlled just from, just from doing a lot of high intensity, um, cardiovascular activity. Um, the problem is no one really has time for it or like, they like to say that they don't have time for it. I used to say it a lot, but you have to sort of make time for it. I'm terrible at the cardio stuff. I just bought, bought a couple of pieces of cardio equipment, but yeah, it's, it's one that often gets put on the back burner. And like I said, again, it's not a coincidence that it seems that blood pressure drops when guys are on contest prep, when they're doing more cardio and eating better. All right, Dr. Nathan, I think that is excellent place to stop. I really appreciate you coming on. If people want to get ahold of you, how do they do so? Yeah. So you can find me on Instagram. I haven't put it up on your, on this page, but you can find me on Instagram. It's the art is advanced H F. So literally the word advanced H F stands for advanced health and fitness. Um, you can find me there on Instagram, follow me, DM me, whatever you want. Um, I'm happy to sort of give advice wherever people need, if they need help. Um, and if you're in Sydney, you can message me and I'll send you a link to, to where you can sort of book me in for me to see you and order all your blood tests and imaging and all that sort of stuff as well. So yeah, find me at advanced H F on Instagram. And I'll put all your contact information in the video description below. So if people want to get ahold of you, they don't have to get ahold of you. And I appreciate you coming on. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. Thank you so much.