 warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. The only time in the last decade of, well there was one time like I had physical rage where I flipped the gas grocery cart over. Oh my gosh that's my favorite story ever. I gotta hear this. I haven't heard this. Oh God. I do. This was like peak going through divorce when I was. This was one Todd had me on tren. and was telling me that it was the anabolic ayahuasca, and it was helping me see the truth in my relationship. I was at the grocery store angry shopping because my ex-wife pissed me off. And I was, like, trying to find the sugar-free almond milk. I remember it explicitly. And there was an old guy behind me, and, like, he, like, tapped. I had my headphones on because I was just trying to zone out. I'm pretty sure I had some death metal on. And he, like, bumped me with the shopping cart. And I was, like, I thought it was an accident, so I didn't think anything of it. And then he bumped me again, and then I looked back, and I was, like, he was behind me. And he's, like, can you hurry up, please? And I'm, like, motherfucker. That would be tough. And I turned back around. I turned back around. I said, I'll be out of your way in just one second. I'm looking for the type of milk I'm looking for just to hang on. And I turned back around, and he did it again. Oh, shit. And I just had this fit of rage come over me. And I turned around, and I just flipped his entire shopping cart over right in the middle of the grocery store. I didn't touch him. Yeah. That'd be the move. Yeah. IMean, that's the move. Take it off of its wheels. So he can't push it anymore. Dump it out. I just flipped the entire thing. There you go. Have a good day. Did he have a game that's doing anything? Shit went flying everywhere. And I said, back off, motherfucker. Enjoy that. He didn't say anything after that. That was the end of the conversation. Paul just provided clarification in that situation, as far as I'm concerned. That gentleman was laboring under the misapprehension that he had a problem. But he didn't. He didn't have a problem. And Paul said, you think you have a problem. Here. Here's a problem. You have a problem to solve. That was seven years ago. That's a great way to look at it, Colin. That was a rough year. That was a rough year. But you made it through, bud. Yeah. ACL tear. Colin and I were going through a divorce together. That's how we got into the gym. It was group therapy. What did you say? The tren was the ayahuasca of relationships. Yeah. Dr. Todd was helping me then with my diet. And I was just on TRT at that point. And he suggested that I go on tren. And I'm like, okay. So tren and test. And I remember I was like, I just had enough with my ex-wife. I was like, I just woke up one morning and just had this moment of clarity. I'm like, I'm done with this. I'm done. I'm done. And I told Todd, I'm like, I think the tren is making me angry at my wife. And he's like, no. He goes, it's the anabolic ayahuasca. It's making you see things clearly. Now, should one ever take relationship advice from Dr. Todd? Probably not. Probably not. Should one take tren to see the truth of their relationship clearly? But that was the results may vary. Results may vary. That may be. So he deliberately suggested that I use tren so I would have more clarity on my relationship. That is a great story. Yeah. That was Paul making the 90-year-old man pick up his groceries. Were there eggs in there? That would have been fantastic. No, no eggs. Thankfully. EverythinGHe was able to put back in his cart. Good. Once again, lessons were learned that day. I guarantee you, Guy never bumped anybody with a shopping cart again. Yeah. What is the motto of Gracie Jiu-Jitsu? You went over to SM with that story, Paul. He said it's cool because you didn't touch him. He said it. Yeah, I don't want to. I don't want to. That's what you do. You don't touch them. You touch their hands. And with a happy ending. Yeah. You should have grabbed the camera. You should have threw the camera across the gym. I said stop filming me. IMade you stop filming me. Thank you.