 This video is for entertainment and educational purposes only. Hey guys, it's Big Paul here. Today we're going to talk about which is more important, gear, food, or training, the age-old question. We're going to dig into it in just one second. allh. allh. allh. gear, food, or training, which is more important? uh, I'm sure 99% of people out there are going to say it's all steroids. steroids, steroids, steroids, steroids, steroids, steroids. steroids. It's always the answer. uh, and I'd like, last week I did some videos on perma-blockers and perma-cutters and, uh, you know, the perma- the, the, the, they, they both think gear is the answer. Although I think the perma-calders cut it, a perma-blockers think it's eating like shit and getting fat. It's the answer. But, uh, most people, most people just assume more gear, more gear, more gear, that's the answer. Now, I am not going to be somebody who blows smoke up your skirt and say that more gear doesn't work. More gear certainly works. Um, but to a certain extent. It, it, it has limitations. And I'm going to explain to you why I think the most important thing is diet. Uh, a lot of people are going to disagree with this one. And I get into this argument with people constantly. And this is what I focus on when I train clients. Diet is the single most important factor when it comes to making progress. Uh, gear certainly plays a role. Training certainly plays a role. They all work synergistically. They're all symbiotic in relationship, but diet at the end of the day is king in my opinion. And the reason diet is the king, if you think about it, and when we talked about the perma-cutters, we're going to use the perma-cutter as an example. If you are in a caloric deficit constantly, it doesn't matter how much gear you take. You're not going to gain muscle. It doesn't matter. You, you, I see it all the time. It's usually the perma-cutters that are running shit loads of gear, way too much gear, running the harsh stuff. They think the answer is to take more trend. And then they just get up, end up getting stuck. They never make progression. Um, when all they would simply have to do is take a little less gear and eat a little more food and they would grow. So it doesn't matter how they train. It doesn't matter how hard they train. It doesn't matter how much gear they take. If they aren't eating in a caloric surplus, eating an appropriate amount of protein, eating an appropriate amount of carbs, they're not going to grow. So without proper nutrition, it does not matter. Now you can still make great progress on little gear and kind of shitty training if you got your diet buttoned up. We'll go to the flip side of the equation, the perma-bulker. It doesn't matter how much gear, how many fat burners you take, how much DNP you take, how much fucking climbuterol you take. If you're eating like an asshole, you won't get ripped. It doesn't matter. You can train all you want. You can do all the fucking cardio you want. But if you're not in a caloric deficit, you're not going to get ripped. So once again, the most important thing is diet. Diet. Diet matters more than gear or training in this situation. Both situations. Both situations. Now, that's not to say that gear isn't an important part of the equation if you want to be a professional physique athlete. I, there are very few people that have turned pro without using gear. Uh, some claim that Ronnie Coleman did. I don't know if that's true or not, but that's, that's up for debate. Maybe he did. Maybe he didn't. One thing that's for sure, Ronnie Coleman was a genetic freak, but I also heard that Ronnie Coleman had his diet buttoned up and he trained hard. Uh, I think, I happen to think that gear is the second most important thing. And I'm going to tell you why. Uh, I, training to me is the least important out of the three if you want to be a professional physique athlete. And I'm not saying that training isn't important. Training, certainly training does have merit. Certainly training does have importance, but you look at the guys on the Olympia stage. There are dudes that train with high volume. There are dudes that train with low volume. There are dudes that train with heavyweights. There are dudes that train with lightweights. There are dudes that train with bra splits. There are dudes that train with push pull leg routines. There are dudes that do upper body, lower body. But one thing's for sure. They all have their diets buttoned up and they're all taking gear. So, it seems that training out of the three is probably the least important if you want to be a professional physique athlete. Uh, you know, I know that's a controversial take. Um, I do think if you have your training and your diet buttoned up that you can get more out of less gear. There's certainly a compelling argument to be made for that. Um, I also think if you, uh, train intelligently, you can make your career last longer. I also think there are ways that you can progress faster if your training is buttoned up. But there are all sorts of people that, that have trained in all sorts of different methods to make it the pro. But all pro physique athletes have their diets buttoned up. All pro physique athletes, as far as I know, 99% of them take gear and fair amounts of gear. Uh, but a bunch of them train in different ways. Uh, but I do think that training is still has an importance. And I think that if you want to be the best, you have to optimize all three. I'm not discounting one or the other, but without diet buttoned up first and foremost, you're never going to be a pro bodybuilder. You just aren't, uh, without your, without using gear, your chances of being pro, a pro bodybuilder, probably about one in a million. There's only been one Ronnie Coleman, as far as I know, in the history of bodybuilding. He's a freak. He's a one of a kind. There's never been one, another one like him. And there wasn't one like him before. So that is a rare oddity. Uh, there are genetic mutants. There are exceptions to the rules. There are one in a million people. It's like being born seven foot five. Uh, you don't have to work that hard to be a pro basketball player. If you're seven foot five, you don't. I played basketball when I was younger and, uh, there was always a saying, uh, I think it was coach John Thompson. I heard say, I would rather make a big mistake than a small mistake. So, uh, you know, in bodybuilding, if you have freak genetics, like Ronnie Coleman, you don't really have to optimize other things to, to be the best. You know, I, as far as I know, Roddy worked hard. I'm not trying to discount what he did, but to me, first and foremost, let's recap diet. Second, having your gear protocol, uh, uh, buttoned up in and third is training. I tell my clients all the times people ask me how they should train. I personally find high volume, high frequency training to be very effective, but that doesn't mean that you should train that way. I can tell people to train whatever way that you like. I can get results out of people with whatever they want to do. As far as training goes, I do think there is more optimal ways to train, but I don't get too, too into the training with, with, with my, with my clients because people really training is sort of a personal thing. Now, if you want to be a pro, I will work with people in training and tell them what I think is the most optimal way to be a pro. But first and foremost, we focus on diet and it's amazing. The results you can get, I, you can talk to people that I've worked with. Um, you can see it in my own, uh, results. Uh, you don't get freaky results until you get your diet buttoned up. I see it over and over and over again. I see dudes taking shit tons of gear all the fucking time that have shitty diets and they never look like they even, even take anything. See it all the time. And I know you have to. All right, guys, that's all I got for you on this one. Hopefully you enjoyed it. Let me know what you think in the comment section below. If you think I'm an idiot, tell me so. Take care guys. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizing hormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.