 warning, warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. mystery mystery mystery mystery mystery mystery mystery mystery mystery mystery mystery mystery deep end of the pool, dive into the deep end of the pool. Sorry, we don't dig in pools. Dive into the deep end of the pool and learn about anabolics and anabolic pharmacology and how we can leverage that to build our physiques. This is the course for you. I also have the PED cheat sheet, which is just an abridged version of sort of the stuff we talk about. For those of you that don't like to read and watch videos and go into the deep end, this one's for you. It's 30 pages. It's just basically the cliff notes of how to get jacked using PEDs. I have my Blast and Cruise methodology detailed in there, profiles of certain PEDs, HGH, anabolics, peptides, and cytovec mitigation, all in a simple and easy to read 30 page format for those of you that are too lazy to actually read anything. Anyway, I'm giving you a hard time. I like the cliff notes version myself. I've got, I don't have enough time on my hand to sit around and watch 60 videos. Although I did make those 60 videos, 60 hours worth of videos. There's a lot of time put into that. We put a lot of love and care into this course. Anyway, enough of that. Let's talk about what we think is going to happen at the Arnold Classic in a few weeks. We'll dig into all that in just one second. So who do you guys think is going to win the Arnold? Justin's probably saying Brandon, but man, it's going to be, I think it's going to be a good show. It seems like that I've been excited for the big shows more in the last couple of years than I was for a while. It seemed like they got pretty stagnant for a little lately. Yeah. Yeah. IMean, Samson looks ridiculous. That's the other thing I like is the top guy doing the Arnold and the Olympia. That's hard, but it makes the sport so much more enjoyable because it got to a point where if you were, if you were top five at the Olympia, you almost didn't do anything else. I hated that. Yeah. I'll give you my top five real quick. Yeah. I got Samson and then Andrew, Derek, Curry, Akeem for my top five. Yeah. I think Akeem looks amazing right now. I feel bad for Akeem because he does look amazing, but his skin's so thick and it's so dark. It's hard, man. Cause you, you see some photos of him and when the lighting's right and you can really see the definite, like that recent one with his bicep, it's like that dude, you know, he looks, he, it's just, he got screwed with the skin thickness, uh, cause he gets shredded, but it's hard to, it's hard to see. Well, he keeps getting good definition. Yeah. It seems weird not seeing your lights on in the background. Oh yeah. I'm just in the next to my computer. I was watching the show and I was like, why am I not joining in? And I got the link. So instead of watching, I'm trying to participate a little bit, but please continue the story. Don't let me interject. Yeah. I had the auto classic. I just had Akeem pretty high just cause I keep seeing more like, you're right. He's got thick skin, but I keep seeing more detail and more crisp wines and more insertions and nothing looks any rig. Nothing looks funny on him. Everything looks. Have you seen Carlos Thomas lately? Oh my Lord. Yeah. That looks, he's one like I zoom in to like, is this chopped? This can't be real. He's another guy like that when you meet him in person, like his arms are so cool. Yeah. He follows our channels. So maybe it helps. Yeah. He has his head. I'm just like, holy crap. Yeah. He recognized me at the Olympia and he said, Hey, and I'm like, Holy shit. This dude is huge. Yeah. He's a real nice guy. Every time I see him, he says that. He was there. I think it was, was his dad with him? I don't remember. Yeah, probably. Yeah. His dad is super cool too. I had talked with his dad for about 15 minutes. He said, yeah, my son is a bodybuilder too. Have you heard that story a million times? Of course. And then IMet his son. I'm like, I got a Thomas. Carlos was like, Hey Steve, what's going on? My dad is where his dad was like, you know, this guy. I said, yeah, he's on YouTube. It's awesome. Yeah. That's a small community, man. That's why I like it so much because everybody knows everybody. Right. And then especially if you show your face online all the time, then you're just part of the scene eventually. I'll pull this picture up. There's only so many people to watch. Yeah. And it's a sport where you, you, it like, it's such a part of your life that you probably, you know, like you can be really into golf. What do you do? Watch one tournament a year. IMean, if you're really into bodybuilding, you're not, you're watching stuff all day, every day. Yeah. We just got so many things that are not to do. Like you're eating your cardio, you're going to watch something. You're doing your cardio, you're going to watch. Food prep there. His legs are just ridiculous. Oh man. Yeah. That's what I'm saying. Like I zoom in. It's like, okay, a black background. It's possible you could shop it, but yeah, it's just crazy. That's what he really looks like. You know, like you, you don't, you want that, like that thigh gap. He's got a knee gap. Barely. Barely. I don't think you can even touch his knees together. This is too much mass. I've always told my guys, like I get the young guys that I work with, they try to spread their legs out like that. Then they have the giant thigh gap. Oh man. That's my, or when they turn their feet straight sideways, your quad sweeps on the side. If you turn your knees out to the side, you just look like a goofball. So remember that, but Rodney would pose in the, in the early nineties or late nineties, he would put his knees together. He would still have a straight leg. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Straight forward, straight legs. He's the only guy who could be a bad poser and still look better than everyone else. The posing was terrible. Rodney, Rodney, Rodney Coleman's posing was terrible. Oh, his, his side chest. He contracts his hamstrings. I just want one photo where that guy actually let his hamstrings hang. I can only imagine how insane he would look. You know, you contract, if I contract my hamstrings, they invert. You know? Yeah. That's fine. Yeah. Here, here, let's see if I find a picture of him. This is, this is a one of, uh, Ronnie, when he would, uh, how you would stand, like, it's just like the worst possible position. Like, that's like everything. Yeah. Locked out knees. It's just like, where everybody else is like knees bent and trying to like, he's just like fucking flexinGHis ass up. There's another one. Look at that. I remember at 2000, I was at the 2003. That's not 99. That's not, that's 2003. I was at 2003. He walked on stage and his quad came out. And then like four or five seconds later, the rest of him came out. I've never seen anything. He was, he was, he was insane. Wow. Well, you know, it's bad. That's that we're still reminiscing about Ronnie since nothing. It's getting on this. Hasn't come around. Like Ronnie came close and Samson. Yeah. Samson needs double the back to come close. Samson's brought his back up recently. Yeah. It's getting better. Yeah. It's coming up. His frame is so huge. If he could, IMean, and he's still growing. If he gets it fully filled out, he's the only one I think that, that could be more impressive than Ronnie. Andrew Jack, Andrew Jack, like walking around is pretty close. If you just see him standing, he's unbelievable. But something doesn't quite pop for me when he poses. I don't know what it is. IMean, it's not like he's bad at all. It's just, it's almost, it's not quite to Paul Dillette level, but if you see him standing around, he's just unbelievable. He's huge. He's huge. Yeah. The front to back, he's just a different bodybuilder from the front. He's absolutely amazing. And then he turns around and it's not quite there yet. Yeah. You would expect more from the back with a guy like that, but it's, you know, it's less for guys. We've been spoiled with Ronnie, man, for eight years. You know, we're all trying to compare this. This guy's struggling with three 15 or road. Terrible. Terrible for him. Oh, he can do what he wants, man. He's Mr. Olympia now. Well, that's just it. It's like, there's like half the time when I'm working out, I, you know, I start off and try to be like as controlled as I can be. And then, and then I'm like, yeah, fuck this. And then it kind of turns into that. You know, like, Hey, whatever. I'm going to ask him. He doesn't look that heavy. He doesn't look anything crazy heavy. I don't know. These look. They meet him in real life. And these twice as wide as all your friends combined. Yeah. Oh, he's gigantic. Yeah. He's big. What does he got? Yeah. He's a, I remember he was walking around the Detroit pro last year with an oversized black shirt. That's pretty big. Yeah. Yeah. That's pretty big. Yeah. That's pretty, pretty. He's moving up pretty. Those are 200 pound dumbbells, right? They were eight. They look small. Yeah. They look like. It's nice to see that even, even Mr. Olympia has his movements that he's, he's stronger on and his movements that he's weaker on, you know? Yeah. So it means there's hope for us. There's hope for all of us. He's just like me. Yeah. Yeah. Here we go. Yeah. That's a big difference. Wow. That's from the Olympia to the Arnold. That's impressive. Yeah. Yeah. He's definitely, that's hard. Not even that six months. He's coming into his own a lot. And keep in mind, he's a leg bloomer. So he started late. Yeah. If you look at his pictures, when he was a soccer player, it's like eight years ago or something or 10 years ago. And, and so you go from, you know, soccer player to Mr. Olympia, you know, Ronnie was chipping at the heels for years. Before he put it together. Um, so I'm not sure. Ronnie turned pro 91. So he was a pro for seven years before he won. Yeah. Yeah. There he is. And he, and he didn't turn pro young. Yeah. Yeah. Look at this. Years. Wow. That's all injectable aminos. That's all injectable aminos. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Link in my body. Chase. Yeah. Where could you even get this? Well, you're so right about him hittinGHis stride because his, his consistency of improvement from show to show is just every show. Yeah. He's still growing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's probably the closest thing to Ronnie right now. I would. Yeah. And his waist never budges. He stays lean enough where he can be productive and grow and that doesn't have to blow out his joints to look at his knees in that, that picture Paul just had up. He's got the tiniest knees. Yeah. Yeah, man. Like, yeah, you're right. Holy crap. Yeah. Not good for power lifting, but great for bodybuilding. Yeah. Yeah. What do you guys think of, uh, the classic physique division, Mike Summerfield and Wesley? IMean, Wesley looks great. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He always looks great. You know, like he's, he's so lean all the time and I don't know how good of a thing that might be. Like he's, IMean, he's a proper offseason. Yeah. To grow his legs. IMean, he's long, long term. It just, he'll kill all the time. Yeah. I think long term, it's just, it's going to, it's not going to be the most effective approach. It's hard on the body. It's hard. You have to be so precise to make progress. You know, like the big thing right now is everyone pushing the, you know, you don't need a surplus to, to, you know, add new muscle, which is true, but you need to eat more calories than you burn to gain body weight, you know? And so if you don't have any body fat, you know, and so the only new muscle is going to have to come from, you know, you can't lose those calories from body fat anymore. You just have to be so precise. I think it just gets harder and harder the further along you get. IMean, if you're trying to stay that lean, the margin. He had one, he had one like part after the Olympia, like, like a couple, I feel like it was a couple of weeks where it looked like he had put on like a little bit of water weight, but then it was just like, like he always looks like I watch him daily. You know, I see every day he's got this, this picture where he like, he's ending the days he's in his bathroom. He's like doing a, a, a bicep pose, filming the mirror behind. Yeah. Everything's just fucking peeled. And it's like, yeah, at the end of the day, well, that's, it's not the body fat so much as the water too. You can stay pretty lean. It's, it's hard to be dry. And I don't want to, IMean, I don't want to say anything, you know, cause I don't know anythinGHe's doing at all, but it's hard to stay dry, big and healthy forever. No, he's got the healthy part covered. I talked with him private and he seems to know what he's doing. I've heard the same thing. I've heard that. I've never talked to him. He was pretty open about it. When I interviewed him, he talked about his, all his protocols and stuff. IMean, it was, IMean, he seems like pretty modest, pretty modest. Yeah. And again, he's, he's, you know, a student of the sport. So he follows all the guys that educates regarding safety. And like I talked with him, he talked to his Dr. Dean, a couple other people. And of course he's got a great coach. I'm sure he tries to stay as healthy as possible. Yeah. I think it's like a proper offseason to really grow his legs. And again, he had a little bit of nerve impingement in his, in his calves. So those are hard to grow. Yeah. He had lower back problems. So, IMean, he bought an entire new gym to grow his legs, but of course a year offseason would do him really well. Yeah. I really, I really hope he wins, but yeah, I don't, I, I, I'm just, I'm curious about, you know, how lean he stays. And I'm just not sure about that. I know he's looking freaky, man. He doesn't even look like a classic guy. He looks like a body butter. Yeah. He looks like a fucking body butter. Well, Wesley looks like his kryptonitis. If he's, you know, even relatively flat, he just loses his legs. They still look great, but they're just underwhelming. Yeah. Well, you can see that. Also, you can see the, the, the structure of kind of a wider waist and flatter quads. It's really, if you look at that, what he's done, I'm able to do is pretty impressive. Yeah. Yeah. Oh my gosh. Mike. Yeah. His physique is crazy. Yeah. Crazy. Yeah. If Wesley can bring this fullness, if Wesley can bring this level of fullness, he'd, he'd be a real good contender, but yeah. Mike is a lot. Something that's really interesting about Mike. You mentioned that Mike has, though, it's just so awesome. Oh, it's a bandaid. Something interesting about Mike is that he is what I've heard from my massage therapist who works on Mike. Cause Mike has been in Chicago for a little bit. I don't know if he's still here, but he was working out at America's gym, which is about an hour away from me. He is basically like a nomad. He doesn't have a home base. He's always traveling. He's always, always on the road. He looks out of a suitcase. Like I would just like, wow. That blows my mind. Like, yeah. He wanted to come to Thailand for the Mr. Olympia for the Mr. For the Arnold part. He wanted to come here for the Arnold part. And I told him, don't do it. It's too much distraction. You need to be somewhere. Yeah. There's, there's too much stuff going on here. And, and, you know, I can hook him up with every, everythinGHe needs. Um, but I think Thailand is not a suitable place to do a contest prep. Whether you live in Bangkok, or patio, it's just too noisy, too crowded, too much pollution. Go to Kuwait. IMean, what do you think? Yeah. Kuwait would be better. You can live like a hermit. You know, why do you think Aaron moved after a while? I was just done with it. It's like, fuck this, you know, going to the, to a bodybuilding, uh, country. IMean, I don't know if Vegas is much better. Yeah. There's a lot of distractions there. Yeah. You can avoid it though. Vegas is almost hard. If you live there, like if you live in Henderson, it's kind of a, it's kind of work to get it down to the strip. You know, you can't, you have to go finding it, you know? Yeah. IMean, like the Jimmy goes through here, it's like way out. It's not in like Chicago city. Like it's, it's, it's a drive for me to go out of the city. So it's probably pretty cheap to live or be in, like when something out there. Right. Dude is living the dream, man. That's just being a no man. I don't, I'll be at the Arnold for like four or five days. It'll take me a month to get back to where I was before I left. I don't know how. Yeah. Yeah. When I heard that, I was like, are you serious? That's, that's, IMean, that's, that's really impressive to me. So just like always be on the road. Like, that's crazy. I don't know if that's still it. Like I was told that. Cause he's been here for a while. As far as I know, I'm pretty sure it was like a year ago that I was told. Now he said that on a podcast recently, Chase, he said that him and his girlfriend, like they don't have a house. Like they literally just like Airbnb it, like travel wherever. Like, and that was recent, like within the last couple of weeks. Oh wow. Yeah. It's wild. Like they just decided they didn't need a home base. It was interesting. Like he talked a lot about like how they met and like when she started competing, but like, they just kind of decided like, yeah, like we don't need to have some place. And they just, I just can't imagine having, having no things and you just, you got your suitcase and what you got on it and whatever you buy. I did it for a year also. It's great. Yeah. Yeah. I traveled to Asia for a year. I didn't look like Mike. I looked like skinny fat dad bod, you know, I gave up bodybuilding completely because I was like traveling. So I wanted to see stuff like Mike is just living somewhere. And then when he's bored with that place, he goes somewhere else. And as long as there's a Walmart and the gym, I think he's happy. You know, he's doing great, man. IMean, all things considerinGHe looks absolutely phenomenal. And the brokers that he's making show to show is, is, is insane. You know, Neil is really workinGHis magic on him. It's like, part of me thinks like that would be super stressful. Like always being on the road. But the other part of me is like, maybe it would not like it would be the opposite. No, it isn't. Cause you got like, you got like nothing, nothing to worry about. Like in that regard, like your things, you know, you get bored of a place, you just move on. It's like, you get bored of the people, you get bored of the gym, you just go somewhere else, you start fresh. Yeah. And, you know, yeah, it's hard to get close to people, obviously, but it'd be something to that, you know? IMean, cause you have to do that before kids, just before kids. I'm almost on the tail end of my kids are going to be adults here soon. I think that's kind of the way I want to live my retirement life. Yeah. We've talked about, we've, we've talked about the same thing, uh, either buying something in like Mexico or, or just live in different places for a while, but just, just move around or see where you're like it's like buying right now with the housing market everywhere worldwide. It's just not a good idea. I would wait a couple of years. Uh, I got a nine year old at home. So it was, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.