 Warning, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. All right, folks, big Paul here today with another muscle rants. I want to talk about the biggest study on gettinGHuge on hypertrophy that's ever been done and no one seems to pay any attention to it whatsoever. The data is there, the examples are there, the examples are there, it is a huge, a huge group, a huge cohort that nobody pays attention to, nobody talks about, none of the science nerds, none of the science nerds, none of the bro scientists talk about this, none of the bro scientists talk about this, they're out looking for obscure research articles that are on 60 year old diabetics or rhesus monkeys or rats or whatever and trying to apply that to gettinGHuge and bodybuilding and there's a gigantic ginormous sample size of people in the world. People who have gotten absolutely massive and zero people who have gotten massive and zero people pay attention to it. Before we dig into that, I want to remind each and every one of you about the science of anabolics and PEDZ course by researcher Kurt Havens and myself. That is up on the anabolic bodybuilding website. It is 60 plus hours of content and over 100 modules on PEDs. It's where science meets professional, bodybuilding. So we kind of have the marriage of both practicality. There's both anecdote and actual scientific information in there that you can tap into on what actually works. We have detailed information on the blast and cruise methodology and cycles that the pros use that actually work and the science behind why they work. You can pick it up over at the anabolic bodybuilding website right now. And enough of that stuff, folks, we're going to dig into the biggest study. ever done on hypertrophy in just one second. all right, I'm going to channel some Dante Trudell here. Dante was one of my early mentors in bodybuilding. Dante trened me along. long time ago in the early 2000s, Jesus Christ, 25 years ago. And I remember Dante talking about everybody, even back then, there was, you know, the science nerds that wanted to look at what, what it took to get huge. And there is a gigantic sample size of what it takes to get huge. That's just sitting right in front of everybody's fucking face that nobody pays any attention to whatsoever. And that is the thousands of people that have turned into professional bodybuilders. It's right there in front of you sitting right there in plain sight. And yet I hear nobody talking about the commonalities that all bodybuilders share that have reached an elite level of bodybuilding. And even, I hear people talking about the commonalities that all bodybuilders share that have reached an elite level of bodybuilding. And I hear people saying, you know, the most important thing that's going to be the next big thing that's going to make people huge. And yet, right in sitting in plain sight, in front of everybody, there is a gigantic sample of people that have already done it. And nobody looks at it. Not a damn person. Now I take that back. There are a few people out there that look at it. And they're usually the guys getting big. Now look, there's nothing wrong with science. I'm not trying to be an anti-science guy. I have a degree in science. I studied computer science and data analytics when I was in college. I worked in a very science-based industry for 20 years. I'm all about science, but sometimes anecdote matters. And we have this giant sample size of professional bodybuilders. I will say this, and there's going to be the people that come out of the woodwork and say, well, you can't use those people because they have elite genetics. There are plenty of bodybuilders that don't have elite genetics. But I'll give you this example. Genetics are clear in basketball. I use basketball as an example of genetics all the time. You can see if a guy is 6'10", clearly he is going to have an advantage over the dude that's 5'10 playing basketball. But that doesn't change the fundamentals of a good jumper. A good jumper is still the same for a 5'10 guy as it is for the 6'10 guy. It does not change. And you can look at how that guy crafted his basketball game and still get some clues on what might work for you. Now, granted, you're not going to want to eat or tren exactly the way some elite bodybuilders do. The guys that are at the top of the Olympia stage, they probably could do just about anything and be professional bodybuilders. I will grant people that. But there are tons of dudes that had to scrape and claw their way up to be huge. There's only about 5 or 10 dudes, I would say, that are truly elite in bodybuilding. And there's something like 10,000 professional bodybuilders. All the rest of the guys have really great physiques. A lot of these dudes have had to really scrape and claw their way up to being where they're at. They've had to work hard. I'm an example. I put on 70 pounds of stage weight over my course of competing. I wouldn't say that I have elite genetics in any way whatsoever. I would say my genetics are very average, maybe slightly above average. I don't know. I am by no means genetically elite for bodybuilding, but somehow IManaged to get a pro card through common sense and hard work. And I think this is the thing that's really escaping people right now. Everybody misses the forest for the trees, so to speak. They're getting focused on minutiae. They're getting focused on semantics. They're getting focused on crap that just doesn't fucking matter. And just drilling into this, I know it makes great content and the controversy and all this stuff. And it's always the people that are never big, that don't look like they lift, that are getting into it. Now, that's not to say you can't, you don't, it's not a prerequisite to be big to know what you're talking about. IMean, clearly you look at some of the top bodybuilding coaches, you know, Hani Rambat and guys like that, that are great at what they do. You know, they're not elite level bodybuilders. It's not saying that you had to be an elite level bodybuilder. You know what the hell you're talking about. There's plenty of really smart, great coaches out there that aren't elite level bodybuilders. But those people are students of bodybuilding and figured out what worked for those bodybuilders. So, really, if we think about this in a common sense kind of way, most guys that have gotten to the top of the bodybuilding ladder, have gotten pro cards or top level national competitors, they all pretty much do the same shit. They all pretty much tren the same way. They all pretty much eat the same way. And they all pretty much take the same PEDs. It's very similar. There are some variations between them. But, IMean, really, when we look at trening, everybody trens with some sort of progressive overload for the most part. They tren intensely. Most dudes are using either a PPL or a bro split. I would say bro split is probably the most commonly used routine within the bodybuilding community. Diet-wise, there aren't elite bodybuilders. There aren't elite vegan bodybuilders. There aren't elite keto bodybuilders. There aren't elite carnivore bodybuilders. And, look, I know all the people that do the fad diets are going to come out of the woodwork and be pissed off at me. But most elite bodybuilders, they eat the same shit. They eat meat and rice. And they just repeat that over and over and over and over again. Not, you know, look, there's going to be vegetables and other shit that are tossed in there. But they eat, basically eat meat and rice five to six times a day for ten years fucking straight. They tren the same way. They probably do a bro split or a PPL with some sort of moderate to higher volume. You know, there are some dudes that do lower volume. But for the most part, everybody trens kind of the same. And they progressively get stronger as they get bigger. They tren with some intensity. They're in the gym five to six days a week, usually. Most dudes. I don't know, really, of anybody that's an elite bodybuilder currently that trens three days a week. You know, people come up with all these fucking crazy ideas on what you should be doing with trening. They all pretty much do the same thing in the gym. And they all pretty much take the same damn PEDs. High-dose testosterone. They take growth hormone hormone hormone. You know, usually they take a fair amount of growth hormone hormone hormone. They progressively work up the PEDs as well. And then they use whatever anabolic or anabolics that they can tolerate. Well, most dudes I know that are top pros, it's Test, GH, and then either Primabolin, Masteron, or EQ that they're using for their primary anabolic. And then they sprinkle other shit in there as needed. They're not running exotic compounds. They're not using peptide XY42 for Bulgaria that, you know, that might inhibit myostatin and, you know, make your butthole pucker like a starfish and do all this weird stuff to your mitochondria. You know, hell, half the guys that are pro bodybuilders, if you ask them what they take, they don't even understand what they fucking take. I don't know if you've ever heard, like, Ronnie Coleman talk about what he took. He didn't even know how much he took. He just took what Chad told him to take. And he got huge. So, IMean, it's just very simple, straightforward stuff. The thing that most people don't want to hear, the elite guys aren't, they don't have some super secret cycle where they're using, you know, five milligrams of microdose DHB before their workout. They're not, they're not doing, you know, they're not taking their GH every hour and a half and setting their stopwatch and, you know, you know, doing, you know, stupid injection protocols. They're just doing simple shit. They take their GH before they go to bed. They run a gram of test. They take EQ or more than a gram. They take nine, 10 units of growth hormone hormone hormone. They eat a bunch of fucking meat and rice. And they tren really hard. They tren progressively and they're in the gym five or six days a week. That's the formula. That's the formula for gettinGHuge and do it for eight to 10 years straight. That's it. All right. You know, and it's funny to me. And I'm surprised that somebody hasn't done a deeper dive into it and done some sort of analysis on it. It's, it's, you know, all the muscle nerds. And I look, I'm a muscle nerd. I love muscle nerds. I interview guys all the time that are muscle nerds. I follow all the muscle nerds. I like getting into the weeds myself. I, you know, I enjoy getting into the weeds too. But it's just surprises me that nobody has tried to go look at all the commonalities between all the, you know, there's been thousands, probably 10,000 or more professional bodybuilders over the last 20 to 30 years. And seeing what all of the guys have in common. You know, what are the trens? You know, how much are they taking? What are they taking? What kind of diet are they following? What kind of trening protocol are they following? Everybody wants to reinvent the goddamn wheel and come up with some new creative, inventive way to do things. And the formula, the blueprint has been in front of us for 30 years. IMean, you look at guys, really, it's been established since probably the early 1990s. There were some leaps forward in physiques. But really, if you go back and look at the guys in the 90s, they aren't really any different than they are now. I'm pretty sure Dorian Yates could stand on stage at the current Mr. Olympia and do quite well. I'm pretty sure that, you know, you know, Kevin LeVron from 1999 could step on the Olympia stage right now and give everybody a run for their money and maybe win. So, really, nothinGHas progressed that much, even though we have, you know, a lot more science at our side and super analytical people. Things really haven't changed. The actual formula for being a top performer really hasn't changed that much. And I know people are going to argue the genetics thing and, you know, these guys can do whatever they want. And it's always the people that are never big that say that shit. You know, look, I am all for being smart. I'm all for finding better ways. I'm all for finding ways to be safer. I will say that is one thing that has progressed quite a bit in bodybuilding. Guys are more mindful of their health now. Guys are doing things in a safer way. I'd say, you know, the science people that have gotten involved, the medical professionals that have gotten involved in bodybuildinGHave definitely improved the safety profile of bodybuilding. But it's, at the end of the day, still the same principles apply if you want to get huge. It's just a grind. There really are no shortcuts. You got to tren hard. I don't know where this, it's just wild to me. If you went back and asked Dorian Yates about fatigue management, if you went back and asked Kevin LaVrone about fatigue management, or Ronnie Coleman about fatigue management, they probably wouldn't even know what the hell you're talking about. If you, you know, we're talking about the optimal angles for load and how, you know, the terriers major is loaded under, you know, angle at 48 degrees. I don't think that Phil Heath or Ronnie Coleman would give two fucks about that. Just get in the gym and tren hard. Really? IMean, that's really what it boils down to. tren hard, tren progressively, do it consistently five, six days a week for years on end. Take basic PEDs, GH, testosterone, maybe some insulin. I don't know. Everybody thinks insulin's the secret. I'm a fucking diabetic and I can tell you I was fat and out of shape. I wasn't giant before I started lifting weights, taking insulin. So, insulin really isn't that much of a secret, but people want it to be. Anyway, that's a whole other episode I can make on its own. But, folks, the answers are right in front of you, man. Everybody is overcomplicating shit. Everybody is overthinking shit. Everybody is overanalyzing stuff. And nobody is seeing the forest for the trees. Take the 30,000 foot view and look at the dudes that have done it. The guys that have been there. The guys that have done it over and over. I'm not saying the elite. Maybe the guys that have had to grind their way up. Ask yourself, what the fuck are all of them doing? Take a step back. Think about what they're doing. How they had success. And then replicate it. Clues are in the past, man. If you look at what the successful people have done, no matter what it is, there is clues left behind from their process. All you have to do is just look for them. They're right there in front of your eyes. All right, folks. That's all I got for you on this one. Let me know what you think in the comments section below. I appreciate each and every one of you. You rock. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.