 WARNING, WARNING, this content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. WARNING, this video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, this video is brought to you by first detachment nutrition, battle tested, expert formulated, expert formulated, use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. All right folks, big Paul here today, and I'm going to tell you about why I think D-ball is the trashiest of all trash steroids. People get very passionate about this. People get very passionate about this. People get very passionate about this. They get upset when we say this. I'm going to give you my reasons why. There are some exceptions to the rule. There are some people that respond well to D-ball, but I would say 90 to 95% of people do not handle D-ball well, and I'm going to talk about why in just one second. Real quick, before we get into this, I want to tell you about the Building Effective Cycles cheat sheet that I have up on the Anabolic Bodybuilding website. It is a quick reference guide to show you how to build a bulking or a cutting cycle in all the potential compound choices. There's like 30 or so compounds and the side effects that are associated with them. I have it on sale right now for 15 bucks, an introductory sale. It's so cheap, it's almost free. It's a simple four page document, an infographic that's going to show you how to put cycles together. Go pick it up before the price goes up to 30 bucks. All right. So D-ball, this is a hot type of thing. D-ball, this is a hot topic. I have mentioned this many times and people get very hot and sweaty, bothered about this when I talk about D-ball being trash. And it is the trashiest of trash steroids as far as I'm concerned. If steroids were to grow a mullet, D-ball would have a mullet. It is the trashy steroid that lives in the trailer park. D-ball is a garbage steroid. It's a bro steroid. Believe me, I'm going to get a lot of people that are going to get angry and say, well, you just don't know how to use it. You've never used it before. I did tons of D-ball when I was younger. I never got anything from it, but gyno, bloating, fake gains. And it just, it just did nothing for me. And I wasted a lot of time with D-ball, lower back pumps. My blood pressure went through the roof. Thank God I'm not prone to acne. If you're somebody who gets acne, you're going to look like a cheese pizza with extra pepperoni. If you, if you take D-ball, everybody that's prone to acne, just look the fuck out. If you are prone to gyno, you better look the fuck out. And I think the fool's goal with D-ball, and this is where guys get themselves tripped up. When I talk about cruising for three or four months on TRT or bodybuilding TRT, whatever the hell you want to call it. And I hold on to most of my gains and don't lose a ton of weight. People are like, how is that possible? You're full of crap. You're lying. And I think it's the bros that run these stupid D-ball cycles or a lot of them, because you gain a bunch of fake weight. It's nothing but water and mineral retention. You'll put on 20 pounds in six weeks. You look great in your t-shirt at the club. You look great in your t-shirt at the frat party. You don't look so great in the posing room. You look like a bloated fat mess in the posing room. With your gyno boobies and your acne back and your puffy face. But I guess it looks good when you're strutting for the girls with your t-shirt on. I got my black strutting t-shirt on. So I can see why it's attractive. Your strength goes through the roof quickly. You have thesEQuick fake gains. And then you come off and you lose all of it. It's all gone. You come back down to the weight you were before. So people think that you just lose all that. It's not real tissue. You don't gain 20 pounds of real tissue at six weeks. So I think this is why people get fooled by D-ball. And then just assume that what everybody else does is trash and they must be lying when they say they come down to TRT and hang on to things. That is years and years and years of a crude real tissue protein structures. Not a bunch of bloat. Now there are exceptions to the rule. I will acknowledge that there are some people that tolerate D-ball really well. There are some dudes that can handle D-ball and do great with D-ball. But I'm not one of them. And I would say 95% of guys I encounter are not one of them. If you are prone to gyno. If you are prone to acne. If you are prone to estrogen conversion. If you are prone to high blood pressure. You need to stay the fuck away from it. You're going to grow boobies. You're going to have acne. You're going to have high blood pressure. You're going to feel like crap. You're going to look like crap when you're on it. And you're not going to retain anything from it. Now the guys that are the exception to the rule. And they're rare. They're probably like one out of 20 people I encounter. Are the dudes that are low estrogen converters. Usually the super skinny guys. The guys that are hard gainers. The guys that can't gain weight. Those are people that sometimes can benefit from D-ball. It will put some weight on them. It's something that you can supplement on a cycle. For a guy like that. That may not convert estrogen. But for the rest of us. D-ball converts to methyl estradiol. It is like. If estrogen took steroids. That is methyl estradiol. It's essentially what birth control is. And methyl estradiol. From what I understand. Binds with more affinity to the ER. Causes side effects to be more pronounced. You're going to have all sorts of issues. If you're prone to estrogen related side effects. Like I am. If you convert at a high level. Like I do. You're going to be in trouble. There are better options too. So I would even say. Anadrol is probably a better option than D-ball. If you were going to do something. In an off-season cycle. That's going to produce legit gains. You'll see it. Most pros. Most guys that are advanced bodybuilders. Went through their D-ball phase early on. And then they realize. Later on. That it's trash. And it doesn't work. And a lot of times guys will use. A bit of anadrol towards the end of a cycle. Or they use no orals at all. I think a lot of guys get to a point. Where they just stop using orals. Because of the stomach distress. And how it screws up your blood work. Or they limit them to very short periods of time. Like I'll limit my oral use to. At the end of contest prep. Hell I'm four and a half weeks out yet. And I haven't even started using orals yet. Probably throw them in here in the next week or two. And in the offseason occasionally. I will use some anadrol towards the end of a cycle. Or just on periodic days. Where I need an extra kick in the pants. I'll run some anadrol to help. But for the most part. I stay away from orals. At this point in my journey. If I were young. And I went back in a time machine. And went back to the young Paul. I would tell Paul to stay away from D-ball. Maybe run some anadrol. Even anadrol can cause gyno issues. Or just use anadrol. Or stick with a better injectable. That's going to have less side effects. There really is nothing that you can't do with an injectable. Better than what D-ball does. I would argue that Equipoise is a million times better. Than D-ball in every possible way. Without all the shitty side effects that come along with D-ball. Now like I said. There are exceptions to the rule. There are rare people. That may benefit from using it. But I would say most dudes. If you got a body fat over 10%. If you're prone to gyno. If you're prone to acne. If you convert estrogen at a high rate. You need to run for the hills. And stay away from D-ball. All right folks. That's my D-ball rant. You want to tell me how wrong I am. Or you want to share your crappy experiences with D-ball. Or your great experiences with D-ball. Put them in the comments section below. I would love to hear from you. I love each and every one of you. Even the guys that use D-ball. My gym bros. We're all in this together. Thank you for your support. Take care. For coaching or consultations. Head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones. Fat loss. Muscle gain. Physique. Athletic performance. Nutrition. And health. For more information. Shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.