WARNING! This content is for entertainment and educational purposes only. This video is brought to you by Versed Detachment Nutrition. Battle tested. Expert formulated. Use discount code AB10 at checkout for 10% off. Hey bros, Big Paul here. Today, I've got some bad news for you. I'm breaking up with deca. I'm over deca. Deca is no longer my friend. We had a very long and prosperous relationship together. Also includes you, Mr. MPP. And I'm going to talk about why I'm done with deca in just one minute. It pains me to say this, but I think my relationship with deca and MPP are over. Maybe I'll change my mind down the road, but I think I'm done for good. Every time I try to use MPP or deca, Nandrolon, for those of you that know the scientific name for it, it's like spin the wheel with side effects anymore. I don't know what changed in my body. I used to run Nandrolon all the time and never had issues. And the last couple of times I've tried to run it, it's been nothing but problems. It's anxiety and panic attacks. Sometimes it's erectile dysfunction. Sometimes it's a gyno flare up. It's been a horrible experience for me the last few times that I've tried to run it. I tried to use it twice last year, I think. And out of my, not my, this past rebound. Well, yeah, actually I did try it a couple of weeks and then I just slid back into TRT this past offseason. I decided not to do a rebound. After two weeks of being on it, I just was havinGHorrible panic attacks and couldn't sleep. Now I can still handle Tren in low doses. That doesn't seem to bother me like deca or MPP, Nandrolon, whatever you want to call it does. But somethinGHas changed in my body and it makes me sad because Nandrolon is my favorite PED for size. It has always been my favorite PED for size. Nothing puts size on me like Nandrolon does. It makes my joints feel great. I put on nice size. I get strong as hell when I'm on Nandrolon. Everything fills out nicely. I get nice round and full, but I can't handle it anymore. It doesn't matter how low the doses are. Doesn't matter if I control my estrogen. Doesn't matter if I stack it with other things. I've tried running Nandrolon only cycles in the past. Doesn't agree with me. It seems like my days of running Nandrolon are over. And I've noticed that with a lot of people I talk to that as they get older, they seem to have more problems with Nandrolon, deca and MPP. It causes them issues that I am experiencing and they have to steer away from it. And I think it's one of these things that changes as you get older. It's just like when I was younger, I used to love running things like Anadrol and dbol. I can't run those things now that I'm older. I can't run a lot of orals. I really have to limit the orals to just a tiny bit before the end of contest prep, before I get on stage. If I start running orals in any extensive amount during the offseason, I end up with serious gut issues, acid reflux, my appetite goes to crap, I feel awful. And now I can add deca to that list. Anymore it seems like really all I can handle in any given time in large amounts is test, Primobolan and GH. Those seem to be what I tolerate the best. Well contest prep, I'll shift over to some Masteron. I do like Primobolan over Masteron because Primobolan seems to give me more size and fullness than Masteron does. Masteron tends to drive me out. I don't have the fullness on Masteron that I do with Primobolan. And I guess it's just where I'm at at this point. I don't know how much time I have left in my bodybuilding journey. Probably coming towards the end, I think 50 years is about the most that a lot of people can expect. IMight coming up this year, I'm going to be competing in the over 50 division. So we'll see how it goes. But if I continue to compete, which I don't know how much longer that's going to be, it's probably going to be safe, simple compounds like test and Primobolan. That's what I really have run this past year. I know a lot of people don't believe me when I say this, but I pretty much just did TRT this offseason. Bodybuilding TRT, whatever you want to call it. I was slightly above what would be prescribed TRT, just barely in the super physiological range with a little bit of GH. When I remembered to take it, I was traveling a lot and there was periods of time where I would go a week and a half without taking anything. It just depends. But I'm sad that I don't think I can take Deca or MPP anymore because I do love it. I love the strength that I get from it. I love the size that I get from it. I love how it makes my joints feel, but I can't stand the crippling anxiety. I can't stand the gyno that it causes. This gyno flare up that I have, I ran MPP for two weeks after my show to try to put some size back on and I had to drop it and just shift to TRT. And during that time, I had a massive gyno flare up just from two weeks of running it. And I've got to go get this clened up at some point. Now that gyno was already there from before, but it's gotten worse. I'm going to have to get it clened up now. I just don't think MPP or Deca is in my future anymore. If any of you are having problems with MPP or Deca, let me know in the comment section below. I hate to write this breakup letter to you MPP, but we're just going to have to part ways and be friends. All right, folks, thank you for your support. I appreciate you watching. Take care, everybody. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com.