 pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro pro about why your body needs glucose. I like the thing that bros say all the time that carbohydrates are not an essential nutrient. I'm going to explain all that to you. Why you're wrong about that one and why your body needs glucose to survive and to live. Before we dig into all that, I want to remind you folks about the science of anabolics and PEDZ course that Kurt Havens and I have put together. It is fantastic. There are over 60 hours of videos up there on PEDZ cycles, what the pros are doing, the science behind all of it, side effect mitigation. It is very comprehensive, well put together. There's over a hundred modules in the course. It's fantastic. If you just kind of want a shorter cliff notes version, you're the type of bro that just needs to know the information. You don't want to spend all day watching videos. You don't like doing the deep dyes. I have the ultimate cycle cheats sheet where I will go in and just kind of show you how to put a cycle together. I have on there also PED profiles, side effects, how to manage the side effects. It's sort of thEQuick notes on this stuff so you can just look at it. It's a reference guide. What cycle structure should look like for the blast and cruise method. It's about 30 pages long. It's only 30 bucks if you want to pick it up now. It's still on sale. Anyway folks, that's enough of that stuff. Let's dig in to gluconeogenesis. I know you're excited for this one in just one second. All right. One of the most bro-y of all bro things to say and I hear this argument all the time from dudes and it just drives me absolutely nuts. From the keto cult, the carnivore cult guys, the low carb crew, zero carb crew. Bro, you don't need carbs in your diet. They're not an essential nutrient. There are no essentiALCARbs. I think bros seriously misunderstand what the essential nutrients thing is and how they work. Essential nutrients in nutrition, basically what it means is that your body cannot make those nutrients, those macronutrients on its own. There's essential fatty acids. Those are the fats that your body cannot make on their own. There are essential amino acids. Those are the amino acids that your body cannot make on their own. They need to come from a dietary source. While there are no essentiALCARbohydrates, there's no such thing as essentiALCARbohydrates. There are none that your body can't make on their own. That doesn't mean that your body doesn't need glucose to survive. There are certain mechanisms in the human body that absolutely require glucose for you to live and for you to be able to function. And your body will make glucose on its own if you're not eating glucose. So even if you're doing that keto or carnivore diet where you're not eating carbs and you think you're miraculously curing yourself of all diseases because you don't eat carbohydrates, your body's still making glucose. And what it's doing most of the time is it's using a process called gluconeogenesis where it is deriving your glucose from mostly amino acids or other substrates that are part of gluconeogenesis. But for the most part, it's just amino acids being broken down into glucose because your body needs it for things like your brain and CNS function, kidney function, retinas, muscles, glycogen synthesis, things like that. IMean, if you're in a completely star state, you're not going to be probably storing muscle glycogen, but you still need some liver glycogen. Your body will make the glucose on its own through other mechanisms. So essentially those rib eyes that you're eating are just really expensive carbohydrates at the end of the day. Your body's still converting those into glucose as needed, as necessary. And another argument I hear from guys, well, your body will make whatever the ones that seem to understand what gluconeogenesis is where your body's just going to make whatever it needs. This is a starvation state. You have to be in a high cortisol state for your body to even get into gluconeogenesis. And your body, there's a bunch of waste products that are nasty. Your body is going to, when you are in gluconeogenesis, it's going to strip the amino acids of their nitrogen and the bi-product is ammonia, which is a toxic substance in the body. You can smell it. If you've ever been in the gym around somebody who's a keto bro, who has done a hard workout, or even if you've just done a hard workout, any of those, you, those of you that have been athletes in the past, I played basketball, I wrestled, I did jujitsu, you get to the end of a hard practice, you notice that you'll smell like ammonia. That is your body being in gluconeogenesis because it is glycogen, IMean, sorry, it is glucose deprived and it is making its own glucose through the process of stripping the amino acids of their their nitrogen and making glucose from that. And they end up smelling like nitrogen. Your breath will smell like night or smell like ammonia. Your breath will smell like ammonia. Your sweat will smell like ammonia. You'll, you'll see it like, you know, dudes that come home from a football practice. If you've got a teenage kid or you remember when you played and they throw their, their clothes, their sweaty clothes in the laundry and it smells horrible. It smells like, it smells like ammonia. That is from gluconeogenesis. To me, that would mean that probably you should drink an intra-workout carb drink or while you're on the football field. That's where Gatorade came from. They, they figured this out a long time ago, 50 years ago, and they were giving guys glucose drinks on the, on the sideline, which was essentially how Gatorade was developed with electrolytes and glucose. Um, because, uh, glucose is necessary for the sodium potassium pump to work, uh, all sorts of other things that go along with it. So even if you are eating that low carb keto bro diet that cures cancer and, um, you know, gets rid of butthole warts and things like that, you're still making glucose, whether you want to believe that or not. Uh, so let's talk about gluconeogenesis. Uh, gluconeogenesis happens when carbohydrates are unavailable. Glucose is unavailable. The body makes glucose from lactate, amino acids, and glycerol. Uh, low carb states will raise cortisol in glucagon. You will be in a high cortisol state. This is the thing that, another thing that makes me laugh. I just had a argument with a guy on social media the other day. My dumb ass gets in the comment section. Sometimes I just can't help myself. I've been trying to comment section more often. He's like carbohydrates put stress on your man. Your cortisol is high. No, actually when you're carb depleted, cortisol goes up and that helps initiate the process of gluconeogenesis and ketosis that you have to, you have to be in a higher cortisol state for that to even happen. They're gluconeogenesis and ketosis are literally a starvation response in your body. It's like an emergency reaction to not having enough of your non-essentiALCARbohydrates in your body. Uh, typically gluconeogenesis will start eight to 12 hours after having zero carbs. Intense exercise can activate it sooner. As IMentioned earlier, that hard football practice that going out and play a basketball game. I used to love playing basketball, play basketball all day long. And basically I would just drink water and play basketball, get some Taco Bell here and there. But I would come home smelling like ammonia. I remember my mom being like, Oh my God, you smell horrible, Paul. What the fuck is going on? Um, attention exercise can activate it. So carbs and insulin suppress gluconeogenesis. That's why we say that carbohydrates are protein sparing because when you eat carbohydrates, you are saving your body from converting those protein structures into glucose. That's why we say when you eat carbohydrates, they're protein sparing because your body does not need to go into gluconeogenesis to make the glucose that is necessary for important bodily functions to still happen. It's, um, you know, carbohydrates are critical for both brain and red blood cell function and stabilize the blood sugar when food is scarce. Um, how, how much glucose does the body convert on a daily basis? When in a low carb state, the liver produces approximately one milligram of glucose per pound per minute through gluconeogenesis. So a 200 pound dude is going to make about 12 grams of carbs per hour. Now it's a very expensive process. I don't have the exact math on it, but it's not a one-to-one trenslation from, from grams of proteins and into carbohydrates. So you're these high protein, low carb diets. You're really just burning up a lot of that protein through a toxic process, essentially a starvation state where you're making the glucose through gluconeogenesis and you're raising cortisol and you're, uh, having ammonia, uh, you know, as a waste product. It's so your body's still making it. So we can do the math on it, you know, 12, 12 grams per, IMean, you're, you're making two, 300 grams per day. So upwards of that. And what we've seen something like, and this has just been sort of my anecdote from coaching people and doing nutrition for years, you, you need somewhere around 150 to 200 grams of carbs per day for basic body function. If you're lifting, you get below that. IMean, we, we need to do that sometimes when we're trying to burn fat, yes, when you take carbs very low, you are forcing your, your body to burn, um, fat as well. You do need to be in a calorie deficit to burn fat. But ideally, like last year on my contest prep, I don't think my carbohydrates ever got below 200 grams per day ever on my contest prep. And I got stage shredded five, five and a half percent, whatever body fat. I don't remember what I was, but you saw my pictures. I was super lean last year. Uh, I know people are, I get people casting sins. Well, Paul, you're a diabetic. You shouldn't be eating carbs. My diabetes has nothing to do with eating carbohydrates. My body just doesn't make insulin anymore. I am a type one B diabetic. It's genetic, runs in my family, my dad, my uncle, my daughter struggling with it. I have to take exogenous insulin to deal with the carbohydrates that I take, take in. Um, so glucagon, you know, so the effects of gluconeogenesis, glucagon is increased. Uh, glucagon increases gluconeogenesis in a fasting state. Cortisol increases gluconeogenesis as a stress response. Epinephrine stimulates glucose production through the fight or flight mechanism and insulin inhibits gluconeogenesis. So once again, insulin is protein sparing. Now there's going to be some dummy that's going to say, well, why couldn't you just take insulin and not eat carbs? Don't do that. You'll die. Not a smart approach. Uh, so once again, carbohydrates are protein sparing, uh, and they save you from the process of gluconeogenesis. Now let's think about this critically. If you're in a extreme calorie deficits and your body needs fuel to run. A lot of times what I see happen is and you'll see people on these low carb diets, low calorie diets, they end up losing just as much muscle as they do fat. It's like equal parts muscle or equal parts fat. I think in the, I don't remember which, uh, GLP one study it was. I believe it was the retitutide study. Maybe it wasn't. I, one of them I saw where over the course of the year, when people lost all this weight, something like 30 to 40% of it was actual muscle tissue. Now I don't think that has to do with the GLP ones. I think that just has to do with calorie restriction. People are probably not eating enough protein. They aren't eating enough carbohydrates. They aren't exercising. Exercising is probably going to prevent some tissue breakdown, but you, you see where you can be on a diet or in a state where you're low carbohydrate, you're doing a shit ton of cardio. You're lifting weights and you get in a high cortisol state where your body's going to start breaking down muscle tissue for glucose, for energy rather than actually burning fat. And the trick when we're in a diet phase, we want to burn fat. We want to hang on to muscle. That's why I like a carb cycling approach. That's why I think a carb cycling approach makes more sense because you strategically sprinkle in some low carbohydrate days. And then you have days where you're going to replenish glycogen and take the carbs very high. You're going to have medium days where you're getting probably just enough carbohydrates in to keep you from gluconeogenesis, enough to be protein sparing, but yet still burn some fat. Uh, and so why is glucose necessary? Uh, you know, bros are going to ask, why, why do you need glucose? Why can't your body just run off of ketones? We'll, we'll, we'll talk about that. Uh, red blood cell health, uh, red blood cells lack mitochondria. They can't use ketones or fatty acids for fuel. They run entirely off of glucose. So it's necessary for red blood cell health. Uh, the CNS and the brain require glucose. They cannot run entirely off of ketones. Uh, the brain cannot burn fat directly. The brain is fat. Otherwise it would eat itself. Fatty acids cannot cross the blood brain barrier. The brain, uh, can only get something like 50 to 60% of its required energy from ketones. And you pretty much have to be in a starvation state to get into ketosis. And this is another thing I think like a lot of times bros do thesEQuasi keto diets really to get in really a strong ketosis state. You have to be in a low protein on a low protein diet and high fat diet, which is not what most bros are doing. So really what you're doing is eating a high fat, high protein diet. Most of the time is what I see bros doing and your body's just using the protein structures and converting them into glucose through gluconeogenesis. Guys aren't really getting that much from the, the, the ketones. They're, they're actually just breaking down more proteins for glucose. Um, the brain accounts for about 2% of the body weight, but, um, burns something like 20% of the glucose. Now keep, keep in mind, this is not considering a bro that's looking at weights. Certain neurotrensmitters, glutamate, GABA require glucose, uh, pentas phosphate pathway or for NADPH and antioxidant defense, red blood cells and, uh, and glial cells, which require glucose. They run entirely on glucose. Neurons are constantly active in your neurological system. The requiring ATP and cannot directly be synthesized from fat, um, while they're, you know, I don't want to go into, you know, deep into the process, but, um, that's primarily a process that requires glucose, uh, firing action potentials, nerve signals require glucose, sodium, potassium pump requires glucose, um, neurotrensmitter production and recycling requires glucose. Uh, the kidneys require glucose to function as well. It's, I would speculate. I'm, I'm, once again, I'm not a physician or a nephrologist, but I would speculate. That's why you see a lot of guys on high protein, low carbohydrate diets, taking PEDs that end up having kidney problems. Um, the renal medulla, the inner part requires glucose since it has very few mitochondria, the sodium potassium pump and acid balance depend on glucose metabolism. Um, and you'll see it, you'll see it with guys that are on high protein, low fat diets. They, they end up with high uric acids. Um, you have the ammonia that needs to be excreted. It's, it's a toxic state, essentially low glucose or ATP levels apparent, uh, pump function leading to electrolyte imbalances and kidney dysfunction. When you're not eating carbohydrates, you don't have enough carbohydrates. The kidneys depend on the sodium potassium pump for ion trensport, fluid balance and filtration. So it's probably why a lot of times you see guys on hard diets, they're dehydrated. They're eating nothing but protein and fat. They end up with issues. Uh, the retina requires glucose to function. They're highly ATP dependent. Um, and one of the most metabolic active tissues in the body or the eyes muscles require glucose for recovery during, uh, anaerobic exercise muscles produce lactate, which liver converts back into glucose through the Corey cycle. Uh, full ketosis, gluconeogenesis produces around 150 grams of glucose per day, something like that. 150, 200. Um, I know I spit out the numbers earlier that doesn't exactly line up, but you, you get the gist of it. And ketosis typically begins only begins when you'recompletely glycogen, uh, depleted. And also you have to be wanting a low protein diets with high fats. Now you can get in ketosis without it, but you're not going to be in hard ketosis. So I wrap wrapping this up. Uh, there's, there are other benefits for eating carbohydrates in your diet. Um, you know, um, it's just not a conducive environment for growing muscle. I've never seen anybody get to the size needed to be on an open bodybuilder and be on a low carb diet. It just doesn't work. Now I will say this, there are situations. This is the caveat that I'm going to give you where low carb diets are necessary. If somebody is metabolically dysfunctional, they have insulin resistance, they have metabolic disorder, a low carbohydrate diet can be beneficial. If your body cannot utilize the glucose correctly, your insulin sensitivity sucks, uh, a lower carbohydrate, you don't need to go zero carbohydrate, a lower carbohydrate diet can help. In fact, it, there seems, this is another thing that people I think misunderstand when you're eating a shit ton of saturated fats and no carbs. Saturated fats affect the phospholipid layer of the cell and can really fuck up insulin sensitivity. You know, in lab rats, how they make lab rats insulin resistant, thEQuickest way to do it is to just feed them a bunch of saturated fat. And most of the time when you see people that are obese, that are insulin resistant, they have been eating diets that are highly processed foods, which are mostly saturated fats in simple carbohydrates. It's that combination of saturated fats and simple carbohydrates that really do you in. If you're eating good, clen, healthy foods, low saturated fats, high IFAs, you're going to have better cellular health. You are going to have better metabolic function. You are going to have um, better insulin sensitivity. It's just, you know, I would say once again, the rule here, really the rule of thumb is just eat a balanced diet. Don't eat like an asshole and you're going to get better results. Now I do think for bodybuilders, there are things that we can do to tweak performance. We're not eating for health. We're eating for performance for bodybuilding. And I am not a one size fits all kind of guy when it comes to diet, but I do think carb cycling diets are the most optimal for bodybuilding because you're getting the best of both worlds here. You do work in some low carbohydrate days when energy demand is lower, just enough to get by, or sometimes you'll even go zero carbohydrates to force your body to burn a little bit of fat. And you probably have enough glycogen stores from the other days that you're not going to get fully depleted. Anyway, you're not going to go into ketosis. You're likely not going to get in a situation where gluconeogenesis is a problem. You know, when we push these high days. Uh, and the other cool thing with the carb cycling diet is you have the high days. If you're somewhat glycogen depleted, a big guy like me, I can store up to, you know, 1500, 2000 grams worth of carbs as glycogen. I put it to test before. And if you keep the fats low on those days and push the carbohydrates high, you can be in a pretty steep caloric surplus. And in theory, not gaining any fat, it's not that you have violated thermodynamics. What is going on here is that you are manipulatinGHow your body stores energy. That energy has not been burned or destroyed. It can't be through the first law of thermodynamics. That energy is just being stored as muscle glycogen, not fat. And if you look at studies, I think something like 90% of glucose, I forgot to put it in my notes here, doesn't actually make it into fat storage. Glucose needs to go through a process of, um, lipogenesis before it actually, the liver has to convert it into lipids before it even gets stored as fat. I get bros all the time. They're like, all those carbs and insulin is just going to make you fat. No, no, it's the, it's been in a caloric surplus. It's all your shitty fats that you're eating that are making you fat. If you are eating a balanced diet and you're metabolically healthy and you're lifting weights 90% roughly is what I recall seeing from the studies that I saw of those carbohydrates that you eat are going to get synthesized into glycogen. You know, the rest may get converted through lipogenesis. Liver will convert it into lipids and then it can get stored as fat. Whereas fat is already prepackaged, ready to be stored as fat or burned as energy. It's really not much else that goes on there. Anyway, folks, that's all I got for you on this one. Now, you know, the basics of gluconeogenesis, just another reason why low carb diets are dumb. If you're trying to be jacked, if you like your low carb diet, if it's gotten you less fat, if it's made you healthy, rock on, man. That's fantastic. Sometimes low carb diets are necessary to get the body fat off. But once you're lean, you can go back to eating carbs again. They aren't going to kill you. They're just going to make you more jacked. All right, folks, take care. I appreciate each and every one of you. I'll see you on the next episode. For coaching or consultations, head over to www.anabolicbodybuilding.com to book your spot today. I can help you with optimizinGHormones, fat loss, muscle gain, physique, athletic performance, nutrition, and health. For more information, shoot me an email at bigp3rd at gmail.com. Thank you.