It's the end of my Christmas New Year break. I'll be back to work on Monday and I'm really looking forward to going back to work. Sorry, not in a bad way. I just >> Thanks. [laughter] >> I just I just really like my job. I'll remind you you said that in about six weeks time. >> I was still enjoying my job. It's just it's just tiring. >> It is nothing. I know. And it has snowed. It's a light dusting of snow. >> Well, it snows. >> It snowed. >> Very rarely snows here. >> Yeah, snow is rare in South Wales. Snow's even rarer >> where we are by the Gower. Um, and as the sun's coming up, it probably will be gone by the end of the day. >> Yeah, a couple of hours actually. It's already warm, >> but it's a it's a snow. This is probably the closest we've ever come to a white Christmas cuz we're a week or so after Christmas. >> Technically, still Christmas until the 11th. cuz [laughter] it's not it's Christmas until the Epiphany actually. >> Is that right? >> Yeah. >> So, it is a white Christmas. >> I don't think the bookies will pay though. >> No, technically it is though. >> So, if you if you're looking forward to going back to work, um you're doing pretty well, right? I know some years I I don't look forward to going back to work. Can't remember why. Um I think it's all just so much. But right now Oh, and it's probably because I've had a really good break. I've had a proper rest, proper break away cuz I've been off for three weeks, which is really unusual for me. Um, so I'm ready to get back to my routine. If you think about work, um, my work is a large part of my identity, right? I mean, how do you see me? Who do you think I am? All right. When we go back straight into full day of teaching on Monday, year two medicine, we're giving them exams in the following week. Um, so we got loads of stuff in the buildup to that. It's going to be a really busy first week back, but I'm looking forward to going back in and seeing all the students um and doing all the things. I don't know. It's uh um I really like my job and I guess that's one of the big things for 2026 is is um is uh will I be able to keep my job. Universities in the UK are contracting. We've lost around 4450 jobs at Swansea University. I think um I think they finished their voluntary redundancies now and they still got to save more money. So, you know, that's a that's a real fear. And I I really like my job. I really like where I live. I love it here. Um, and the problem with working at a university is that if you lose your job at that university, well, you need to go and get a job at another university, which means another city. You got to got to go somewhere else. And often that means, you know, a few universities in the UK as a whole are contracting cities elsewhere in the world. All right, my top tip for 2026. If you are a learner, if you're learning something, whatever you're learning, my top tip is to teach. Um, as anybody who's done any teaching knows, when you teach, you really learn. What is what's the saying to teach is to learn twice. Um, so one, whatever you're learning, just teach somebody else about that thing that you're learning. It could be anybody, somebody in your family, a friend. You could make a podcast, you could make videos about this thing, but just you doing that little bit of teaching means you have to really understand it to be able to explain it again to somebody else. And that exercise, of course, is a great recall for you because you're you're doing the recall. You're synthesizing that information. It's it's good. It's a good exercise. So, if you want to learn, teach. And it doesn't have to be formal teaching. You just be telling other people about this thing that you found that's really interesting. And that's the other thing is that that teaching is also sharing knowledge. Ah, [snorts] there's nothing better than sharing that story about that interesting thing that you found out, right? Uh, this year I'm going to keep doing what I'm doing. Hey, that's not too complicated. Um, I'm going to continue avoiding conforming for the sake of conforming. I'm going to do the things that are important and useful. I'm gonna keep my job, my work interesting and fun. I'm going to keep students interested and motivated by the wonders of anatomy. I'm going to keep learning. I'm going to keep expanding my knowledge. There's lots of things I'm reading about at the moment which I find very interesting that I didn't know before that I want to know more about. I'm going to keep uh teaching. uh this uh regular habit of making videos every week is really important in pushing me along, pushing my knowledge and understanding along. Um uh keeps me honest. Maybe I'm going to keep looking for happiness cuz it's not a constant state that we're chasing. It's uh peaks and troughs moments. Most of them tend to happen when I'm hanging off a vertical surface to be honest. This is where it starts to get muddy. And that sun is really really getting bright. Um I left social media this year almost entirely. [snorts] Um have not missed it one bit. Um and everything's a bit quieter now which is good. students were pressing me about uh Tik Tok we have we have a Tik Tok star at least one uh in the medicine cohort and uh she was saying I should put videos on Tik Tok at least shorts on Tik Tok and uh you know I've looked at Tik Tok before and I had another good look it's just so noisy I don't know I don't know whether that's a good thing or Yeah. Oh, this is nice. See what I mean? I really like living here. I do a lot. I always have done a lot. And I've been telling myself for years to uh do less, but I always want to do more. And um we I get a lot of leave, which is great. I've never So, I've been working in the university for 21 years. I have never had a year where I've taken all my leave. Uh still haven't this year. But but I think this is I think I was right. I do need to take proper big breaks because it does make a big difference. Uh keeps that enthusiasm or at least your enthusiasm. excitement comes back, your energy comes back. And of course, I'm getting older as well, so I probably do need a bit more time to recover physically as a runner and a climber. I notice my body takes longer to recover. So, I guess my brain is the same, right? >> Woodpecker. >> Woodpecker hole. >> Woodpecker hole. Yeah. >> Oh, yeah. Tree. Never noticed something that before. >> All right, then. Here we go into the new year. Going to work hard. Going to train hard and stay strong. Going to rest hard. Going to do interesting things. Going to learn interesting things. Going to make the world a better place. One year at a time. All right. Uh oh. introductions to brain on Monday. Right. So, they'll be reading about the Brian uh this weekend. Lovely, lovely, lovely.