Go on. See you later. Hey, look at me. It is 4 weeks after tearing my hamstrings to the day and I'm running again kind of. Now the hamstrings are the muscles in the posterior thigh. They're very big muscles cuz the muscles down there lift your whole body weight and the hamstrings run from the pelvis to the tibia and the fibula. So they cross two joints, which means that they can extend the hip, pushing your foot out behind you, and they can uh flex the knee, so folding the knee joint. When you're running, pushing my foot out behind me isn't too bad. But the other job the hamstrings do is when you bring your leg through forwards, you fold the knee, you flex the knee, and the hamstrings control the extension of the knee before you plant your foot. That's where the muscle gets long and my muscle isn't very long. So, I talked about what happened four weeks ago, but I either tore one hamstring in two places or two hamstrings each in one place. And uh so got three hamstring muscles. On the medial side, you've got semiendinosis and semimebrosinosis. On the lateral side, you got biceps femmeris. So, I got pain low down on the medial side and high up on the medial side. And then that bruised a little bit later. And the bruising is the muscle's been torn. The blood leaks out. That's the bruising. And the bruising matched where my pain was. So either like I say, I tore each of those two muscles top and bottom or one muscle top and bottom. And uh you know at the time felt like the worst thing ever. Incredibly painful. Mostly because the muscles are so big. It was only a grade one tear, but because the muscles are so big, it's very painful. So, in the first hours and days, there's a lot of pain, which is great. Limits your movement, lets a good scar of connective tissue form in the muscle, so makes it stronger. Again, that's the first process with the healing. And then after that really my rehab was just trying to keep moving. I could walk a little bit better every day. Muscles heal fast, bones heal fast, ligaments heal slow, tendons heal slow. So in the first instance, uh the aim was to just keep moving, keep loading the muscle, encourage it to repair in an appropriate way, keep the blood flowing and that sort of thing. So when you form that scar tissue, the muscle gets a lot shorter, which is why I'm well, I've got a very short stride length now. I'm shuffling a little bit. Um uh so keep moving. Let the pain be your guide. If it's painful, you're doing too much. The pain is the feedback to let things repair. Same when bones are repairing. If it's painful, stop moving because the bone hasn't knitted together yet. But when the pain starts to go down, then you can start loading it. So, walking was okay. Got better every day. I can actually climb quite well. Couldn't, you know, well, I didn't even think about running. Um, so climbing was better than walking and running. Uh then after so in the third week so I'd been stretching trying to get some length back into the muscles just for those hamstring classic hamstring stretches. Then in the third week I tried some running and this is very much a case of let me see if I can run 500 m or 1,000 m and see what it feels like and if it feels terrible I can turn around and walk home. It felt awful, but it wasn't pain. It was more lots of feedback from the muscle about what I'm doing. But I ran, I think, a kilometer and a half. Couple of days later, I ran 2k. It felt a bit better again. Didn't run on the weekend. And now I'm into the fourth week. Hey, look. Blue bells are out. I ran 4K on Tuesday and I'm going to try and run 5K today. Again, same rule applies. If it's too much, I can just turn around and walk home. Hence the long sleeve cuz I'm not going to get very hot. Um I think my 10k PB is 36 minutes. If I run 5k today, it's going to take me more than 40 minutes. Probably 45 minutes. I'm not running cross country yet. I don't trust myself to be able to lift my foot high enough off the ground to not trip over things again. So shuffle along tarmac is good. And the other thing I've done a little bit of and I might do a little bit more regularly is single leg straight leg deadlifts weighted with a small weight or unweighted and then I can so there's there's much reduced power in the hamstrings on my left side. Um so that'll just you know it's a good exercise to encourage some strength recovery in the muscle to train the muscle to like sort out the propriception on that side like right now I am thinking quite hard about my running it's like my style because if I try and run normally I get very lopsided driving the knee forward so I'm trying my gate is going to be a lot my stride length is a lot shorter. So, I'm cognizant of that. I'm trying to get upright, trying to relax, trying to bring that left foot through so that I'm not scuffing the foot, but it's landing and I'm pushing back so that I've got a reasonably good technique and I'm not ingraining any new bad habits. I've just ticked over the two kilometers and I'm running about eight eight minute kace and actually it's quite nice. It's nice to be outside. It's nice to be able to run. It's nice to be able to run slow. Those little runs last week. It's nice to just actually go out for just going to go for a 20-minute run instead of an hour long run. Um yeah, feels good. kind of except except of course it kind of doesn't feel good. Um so I teach anatomy at Swans University Medical School and I teach on graduate programs as in I teach graduate entry medicine and I teach the physician associates masters program. So we teach the anatomy modules on that which means that we have a bunch of students that have already done something in their past lives and they've come to do something different which means I do get physiootherapists as students talking to me about what's your rehabilitation and that sort of thing. So I did I do get looked after which is nice. Speaking of which actually so physician associates is an interesting role in the UK kind of still finding its place a little bit. um we teach our masters program. One of our students, Caris, uh she started vlogging about six or seven months ago. She's doing the Newport Marathon this weekend. So, she's vlogging about her life as a physician associate student and she's from South Wales and she's a very good anatomist. She did a degree in Cardiff which had a big chunk of anatomy in it. So when we teach physician associates, Chris gives a a presentation at the start and we have four stations where students are looking at this anatomy in a practical way. They're examining the anatomy and I wander around and answer questions and ask questions and wherever Caris is, she's usually the one already doing the teaching. She's got a skeleton at home, so she's a keen anatomist. Um, so if you want to know more about physician associates, what it's like being a physician associates student and in Swansea, you want to find out how her marathon goes in Newport this weekend, go and have a look at her channel. Um, she hasn't got very many subscribers yet, so I'm sure she'd welcome that. Um, I'll put a link below. All right, coming up on my turnaround point. Kim said I should run to the bridge. I can just see her there. So, she's taking a cross country route round to get to this point. So, I almost caught her up. There we go. Oh, that's 2 6. A little bit further, which is nice. Sneak out a few more meters. Gentle stretch, no pain. All right. Well, thank you very much for taking my mind off this and letting me talk about some anatomy. Pretty confident I can make it home on my own. It's downhill now. Actually, downhill's worse with a hamstring tear. Uphill's better. All right, let's