I thought it was me, but the toilet seemed to be out of action. Okay, got a slightly weird idea for you. Um, we're eight weeks into teaching the graduate medicine program and physician associates and that sort of thing. So, we're we're a chunk of the way in. Um, exams are a little way off, but now is not a bad time to start thinking about exams. Um, the second year is going to have exams after Christmas, so November, December, we're there, right? One of my big issues with exams is anxiety. Um, and students anxiety and trying to manage that. As I've said before, what I'm trying to do in an exam is measure somebody's knowledge. And if they have a lot of anxiety, that affects that measurement, right? It's not good for me. It's not good for the student. So, how can we manage that anxiety? And I, um, here's a weird idea. When I was doing triathlon for my first international race, um, I was a little bit overwhelmed by how complex everything was. Not only did I have to do all my training and get myself to the race in peak fitness to perform as well as I could, but that was something I had a bit of experience of. I had to also get to that international race with my bike, with my wheels, with my wets suit, all my kit and my I had to get everything there. Where was I going to stay? How was I going to get there? How was I going to get my bike there? How was I? And Kim said, "If you're racing internationally, you need to get some sponsors to offset some of the costs of all of this." So, it just seemed really complicated and stressful. And normally when I'm racing, I set myself goals, you know, like you do like finish top three or do the bike section in under an hour or be the 10th out of the swim or something, you know, or a series of goals and you might hit one of them. You might hit all three of them. And for this race, I set myself a new goal. The goal was my primary goal was get to the start line. A lot of an exam anxiety comes from thinking about the outcome, thinking about the result, thinking that, oh, if I'm in the exam and my mind goes blank and I can't remember things, it's going to be awful. What happens if I fail this exam? I'm going to have to do resets in the summer. What's that going to mean for my summer? What happens if I fail the resets? What happens if I have to reset the year? You quite quickly snowball into the worst possible future that you can imagine. So instead of setting your goals as the outcome, instead of focusing on the outcome, forget the outcome, think about the start line. How am I going to get myself to the start line of that exam in my best possible condition? Okay, these are the things I have to study. How am I going to arrange my time? How am I going to tick off the things that I'm going to study? I'm going to do different methods of study. I'm going to do teaching and talking to other people and checking my learning and understanding and you know whatever works for you. But you're going to plan it all out. Tick it all off. Train your weaknesses. Keep practicing your strengths. And your aim is to get you to the start line is to get you to the start of the exam. That's your focus. I want to get to the start of the exam in my best possible condition as as well prepared as I can be and then just roll into the exam and see what happens. Pull back a little bit. When somebody tells you not to worry about something or not to focus on something, all you can think about is the thing that you've been told not to worry about, right? So, you got to you got to find a different method. So instead of focusing on the outcomes and getting all that anxiety, focus on getting yourself to the start of the exam in your best possible condition with as much practice as possible. If you're studying for anatomy spotter exams, spend time in the lab studying the models, identifying things, and then when you get into the exam, you'll feel so much more confident, so much more comfortable because you're used to doing this. But focus on the study, the learning, the preparation rather than well I'm not going to tell you what not to focus on because then that's all you'll be able to focus on. Right? So for my race I did all this difficult stuff. I did all the training which I had some experience of and I figured out how to get all my stuff there and I figured out where to stay and how to do all those things I was worried about. That was all the stress and the worry. And when I when I was stood on the start line, my bike was racked, my running gear was ready to go. I was in my wets suit, had me hat, me goggles on, and the horn was about to blow and I was stood on the start line and the race was about to start and I realized, "Oh, I've done it. I've met my primary goal. Oh, this is great. I feel good." And I felt so relaxed. and we dived into the water and I raced and um I got third uh it was the European Age Group Championships. It was for the amateurs and you know all ex-p profofessionals and what have you and uh I got a third. I got a bronze medal um which is uh pretty highly coveted. The race went really well um and I was pretty relaxed. It was good. Do you think I raced better because I was relaxed? I don't know. That was the best result I got in a European race ever or an international race ever, I think. Um, so I'm not telling you to do anything differently. I'm telling you to think about it differently. Think about getting to the start line as well prepared as you can be rather than thinking about the outcome or what could go wrong. Focus on what could go right. Focus on what you've got in your control, right? Focus on the things that you can do. Anyway, it might work. It's worth a go. That reduces your anxiety. You will perform better. the more knowledge you've got, the more practice you've got, the more experience you've got, the more you've been using your anatomy, the easier the the exam will be, honestly. Um, and like I say, now unfortunately is kind of the time to be thinking about it. We're we're enough of a chunk in that you've got enough stuff to be thinking about, and we're a few chunks away. So you you need to get into that regular study habit routine and start employing some of those other methods of uh working with other people, studying consistently, putting your time in um and um practicing your recall. Sorry, it's such a downer to talk about exams, isn't it? Probably probably increased everybody's anxiety, which was the opposite of my intention, right? Uh open day at the university tomorrow. Hope the university I hope the smell's gone by then. My two kids are both coming here to look at courses. Weird. Okay. Um, see you next week.