Inside the heart there are details. We've talked about, you know, whenever we talk about the heart, we talk about the the chambers, the ventricles, the valves, and that sort of thing. But I mean, the details, the ridges, the lumps and bumps, all of these things have got names, and I tend to forget their names because I don't teach this very often. So, I thought if I make a video about it, maybe I'll remember their names. So, let's let's do that. Let's look at the details inside the heart. Some of which you may well have met before and some of which you uh may not. Uh we should probably start where the blood goes into the right atrium or and there are a lot of features in the right atrium. I guess the most uh famous one is the that oval depression there, the fossa ovalis. So the fossa ovalis is what we see in the adult heart or the heart after birth. Um and this is what's left of the forman ovali. The forinovali in the heart um it's a it's an oval hole in the fetus. It's a flat valve. So in the in the fetus when in the uterus the lungs are still growing and the lungs are not the site of gaseous exchange the placenta is. So blood comes in from the placenta through the umbilical vein and that blood eventually gets into the inferior vennea and flows into the right atrium. Now um because the lungs are growing um not a lot of blood can flow through the lungs. So there are alternate routes by which the blood can flow directly from the right side of the heart to the left. Ways of avoiding the lungs, right? And then this one, the forum ovali, it's a one-way flap valve. So it can flap and open that way. So move from right to left, but if you push it from left to right, it'll close against the interatrial septum, which is what we're seeing there. We can see the forovali in the right atrium. And we can also see the forman ovali in the left atrium. Um so that hopefully gives you an idea of where the interatrial septum is. Now uh what happens is that uh sure during the fetal period blood flows from the right atrium to the left atrium left ventricle aorta off around the body it's avoided the lungs. Great. Um but with the first breath the lungs fill with air. Loads of blood flows to the lungs for that gaseous exchange to occur which means that a huge amount of blood flows back into the left atrium from the lungs. More blood means more pressure. Now the pressure in the left atrium is higher than in the right atrium. So that pushes that flat valve of the forom and oval closed um and blood can no longer flow from the right atrium to the left atrium and then over time that will seal up. Although in 25% of people it doesn't about a quarter of people your your forman oval probably would still flat but it never will because the pressure of blood in the left atrium will always be higher. So it'll always be kept functionally closed anyway. Um the forman oval has a a raised edge. uh the limbbus fossa ovalis is that raised edge in fact another feature we can see there do you see how in the right atrium there is a curve uh so if that's the inferior vennea coming in there there's a curving shape um this is the ustation valve yes named after professor ustio there are other things in the body named for professor ustio too Um I think its modern name is the valve of the inferior vennea. It's not really a valve but that that that curving shape directs that blood that comes in through the inferior vennea flows it around and directs it through the forum and ovali in the fetus. So that that shape is a remnant of the fetal circulation as well. Uh the other thing we can see inside the red right atrium is that some of it is smooth and some of it is riged. Um the riged is the pectinate muscle and uh is is bands of cardiac muscle forming those shapes. Now the reason there's a smooth bit and a riged bit is again in the embryo the atria form from a single atrium and the sinus venosis. Now the sinus fenosis is pairs of veins bringing blood into the embryionic heart and the sinus venosis and the atrium will both come together to form the atria and then they'll get divided into the two atria. So the smooth bit is the bit that formed from the sinus vinosis. The uh the ridgy bit is the bit that formed from that single embryionic atrium. And um there's another so where the um smooth bit meets the riged bit that's the crystal terminalis the terminal crest. Um so crista terminalis is where the the sinus becomes the atrium. Of course now in the adult heart it's all atrium. Um that being the oracle. The oracle is part of the atrium. So um yes these the ridges that we see in here that is um cardiac muscle arranged into ridges maybe gives you an indication of how it contracts. Um and these ridges are called like I say the pectinate muscle or the musculi pectinati. Um yeah the other thing the other thing we can see in the right atrium we can see um a red a red round hole in there that is the opening of the coronary sinus. Oh more confusion there are other coronary sinuses. This is the coronary sinus that collects blood from the cardiac veins. So the coronary arteries supply blood to the muscle of the heart. um the the blood the venus blood then from the muscle of the heart is collected in the cardiac veins. Those cardiac veins drain their blood to the coronary sinus. The coronary sinus that's back here. That coronary sinus is now carrying deoxxygenated blood. So it seems very sensible to put it back into the right atrium because then that deoxxygenated blood will go to the lungs and become well oxygenated blood and go off around the body. So the opening of the coronary sinus, how are we doing? I think that's probably all all the atrium stuff. And then if we move from the atrium into the ventricle, um I'm not really going to talk about the valves because we talk about the valves when we talk about general heart anatomy and here we're adding a bit more detail. Um but of course this is an atrio ventricular valve because it's carrying blood from the atrium to the ventricle. The right atrio ventricular valve has three leaflets or three cusps. And of course we see the cordi tendony the heartstrings. Uh the cordi tendony are like guy ropes. Um when the ventricle contracts the cordi tendony support the valve leaflets. As the leaflet gets pushed closed that's good. Stops bloods going into the atrium. But then the cordi tendon stop that very high pressure developed in the ventricle from blowing the valve backwards into the atrium and filling the atrium with blood which would defeat the whole purpose of the exercise. Right? So we've got the cordi tendony. Now the cordi tendony attached to pillary muscles. The cordi tendony aren't very they aren't stretchy. They're inelastic anyway. Um h and they attach to the pillary muscles. Now her pillary muscle a pillar is like um a projection like a nipple. So the right atrio ventricular valve has three leaflets and there are three pillary muscles. The left atrio ventricular valve has two leaflets so has two pillary muscles and the cordi tendony attached to these pillary muscles. So when the ventricle contracts when the muscular wall of the ventricles contract that pillary muscle which is also muscle of the heart myioardium that contracts as well pulls on the heartstring everything works perfectly blood goes where what you want it to and doesn't go where you don't want it to um now when I say we have three leaflets and three um pillary muscles each leaflet does send cordi tendiny No, each pillar does receive cordi tendiny from two leaflets. So, it's not like you got one leaflet anyway. Um, and the pillary muscles are there's an anterior one, there's a posterior one, and then there's a septal one because this is the uh intervententricular septum here. This very thick wedge between the two ventricles. Uh, that's on the right side. Then on the left side, those two pillary muscles are anterior and posterior. And we can see ridges in here as well, can't we? Now, the uh the ridges that we see in the ventricles are the tbeculi carn carnivore. I think literally meaty ridges. Um so tbeculi are the ridges in the ventricles. peectinate muscles of the ridges in the atria. These are the words I always forget. I get them the wrong way around. Tbeculane. Um, and again, um, the arrangement of those ridges kind of shows you how the ventricles contract. Now, like I say, that's the um, intervententricular septum there. Um, can you see this particular ridge coming around here? This gets a name. This is the moderator band. We're in the right ventricle and from the anterior uh pillary muscle, the moderator band is this band of muscle that runs to the interventricular septum. Um it's kind of notable because it can be a useful landmark um radiographically and what have you. But just anatomically in there is the right bundle branch of the bundles of H that are carrying action potentials down to the ventricles from the atrial ventricular node to cause the ventricles to contract. So the right bundle branch of the bundles of H are in are in there. So that's the detail within the heart. Right? Do I remember any better now? Um so we have the pectinate muscles forming the ridges in the atrium. We have the ustation valve forming that curve. The uh delineation between the smooth and the ridges in the atrium is the cris terminalis. We see the fossa ovalis and the opening of the coronary sinus in there. Um and then in the ventricles the uh the the ridges are the tbeculi carne. We have the cordi tendiny, uh, the pillary muscles, the moderator band. Um, and that's probably it, right? Doesn't sound so bad now I've now I've um said it out loud. I think I might remember that in the future. Maybe test me. All right, more detail about the heart. Um, always a fun organ to talk about, right, speak to you next week. Hopefully that was useful and interesting. Hey, it was useful for me. If nobody else, right?