Heat. Heat. Heat. You know that I'm a bog standard anatomist, right? Anatomy teacher. Um, we're all very similar. Most anatomy teachers know more than I do. Uh, what do you reckon? That one maybe tricky. You can see mastoid process, thyroid process. Um, Christmas is coming. I'm tired. It's time for me to take a break because that's what you do at Christmas. You take a break. I hadn't noticed, but um we started the new integer students at the beginning of September, end of August. I've almost done a solid four months without a break. It's the same every year. This autumn winter term is really tiring. It's tiring for staff because it's a long chunk. New students get there's a lot going on with new students. Um, we do a lot of teaching. It's a big block of teaching. Students get tired. Year two students have got exams after Christmas, so they're going to continue to get tired, but they have just had a clinical placement. It's probably made them more tired first. Anyway, also the days are really short and it's really dark, so tired, worn out, need a break. Uh name the move indicated by the pin or describe one function of the nerve or describe one loss of function if the nerve is severed is say injured. at the site classic post. The stars have aligned or the teaching timets in this case such that I can take next week off. There's just not that much teaching. There's really a tiny bit of teaching which I've delegated. So, if I can take next week off, I can take three weeks off over Christmas and play a huge number of video games. That's mostly what I got planned. Bitter seeing family, a lot of video games, and just generally recover. I'm going to finish Balders's Gate 3. Got stuck on the final encounter. I didn't realize there was another bit. And oh, it's so tough. I'm going to finish that. I'm going to get the kids to help me with that. Going to finish Breath of the Wild at last and a whole bunch of others. Anyway, um [snorts] teaching is really tiring. I would say I don't know, but we we know we know that thinking hard and stuff like if you're studying and learning that's really tiring, right? Standing in front of a room for half a day remembering stuff and structure and speaking engaging the audience to see if they understand and explaining things in different ways and it's really really tiring. it it isn't entirely understood. There's a whole bunch of theories why using your brain a lot is tiring and you need to sleep and things like that. But um it is like Mondays I'm really tired after teaching all day on a Monday. So I'm going to recover and then I'll start 2026 enthusiastic, fresh, and ready to go. Ready to run exam papers and mark all those lovely exam papers so the students can show me how much they've learned in a year and a third of studying anatomy. Um, I get asked a lot of questions, which is great. Um, but remember that I'm not a clinical doctor. If you have clinical problems, go speak to a clinical doctor. I have a PhD. I have a fascination with the human body and biology and the world in general and how everything works, but I don't necessarily know how to put things back together again. More importantly, I don't have experience of diagnosing problems and then putting things back together again because I'm not not entirely interested in that sort of thing. um anatomy teachers around the world. I've met anatomy teachers all over the place and in the UK and we all know human anatomy. Funny that we all know things and we also have our favorite areas or specialist areas. Some of some of us know some areas in better detail than others because sometimes that's actually a research area rather than just an area of enthusiasm. That's how we end up getting into anatomy teaching or maybe that's just the area that we teach so we're really good at it. But I I you know I I don't know more than other anatomy teachers. I'm not a better teacher than other anatomy teachers. I work with a collection of anatomy teachers who know more than I do and who are just fantastic teachers. Um I just I'm a massive nerd and I put videos on the internet as well um which people watch for some reason. After Christmas when we we're teaching another double module in anatomy, we'll have about 500 students a week going through the anatomy labs and we're a small uh anatomy department. Uh you know, a lot of medical schools will be three times the size of that. They'll have more staff as well, but that's a lot of a lot of that's a that's a however you shake it, that's a lot of students that need to learn anatomy for health care professions to a certain standard, right? So, you do this job long enough, you imagine the number of students that you meet, the number of good questions you get asked, uh the number of ways your thinking gets provoked. Um, you get good at this like any job, right? If you stick at it and you reflect and you think about how things went and you think how I'm going to do it better next time, uh, you get good. I mean, I was taught by excellent anatomy teachers and I'm just trying to kind of live up to how I see them, if you see what I mean. as a nerd pretty much yeah not as soon as I started this job I was making what we used to call e-learning materials uh spotter questions online podcasts websites and that just eventually became video um the YouTube videos are there to support the learning of the students here at Swansea University um it wasn't supposed to get as big as it was but I have very much enjoyed myself making those videos and the trick is uh continuing contining to do so. So, taking a break is going to remind me how much I enjoy my job, how much I like coming to work, how much I like teaching and testing my students and seeing them grow. And the videos are part of that. Uh, taking a break from making anatomy videos every week. Again, gives my brain a bit of a chance to relax. Uh, drops off that creativity grind every week. And when I come back, I'll be looking forward to making that next super exciting video about the origins and insertions of the muscles of the uh where are we getting towards? Getting towards the elbow, aren't we? The brachium, the upper arm, something like that. Anyway, I'll figure that out next time. So, yeah. Um, I'm just a nerd that likes ma making e-learning stuff and if I'm going to make it, I share it widely and some stuff gets popular. But all anatomy teachers know what I know. Um, and we all bounce off each other. Um, and we pretty much all enjoy doing what we're doing because, well, that's how we got here and why we're still here anyway. a celebration of anatomy teachers at Christmas time as hopefully we all take a break um through the winter although of course I know that my Australian colleagues will be taking a break during the summer because I was there this time last year anyh who right I've just got few more jobs to do and I think I might I always think this I think I might be able to go home early I always think I'm going to go home early and I don't um but we can try can't we right next job. Um, see you probably with a video game next week.