Uh, some animals have got four legs, some animals have got six legs, some animals have got eight legs, some animals have got even more legs, which must be very useful. It's going to say handy then. Foot footy. Um, so if you've got four legs, then well, you're nice and balanced like a table, aren't you? Um, whereas humans have evolved to only have two legs, which gives certain advantages and disadvantages. Uh, and it creates a number of problems. And the feet are the solution to those problems. So instead of standing on a a single point, the feet extend out at an angle. So we have um multiple points that we can stand on. Uh we have muscles going to the feet and within the feet that let us shift our body weight around and yet not fall over. The feet can adapt to uneven surfaces. the the feet can change shape as we walk and return some of that energy to us. Um, and of course, if you're going to have a whole load of muscles in here, which are going to need nerves and blood vessels, well, you're going to need to kind of tuck those things away so they don't get damaged and compressed every time you stand on them. And these are the functions of the arches of the feet. Um let's talk about well we'll introduce the bones first very very briefly and then we'll talk about the three main arches that people talk about in anatomy. The two longitudinal arches and the one transverse arch. So the functions of the arches of the foot are then um to distribute the weight of the body across the foot to act as a shock absorber to react to uneven surfaces um to protect the blood vessels and nerves in there and to act as levers for propulsion among other things that you can think of I'm sure. So the bones that are involved then well we have the calccanous the heel and the talis uh the talis then is articulating with the tibia and the fibula at the ankle. So calccanous talis we have a big uh cuboid bone over here laterally. Um the nvicular bone is anterior to the talis on the medial side and then we have three cunea forms um medial intermediate lateral five metatarscels and a whole bunch of fanges of the uh three arches. There are two two longitudinal arches running the length of the foot. Um, one is medial and is called the medial longitudinal arch and one is lateral and called the lateral longitudinal arch. If you're trying to keep your bearings in the foot with medial and lateral, remember the big toe is medial, the little toe is lateral. So, we have medial longitudinal arch, lateral longitudinal arch, and then we have a transverse arch. Oh, see how that arrow is uh curving in there, right? So, there's a there's an arch going that way, too. There's a transverse arch. Now that does sometimes sometimes you read about two transverse arches but let we'll just consider the whole thing as a transverse arch today as is typically considered in many anatomy textbooks. The most interesting arch is the medial longitudinal arch. Um the medial longitudinal arch runs through the calccanous, the talis, the nvicular, the medial cuna, yeah m medial cunea form and then the the metatarsal bone of the big toe. So the first metatarsal and then the fanges and this is the bit that's off the floor. So if you um if you leave a wet footprint, this is the side um that doesn't touch the ground. That's the gap. So it's the calccanous, the heel, and this anterior part here of the metatarsal um the that's that's touching the ground. The other bones are off the ground. So there's quite an arch there. The um the shape of the arch is primarily formed by the shapes of the bones. These bones, uh, you can see even on this model, it's wired together. There's quite a bit of movement here, but these bones are shaped, um, to form the shape of an arch, very much like a humpback bridge with a, um, that keystone at the top that's shaped to hold it all together. But it's also, if you're trying to remember what structures support the arch, basically everything over here. So all of the muscles under here, all the flexor muscles of the toes, well, they're going to be helping pull the arch together. So, what happens is um that there we go. There's the medial longitudinal arch. There's the big toe. Um muscles and tendons essentially running under here. If you tighten the string of the bow, the arch rises up, right? And if you loosen the string of the bow, the arch flattens. So, anything under here that's running across the sole of the foot is supporting the medial longitudinal arch. Actually, it's also supporting the other longitudinal arch and pro probably all the arches in the foot to be honest. But anyway, so what have we got under here? So, you got the the flexor muscles of the toe. Any muscles that flex the toes and we're particularly on the big toe side of the medial longitudinal arch. We'll include those on the sole of the foot. This is the long planter ligament. I think it's difficult to figure stuff out on models, but these are the ligaments, so it must be right. Um, the long planter ligament runs from the calccanous to the cuboid bone. Now, remember the cuboid bone is lateral. There's the little toe. This is lateral. The cuboid bone out here. So the long plantar ligament runs from the calccanous anteriorly to the cuboid bone and also to the bases of the metaparsils 2, three and four. Now the short plantar ligament is deep to the long plantar ligament. So there's another layer under there. So the short plantar ligament is running also from the calccanous bone and it's running to the cuboid bone. So I mean on my model me rubber's not it's a bit rubbery still but can you imagine how those if I if I you know if I've got the calccanous and the cuboid and the metatarscils you can see how those ligaments are pulling across the longitudinal arches to support the longitudinal arches. Right? So the long plantar ligament and the short plantar ligament run longitudinally from calccanous to cuboid bases of the metatarsils and help help maintain those longitudinal arches. Um the plantaronosis. So if we if we look at the muscles of the foot the the the I've done a video about the muscles of the foot. There are many muscles in the foot and they're in layers. Um and I don't think we we don't see it here but the most superficial layer is an aaponiois the plantaraponyosis people know about it because they get plantar fascia particularly plantar fasciitis. So the plantaraponosis is also known as the plantar fascia. Runners like me get pain anterior to the heel. So we complain about our plantar aoniois but that is a tough tendonous structure in the sole of the foot protecting the nerves and arteries in the sole of the foot because they're lifted out of the way by that arch shape and the plantar ponyiosis is also really tough great to walk on and protects all of these structures. But that plantaraponosis is running from the calccanous again anteriorly to towards the um the bases of the uh fanges and the ends of the metatarscils. And that's a really really tough structure. So see what I mean? Pretty much all of the structures under here are going to help support the longitudinal arches of the foot. The other two muscles to think about are the tibialis muscles. We've got tibialis anterior which helps a little bit goes around here but tibialis posterior which runs around and inserts into um the nvicular bone and the medial cuna form bone. Oo I think that oh there we go. that's actually on this model. So that tendon that's running around there, tibialis posterior, that's also because it's inserting into these bones here, nvicular and kuna form, it's helping support and raise that medial longitudinal arch. Do you see what I mean? If you look at a table in a textbook and you try and remember all the names of all these things, it's hard. But if you think well I know all the flexor muscles of the foot flexor digtorum brevis flexor digitorum longus flexor haluc muscles that flex the toes they've got very logical names and then you've got your long planter ligament short planter ligament and your tibialis posterior in particular muscle all those guys help support the arch and then there's another ligament that you're bound to read about which is called the spring ligament now the spring ligament is also known as the plantar cuz it's on the planter side calccanio nvicular ligament. Um the ligaments of the foot. There's a lot of ligaments. They're sensibly named because they're named by the bones they attach to. Um but you means you can remember it fairly reliably. So if this is tibialis posterior here, it's kind of in the way and we've got a ligament running from the calccanous. That's the the shelf of the calccanous there. And it's running anteriorly into the nvicular bone in there. So it's running across across there. Um, the reason the spring ligament gets mentioned so much is because the weakest point of this arch is between the nvicular bone and the talis bone in here. And because you've got this ligament running from the calccanous across the tus to the nvicular, it is under tension. So it's holding that joint together. So if you were to rupture your spring ligament, then that that joint, the top of the arch is so much weaker. the spring ligament, the plantar calccanio nvicular ligament. And the other thing we can see here, there's so this is the medial ankle. The big triangular ligament mass here gets referred to as the deltoid ligament because it's a big triangular ligament. So that deltoid ligament is essentially also reinforcing all of this. Okay. So if that's the anatomy of the medial longitudinal arch, the interesting one, the one that's actually a a high arch off the floor with lots of fun structures. Uh the lateral longitudinal arch is on this side. The lateral longitudinal arch is made up of the calccanous which runs to the the cuboid bone and then the metatarsils on this side. It's a metatarsal number five. And this is a low arch. It's a much more stable arch. This is the bit of your foot if you leave a wet footprint on the ground. This is the the the lateral longitudinal arch is likely to be the bit that's touching the ground. Right? So, this is in contact with the ground. Again, that medial longitudinal arch is largely supported by the same structures. Those short and long plantar ligaments, the plantaronosis, also known as the plant fascia. um by all the muscles on this side of the foot uh and the muscles you have. So if on the medial side you've got the tibialis anterior and tibialis posterior muscles on the lateral side you have the fibularis muscles and fibularis longness helps support the lateral longitudinal arch and it's the fibrillaris longness for example which will help you ever. And if we have a look at that on my colleague. So medial longitudinal arch very archy. Okay. Lateral longitudinal arch. There's the little toe. So the lateral longitudinal arch. Uh we have calccanous. We have cuboid bone. We have metatarsils five and four. And a lot of that's likely to be in contact with the ground when you add a whole bunch of, you know, connective tissue and skin and stuff over there. Okay. So, the only arch left is the transverse arch. This curve in here. Um, so, um, so if we're at this level here, the transverse arch is made of the cuneaoifor bones and the cuboid bone and also the metatarsal bones. So they are forming that they're forming that that curve in there that that transverse arch running in a coronal plane in the foot. So this transverse arch and this is why you might hear about anterior and posterior transverse arches because of course you could work your way up and down here. Uh so again this arch is also maintained by the same structures we were talking about earlier pretty much you know long and short planter um ligaments um other um muscles that come around here. Tibilaris longus helps with this tibialis anterior helps support this arch. the the transverse arch is also supported by a transverse metatarsal ligament that's underneath all of this and is running running across that way that's holding holding those bones together. Remember it's the shapes of the bones that give the arches and then the ligaments that that help hold the arches together a bit like a bow string but also holding the joints together. So that transverse arch again that gives flexibility to the foot. The foot can act as a shock absorber as that foot flattens out transversely along its width as well as longitudinally. All right, there you go. Uh the arches of the foot. Um what goes wrong? Well, you can have really high arches. You can also have uh well flat feet, fallen arches, pez, pez planners, pez planus. And given that we now know the anatomy that supports the arches, well, um, that can be caused by an injury to the tendons that lift that help support the arches. Could be an injury to the ligaments as well. Or it could be that the arches never formed in the first place. Humans have flat feet. Humans don't have arches in their feet for the first three years of life. They develop after that. So maybe never had um arches. And um commonly that never causes any problems, never causes any symptoms. Some people it does, but for most people it's it's really not a problem. Which makes you wonder why we got that. Anyway, we have a sedentary society these days. We don't walk as much as we do, do we? Um so that's it. Um I think learn the bones of the foot and the ankle, which I think is a lot easier to do than learning the bones of the wrist, which I think are really complicated. these bones, they've all got quite a character. So, it's quite easy to remember what's what I find. And then really look at the shapes. If you can get into an anatomy lab and look at the shapes of these bones, you'll see the shapes of the arches. And then what supports the arches? Well, basically anything under here will support the arches. So, all of those muscles under there, all those flexor muscles. And then remember the short and long planter ligaments. Remember the plantaronosis. And on this side, we've got tibialis anterior, the muscle. And on this side, we've got the fibularis muscles, particularly fibularis longus. Then you've got that transverse metatarsal ligament. And that's it. Do you understand the the arches of the foot? Yeah, there is a lot more to that. Um, but I think that's kind of the stuff that you need to know. I hope that was helpful. Um, and maybe useful. Um, all right. See you next week.