 I've interviewed the graduate medicine program. The graduate medicine program is an interesting one. Because I'm one of the people who help build it, I guess I take it for granted, but it's a place for second chances. That's kind of the main purpose of the course, that, and bringing more doctors to Wales, right? When we're in our 20s, let alone when we're at school, most of us don't really know what we want to do. We might think we know what we want to do, we might actually know what we want to do. Often when we start going down that path and we study the subject, or we start the career, we start the job, we realize that, yeah, this isn't entirely what I thought it was going to be. Or we learn more things as we go down that path. So the purpose of the graduate medicine program is to give those people who either didn't get the grades the first time around at school, or didn't have the right subject, didn't know they wanted to do medicine, have gone into all sorts of different careers and then discovered medicine and realized that, ha, I want to do that. So something I'm giving away, any trade secrets when I say we've had about 1200 applications, which is pretty normal. I'm not sure how many we interview. I think it's around 300. We spend about three weeks interviewing. When you come to interview, there are two interviews, a clinical lead one and an academic lead one. I look after the academic lead one. So we're kind of looking at different things. We get used to a presentation and things like that. So I've been chatting to people. I'm amazed how quickly people can think. I think, well, certainly when you get to the interview, you know what's expected of you. You know what experiences you need to demonstrate to show that I know about medicine. This is the right career for me. So we have all those lovely conversations. And I'm always amazed by how much people have done, which is a bit off-putting, isn't it? Oh, my word. These people, these are the people I'm looking at, they've done so much. I feel so rubbish, which is a bit like social media. It is an interesting part of psychology, isn't it? We're always comparing ourselves to other people, which isn't good. I mean, it can be motivating, right? You see somebody else doing this thing. I want to do that. You can have good role models, particularly for behavior and that sort of thing. But I think it's really important to realize that we're all different. We all want different things. We can all do different things. Maybe people do have expectations of us, but maybe much of that's in our heads. But when we compare ourselves to others and think, I should be doing that, I should be doing that, and I should be doing that, what are we really doing? Is that really helping us? If you see somebody and you think, I should be doing that, but is it something you want to be doing? It's like, I mean, the job I'm in, I'm still not entirely sure how I ended up here. I was a quiet kid in school. Now I stand at the front of lecture theaters teaching hundreds of students. And that sort of thing. And I never would have, this was never been planned for me, but I really enjoy it. And I think there's two aspects, two bits of psychology to this. One is, well, the obvious one that don't compare yourself to other people. Figure out what you want to do, what you like doing, let that motivate you. And you don't have to do as much as everybody else is doing. This whole product productivity thing. I mean, what does it even mean? Life isn't just work and producing stuff. Life is doing things you like doing, isn't it? I mean, I'm really lucky because I enjoy my job. My job is my life. It all overlaps so neatly. And yeah, it's hard work and difficult, but I spend all day doing something I enjoy doing most of the time on a risk assessment and standard operating procedures this week. Anyway, but the other thing, the other bit of psychology, which I find really interesting, often in interview circumstances, certainly in academic circumstances, and I know students do this in clinical placements as well, is it's fairly well known that when you put someone into a situation, they often behave in the way they think they are expected to behave. Now, if you're going into a clinical environment, yeah, absolutely, you should have respect for others. Think about other people's feelings. Think about how you're communicating and have respect for that hierarchy because it reflects knowledge and experience of people you're learning from. Yes, absolutely do all that. And students, a common bit of feedback I hear from students when I'm talking to them is, they'll say, oh, I saw this thing on clinical placement and I didn't like the way the doctor behaved and I'm not going to be like that. That's great. They've seen some behavior. They have reflected on that, decided whether they think it's good or not, and have decided not to be like that in the future. And they also tell me, I saw this, I saw this fantastic example of this thing. It's usually the way a doctor behaved. Sometimes it could be any sort of healthcare professional, but it's often a doctor. The way they behaved, the way it affected the patient, bub bub bub bub, good, good, good, and tick, tick, tick, and they say, I want to be like that. Now that, that's great. Do that. But the other thing I see, which is harder to notice, is that thing of people conforming to what's expected of them. And what I mean by that is they'll often match their personality and behavior to what they think is expected of them, of what is around them. Now what that does is that kind of blunts your edges. That makes everybody a little bit similar. That stops you from thinking outside the box, from expanding, from stretching yourself out a little bit and pushing your boundaries. And you don't need to do that. That's fine. You can, as long as you're polite, consider it respectful, you can be you. Right? I say, can you imagine this in an interview? So, you know, I'm expected to be the academic and behave in a certain way. There's the interview. E, they're hoping to get on the program. They're expected to act in a certain way. That's great. But I want to see your individuality. I want to see what makes you you. And it's the same when academics start academic jobs. Like the job I'm in, I mean, if I survive this year because universities are contracting and people are losing jobs, but if I survive this year, the academic job I'm in is one of those permanent jobs. It's like a job for life. And what I often see new academics doing, I'm pretty sure I did this as well, is fitting inside the box, conforming to that thing you think. You think this is the way I should behave. This is the work that I should do. Academic jobs are weird because, sure, there's a whole bunch of stuff that I have to do. That is expected of me that has to get done. But as long as that gets done, this is a role you demonstrated your ability to manage yourself, think broadly. That's what the PhD does. Right. But it's a job that you kind of make your own. You define yourself. You have to push the boundaries to a certain extent. Although it hasn't been great for my career, but then I'm not really interested in my career. I'm interested in doing interesting things. So some of us, back in the early 2000s, when the university was saying e-learning was in force, and this has led to me putting YouTube videos out every week and printing 150, really printing the bones of the hand for 150 students during COVID when they couldn't come in and send them out to them. You know, doing stuff that I think is good and useful, but other people haven't done before that isn't part of this, isn't part of the normal. Right. I think what I'm trying to say is watch out for that bit of human psychology that describes how people behave in the way that they're expected to behave in a situation. Because sometimes that's bad. Sometimes that's good. Like I say, be considerate, be thoughtful, be polite, respect the hierarchy, all good things. I'm not saying don't do that. I'm not saying be belligerent and horrible. I'm saying you are freer than maybe you think you are in your role. So in the medicine program, we're very keen to produce, well, to turn you into a doctor, not to make 150 doctors that all look the same. Do you see what I mean? Because medicine's broad and this is part of giving people second chances. I've got kids coming out of school, we've got kids who've got kids in their 20s. The same age as my kids, right? People who've got experience, knowledge, skills that they're bringing to the profession. And we want you to do that. And I kind of want to see that in the interview as well. And I think I'll do that in the interview. In the academic-led interview, I like asking the awkward question of what have you done wrong? What mistakes have you made? You might have noticed I like talking about failure. Medicine is often the first time anybody fails anything serious. And it's about how you deal with that failure and how you continue to progress. I often ask those awkward questions of, you know, that thing you didn't really feel, oh, well, how did you respond? How did you reflect on that? Did you just say, right, that's it, give up, walk away, I don't want to do that again? Or did you respond, reflect, change, adapt and succeed? Both answers are correct because, you know, it's not easy. Anyway, I don't know, the interviews just made me think about that this week, about the roles we fall into and how I spend 20 minutes trying to break that role and find out more about the candidate properly. And yes, I'm really interesting people to speak to. And likewise, these 20-year-olds, 20-something-year-olds who've done so much, try not to feel like you should be doing what that person is doing. Try and find what you want to do and, you know, be you. Do you? Oh, wow, it doesn't even sound easy, does it? Really doesn't sound easy. Anyway, it's interesting psychology. The more we learn about how our brain works, the more we can ignore it. Right.