 key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key the tendons that run to the phalanges for flexion and they've all got numbers and I unusually for me I haven't actually injured a finger in ages but unusually for me I seem to have popped my a4 I think it's a4 a1 a2 a3 a4 um pulley uh and yeah it hurts um it's not as bad as I thought it was going to be I thought I was going to have a big swollen failure of a finger but we're in Portland on the south coast of England it's a peninsula that sticks out from Weymouth and has probably around a thousand rock climbs on it um so we're climbing so we're going to try four days of climbing which is great right so on the first day so it's after the Easter weekend um Swansea University's kind of cool uh we have these so academics don't get the same holidays the students get at universities the students have got I don't know what they got two or three weeks off we get the Easter weekend so Friday Saturday Sunday Monday like everybody else the bank holidays but the university gave us an extra couple of days a few years ago um because we'd been working hard because we were all I don't know you know and it was a nice gesture so they gave us Thursday and Tuesday we get Thursday Friday Saturday Sunday Monday Tuesday off and I've been really tired this year I had a virus while I was ill I've been working hard so uh and the weekend the weather was a bit meh but the following week so we've come down on the Monday today's Tuesday Wednesday Thursday we're going to come down here for four days and the weather is doing this it's really windy but it's blowing on the other side of the peninsula that's why we're sat in the shade um but we're out of the wind so it's a lot warmer and this is one of the greatest flowstone features in the UK and this is a really popular place for climbing there are some three-star routes here and it's just us this morning so we're gonna climb this flowstone and see what happens looks cool right I know it's blinking great idea you get really tired at work what do you do you go on a climbing holiday and just exhaust yourself that's right what do you reckon yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah must have really advantage of this flexibility isn't it it's uh so the Easter weekend up here of course is absolutely ram because they're some of the best climbing and most popular climbing in the UK let alone the south coast on here but having a few extra days and having that flexibility you just say oh the weather looks good we'll go then and as the kids are getting older starting to get those worries as older parents thinking oh kids are going to university one is staying and go to university staying in Swansea one is leaving it's like oh my life is changing kids are your whole life but as the kids become adults you have this flexibility to go go climbing on a Tuesday okay not good all right let's go oh chilly so as this is a really I go with the flow yeah as this is a really popular three-star route it's no doubt going to be pretty polished but it's not too bad so far wow it's a bit rounded and smooth anyway might be a bit of a tricky style well oh there's a bolt there friendly yeah when we're past the bolt key key key Let's see if it's key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key key There's a big flake up there. Do we go left or? Oh yeah! Hugging the flow stone. It doesn't actually seem that polished because it already seems like quite a smooth rock. That's the next ball. Okay. This looks like the crux. Also there's a lot of chalk that means people have been hanging around thinking about it suggested it's a crux. Those lumpy little lumpy bits. Oh there's a thing round there. There we go. Oh there we go. This is a bit weird. A bit weird. How do I get my leg in there? Yeah just about. A bit foggy or steep here. Can I reach that? Yep. Okay. Whew. Oh there's the chains. And a ledge. Oh there's the chains. And a ledge. Yeah fantastic. Oh there's the chains. And a ledge. Oh there's the chains. And a ledge. Yeah fantastic. Almost at the chains. Okay. Fantastic. Very good. That's really good. Yeah really different. The crux is that flake at the top where it gets steeper but it's fine. It's just you know look to your feet. It's sore but it works. So when we walk the second half of the South West Coast path next year we're going to have to walk all of that. Then around Portland and back out the other way. So that was slingshot. We did reptile small which is a lot harder. I was quite pleased with that leave. Kim didn't enjoy it quite as much. Let's go and find some sun. Ah. Out of the wind and some easier routes. Tendon hurts all the way through my hand though. Which I'm sure is fine. Ah sun. Oh. Oh. Sun. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Oh. Let's go. Alright we've succeeded we're out of the wind and wind the sun which means we can take our time and chill out and not worry about getting cold got frozen yesterday with the wind and do some easy ticks much more straightforward than I made it okay so it was shimmy with my hand because you go up you go up to double hand and then out slightly with your right and then there's a pocket and you kind of have to swap your hands on the pocket yeah on the two finger doodah to get over that's like if you feel like I should be doing the hardest stuff but the hardest stuff take well yeah this has been troublesome yeah but when you do the hardest stuff it just takes you longer so you do less stuff but it's fun if you miss out the easy stuff you miss out a lot of fun it's all about the movement and the position isn't it see the seals around here got the best idea and having the most fun out of everybody during COVID and like the COVID years people my age and a bit older were either furloughed or not working and realised that they had enough money saved up they had enough pension and they could quit work they could stop working they could do what what they wanted to do which seems crazy we did lose a lot of people from the workforce because of that but then you do stuff like this and you think wow I'm missing out that I'm not doing this every week why am I working so much I could be doing this I break down I'd be more seal I could be a seal if I quit work I could retrain as a seal and the way out is you gonna climb on that one yeah guess Kim's not doing the ladder then she's elected with a gully the groove I think um because I've because I've built much of the anatomy teaching program of course I could never leave it I'll be there forever but I also feel like I could never leave it I'll be there forever I feel like I have to be there I have to be doing all the stuff otherwise he won't get it done which is probably a bit unfair to my colleagues but then there's probably a fair chunk of truth to that um and that's that's a failure in my management and organisation as much to anything else right so to do more of this I need to be a better manager delegate more maybe whatever I don't know um but yeah I do feel it it's difficult to uh step away from work there's always so much to do but then when I step away from work it doesn't all collapse it keeps running Easter doesn't count because university shuts down pretty much but you know the rest of the time it usually doesn't collapse right that's a cool triangle okay we made it um two days of climbing done two more days to go it'll be fine it'll only take six months to a year to heal it'll be fine