Is it just me or is this weird? Um, I've been sat in a microscope making histology videos for almost a year. I' kind of forgotten how to do this. Um, cavo caveal anastmosis. What does that mean? Why do we care about it? Why is this anatomy important clinically? Um, that's what we'll look at. We'll describe it very nicely and neatly. I've got quite a bit on these torso models that I can show you. Uh, and guess who's running anatomy spotter exams tomorrow, right? Okay, let's open you up. Cavo caval anastmosis. What could that refer to? Well, cavocal superior vennea and the inferior vennea being surrounded by the liver here. Um, so an anastmosis. Well, if we think about an anastmosis in terms of blood vessels, um, an artery takes blood to a tissue, the blood goes through a capillary bed and comes out through a vein essentially, right? If you had a connection between two blood vessels that didn't go through a capillary bed, those two blood vessels are connected. That would be an anastmosis. You could have an anastmosis between an artery and an artery. Um, we see lots of that around joints. You can have an anastmosis between a vein and a vein. Um, veins do that a lot anyway because they're quite a bit more varied than arteries. And you could have an arteriovenous anastmosis in an artery sends blood straight into a vein. Sounds weird. Uh, erectile tissues. So here we have the inferior vennea. The inferior vennea then is taking blood from the abdomen, from the pelvis, from the lower limbs and that blood is being taken up into the heart into the right atrium. The superior vennea is also taking blood into the right atrium but it's taking blood from the chest from the upper limbs and from the head and neck. So serving two different regions of the body. Now what would happen if the inferior vennea um became narrowed or it was harder to pass blood through it for some reason. And how might that even happen? uh well pregnancy as the fetus grows um it's actually quite easy to compress veins are high pressure veins are low pressure you can do that and the veins close to the skin you can see how easy it is to compress them um so during pregnancy when you're lying on your back uh the inferior vennea might become compressed tumors in this region might push into the inferior vennea there's no spare space in the body in most places um fibrosis this is a retroparitinal structure structure. Fibrosis after surgery can change the tissues here. Things can stick together and that can change um the shape of the inferior vennea. Deep vein thrombosis um so clots might collect in here. In fact, surgically you can put a filter into the inferior vennea that prevents those clots from getting to the lungs and causing a pulmonary embolism. If there are problems with that filter that might reduce flow through the inferior vennea. uh trauma might uh affect flow through the inferior vennea and actually there are there are norm there are congenital differences where the inferior vennea might just have grown that way. It might just be narrower. I've read cases um where and this will link to what we're going to talk about in a moment. I've read about cases where people have had a congenital narrowing of the inferior vennea and it hasn't given signs or symptoms until later in life when everything else has grown. In fact, many people might have a completely asymptomatic narrowed inferior vennea because of the collateral flow because of the connections because of the as anastmoses that exist that allow blood from the abdomen, pelvis and lower limbs to instead pass up the inferior vennea but to take other routes to get back to the heart. There are two main ones and a couple of smaller ones. Let's take each one in turn. Okay. Uh, number one and the most important one, I want to get to the posterior thoracic wall. So, I'm going to swap for a different model. So, here we can see there's the inferior vennea. That's where the heart would sit, right? Um, so this is the abdomen. This is the thorax. And up in the thorax we can see uh the isyos system of veins. So in the posterior thoracic wall we have intercostal veins running between the ribs carrying the blood of the thoracic wall back to the isyos veins and the hemizyos veins. The hemiozygos veins will take their blood to the right side. And the zygos vein is actually so it's this little ar little little vein here which is actually going to ascend and loop over and drain blood into the superior vennea at that point. So that's how blood from the posterior thoracic wall drains to the superior vennea and to the heart. Now inferiorly in the abdomen there's our inferior vennea. Um, oh yeah, look, it's right up against the aorta. So, an an aortic aneurysm can also compress the inferior vennea. Anyway, sorry. So, inferior vennea in the abdomen does something similar to the interccoal veins in the chest. We see, look, we see these branches here. So, these are the lumbar vertebrae. So, these are lumbar veins and those lumbar veins are draining blood from the abdominal walls into the inferior vennea there. Right. um that blood passes into the inferior vennea cave and up to the heart. Uh the trick here is that there are ascending lumbar veins under here which we can't see. So the ascending lumbar veins are just a little bit they're just a little bit further around there. The ascending lumbar veins link these lumbar veins and they continue as the zygos and hemygos veins because segmented pattern right that means that if the inferior vennea was compressed and you couldn't send blood through it or all the blood fl through it all this blood from the abdomen pelvis and lower limbs could instead then go in the opposite direction into the lumbar veins up the ascending lumbar veins into the zygos system back to the superior vennea and back to the heart. So that's the first anastmosis and that's the primary clinical one. And this is why um narrowing of the inferior vennea might actually be asymptomatic because that this is one of four but this is a pretty good um collateral route of circulation. So that's a cavo cave and asosis. That's number one. Number two uh we need to go to the back. Go back to the other model. In the back we have a um a column of vertebrae and all these structures drain blood as well. And look, we can see some of that here. Um there is an internal vertebral venus plexus draining blood from the spinal cord and no doubt collecting blood from the bones as well. And there's an external vertebral venus plexus outside the bones likewise collecting blood from the vertebral column. and those two vertebral plexuses link together. This is what I mean about veins having lots of connections anyway, right? We often see these plexuses of veins rather than individual veins. So, um these internal vertebral venus plexus and external vertebral venus plexus run the length of the vertebral column which runs the length you know thor links the thorax and the abdomen and the pelvis, right? And these veins, the lumbar veins link to those vertebral venus plexuses. And the interccoal veins and the zygos veins also link to those vertebral venus plexuses. Right? Which means that if the inferior vennea was compressed for any reason and it was difficult to pass blood through it, blood could instead take the easier option of passing through the lumbar veins into the external and internal vertebral venus plexuses and ascend to the thorax where they would drain into the intercostal veins which would drain into the zygos vein which would again drain into the superior vennea and to the right chamber of the heart. So that is number two. Uh that is the um the second uh cavocal anastmosis the vertebral venus plexuses. And you might be thinking batson's veins if that's jumped into your head. So we often talk about this these vertebral venus plexuses as a potential route for metastatic disease to pass from the pelvis to other reason regions of the body. And this is often why metastatic cells end up in vertebrae. Batson described this um and described veins linking these parts of the body to the vertebral venus plexuses and that they are valveless which means you can change the direction of flow. And because veins are a low pressure part of the system that's quite easy to do. coughing, sneezing, defecating, lifting something heavy that will push blood out of the um out of the torso and in the opposite direction back through these veins and back to the vertebral venus plexuses again. So batton's veins but in terms of cavo caveal anastmosis the vertebral venus plexuses internal and external link the inferior vennea and the external the inferior vennea and the superior vennea. Number three number three I'm going to cheat a little bit and I'm going to pull them all together. Um going to need to rebuild you a little bit maybe. So well down here we've got um the external iliac veins uh which which were the femoral veins. So the external iliac veins are draining blood from the lower limbs. The internal iliac veins draining blood from the pelvis common iliac veins. They come together form the inferior vennea. Well down here um actually no I can just put the front on can't I? Um there we go. That's a good cheat isn't it? body wall. So um gastra we think about gastra as stomach gastric right? Gastra is the belly. Um epigastric veins are upon the belly. So there are epigastric veins draining the abdominal wall here. We've got a superficial epigastric vein and an inferior epigastric vein. Um so they're draining to those um th those iliac branches, right? So they're draining blood from the abdominal wall to essentially the inferior vennea which is going to take that blood back up to the heart. Now up here in the chest we have um an internal mammary vein deep to the bones here or internal thoracic vein. So that's draining the blood of the thoracic wall. laterally out here we have a lateral thoracic vein or an external mammary vein. Same structure, two different names, right? Um and that that's under here and that's draining blood from the thoracic wall as well. That's draining blood back to the auxiliary vein whereas the internal thoracic vein is draining blood to the subclavian vein. Essentially the same vessel we just changed its name, right? You know that. Um, and there are anastmoses between these blood vessels, these veins in the torso, in the body wall. You might hear about thorico epigastric veins. Thorico epigastric veins. So, they're linking those veins. And um, oh yeah, a superior epigastric vein. So, if we've got an inferior epigastric vein, you got to have a superior epigastric vein. So that's draining blood back to the um internal thoracic vein. So there's two different roots there, right? Um but essentially epigastric veins and um thoracic veins have connections in the body wall and this is another route by which blood if it can't pass through the inferior vennea will instead pass in the opposite direction to normal through these veins through the veins of the body wall uh and then into the subclavian vein auxiliary auxiliary vein um brachioalic vein superior vennea and um back to the heart. So that's that's that's three and four really. Um but I guess the key idea there is that and we'll talk about more about this in a moment. If that happens, more blood will pass through the veins. Veins don't have a nice thick muscular wall like arteries do. They have a thin muscular wall. Um so when you ask them to take more blood, more pressure, more load, they will dilate and that's you know that's why we see varicose veins in the lower limb and that sort of thing. So you might see dilated veins under the skin uh of your patient if blood can't pass through the inferior vennea and is instead taking alternate routes. So that's why I kind of lump these together as in the veins of the abdomen, the veins of the thorax body wall are connected. That's a collateral route. That's a cavoc anastmosis if you see that sign. And that's different to kaput medusi um and portoyic anastmosis. Ooh. So then is that why this is useful anatomy to be aware of? Um yeah. So veins will dilate if they're taking more blood than usual. There is not you in most places of the body, there is not spare space. Um if these are veins are on the surface, they've got space to expand into. But if the veins of the internal and external vertebral venus plexuses dilate, there are some really important and really sensitive structures in there. So yes, this can lead to neurological symptoms. Um, and this was a case I read about um, as a young woman got older, so moved past adolescence and you know, her body became bigger and more blood was being passed around, she started to develop, I think, signs of corderina and um, kind of signs of sciatica. thing you know uh neurological symptoms of the lower limb and the pelvis and the paranium because um her inferior vennea was narrowed. So blood for her whole life had been taking these other collateral roots and these veins were now starting to dilate and compress the structures of the cordina compress the spinal nerves as they're leaving this space and give those those neurological signs and symptoms. Um also um those um those these veins here are retroparitinal. So if these veins enlarge I don't know how you know there's a chance of them rupturing and having retroparitinal bleeding but I don't know how common that is but certainly if you're looking at someone's radiological imaging CTMR that sort of thing you should be aware that these veins exist and that they might be dilated as a result of this process. you know what you're looking at, right? Um, so yeah, functionally this can be really important anatomy. You kind of need to be aware that this exists. Cavo caval anastmosis collateral roots of circulation between the inferior ca vennea and the superior vennea. It's the inferior vennea that's most often restricted by pressures in here pushing on it by a number of the any of the structures nearby or by a congenital difference in which it's narrowed. So blood will take these alternate routes through the ascending lumbar veins to the zygos system through the vertebral venus plexuses or through the epigastric and thoracic veins in the uh in the in the body wall. So that's what you're looking out for. Um I don't know. For me it's just one of those because I'm not a clinical anatomist, right? I just want to know how everything works. For me that's just fascinating that that that's laid out and it matches the body pattern that we see laid out during embryology. Anyway, I hope that was useful and uh I mentioned portocyic anastmosis. So portoymic anastmosis describe um when it's difficult for blood to pass from the gastrointestinal tract through the liver because of usually some liver disease. Um the liver has tiny microscopic channels in it. the blood passes through. So if the liver becomes um more fibrous, it's harder to pass the blood through the liver. So that blood from the GI tract from the hippatic portal vein will find alternate routes to get back to the heart. And those portoymic anastmoses are different. I've done a video on that probably a couple of videos maybe. Go and have a look at those and you can you'll see the differences for yourself. Um excuse the uh cuts on my hands. Guess he was climbing a sport route on the weekend and found that it ended with a jamming a very sharp jamming crack. Anyway, right. Uh, see you next week.