Skeleal muscle. These are the muscles that are usually attached to bones, muscles that we choose to move. Sematic muscles, muscles of the body. And sceal muscles can be classified by shape largely. And by classifying them by shape, this is useful because it gives us some insights into their actions, their functions, how they work when their fibrals get shorter. Um if you want to know about the other types so sceal, cardiac and smooth muscle, we've actually looked at those under the microscope and talked about them in lots of lovely detail if you want to do a search for that. We are just going to do again early textbook first chapter stuff of classifying skeletal muscles by shape and what that means. Uh, skeletal muscles are collections of bundles of fibrals, myofibrals, contractile cells that can change their length and in doing so generate force. They are bundled together by connective tissue. So they're wrapped into bundles and then they are also often attached to tendons and through those tendons through that connective tissue they can generate force by moving something. Like I say, it's often a bone. The muscles of facial expression, for example, are moving. Skin and through tendons and connective tissues, you can change the direction of pull. You can change the direction the force is acting on. Um, and you'll read slightly different classifications, but you can kind of think of four classifications often with some subclassifications maybe giving a total of sevenish. You'll see what I mean. Let's start off with the simplest. So here is um biceps brachi and at this end if I take this muscle off at this end the muscle is thin it's fat in the middle it's thin at that end and all the muscle fibers are running in parallel pretty much it's very clear what's going to happen when these muscle fibers contract and get shorter they're going to pull the two ends closer together and I say that force is going to go through the tendons this is a fusififor muscle fusififor means spindle-shaped A spindle is a is like a piece of wood that's wider in the middle and narrow at the at the end. So this is a fusifform muscle. Biceps brachi is a good example of that. And we often see lots of other muscles of that same sort of shape elsewhere in the body. A parallel muscle which might also be referred to as a flat muscle or a quadrate muscle. That's a muscle. Um, so rectus abdominis is a good example. You you can imagine how this is a flat muscle, but also it generally keeps its width along its whole length. So its width remains the same. So with a fuser for muscle, it's narrow, it's wide, it's narrow. A parallel muscle. Um, a quadrate muscle means it's rectangular. A flat muscle means it's flat. They all kind of get lumped together, but it keeps its width along its length. And either end it usually has a wide attachment or it attaches with a wide tendon and a ponyurosis. Another example would be something like sternoclyamastoid. See how it's got a it's it's it's very has the same width here at its attachment as it has in the middle and it has down at this end. So sternoclyamastoid um is also a parallel muscle and it's a they often also get called strap muscles when they're short. So we have lots of little strap muscles around here. Um, sartorius down there is also a um parallel muscle. Uh, convergent muscles are different. Pectoralis major is a great example of a convergent muscle. Here we've got a very broad muscle with very broad attachment here, but they all converge to a very narrow attachment on the humorris here. Um, so these fibers are not running in parallel. Look, they're running all towards this narrow converging point here. Um, this makes for a very powerful muscle. Um, and you can use different parts of the muscle to pull on the humorris in slightly different ways. So, a convergent muscle, a broad attachment, and a narrow attachment. And the muscle fibers converge on that narrow attachment point. And then we have a completely different uh shape of muscle. we have a circular muscle. These also get called sphincters. Um and we have muscle fibers arranged in a circle. So when those muscle fibers contract and shorten the circle gets smaller. Here we see um orvicularis oculi around the eye. Here we find orvicularis orus around the mouth. So when they close they close the eye and close the mouth, right? Um so they we often find them at orififices to close openings to the body. So circular muscles um sphincters and then you get to penate muscles. So penate um penatus Latin means feather or wing. So it looks like a feather. And in a penate muscle, you have a tendon running through the muscle within the muscle, not just at the end of the muscle. Or you might have more than one tendon within the muscle. And here's an example here, which is why I'm down on the floor. This is um so see these tendons going to the toes. This is extensor digtorum longus. Um there are some other examples in here, but they're a bit hidden away. Um, can you see this tendon's running up here and the muscle fibers are actually running in this direction? The muscle fibers are not running in the direction in the in the long axis of the muscle. They're not running in the direction that the muscle is running in. They're running across here. So, they're running from the connective tissues of the muscle and they're inserting into this tendon. Now, what this lets you do is you can have more muscle fibers in parallel. If you have more muscle fibers in parallel, you can generate more force. Imagine if all the muscle fibers running in parallel like in one of the parallel muscles were running like this. You wouldn't generate the same amount of force for the same size of muscle. So this is a unienate. So we've got when we talk about penate muscles, then this is where we get some of the subcategories. to a uni penate muscle has a single tendon and all of the muscle fibers run in the same directionish towards that tendon. When they contract that shortens the muscle, pulls on the tendon and your your toes lift off the floor. So this is um yeah flex extensor digtorium longus is an example of a unipenate muscle. Um here we've got rectus femeris of the quadriceps femoris muscle group. And can you see how these fibers are running in different directions on either side? There is a central tendon. So still just a single tendon but these muscle fibers are running in two different directions. Looks a bit more like a feather. So this is a bipenate muscle. Two directions of muscle fibers. So when these muscle fibers contract, they'll pull the muscle and make it shorter relative to the central tendon and you will flex the hip and extend the knee. So this is an example of a bipenate muscle. The most the most famous example of a multipenate muscle is deltoid. So the deltoid muscle here is very triangular. So it's got a broad base and these muscle fibers are running towards this point here. This is a bit like a convergent muscle, but if in here there are multiple internal tendons. So these fibers are running in different directions to actually insert into these different internal tendons. And that means that you can use different parts of your deltoid muscle for different actions. You're you're not using the whole deltoid to do that or that or that. You're using different bits of your deltoid muscle, different different penates of your multi-enate deltoid muscle. So this is a multipenate muscle. It's different to a convergent muscle because a convergent muscle all the fibers are converging on this point here. These muscle fibers are actually inserting into multiple internal tendons and when they then contract they pull on that tendon that redirects the force and gives the different the different movement. All right, how's that? So that's how we classify sceal muscle by their shape and by classifying them in that way it tells us a little bit about their function and their action. So we've got the fusif muscle that's wider in the middle tendons at either end. We have those parallel muscles those flat ones. We have those convergent muscles and we have the circular muscles um and we have the penate muscles which might be unienate bipenate or uh multi- penate. And you can see now how again as with much of anatomy structure defines function. All right. Um there are other things we can talk about in muscle in that first chapter of the textbook type style like different forms of contraction. Maybe we'll do that next week. I hope that was useful. Hope that was interesting. See you uh next week.