Oh my god, desoldering is a pain in the ass. [snorts] >> [sighs and gasps] >> Thought it was moving a minute ago. I've um This is an Xbox controller. So, I had a bit of stick drift, which means that when the thumb sticks are supposed to be central, they're actually making your character move or the camera move. >> [sighs] >> Um, they're not even that old. They're just crap. Um, they're potentiometers, right? Which are there's friction in there. There's wear. They wear out. These wear anyway. They're probably in the warranty. You could have sent them back. You can send them off to other places and they'll replace the thumb sticks. But I bought myself some fancy TMR thumb sticks and I thought I'll desolder the old ones and put the new ones in. I got one out, but there are 1, two, three. How many are there? 1 2 three 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 pins to desolder. I've done one. Took forever. Doing the other one now. Expected to take another forever. And yeah, I've added fresh solder to get it all to flow. And I haven't got any braid. I did order some, didn't turn up. I got braid on a brush, but slow heat. Suck it out. Heat. Suck it out. Heat. Suck it out. 14 pins. Why am I doing this? So there are hall effect sticks which use it some a magnetic principle and then we've the latest was the TMR tunneling magneettoresistant form of it's not anyway uses a form of quantum physics apparently electrons going through something as you move the stick it changes the I don't know difficulty with which the electrons put something like I read about it ages ago. Anyway, there are no moving parts. They shouldn't wear out. Also, seems like a fun project, right? Take your Xbox controller apart, put in new sticks. If it works, yay. If it doesn't work, they only cost me 20 quid. And, you know, I wasn't going to use the controller anyway. But still, you do wonder why why we do these difficult things. Well, I guess it's cuz same old thing, isn't it? Same reasons I ever repair things. A, I want to know how everything works. Take it apart, put it back together, replace bits. You understand how it works, right? That applies to the world as a whole. Um, you don't know how difficult it's going to be until you try it, right? Sometimes you've just got to try something even if you think it's going to suck because you don't know how hard it's going to be. Sometimes these things are easier than I expected them to be. It does happen. You just remember the ones that are harder than you expected them to be. I mean, this is this sort of thing is finicky and it just takes a long time and it's a pain in the ass. You also don't know if you're going to enjoy something until you give it a go. I even went to the opera once. Most boring thing I've ever done. I hated it. But at least I know never go to the opera again. Right. You also don't know if you're going to be good at something until you give it a solid go. Things like this, you can read about how to do it. Tends to look fairly straightforward when other people do it, but it's one of those things you kind of got to spend some time on and get stuck into to kind of figure out all the little nuances. It's a it's physical learning, right? To figure out you got to figure out all the tips and tricks yourself and kind of and then by pushing yourself through the difficult parts through the putting some solid time into it, it starts to get easier because you start to develop some skills and you have some experience and you think, "Yeah, I know how to do that. This is how I should go about this task." And you also know whether you should not shouldn't even start it cuz you know you're going to hate it. You always seem to need three or four hands for soldering as well. That's hot. Three or four hands for soldering as well. Let's try. I used to dissect embryos. This is not the finest as in the tiniest work I've ever done. Oh, I can see it moving. Go on. Come on. one little bit just need to get so there's three pins coming through the board together to that one component. So it's not like you can desolder one pin or two pins and pull out the component. No, somehow magically you've got to melt the solder and remove as much solder as you can on three pins and then wiggle it out. You kind of got to try and keep everything molten and get it coming at an angle. Mine's always It's always the the third leg that's hardest to Oh, whiny you out. You're out. Okay. The two potentiometers, two of the little swords. Okay. [sighs] And then those little bits of success, of course, spur you on and think, well, I'm doing it. So, that's six pins done. There are four pins just holding the frame in and four pins holding the switch over there. Do I try and cut that switch out? Yes, I think so. The heat I'm putting into it is less less well dissipated by the frame, so it's easier to melt the solder. And it's also to get easy to get hold of individual bits and wiggle them out. Right. I uh you know I do kind of like many people go after difficult things, things that are challenging because that's interesting, right? Because when you do something like I really don't know if I'm going to succeed if I manage to take this apart, clean up all the holes, solder in the new controllers, I still don't know if it's going to work, right? Up until the point where I connect it to the Xbox and run the um calibration software, right? And it could fail. And sure, monetarily it's not going to cost me much if I if I fail, but it'll it'll suck. And I know what that feels like. That's going to feel like it sucks. But of course, if it works, I'm going to feel pretty great. And that that really is what this is all about, isn't it? Is um is that you do difficult and challenging things. And when you succeed, you think that, oh yeah, this feels good. And then you kind of have to keep repeating things to try and reproduce that feeling, don't you? And it's like any shouldn't really say drug. Um but it's um you know you have you keep finding either new or more challenging things to do >> [snorts] >> um to get that same sort of feeling. This was sucking. It's sucking less now cuz I'm making progress and I I can feeling like I'm actually going to succeed at least in the desoldering section. And then soldering of course is easy. be a bit of a pain clearing out all these holes, but I'm getting there slow and me methodical. And of course, if I do get this to work in the future whenever I pick this controller up, I'll think I'll feel pretty smug, won't I? I think, yeah, I did that. And if I fail, I can just forget all about it. Pretend it never happened. Right. [laughter] Huh. That last bit just uh fell out as they just fell out after um Okay, I put the daughterboard back on. That's where the uh the new components went in. So, the new component went in on here just fine. Sold it on. Took seconds. This side I did the usual, you know, you spend hours doing a thing and then you try and save yourself a few minutes and you screw the whole thing up. Um I'd cleaned most of the holes. Couple of the holes weren't entirely clear, but I thought, hey, I'll just push on the component, heat up the solder, and it'll go on fine. And it didn't, but it's kind of gone on fine. There's enough of the leads to make a good connection. Um, but it's like half a millimeter off the board or something. And I I probably made a little bit I can see a bit of a bit of damage to the PCB where I'm worried about having made a short. So, of course, I could test for continuity or I could just put it back together again and just, you know, see if it works, but all right. Okay, then here's the first moment of truth. Let's uh put some batteries in. I mean, it should at least light up, right? Okay, [snorts] good start. Second moment of truth. I need to calibrate these on the Xbox if it does actually connect to the Xbox. So, it's [snorts] switched the Xbox on, which is good. Um, okay, that's that's not right. Okay, this might be expected because I haven't calibrated the thumb sticks, but at least it's connected. Huh. But it's not in the side that I think the short should be between those three pins. That's the right thumb stick. I think that's Yeah. So that's the potentiometer controlling left and right movements. Can you see anything? Don't think I can see anything. Maybe. Is that better? Has that made any difference? No. Right, I've just refflowed the solder for the right stick on just the three pins. One of them did look a bit dry, maybe. And just a reminder, this isn't the one I thought I'd bodgeged. The one I thought I'd bodgeged seems to work okay. Okay, third time's the charm. Or third time I give up and go and do something else. Boring. >> Oh. Oh. Oh, it was pausing then and then it what AI failed. Oh, beans do it. I thought I did that side. Well, I don't know what I don't know what I've done. Don't get it. Damn. Was that a waste of time? Probably. You're always learning. I wonder whether between the board and that new component. But I checked that that was clean. I checked it was all clean. I don't I don't know. Oh well, you don't try. You don't learn. [snorts] Huh?