[music] This morning we've got first year's first spot is a formative spotter. So the spotter exam I was talking about last week got 30 questions around the room 75 seconds each question students will try to answer the question I said this is um being a formative exam the marks don't matter it's showing them how the exam works so they can better understand how to prepare themselves now that we've got 160 students sitting the exam and only 30 questions in the rotation means we've got a long Okay. Going to do this uh six times. All right. Well, that's half the year done. Um so cold in there. My nose is getting cold. basically wearing a jacket to try and stay warm. So, we're about um 3 months. Yeah, we're about 3 months into the medicine program. So, the first years are finding out what exactly they need to be able to do to pass the exams. They're finding out how difficult this program really is or at least the first stages of it. So the purpose of the formative exam because this is such a different format of exam is to show them how it all works. They better understand how to prepare for it, how the exam will be run, all the little bits. And when you know what's going to happen, you're less nervous, right? When you know what's going to happen, you can prepare better for it. When I was a kid, I had a friend at school who was member of a cycle racing club. Got me to join. Um, I uh, you know, I won my first bike race, something I thought was impossible because I was supported by people who told me I could do it, told me how to do it, taught me how to do it, blah, blah, blame with rock climbing. When we started rock climbing, um, I remember I remember my first E1. It seemed impossible. We tried so many times, but because I had um, a good friend Matt who was a much better climber and said, "You can do this." and took us through the process of how to do it. We did it. That moment that you realize you can do hard things and that really you just need to figure out how to go about it to be able to do that hard thing that you want to do that seems cool or interesting. That is revelationary. I can do hard things. I just need to figure out how to do it and put that into practice. I think um YouTube which is an extension of the web. I think the web, the internet is a fabulous resource for showing people that they can do things and they can do hard things and showing them how to go about doing these things on. It's just such a huge not just an information resource, but you've got real people showing you how to do real things. Um, and if you take advantage of that, and a lot of it's free. If you can take advantage of that, you can do amazing things. Right, I'd uh I better have some lunch um in the brief gap that I've got before we have the next batch coming in. But I've also got to catch up with me other bits and bobs. Where's disc 3 gone? Um, right. [music] Coffee. >> [music] >> Right. Sorry. Um, ended up doing the afternoon set of exams. A lot of papers. I forgot I got to mark all those next week. Well, not just me, the rest of the team as well. Uh, what were we talking about? Oh, yeah. It's a bit [clears throat] It's a bit like when you learn to drive and that first time you drive um on your own after passing the driving test, right? The first time you you drive on your own, there's nobody else in the car. It's weird, right? You've always had a driving instructor with you or somebody. Um that's kind of what it feels like when you realize you can do hard things. You can do you know what I mean? you kind of get used to doing a thing that is difficult um and you're well supported and then you get to a point where everybody says you can do this on your own and you go and do it on your own or you don't cuz it feels it feels weird but then when you start doing it on your own you realize I can do this. Um, sure I'm I'm talking about sports, but clearly this relates to academic stuff, right? I mean, um, look at what university does. So, I've talked about this before. I, you know what, I love being at a university because I love learning. This is how I ended up here. And now I get paid to keep learning and so that I can teach other people and improve my knowledge and get better at my job. So, I keep learning. Clearly I'm not going to lectures anymore. Clearly people are not teaching me things. Universities and um other academic support groups give you they run training things like for example I'm an external examiner and I went on external examiner training courses to learn what that means and how to do it right. But um most of the time I'm teaching myself because I realized I can do hard things. What un what teach what universities do is they don't just teach you stuff. They teach you how to learn, how you can become an independent learner, how you can go out there, find information, assimilate that information, make that information useful for you, critically appraise that information. They teach you how to teach yourself. Um, and you learn how to do hard things and you realize that these things are possible. You realize you can do these things that other people do these things. This is actually normal anyway. Right. I got to do a thing with those. I got to do something with that. I got to get rid of those. I got before I can and I'm tired. It's been a long day. Right. So, let me get on with this and I'll I'll speak to you next week. Um, okay.