 donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts Or maybe we argue with ourselves and talk ourselves in and out of it instead of just thinking, hey, there's this thing I want to do. I should I should do this thing I want to do. Yesterday had some teenagers on campus, kids from schools doing their GCSEs, doing science at GCSE. And we get them on the university campus because I think a lot of us experience this. You do science at GCSEs because I really like science. And then what are you going to do with those science GCSEs? You're going to do science A-levels. And then what can you do with this? I don't know. This job I'm in now, teaching anatomy. I was never supposed to be here. I got here by accident, right? So by bringing them to university. So we had a couple of sessions. Chris was they were working with skeletons with Chris and they were dissecting eyeballs with me, animals eyeballs. We talk about the anatomy, the eye and stuff. But it's like it's a case of this is what university is. You know, this is how it works. It's not the same as school. We don't run it the same way. Here's this thing we're doing. These are these things that we're learning. Engage, don't engage, whatever you like. And we can also chat about other stuff while we're doing it. And, you know, there were some kids there who quickly realized I hate this. And there were some kids there who thought, hey, this is quite interesting. And then we can talk about, you know, we're not just dissecting for a learning thing. Like in these buildings around me, people are doing research. Where do they get their cells from? Well, they've got to dissect their crabs, their fish, their rats, their, you know, whatever animals they're studying. Right. So dissection is like this is the thing you could do as a job. As a scientist, this is the thing you could do as a lab technician. This is the thing you could do as a pathology mortuary assistant. Right. This is the thing you could do if you were producing prosections for anatomy teaching. This is the thing you could do if you wanted to become a surgeon. This is just, you know, there's all these things. And that's the thing about doing things, isn't it? A lot of the time you don't know what's out there and then you don't know how to go about it. So you do the first trick is figuring out what's out there. Ben and Joe run this. Chatted to Ben. Ben's an interesting guy. I think his story is he left school, joined the circus pretty much, and then went into working with young people. He's ended up in the university. Anyway, Ben, so I can learn a lot from Ben about this sort of thing. Ben was saying how, you know, that experience of getting kids to do this and then them realizing they hate it is really useful because you don't know what you want to do in life. So if you find things you don't want to do, that's really helpful. It's like, yeah, don't want to do that. Don't want to do that. That helps directly direct you towards things you do want to do. And I think our thinking joins up quite a bit because he was talking about it's not about aspiration. What could you become? You know, aim high. It's like, let's introduce you to all these things in the world, all these jobs you don't know about, all these things that happen. If there's something you think you want to do, hey, let's figure out how we can get you doing that thing. My job, I mean, like I say, I'm, you know, I'm supposed to be a researcher. I'm an anatomy teacher. Turns out I really enjoy it. But it's the same with these videos, right? So the videos I make, I'm probably not quite the same as most people when they're making videos. You know, I'm not trying to make a living. I'm making videos because I want to make videos because I'm a massive nerd. Sure, there are advantages. Like by making regular anatomy videos, I learn more. I practice teaching in different ways. And I'm making an educational resource, which make all those things make me a better teacher and make better things for my students. Those are all good. But the basic fact of it is I do it because I want to do it because it's interesting and fun. I get to talk about anatomy and learn about these other anatomy things. And it's like when you learn about this thing that's really interesting, it's like, I've got it. I've got to tell people about this really interesting thing. And then there's the challenges of how you go about it and what have you. It's been a bit of an expensive week. I've had two, two discs die. One backup disc at work. And then this is, this is actually a NAS's network disc at home. It's, the died, hard died is crunching and clicking. So I thought, hey, great. I'll just put a new disc in this and it'll work. But no, apparently the, the software that runs it. The, the networking software is, is on the disc. So no, that's dead, dead. Anyway, I started making videos in 2016 regularly. One anatomy video a week, one vlog a week. To be honest, mostly because I wanted to. There are lots of ways I could rationalize it to myself. It's like, I want to do this thing. I should just start doing this thing. And by doing it, of course, I've learned a lot. So my CV is full of these skills now. Okay. You might be disagreeing with me today. This is a little bit ad hoc, but video and audio and lighting and editing and, you know, structure and science communication. All, all those things have developed because I've been forcing myself to do this every week. And I don't want to do it every week, but that, the dedication of the long distance athlete and also setting myself the goal of keep doing this every week for as long as you can. Keeps me doing it every week. So I do. I keep learning things. And, you know, I think humans have this need to be creative. So this gives me some of that, that creative outlook. So my CV is stronger. I've got years of experience of this. But also, you know, I've had lots of unexpected and really, really good interactions with people that end up watching the videos. I've got some very interesting emails in my inbox now from people. But I've been asked to go and speak at conferences about stuff. And I've met lots of interesting people I never would have met. But I'm a bit, or I say I'm a bit weird. This channel is a bit weird because I'm not doing it maybe for the same reasons many other people make YouTube videos. I don't know. That's probably a bit presumptuous. But I'm not driven by views. My channel's weird because, of course, I've got, like, over a million subscribers. But my weekly vlogs probably get viewed by 0.1%. Yeah, about 0.1% of that. That's right, isn't it? Top of my... Yeah, maths. And I think... So I've stood in a room and I've given a talk to 500 people. I think I've given a talk to, like, over 1,000 as well. Believe me, that is a big room with a lot of people in it. Some of those people are a really long way away from you because it's such a big room. So I can visualize that. If I have 1,000-odd people watching the video, that's mildly terrifying. Okay, the flip side of that, the thing that's good is because I'm not chasing numbers, I'm not trying to... That's the crux of it, isn't it? I'm not trying to make a living out of YouTube. I'm already making a living. This is, like, a thing I want to do. But because I'm not trying to make a living, I have this great luxurious advantage of I don't have to make clickbait titles. The title should be roughly what's in the video so I'm not wasting your time. Again, the thumbnail is the kids take the mick at me. I usually take a whole bunch of, you know, clips from the video and then just pick one that looks like a reasonable image that kind of shows what's going to be in the video and the kids take the mick because I often pick the worst image or the stupidest image. Anyway, but I don't want to waste anybody's time. I'm making a video. If this is interesting to you, great. Look at me rambling on now. Now I'm feeling self-conscious about wasting your time. But I don't have to fuss with fancy thumbnails and clickbait titles. I try to do a good job. I mean, both in my job and in the videos because, well, one does, doesn't one? If you're doing something, you just try and do the best job that you can, except that there will be flaws and errors and minimize them and learn from them as you're going. And then in the future, you have fewer flaws and errors. So to go back to my original point, I think what I'm trying to say is it's okay to do things because you want to do things. And then if you do that thing and you find out you don't like doing that thing, well, stop doing that thing. That's fine. There are plenty of other things you can do, but you don't, I don't know, you don't have to rationalize too much with pros and cons. Just do the thing. You know, because only by doing the things you find out whether you really like it or not, whether it's for you or not. Yeah, it's okay. There's value in doing something just because you want to do it. We are the sum of our experiences. Doing things is your experiences. Anyway, I'm going to go back to learning from Donkey Kong. donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts donuts