 I'm I started there some years ago. I was asked to be an external examiner on their anatomical sciences programme, which I did for, I think, four years. You do short blocks. And when I started, so the job of the external examiner is you look at the programme, you look at the learning outcomes, you look at the modules, you see how it runs, you chat to the teachers, you see the exam papers before the students do. And then you kind of you often you go up to the institution, you look at the exam papers afterwards, you look at the marking, you maybe look at the essays, the coursework, the short answer papers to get a feel of the whole thing to make sure that it's fair. But mostly your job is to make sure that the level of the degree is about the same as the level of other degrees in the UK. That's the main job of the external examiner, because that's quite difficult, right? So if you've got lots of universities around the country doing similar degrees, but they're all a little bit different, they're all a little bit special and individual, because everybody thinks we could do it this way, we could do it that way. There's no national curriculum. How do you make sure that every degree is of the right level? So the external examiners, you do a short term stint, and you go and look at another institution, you say, yeah, that's about the right level. So we would go up, and then you'd go to the exam board. And I did that for the first year. And I've got family in Dundee, I've got family up here in Stonehaven. And I thought, great, I can come up and see these guys every year. And then after the first year, the second year I did it, that was when universities realised, we haven't got any money. And the first thing that gets cut are the travel expenses. We've been doing it online for the, I think, was it another three years? So I go to the exam boards and what have you and do it all online, which is missing a little bit, because it's nice to go and see people physically and see the institution and get tours. Fivers are largely, again, done nowadays online, Zoom, Teams, that sort of thing. Which, you know, doesn't seem like the best way. So it was nice to be able to come up and do it in person, sit in a room, get a measure of each other, hopefully a bit more relaxed, I don't know, and see the presentation and stuff physically as well. It was good, and it's been great to be able to come up and see family in Dundee and Stonehaven. I haven't been in Stonehaven for 30 odd years, and it's beautiful, great. And my family up here, they're Scots, so, well, yeah, they're so relaxed, easy to get on with. Lovely, really good to see what they're up to. Teaching in universities, there's a good example in Dundee as to why they're so important. So, University of Abatee in Dundee was the first university in the world, I think, to offer a degree course in computer games design and development. I think it was a master's degree. One of their students graduated, David Jones, I think he's a Dundee local, created the game Lemmings, which was very popular, a whole bunch of other games, and eventually created Grand Theft Auto, which led to the creation of Rockstar Games, multiple other Grand Theft Autos, which then became the most profitable game of all time. This is the big game everybody's waiting for now, Grand Theft Auto 6, expected to be the most profitable game of all time, earning billions and billions of dollars. All of that came from somebody who was taught at a university in Scotland. By working as an external examiner, I get to see what other people do, which means I learn more. So, as a teacher and assessor, I get to look at other assessments and see how other... So, I learn by being an external examiner. Remember, also, the place I'm going to, the internal examiners there, are external examiners at other places. So, we have this big overlapping network of everybody's looking at everybody else's courses and saying, yeah, this is about the right level, but also taking back expertise and sharing that expertise. And we also kind of, we help with decision making and make sure everything's fair. Yeah. So, that's the external examiner process. Now, at a master's level or a PhD level, you need an external examiner to read the thesis and comment on it and also to go to the presentation and do the Viva Voce, which is the oral exam. The main role of the oral exam is just to make sure that this is actually the student's own work. So, I always tell students, I always tell the candidate, you're the expert in the room. This has been your work for the last year or three years, right? Nobody in the room knows this better than you do. Still doesn't make them feel any better. But that's the aim of the exam is you have a chat, you know, and you talk about the project and how it went and what was good and what was bad. And then you start to lean into the, you know, you talk about the science and maybe start to pick up on the things that weren't so good and challenge them and stuff. So, we used to do Vivas in anatomy exams. You know, mainly we do the anatomy spotter now where we have physical objects, stick pins in them and ask questions about them. Back in the day, we used to do Vivas where each student would come into the room and the examiner would ask them questions about whatever's in front of them. The problem with that is there's possibly a bit of bias. If the student was afraid of the examiner, that would affect their performance. Can you imagine if the examiner didn't like the student? That might affect things. Even if the examiner did like the student and thought they were a good student, they might push that student a little bit further, which may or may not go. See, there's so much variability, right? So, we avoid Vivas nowadays. That's the weird thing about academic jobs. You do take control. They are what you make them. So, I've become a teacher, which means I've become heavily involved in assessment, because, you know, for obvious reasons. And if I'm going to be involved in assessment, I need to be an external examiner so that I get better at it and also contribute to the wider role of setting standards, comparing levels, comparing courses of different things. Sorry, that's what we do. That's the thing. That's part of the UK. It's part of the university stuff that people don't really know about, I guess, right? Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.