There are a few other things to consider. You see there we've got the we've got the uterine tube here but we seem to have a number of other tubes as well. These are ligaments. These are ligaments holding things in place. So they are good things. Um this ligament here is very straightforward. Can you see how this ligament is running between the ovary and the uterus? So that is the ovarian ligament or the true ligament of the ovary or the ligament of the ovary. I I like ovarian ligament. That seems a sensible name. And you see this ligament here. So this is going from the uterus and it's going out anteriorly somewhere. Now this is the round ligament. So the round ligament of the uterus, right? Um and then there are other things. There are the suspensory ligaments of the ovary and there's the broad ligament. And these are things that people come unstuck on because it is confusing. Um, and we need to consider a bit more embryology to help us. Right? You probably know that the gonads form originally up in the abdomen on the posterior abdominal wall in both male and female embryos before they are even determined as male or female kind of. So in the male and female embryos the gonads form up on the posterior posterior abdominal wall. This is important clinically and important anatomically for a number of reasons and it helps explain the ligaments and the paritonyium. Okay so embryology is very useful. Now the gonads so the male gonads they start up there on the posterior abdominal wall and they have to descend all the way into the testes uh into the scrotum right and we'll do that another day. The ovaries descend a little way but not as far. They have to descend from the posterior abdominal wall to their final position in the pelvis. Right just below the brim of the pelvis. A number of factors are at play for this to occur. But a structure with one of my favorite names in embryology um helps guide this descent. Um the gubernaculum is the structure. You can you can you can kind of think of the gubanaculum as a ligament. Um it's it's a condensation of misenime. um and it runs from the inferior pole of the gonad down to the labiocrotal swellings. Right? So essentially if the labia majora are going to be out here then they run within the body out out there kind of. So I'm going to try and make this description sensible. Right? So the gubanacculum passes from the inferior pole of the gonad essentially out to the labiocrotrotal swellings eventually breathe says apple and the gubanaculum comes from the word meaning rudder the Greek word so it's guiding the descent of the gonad and in the case of the female pelvis which is what we're interested in today it's going to the guide the go guide the gonad guide that guide the ovary down to this position here um which it does a commendable job of but it hangs around afterwards. Right? So the the ovarian ligament passing from the ovary to the uterus is a remnant of the gubernaculum and then that continues as the round ligament of the uterus and that's why it's going to the anterior abdominal wall because the round ligament of the uterus is actually going to go out through the inguinal canal just like the spermatic cord does in the male anterior abdominal wall. Right? So the round ligament of the uterus is going to go out through the inguinal canal and and then it's going to get into the skin of the of the labia majora. So that is how the uterus is anchored in place by the round ligament passing to the ingular canal. Right? So the uterus is held in place. That's a good thing. And the ovaries are held in place kind of laterally by the ovarian ligament. But on the other side of the ovary, so lateral and superior to the ovary, what's left of the gubernaculum and the other vessels that we have here are kind of forming a fold of misentry, a fold of connective tissue. And that would be the suspensory ligament of the ovary. Does that make sense? So suspensary ligament of the ovary is suspending the li the ovary. The ovaries is hanging. Um so we talk about the ovaries being on the lateral sides of the pelvis and and they actually they can move around a little bit. If the gonads form in the posterior abdominal wall then they are retroparitinal. If you need to know more about the paritinium go see my cling film and paritinium video. But the gonads form behind the paritinium, the sack that is going to enclose the abdominal contents. Right? So they're going to descend posterior to the the paritinium. And we can see that in our adult anatomy when we dissect and in these models because do you see how this model has got a white layer here? So this white layer this is this is the paritonyium right covering these structures. These are this is the common iliac artery and the common iliac vein. They're covered by paritinium because they're retroparitinal. And look here's the urer here which is going to go down to the bladder. That's And here these are the gonadal vessels. These are the gonadal vessels. So we've got here we've got the in this case the ovarian artery and a pair of ovarian veins that are intertwined around it. Can you see that? That's all retroparitinal behind the paritinium. It's covered in paritinium. Um, and the uterus is as well. And the bladder is as well. And the uterine tube is as well, but the ovary is also covered by it. But the the covering of the ovary is is is not the same as visceral paritinium. It changes a little bit. It blends and it changes. But it means that the remnants of the the the gubanaculum or the cranial part of that ligament that was up here and the um the gonatal blood vessels here, there's a fold of misentry over the top which becomes that suspensory ligament. So when the misentry thickens and comes together, we call it the ligament, right? And it's it's then it's then attaching the ovary to the lateral wall of the pelvis. Now, so the peritinium covers the uterine tube. But where we have the fimry and the ovary and if the ovary the covering of the ovary has gone a bit weird, it's gone a bit different. How would you cover the fimbury of the uterine tube with your paritonyium without closing it shut? It wouldn't do you see what I mean? It wouldn't really work brilliantly, would it? So, the paritinium breaks down here. the paritinium isn't isn't a complete sheet of cling film covering this space which means the uterine tube potentially opens up into this space here right I mean the real significance of this is that bacteria could pass in through the vagina through the cervix into the uterus out through the uterine tube out through this weakness in the peritineal in the paritinium and into the paritinal ial cavity. Does that make sense? The other idea is the broad ligament. The broad ligament then is covering all of those things. It's got you'll read about three parts. We got the miso salpins, the miso varium and the misometrium. And they're different parts of that. But it's just like uh the misentry um in the in the abdomen where you have parathium going up covering the small intestine meeting itself again and going back and it's forming that misentry. That's that's what the broad ligament is right. So the broad ligament then is the paritinium that's we can see it here. It's the paritonyium that's covering all of these structures. It's covering the ovary. It's covering the round ligament. It's covering the uterine tube. It's covering the um the ovarian ligament. It's covering the urer back there. And as it covers these things, it it just makes folds in itself. Right? So that's all the broad ligament is. It's it's just it's just that it's all of this. It's all of this here. All this misantry. Um, uterus, bladder, round ligament of the uterus, uterine tube, uterine tube here, ovary, ovarian ligament, suspensary ligaments out here, but blood vessels are coming in. Right, let's build that again then. And it's got So there's our uterus. Urus. And then these are the round ligaments of the uterus going anteriorly, right? like these things. Two uterine tubes. Then we have like an ovary there, an ovary here, another ligament here. So the ovarian ligament and we have another ligament here. Blood vessels coming in, blood vessels coming in here. Right? So this this is this is um what is it? Then this is the paritonyium. Right? So this is paritinium, but this is going to form the broad ligament. So basically the paritonyium just covers all this layers over the top of all of this, right? And of course it's going to get lifted up by these things, right? It's going to get lifted up and squidged down and and stuff like that, which means you're going to have these ligaments forming under here and in between here and around here and stuff like that, right? And that that that is the broad ligament. But that is what the broad ligament is. It's it's that double fold of paritonyium again forming a mis masonentry forming a ligament with the ovary within it and the uterine tube within it. Don't forget the fimbury mean there's a there's a bit of an opening there into the paritinal cavity. I have no idea whether that was helpful or not. I might have just made it worse. Um but there you go. So the other important thing about the embryology, the idea that the gonads are descending from the posterior abdominal wall is that the blood vessels are trailed behind them, right? Which means that the ovarian artery comes from the aorta. They're lateral branches of the aorta on both sides. See the gonadal arteries are lateral branches and they're descending down to the ovaries. And you can see the gonadal veins coming back up again. And oh look, they're different on the left and the right because the inferior vennea is pushed to the right. Right? So that means that the right ovary drains blood through the right ovarian vein to the inferior vennea. Whereas the left ovarian vein, can you see it's draining blood to the left renal vein. Um and that that means it is at risk of restricted blood flow from renal pathology like a renal carcinoma that that pushes out a renal cancer that pushes out into the renal vein. It's pushed to the left means that it's susceptible to being squashed during pregnancy and things like that. And the other thing of course to consider is lymphatic drainage. So um where does the lymph of the ovaries drain to? That's right. Follows the blood supply back. So the the lymphatic vessels are taking the same route which means that lymphatic drainages to lumbar lymph nodes or to para aortic lymph nodes. So ovarian cancer will spread deep um to the lumbar region which is not good. The um the other vessels of the other visca the other organs of the pelvis receive blood from branches of the internal iliac artery. Right? So here's the common iliac artery. There's the here's the external branch out here. You can see the internal branch is going in there. Right? So the internal branch gives off an anterior trunk and the internal um iliac artery then is going to supply blood to the visca of the pelvis. Um and the uterine artery comes from there. The vaginal artery comes from there. Now the uterine artery will anastimos with the ovarian artery. So if the ovarian artery is liated for example then um blood can flow from the uterine artery into the ovarian artery and out to the ovaries and that sort of thing and vice versa. So there's an anastmosis between the ovarian and uterine artery which is important. So we've talked about the female pelvic organs. um the female reproductive organs. We've talked about the the uterus, the ovary, the vagina, the cervix. So the ligaments will hold all these things in place and the blood vessels and what have you where they are. And we've tried to talk about the broad ligaments. So with these ligaments, these are holding these structures in place. So what happens after child birth? All these ligaments are going to get stretched, right? and they're not going to return exactly to the position they were in before childbirth. So we have the same sort of problem we have with the weakening pelvic floor by passing a baby through the muscles of the pelvic floor, right? All of these things keep the pelvic organs in place. So what is likely to happen or what's at greater risk of occurring if you stretch all these supportive ligaments? Prolapse. Yeah. So, it's more likely that these things are not going to be held in place and these organs may well prolapse outside, which is why it's so important um to have a strong pelvic floor, both male and female. All right. Okay. Um that's the that's part of the female reproductive system. I'm sure we will do more in the future. See you later. Yeah. Heat.