First kilometer sucks again. It's like back when I running big mileage, the first kilometer was always pretty miserable. Just connected tissues and being old at the moment. So last week, what were we talking about? I was talking about doing things you don't want to do and getting them done. And um that project I was talking about, I do care about it. It's just uh you know, one of those things you struggle to get motivated for. And that's the same with pretty much no in terms of caring about things. That's how it goes for pretty much all the work I do. I care about everything I do. Let's head up here. That was the only thing that's really overgrown and tripped over roots. I don't know how I stayed up right. I got to focus on my technique. Get tall, relaxed shoulders, hips forward, decent cadence. Um so like motivation. Um how you feel goes up and down, right? That's a normal thing in life. So at the moment I've had enough of working. I would quite like to quit my job, stop doing all of this. Um because I'm tired and I've had enough. And that's because I haven't had a break for a while. We're in the middle of exams, marking exams, which is stressful for everybody. Um it's a while until my next break. Um, and I'm just worn out and I'd like a bit more time and freedom and flexibility so I can climb more, explore the world and that sort of thing. So, I've had enough. But I also know that after the summer when I've had a break and we've had a crack at the big challenge that we've got coming up this summer and then the new students start the fresh meet, I'll be really enthusiastic again. Fresh people to train to talk about anatomy too. Um it's just interesting, kind of exciting and invigorating, right? And I'll be enthusiastic and motivated. And then by the time Christmas comes, I'll feel like this again. I'll be worn out. I'll be tired. I've had enough and I'll be ready to quit. And I know the reason for that is is cuz that term is really tough. Yeah, we have to do so much. There will be a whole bunch of problems that arise. Um I won't get a break in that period. I'm just going to be exhausted. So I, you know, because I've been doing this for 20 odd years, I now recognize that roller coaster in my year of enthusiasm high, enthusiasm low, enthusiasm high, enthusiasm low. And this is a normal human thing is how brains work, right? Look out. And of course, when I reflect on what I'm actually doing, I'm not going to quit because I know that I enjoy what I do, and I'd really struggle to give it up. Um, where I am now is hard one. Getting the job I've got is difficult to get. Getting the knowledge and experience I've got is extremely difficult to get. And if I gave it up, I know I'd be bored and annoyed and I'd really miss it. Yeah, exactly. So, that means I'm probably going to be working till I'm about 70, right? Because that's the way the world's working now. So, I do need to find a way of managing this, balancing myself, and pacing it. But you realize that very much like uh ultra running, it's not about the finish. It's not about the end. It's about the actual running. See, heck could you not love living in South Wales? Bramble. So when I was running 5ks, 10ks, half marathons, marathons, 246 by the way, um it was about the finish. Uh but it was more than that. It was about the preparation, getting to the line, the event, which again is quite short really, and then the finish, cuz the finish and the result and the time is the point of all of that. Or at least that's what you think at the time. And then when I shifted to ultra running where you run say 100 km and you're running for 13 or 14 hours, it really isn't about the finish. The finish feels great, but it's like tiny amount of time. And for me, ultra running isn't about the position or the time. It's about did I complete it or did I not complete it? because it is such a hard challenge and there's so much suffering. Um, but with ultra running, I immediately learned that it's about the running. It's about being in the thing. It's about running for for it is about running for 40 minutes. It's about doing the thing, being out there, climbing those mountains, looking at those views. Um, it's about the experience. And when I finished it, even though ultras are really tough when I finished it, feels good to finish, but it's kind of a oh, it's over. When you start your ultra run event, if you've got some experience of this, which you have cuz you've just been running long distance to prepare for it, you know that during that day, you're going to have low patches and you're going to have high patches. You're going to have times where you feel absolutely awful and you're going to have times where you feel really great and then lots of inbetweens. Um, and the way that you manage the bad patches is that you know through experience that a good patch is going to come up, that this bad patch will end, and you'll move on to something where you feel great. And honestly, I mean, the reason I ran, you know, if I didn't feel great running ultramarathons, if it wasn't a great challenge, even with even though it's really tough, I wouldn't have done more than one, right? Um, and then you also you learn things like basically managing the bad patches is down to sugar and caffeine, which is a lot like life, right? Sugar and caffeine solve most problems. Kim comes running with me and worries that she won't keep up. Wow. People forget that I became an ultra runner and ultra running is really slow and it's really nice. There you go. After that first kilometer, everything's warmed up, lengthened. Feels better. UK universities are struggling right now. We have fewer national students wanting to study at university. We have far fewer international students wanting to study with us because of regulation changes. People are losing their jobs. There's less money to do things. We have to do more with less. It's a difficult time. Maybe I should go and work somewhere else in the world. But I really love South Wales. And of course, I know that this is a bad patch if I'm going to be here for another 20 years. So I don't run ultras anymore. Although that that 100 mileer that I've never done does sit in the back of my head. What? What's this trick you overcome? Yes. That 100 mileer sits in the back of my head. But um when you're ultra running, you run a lot on your own. And uh now the kids are older. Instead of doing stuff on my own, I'm back to climbing with Kim all the time, which is my preferred thing to do. And nowadays when I run, I'm interested in my heart rate and my power output. And I kind of collect my distance and the time spent running kind of out of habit more than anything else. But the change is I I'm not in a hurry to get home. I'm not in a hurry for it to be over and to finish. Except that I've often got to go to work afterwards. And I think when you're studying, you see the the end goal, the qualification, the BSC, the MBBC, the MSC, the PhD is that being the end, the goal, the target, what you're doing now. That's what it's all about. And it's not. You only kind of realize that afterwards. The doing, the process, the learning, the spending time with other people, the exploring, the discovering things you never knew existed. All those little things that you get exposed to at university that you don't get exposed to anywhere else. That's what it's all about. And just like just like life, it's not really about getting to the finish.