It's still February just about and we've got our first glorious sunny day weekend. We're hiding out the wind. We got the sunny side of a crack and we're climbing outdoors. This is actually the second time we've been out climbing in February. But uh this is it's it's the rock should be warmish. We're on the south coast of the GA underneath second sister. Yep, there's three of them. One, two, three. Um three stickier up bits of rock on the south coast. Um some of the finest long fairly straightforward sport routes on the Gower here. They're quite new as well. I remember to bring extra quick draws which is good cuz there's a lot of bolts. Um, and sure, sitting by the sea is one way of chilling out. Climbing is maybe less chilling out for most people, but students, we've got exams coming up and students have been approaching me and saying that they're a bit anxious and some of them are a lot anxious. And when you're studying something like medicine, I mean, yeah, there's there it's kind of high stakes. There's a lot riding on it, right? It was hard to get into the course. It's it's a hard course, but you do need to find a way of managing that anxiety, those nerves. if you're going to perform at your best because your nerves can get in your way. And to be honest, I started rock climbing. I was probably about 19, 20, I think. And this is one of the main ways I learned about how to manage my nerves and manage my my anxiety. And part of climbing is is that feeling of getting over that fear and succeeding. So, particularly when you've been climbing indoors all winter, it is a little bit nervy getting back outdoors and getting reminded that Limestone gets a little bit loose after the winter and can be a bit upside downy. We're doing pretty well here. And you have to go hunting for the horns unlike indoors where they are bright colors. You got to not hold on too tight. Otherwise, you get a bit of a pump. You got to relax. You got to [clears throat] You got to You got to relax. Yeah. So, you get a bit nervous at the bottom. You get a bit stiff. You get a little bit Oh, I'm not used to this. You have to kind of make yourself get started and you look for the holes. You trust in your ability to move and you trust in your strength because you start to feel a bit pumped cuz that's bit of a steep start. Oh no, I'm getting pumped already. This is a really long route. You remember there are places where you could rest, have a shake cuz it's an easy route. And uh look ahead, look at the problems, trusting yourself to solve the problems. You will be able to do this or just take each section in turn and focus on what you're doing. Don't focus on the consequence like, "Oh, that bolts a long way away." Yeah. That bolt's a long way away. So, by the time I tip that bolt, I'm going to be a long way above this bolt. Or if I slip and fall, I'm going to If you think about the consequences, you you get paralyzed. You get stuck. You can't move. You think, "All right, so I can see there's a crack line there. I'll move left. I'll use that crack. I can see some footooth holes. I'll be at that boat. That looks good." Usually with me, if I get nervous, I usually have to force myself to say, "Right, good feet. Good feet. Do good feet." Oh, look. See, I'm at that boat already. Focus on my feet. Everything else will be better. Got to be a little bit careful with the new stuff. Trusting my fitness. This is well within my ability. Okay. Lovely. And the reason this route is so good is cuz we right at the top we have this big scary overhang. Uh, okay. Let's clip that. And that's probably going to create quite a bit of rope drag. So, what I might do is clip that next one and then uncip this one. If I can reach it. When you do an exam, you forget all the easy questions. You remember the hard ones, the ones you didn't get cuz they're the ones that play on your mind. easy ones, you just forget about it straight away because they were easy. But what you do is you uh you make yourself feel bad. Whereas if you remember the easy routes, if you remember the easy questions and the bolts that you've clipped up ahead, you feel better. Let's uh let's uncip that one. Have a little bit less rope drag. You see this is overhanging. So yeah, this is this is what makes the roof so much more fun. No scary overhang at the top. All right. Okay. So the other thing I like to do is visualization. Used to do this racing. Visualize what's coming up. Visualize the course. If I'm climbing a hard route, I would definitely visualize the moves on the hard route. And you'll remember the moves. And you can do this in anatomy spotter. can visualize your way around the the exam room. You can think about what's coming up. Oh, this is getting scarier all the time. Look at this. I can't find any good holds. Um, you can visualize what you want to happen. Visualize what's going to happen. Oh, see, look, I need good footwork again. That's what it's all about. Then, there's a good one. So, visualize what I want to visualize what I'm going to do. not focusing on the consequences. I'm focusing on the now. This is why I like rock climbing is because I can't think of anything else. Talk to you guys. I can't think of anything else while I'm doing it. I have to focus on what I'm doing. Oh, there we go. That was that wasn't as bad as I thought it was going to be. That was fine. The B thing is very good here. It looks worse than it than it is. You just have to convince yourself to get up and get into it and you succeed. But if you get paralyzed, if you think I can't do that, what happens if it all goes wrong? What happens if I fall? Then you get paralyzed. Then I got good footootholds. Oh, fantastic. Remember why I wanted to come back and do this. No. [\h__\h] it. Uh, let's do let's do let's do this one. Help came up. Right. There we go. Okay. And then it feels good. See what Kim has to put up with. She's freezing down or unnatural to you guys. >> Freezing. My hands are >> um I learned when climbing, both trad climbing, not a little bit sport climbing, but particularly trad climbing when you get scared and often when you're climbing there are good reasons for being scared. You don't ignore the feeling. But when you get scared, you evaluate what you're doing. And usually the best option is to push on. But if you get scared, you stiffen up. You don't move as well as you did as you do normally, as efficiently as you do normally. You don't look at your feet. You're not um relaxed and making best use of the holds. You're gripping too hard. And when you're scared and you climb when you're stiff, you do tend to use up too much energy. You screw up. You fall off. I learned the hard way that if you're scared, you evaluate the situation, you make a plan, you visualize what's going to happen, and you learn to relax and focus on doing a good job. And when you relax on focus on doing the job now, so you focus on what you're doing now, you climb better and you're far more likely to succeed and less likely to fall off. Whereas if you focus on the consequence, if you focus on the bad sides, if you, you know, if you're thinking about other things, you're more likely to fail. So you got to find a way of uh relaxing yourself in something like an exam. Cuz obviously in an exam, same principle. If you get think about the consequences, if you think about failure, if you think about all the things that might happen as a result of not getting these questions right, you're not letting your brain do its job. you're not thinking about what you should be doing right now. Your brain is a mess. You got to find a way of focusing, relaxing, looking at what you're doing right now. And that is the only thing that's important. I think you're doing right now. And everything else you can worry about later. Easier said than done. Hey, just take a rock climbing. Um, spend a few years doing that and falling off hard stuff and everything else gets easier. >> Right. More. >> Yes. It's coming back. >> All right, we're going to climb all these and then we'll go and see if the uh the pub origally that burned down has been rebuilt. We can get some food there. >> Yeah.