 It's still February, just about, and we've got our first glorious sunny day weekend. We're hiding out the wind, we've got the sunny side of a crag, and we're climbing outdoors, this is actually the second time we've been out climbing in February, but er, this is, it's, it's, it's, the rocks should be, warmish? We're on the south coast of the gower, underneath second sister, yep there's three of them, one, two, three, erm, three sticky up bits of rock on the south coast, erm, some of the finest, long, fairly straightforward sport routes on the gower here, they're quite new as well, remember to bring extra quickdraws, which is good because there's a lot of bolts, erm, and, sure, sitting by the sea is one way of chilling out, climbing is maybe less chilling out for most people, but students, we've got exams coming up, and students, we've got exams coming up, and students, have been approaching me and saying that they're a bit anxious, and some of them are a lot anxious, and when you're studying something like medicine, I mean, yeah, there's, there's, there's kind of high stakes, there's a lot riding on it, right, it's hard to get into the course, it's, it's a hard course, but you do need to find a way of managing that anxiety, those nerves, if you're going to perform at your best, because your nerves can get in your way, and to be honest, I started rock climbing when I was probably about 19, 20, I think, and this is one of the main ways I learnt about how to manage my nerves and manage my anxiety, and part of climbing is, is that feeling of getting over that fear and succeeding. So particularly when you've been climbing indoors all winter, it is a little bit nervy, getting back outdoors, getting reminded that limestone gets a little bit loose after the winter, and can be a bit upside downy, although we're doing pretty well here, and you have to go hunting for the hordes, and like indoors, where they are, these great colours. You've got to relax. You've got to not hold on too tight, you've got to relax. You've got to relax. You get a bit nervous at the bottom, you get a bit stiff, you get a little bit, oh I'm not used to this. You have to kind of make yourself get started, and you look for the holds, you trust in your ability to move, and you trust in your strength, and you start to feel a little bit pumped, because that's a bit of a stress. You have to shake, and you take it to me easily, and look ahead, look at the problems, trusting yourself to solve the problems, and you will not be able to do this. You'll just take each section in turn, and focus on what you're doing. Don't focus on the consequence, like, oh that bolt's a long way away. That bolt's a long way away, over there. So by the time I tilt that bottom, I'll be a long way above this bolt, or if I slip and fall, I'm going to... If you think that the consequence is, you get paralyzed, you get stuck, you can't move. You think? Alright, so I can see there's a crack line there. I move left, I've used that crack, I've just used my foot holes, I'll be at that bolt, that looks good. Usually with me, if I get nervous, I usually have to force myself to say, right, good feet, good feet, do good feet. Oh look, see I'm at that bolt already. Focus on my feet. Everything else will be better. I'll be a little bit careful with the new stuff. Trust in my fitness. This is well within my ability. Okay. Lovely. Lovely. And the reason this route is so good, is because right at the top we have this big scary overhang. Okay, let's clip that. And that's probably going to create quite a bit of rope drag. So what I might do is, clip that next one, and then unclip this one. If I can reach it. When you do an exam, you forget all the easy questions. You remember the hard ones. The ones you didn't get, because they're the ones that play on your mind. The easy ones you just forget straight away, because they were easy. What you do is, you make yourself feel bad. Whereas if you remember the easy routes, if you remember the easy questions, and the bolts that you've clipped up ahead, you feel better. So let's unclip that one up a little bit there. The rope drag. As you can see, that's so banging. So yeah, this is what makes the route so much more fun. Not scary overhang at the top. Alright, I'll see you. So the other thing I like to do is visualization. I used to do this with racing. Visualize what's coming up. Visualize the course. If I'm climbing a hard route, I'll definitely visualize the moves on the hard route. And you'll remember the moves. And you can do this in an anatomy spot. So you can visualize your way around the exam room. You can think about what's coming up. Oh, this is getting scary all the time. Look at this. I can't find any good halts. You can visualize what you want to happen. Visualize what's going to happen. Oh, see, look, I need good footwork again. That's what it's all about. Then... That was a good one. So visualize what I want to do. Visualize what I'm going to do. Not focusing on the consequences. I'm focusing on the now. This is why I like rock climbing. Because I can't think of anything else. Talking to you guys. I can't think of anything else while I'm doing it. I have to focus on what I'm doing. Oh, there we go. That wasn't as bad as I thought it was going to be. That was fine. The bolting is very good here. It looks worse than it. Than it is. You just have to... Convince yourself to get up and get into it. And... You succeed. But if you get paralyzed. If you think I can't do that. What happens if it all goes wrong? What happens if I fall? Then you get paralyzed. Oh, that's good now. I've got good footholds. Oh, fantastic. I remember why I wanted to come back and do this now. I'm going to do this now. Let's do... Let's do this one. Help him up. Let's skim up. Okay. And then it feels good. See what Kim has to put up with? She's freezing down here. I'm natural to you guys. I'm freezing. My hands are so cold. I learnt when climbing, both trad climbing, a little bit of sport climbing, but particularly trad climbing. When you get scared, and often when you're climbing there are good reasons for being scared, so you don't ignore the feeling. But when you get scared, you evaluate what you're doing. And usually the best option is to push on. But if you get scared, you stiffen up. You don't move as well as you did, as you do normally, as efficiently as you do normally. You don't look at your feet. You're not relaxed and making best use of the holds. You're gripping too hard. And when you're scared and you climb when you're stiff, you do tend to use up too much energy. You screw up and you fall off. I learnt the hard way that if you're scared, you evaluate the situation. You make a plan. You visualise what's going to happen. And you learn to relax and focus on doing a good job. And when you relax and focus on doing the job now, so you focus on what you're doing now, you climb better and you're far more likely to succeed and less likely to fall off. Whereas if you focus on the consequence, if you focus on the bad sides, if you're thinking about other things, you're more likely to fail. So you've got to find a way of relaxing yourself in something like an exam. Because obviously in an exam, same principle. If you think about the consequences, you think about failure, if you think about all the things that might happen as a result of not getting these questions right, you're not letting your brain do its job. You're not thinking about what you should be doing right now. Your brain is a mess. You've got to find a way of focusing, relaxing, looking at what you're doing right now. And that is the only thing that's important, I think you're doing right now and everything else you can worry about later. Easier said than done. Hey, just take a rock climbing. Spend a few years doing that and falling off hard stuff and... Everything else gets easier. Right, more? Yep. Coming back. Coming back. Alright, we're going to climb all these and then we'll go and see if the pub at the Brasile that burned down has been rebuilt, we can get some food there. Honestly, you've got the back! Yeah.