So this week in anatomy students have been looking at the muscles. of the forearm and the hand and stuff like that. Um, so I thought I'd look at this model of the arm, which I haven't I'm missing a whole a whole triceps here, but I'm not going to talk about triceps. So, hang on. I go I'll go to the lab. See if I can find triceps. Found it. See? He told you the students have been studying the arm. Right. Right. There we go. We got a complete model now. Okay. So, over the next 10 minutes or so, let's work our way through the muscles of the forearm. If we get really adventurous, we can look at the thumb, but you know, muscles of the thumb, that's scary. Um but we'll work at So students were asking me how do you approach the muscles of the forearm? How do you remember what's what? So I would say start superficially and work deep. Um and do one side and then the other. It's all right. Carry on. Don't mind Anthony. He's clanging around in the background. I'm used I'm sure he's using the space properly. I'm just pinching a bit of space. Um, so let's look at the muscles and then we'll maybe take layers off, but we The main thing is where does the muscle come from and where does it go to? And I think in the forearm, if you see where the muscle is going to, that's your cue to work out how how it works. I better wash my hands. Scrubs. All right. So, let's start on the the flexer side. So I guess we should talk about um parts of the arm, right? So if this is the forearm or the antibrachium and the hand, we've got a whole bunch of movements, haven't we? So we've got uh extension of the wrist, which you might also see is that's extension, and then that's flexion of the wrist. So we have a bunch of muscles doing that. Um and then we've got flexion of the fingers and extension of the fingers. Um, and then with the thumb, you got to remember that the thumb is on a plane at 90° to the fingers. So, you got flexion of the thumb and extension of the thumb. And then you've got abduction of the fingers and adduction of the fingers. And then with the thumb, you've got abduction of the thumb and adduction of the thumb. It's commonly confused. If you remember that the thumb is on a plane at 90°, the fingers all adds up. Okay. So the thing is whenever you're making any movement with your hand, you've got a huge number of muscles all working together to let you do what you want to do. Even if you're just making a fist, even if you're pointing at things, because of course the muscles that are flexing the fingers will also want to flex the wrist. So they could also flex the wrist, which means you've got to use other muscles which extend the wrist to stop it from flexing while you flex the fingers. So you can, you know, do that, right? So, we're going to think maybe about these muscles in isolation, but really you should consider that these muscles all work together. Okay. Um, so let's start with the muscles of the anterior forearm, which are going to be flexor muscles, and they're either going to be flexing the digits, flexing the fingers, or they're going to be flexing the wrist. So, these are the flexors. All right. So, here's the model. Here's the thumb. So this is a right hand, right? This is the flexor compartment. This is anterior. So if this is the thumb, you know this is the radial side and you know this is the radial artery, right? So can you see this is the radial artery. Here's a tendon here and look how it's coming from here across here. But it's only going as far as the wrist. It's going to the carpal bones. So it's going to the radial side. It's going to the carpal bones. And it's a flexor. So it's going to be flexarpy radiialis. Right? That's this muscle here then. So the next muscle there. See this muscle here is is similar, but it's more in the middle. And they've it's stopped here, but it's actually going to fan out. So this is going to be Palaris longer. So it's a long muscle that's going to form into the palm. All right. So that's bum bum. And then there's another muscle here. It's a little bit deeper. But where's this one going? So this is also going to the wrist. is going to the carpal bones, but this is on the uln side, right? This is the uln artery and the ulna nerve in here. And it's also in the flexor compartment. So this must be flexor, karpy, ulnaris, right? So there are those three muscles there. So when I say karpy, talk about the carpals, but these these karpy muscles do actually make it all the way to the metacarpals. But you know there's another muscle here. So you see these this muscle here short muscle. It's actually not going into the wrist. You've got your two bones, your el and your radius. And this is just going across to the radius. Here's the thumb. Here's the radius. So that shorter muscle is just running across there. So it's going to pull on the radius and cause it to do that, which is going to make you do that. So you're pronating. So that's pronator terroris. Well, here's the cubital fossa, right? There's the cubital fossa. So those muscles are all across here. And then we've got this other muscle here, which is brachioraiis, which I'll come up to in a bit. So those muscles are coming from most of them are coming from this bony point here. Here's the humorris. This is the epicondile of the humorris, and it's medial. This is the medial epicond of the humorris and they're w spanning across there. So that's where those wrist flexes are coming from. So if we go to the next layer, if we go a bit deeper, uh what happens if we take these off? The next layer of muscles are going to the digits because those are the things left over that we want to flex. And uh we can we can do really strong things with our fingers, right? we can make really really strong grips. We can climb up steep cliffs with just holding on with our fingers. Um so we've got a lot of muscle in the forearm which is running up into the fingers. So we've got these these long tendons here. Now the first muscle layer is flexor digtorum super superficialis flexors of the fingers digtorum superficialis. So there's two layers and it's quite a broad muscle is again coming from that medial epicondile of the humorris and it's coming from the radius and it's extending and if we were to look in here we were to pull this apart we'd see four tendons which run underneath the retinacculum and give us these four tendons here. Now the interesting thing is that as these tendons extend into the fingers, if we have the proximal and distal fanges and the intermediate or middle fanges in between then this this tendon of the superficial of the flexigialis tendon splits. So it doesn't go to the very tips of your fingers. It it goes to this part of your finger here and it splits to allow the other tendon to run through. So if that's flex digtorum superficialis then there must be a flex digtorium deep or profundus meaning deep. So if I take this layer off what do I find? All right there we go. So now we're starting to see the deep nerves. We've got the median nerve here nerve the er artery and other bits and bobs but the muscle layer. Can you see how we're starting to form some tendons here? So, this is the muscle of flexor digtorum profundus and it's sending four tendons and those tendons will also run up into the fingers and they're going to go between the splitting of this tendon here and they're going to go to the very tips of your fingers. So then it's possible to tear the tendon of flexor digtor and profundus going to the tip of your finger and yet still be able to flex your finger but not be able to do that bit not be able to do that movement right because profundus doesn't attach to the finger there. That's most of the muscles of the forearm. You can go deeper but you can't go deeper on this model. And if you go deeper, then there's another muscle running across here. There's another muscle running across here. And that's pronator quadratus. Quadratus quadratic, you know, like rectangular shaped. And it's another pronator. So pronator teras and pronator quadratus will both pronate. So you can pronate quite forcefully, which is useful if you're trying to, you know, um, undo bolts or screws or things like that. See, it's not so bad, is it? Just work your way through step by step. So that's the flexor compartment. Next is the extensor compartment. So it's these guys here. So these are all then innovated by the radial nerve. We saw the median nerve running through there. And the medial nerve is the median nerve is innovating most of those guys. The radial nerve is innovating the extensor muscles. We got a few things going on here. The first thing we should talk about is this muscle here. So, here's biceps, right? Um, let me put the other muscles back on. So, here's biceps. Here's pronator terraz. Here's um flexarpy radiialis. All right. So forming the other border of the cubital fossa is this big muscle here and this is brachio radiialis. If this is the brachium up here, this muscle then is going from the brachium up to the radius. If you want to see brachioraiialis, there's biceps. Um then the best way is to partially pronate. See your thumbs in line with uh your humorous, right? And then I'm getting the way. And then if you then try to flex your elbow against resistance, can you see this muscle here is brachio? This muscle here that pops up is brachio radiialis. That then is very powerful in in flexing in that way. So that's brachio radiialis. So that's not really a forearm muscle. That's where it is, but it's acting across the elbow. So we can that's not taking part in wrist or finger movement. So we can forget about that one. Well, don't forget about it. But so that's brachio radiialis. Then let's take that out of the equation. Yeah. So we start brachio radiialis. Here's the thumb. So we're looking at the right hand and we're looking at the posterior brach uh the posterior antibbrachium, the back of the forearm. And these muscles are going to be either extending the fingers or extending the wrist. So, what can we see? Well, we've got a muscle here. And look how it's So, this is going from the other side. Look how it's it's tendon is going look get it gets lost a bit, but it looks like this tendon is going all the way up to the wrist. And again, here's the radial artery. So this is on the radial side. H. So this is an extensor muscle. It's going to the wrist. So it's going to the carpal bones. It's on the radial side. What do you reckon? Is that extensor karpy radiialis? Yes, this is extensor karpy radiialis. And by the way, I say these muscles go to the karpy, the carpals, uh the wrist. They actually insert into the metacarpals to give that effect. But you know the trick with the flexarpy radiialis muscle is in fact there are two of them. There's flexocarpy radiialis longus. So then there's flexarpy radiialis brevis. There's a long one and a short one. Longus is the first one you come to. So if this is brachio radiialis then this is flexacarpy radiialis. Longus and you can see it's longer right? See it's going all the way back here. Um whereas this is flexarpy radiialis brevis flexocarpy radiialis longus is coming it's going all the way around here from the humorus whereas around here we've got the we've got the lateral epicondile flexarpy radiialis brevis is coming from there there's the lateral epicondile there's the lateral epicondile of the humorus there so brevis comes from there whereas longus starts off back here why it's so long hence why it's called longness All right. What else we got? That's easy. You see this muscle here? Nice and wide. And it carries on. And we've got all these tendons going off here to the fingers. Uh-huh. So, this is going to extend the fingers. So, this muscle then is extensor digtorum. That's it. Extensor digtorum. There aren't two layers of extens. There aren't two layers. It's just it's just extensive digum. There's no bre there's no superficialis and stuff. It's just digitorum. And uh look at this finger here, right? You can point, right? You can these other fingers kind of all work together. I'm not going to talk about that much, but you can do special things with this finger, your pointy finger. It's got two tendons going to it. So, you do have an extra muscle here. Uh she you can see the tendon but the muscle itself isn't clearly defined but this is this muscle is extensor indices index finger extensor indices otherwise extensor indices and extensor digtorum. But we got another we got another muscle here again we're at oh look around here is the lateral epicondile here the lateral epicondile. We've got a muscle here which is then that's going into the wrist and we're on the on the side there. So then this muscle must be extensor karpy ulnaris and I'm talking about these in extensor groups and flexor groups but don't forget that the the karpy muscles the extensor karpy and flexor karpy muscles on the ner side will also cause ulna deviation and the extensor and flexor karpy muscles on the radial side will cause I can't even do it They'll they'll cause radial deviation. They'll bring they'll they'll move it that way. Your little fing is also a bit special. Look here. We got two tendons there. Again, there's a muscle here which is um extensor digit minimi. Little finger extensor digit minimi. So we've also we've got extensor indices over here. We've got extensor digit minimami over here somewhere. And then we've got all these tendons which are extensor digitorum as well coming up So that's pretty much it. We've got sepator as well. We've got what anious around here and there's senator. We talked about the pronator muscles. There's also a senator which will suppenate which will bring the hat back again. But that's really deep in here. And I don't think taking this apart will show them. We'll show senator. So I don't want to talk about the muscles of the hand. That's a whole other video. You don't really want to talk about the thumb, do you? The thumb? Really? The thumb? All right. So we can see lots of tendons here going up into the thumb, can't we? If we just think about the muscles of the thumb that are within the forearm. Now I said that I said that that's flexion of the thumb and that's extension of the thumb. And look when I extend my thumb. So flexion extension. Can you see those tendons? See those tendons that pop up there. So those tendons are getting involved in extension of the thumb. That's abduction. That's adduction. That's flexion. That's extension. So when I extend those two tendons pop up. The thumb gets called polysacus. It's the polllex. So I reckon those two tendons are part of extensor policys muscles. And we have a short one and a long one. So we have extensor policys brevis and extensor policys longus. This tendon here, this is extensor policys longus. It's going down there and it's going deep in here. Uh or rather it's you know it's coming up from there. But you get the idea. This tendon here is extensor policus brevis. I can never remember which is which. Um longus is down here. Brevis is down here. Just is. Uh son, do you mind if I rearrange why you do that? Yeah, carry on. So there's one other tendon I can see here. If these two muscles are involved in extending the thumb and I said that this is abduction. Do you see what I mean? Flexion extension. Flexion extension. And then this is abduction in this direction. All right. You see a tendon there kind of. That's this tendon here. That's what this tendon is doing. If these two tendons are extending the thumb, this one is abducting the thumb. It's taking the thumb away. And there are two abductor policis muscles. This one goes into the forearm. So this must be abductor policis longus because abductor pelissis brevis is within the thumb. You can find that one yourself cuz I'm not doing the hand. I'm doing the forearm muscles. And that's it. See, it's not that bad. There aren't that many. There aren't that many, are there, Anthony? No. Easy. Right. Done. So, um I'm glad a student asked me about that this morning because I'd forgotten that the muscles of the forearm are somewhat terrifying, and there are a lot of them, but if you break them down sensibly in the way that we just did, I think they're not only a lot more straightforward to learn, but it makes a lot more sense. And you can you can look at the muscles of the forum and then work out what's what. I like working out stuff much better than I like learning stuff. Still learning, but anyway. Right. See you next time.