You know that thing that you said you'd do but you really don't want to do but you've got to do it. How how how do you make sure you get it done? I'm writing a book at the moment. I don't want to be writing a book at the moment. For me it's a textbook. Okay. It's a neuroanatomy book. It's an atlas. I love neuroanatomy. I love neuroscience. My problem is, you know, it's difficult to be creative. It's difficult to write about this stuff in a different novel, an interesting way, right? There's no there's not a lot of creative freedom or expression. I feel like I'm I'm writing the same stuff I, you know, in the same way everybody else does. And uh the other thing you know okay writing a book you learn a lot about your topic. I know you write a book you should be an expert. You are an expert but you you're still learning and putting all this stuff together to write a book. It's like any other form of teaching but it's all stuff I feel like I kind of well kind of know. So I'm not really learning anything new. I'm learning little bits but so I don't want to do it but I said I'd do it so I got to get it done. So how do I get it done? And it's the same principle isn't it? As if you got to write an essay, you got to prepare a presentation. You got to do some bit of course work. Sure. The course as a whole you love. There are these other parts of the course that you love but this bit don't really love it. Don't really want to do it but it's got to get done isn't it? you you pass the module, you get your credits, you move on to the next year, or you get your your 21 or your first degree, right? You got to get it done. So, what are the what are the strategies? And I imagine we're all a little bit different. First thing I do is I block out time in my diary. I got a busy week. I have things that hap have to happen on certain days of the week, certain weeks of the year, certain months of the year. My year changes a little bit as we go through the year. And of course, this is a deadline way out in the future. Now, most degrees, good degrees nowadays tell you about the coursework early on and give you that deadline way into the future. Writing books, I've got mo I got deadlines way in the future. So, I don't want to leave it till the last minute. I want to look at my diary, chunk it up, and think, okay, this month I know is going to be busy. I'm not going to be doing any writing. This is quieter. This is busy. This is quieter. So look at blocks in my year where I might actually get this done and then put actual chunks in my diary that stops other things going in there. The the things that go in my diary first are the things that get done because otherwise other things get added to my diary because people want me for lots of things, right? So planning ahead. Don't leave it to the last minute. Start early. Chunk up my time. then I've got a good chance of actually getting it done by the deadline and not being too stressed about it or having to work stupid hours as the deadline gets closer. I also break up the work into bite-sized chunks. Okay, we got a list of chapters. I guess that was one of the first jobs we did was figure out what the chapters were going to be and got them approved by the publisher. And then we, my co-author, devied up the chapters. So, I've got a list of chapters I've got to write. So that's my first chunking that within within a chapter. I will think about or we have already thought about what should go into that chapter. So we've got more chunks. Chunk chunk chunk chunk chunk. That means I can do those bits when I have time for those bits rather than think I've got to sit down and write a whole chapter. And um also because I've already kind of got a plan for within the chapter and the chapters as a whole. As I get work done, I can look back and see, hey, look, I've done this. I've done this. I've done this. Look. And that's quite motivating. I'm actually getting stuff done, right? That means I have less stuff to do in the future if I have stuff done from the past. One of the other things I like to do is to complain about it a lot. I complain about it to people about all the things I got to do and how I don't want to do it and what I got to do in the future and what I don't complaining. I'm not sure if complaining it does help, makes me feel better. Um, but it also keeps my mind on the thing I've got to do rather than just ignoring it. At least I'm talking about it. I'm complaining about it. If I'm complaining about it, I'm thinking about it in some way, right? That's better than ignoring it and doing nothing, right? Sorry everybody I complain to. Probably more useful than that is because I've blocked out the time and I've already got a plan. I'm doing two things actually. I'm making it as easy as possible to get into the work to pick it up and I'm trying to kind of let myself just just drift into the work. So, it's in the cloud, right? Which means I can pick it up on any device anywhere. And um I've already got my layout and what have you. And if it's easy to pick up and I and you know I don't I don't set any any goals or targets like today I got to write 2,000 words. Today I got to write five draw five illustrations. None of that. It's just a case of like here's the block in the time for this thing. Let's you know drift into it. Have a bit of a scroll through it. I can't really be asked. But I find that as I drift into it I start to get sucked into my brain starts working. And I think, well, yeah, I could I could just write that bit and just look up look up that thing about that thing. And and as I start to drift into it, I then get sucked into it. And before you know it, I'm actually getting words written and ideas formed and structure happening and illustrations coming together. And lo and behold, I'm actually getting stuff written. So, I've got to let myself kind of just gently drift into it. And then I start getting sucked into it. Once I'm sucked into it, that's it. I can then spend hours on this thing just bum. And of course, if I'm going to spend a big chunk of time on it, I need to not get distracted. Oh, if you are working in the cloud, particularly if you're collaborating with other people, uh the cloud is not foolproof. Ask me how I know. Um so, whichever cloud service you're using, you've got all your files in there and you're all working on these files together. Lovely, great. But occasionally just drag those files, chuck them in another folder somewhere locally, you know, on your hard drive or something, you know, just in case, particularly if you finished a chunk, a chapter, a piece of work or whatever, you know, just put it somewhere locally. Um, yeah, I know clouds have got bins and backups and you can never be too safe have three backups of everything, right? So, how do you isolate yourself from distractions? No idea. If you find out, tell me. Um, I find music is quite good. Noise cancelling earphones are better. Um, How do you avoid procrastinating like this? Like making a vlog or something? I' I've had people knock knocking on my door door while I've been doing this. Um, I have never found a way of finding a quiet place where I will not be distracted that still has an internet connection because you need to use an internet connection to access all of the information and check your knowledge and stuff, right? How do you avoid distractions? I don't know. I've just been leaving social media generally over the years and that's helped. Um, again, I think it's probably getting drawn into the work, getting sucked into the work. And when I'm in the work, I don't get distracted except when somebody knocks on my door. And it's exam season, so I'm quite popular. Anyway, if you've got good methods of avoiding distraction, please let me know. These are not my productivity tips. These are my methods for getting the stuff you don't want to do done, which is different because a lot of the stuff I do I I do want to do or kind of want to do and I'm just getting it done. I don't really have productivity tips. I just get stuff done because it has to get done. But the stuff I don't want to do that's got a deadline way in the distance. There's a real danger of not doing it. But I have being an academic um crashed into so many deadlines and fallen foul of so many deadlines that eventually the pain is enough that you start thinking I got to do this a different way. you get uh you know it's like put your hand on the stove right you realize this is painful this is bad you should not put your hand on the stove and actually this does work quite well when I get sucked into the work I actually start enjoying what I'm doing and hours go by and this is good I don't know if that's useful for anybody um again this is just me procrastinating because I don't want to do the thing that I don't want to do making a vlog about it instead of doing it I have been doing it though right I've I've got this chapter's pretty much finished I just got to just doing the illustrations for this one. And it is so hot in my office. I've got the sun on it for half the day. It's 28° C today. And in South Wales, that's hot. We don't have air conditioning. I got a fan that I switched off cuz it would muck up my audio. Anyway, um if you're in the same boat as me, good luck. Oh, by by the way, we were playing Doom: The Dark Ages last week. We were talking about how great games are at teaching and learning and how we should harness that and think about what games do. And game designers are really clever people. Um, right after that level we were playing together, I got um eaten by um an old god, an elder one, and uh yeah, we went to see his gastrointestinal tract. Funny that. Right, I'm going to finish the doing the thing that I'm doing. I'll put some labels on these illustrations. Got an hour and a half. might might do a little podcast because it's Friday. But I'll um speak to you next week.