Hey. Um, I've been doing my job teaching anatomy at Swans University for 21 and a half years. Um, and now we're in October. We've got a whole bunch of fresh students. We teach uh kind of post-graduate courses like medicine is a you have to have a degree to done it. It's it's a graduate entry medicine course. Physician associates is a master's program. So you need a degree which means that if you leave school at 18, you do a degree that takes you 3 years. Uh you're 21 years old. Uh and then you can start one of our degrees. Which means that um I have been doing my current job longer than some of my students have uh been live for, which is an interesting feeling. >> Does that make you feel old? Uh, I don't know. It's very today, is it? >> Yes. They are very um misty, hazy. >> Hardest bit about the roots we're doing today is uh is getting to them. It's just a bit just a bit awkward. It's quite a long scramble. Um, it's not so much that it makes me feel old. What I feel now, which is uh tricky as a teacher, is now that I feel quite a long way away from that new learner experience. What is it like for my students to study anatomy for the first time? What are their problems? What are their difficulties? I take so much for granted, how can I make sure I'm I'm I'm teaching well. So although I've been doing it forever, instead of my confidence increasing, I mean there certain areas of my confidence is increasing, but my confidence in doing a good job decreases. But there are some things I can do to manage that. Get right around there. It's a risk as a teacher, assuming the people you're trying to teach already understand this thing or know this thing. I'm sure we've all experienced it. I teach such a wide range of students cuz they've already done degrees. Some of them do know stuff and some of them don't know stuff. But I try to take the perspective that well a low assumption of knowledge bring everybody in explain the topic properly and then lift up the level of knowledge because if students already know this stuff and you're telling them stuff they already know they don't seem to mind that they think oh great I already know this stuff that's less work for me to do but I try to do that so that we all get to the same point I'm not leaving people behind. I know what it's like when people assume you know stuff and they start teaching you stuff above your level. You just don't get it right. So part of what I do of course is reflection and talking to my students and trying to find out did that make sense? Did you understand that? But it's often difficult for students to be honest about that. Um so I like to keep learning stuff that I find difficult. I'm learning French and German largely using Dualingo. Also watching, you know, French and German Twitch streams and YouTube channels and stuff a little bit. And I'm really bad at it, which is great because that reminds me what it's like to find something difficult to learn. Another good teaching method generally is chunk check. So teach chunk and then do a little test. Check that your students have understood what you were saying. And I do this in embryology lectures uh using Cahoot and it's very helpful cuz um a lot of the time I've no idea if what I said made sense. If they do well in the cahoot, great. Like uh I taught the reproductive and renal system to the secondies in one of their early weeks. Last year I did it, they did not do very well in their cahoot. They did not do very well in the chunk part, the the check part of my chunk check. So I changed what I did. And this year they did a lot better, which means I explained it better. or that they're brighter students, of course, but you know, you measure you you take what you can from these measurements way. But students that are new to anatomy, well, when you're a new student and you're learning with a group of new people, you feel like everybody knows more than you do. But that's usually not true. You feel like you need to know everything now, which is also not true. Um, whichever way you break up medicine or anatomy, it's wrong when you try and teach it because you think, "Oh, I wish I'd known this before this. I wish I'd known that before that." But you can't do it that way. So, you got to be patient. I've got to be patient cuz I love explaining everything to everybody, but I have to be patient and think that's going to be too much. Let's just explain the stuff that they need. you just need to learn um the bits you need to learn this week. If you've got a syllabus for the course that you're on, you can look to the future. You can see what's coming up and you can see that, oh, I don't need to do that now. I don't need to know that now. We're going to do that in the future. Um when you're reading a book, when you're kind of not the students read books anymore, when you're reading around a topic, there feels like there's so much, but you don't need to know it all. Now, bit by bit, take as much as you can, you've got a full year or two years, and it'll slowly grow and build together. And you're going to come back and revise this. You're going to come back and review it and read it again, right? So, if you don't if it's not all going in now, don't worry, that's fine. It'll all hopefully knit together later. And as you've got more blocks of knowledge, those blocks of knowledge will come together and it'll be easier to build that picture of the full body. Oh, we're there. Um, so patience. Um, if you knew everything right now, what am I here for? Uh, if you know everything right now, why are you studying a course at university? We made it. We made it. Something else I do is um a weekly 5 minute podcast. Um, it's called Dectable Me if you haven't seen it yet. And um yeah, I'm limited to five minutes on whatever topic I want to talk about that week. Um and the purpose of that is one like if you haven't got time to do the pre-ereading, if you haven't got time to watch the video, if you haven't got time to do lots of things and listen to an hourong podcast, you've got time to listen to a five minute podcast which will explain something to you very briefly and you'll have heard the words and the ideas before. So it's use the idea is that it's useful from that perspective. But the other thing for me as a teacher, it's very useful because I have to think, oo, I could talk about this for an hour, but what do they really need to know? I've only got five minutes. What do I really need to pick out? So, it's either the most important ideas, the most complicated ideas, uh, or the most clinically relevant ideas, and then it gets really, really stripped down to this is what you really need to know, and then you can go and build on that. And of course I cheat because I might talk about a whole system in five minutes. Then we'll talk about lots of different bits of that system in future five minute chunks in you know but you get the idea. But that is a really good exercise for me um in terms of me worrying about getting too far away from being the new learner. I now really have to put myself in the position of that new learner and think what do they what do they really need to know at this point? So go check it out. I don't know. I've looked at the tide. No idea what it's doing cuz we're not at a tidle crow. We didn't bother looking up. >> It's fairly high. Sure. It's still on its way in or not. >> So, there you go. You think, "Oh, Sam's been doing this forever. It must be super easy for him." And some aspects do become easier. And some aspects become more difficult. Not things I ever expected to become more difficult. I remember when I started this job saying, "Oo, I'll probably got the hang of it after 10 years." Probably took 20 years. Yeah. Yeah. So again, if you're trying to learn anatomy, after 20 years, I feel like I've got to grips with it, teaching it every week. All right, let's do some climbing. We're also kind of watching out for seals and uh for stuff. I was just saying to Kim how it's really dry again now after the storms have gone through and now would be a great time of year to climb those hard roots that we've been meaning to take. I just can't be asked. It's uh I haven't got the energy suppose like oh I don't know that too much work. There's no reason I don't don't need to climb hard. Don't don't need to make an effort. Yes. You see people climbing all these amazing roots. You think yeah I should go and do those those awesome roots boost. Then the weekend comes and uh >> knackered warm out. >> Haven't got the energy. It's so easy. He says >> he said when >> he gets to the blanket. Oh, you got your chalk bag on today. >> I know. Look at that. >> Has it got chalk in it? >> Yep. I >> think this is a really great crack as a uh learn to climb crack. This is Utopia slabs. It was new last year. Um Danny and John put this together, cleaned it, found it, cleaned it up, found the roots, bolted it. Um it's got some really easy roots over there. Well, I say fours. It's mostly fives, a few sixes, but the bolting's really nice and friendly with the rocks really pretty solid now. It's really high friction. But what is it like as a new climber? I I don't remember. like this is really relaxing for me, but it's uh it's about 15 m, so there's some nice height. Um, and I remember that, you know, leading can be a bit scary as you're getting above your gear, but see what I mean? I don't remember what it's like to be a new climber. I've been doing that for 30 years. Um, started climbing and anatomy at university around the same time. How was that? >> That was good. It's nice. >> Yeah. >> Nice to be back on the limestone. >> Yeah. Really nice. It's sharp, wasn't it? You forget you get into that cracker. Um, if you do want fiveminute anatomy podcast on top of all the other stuff I make, do a search for dissectableme podcast.com. It's on Spotify. It's on Apple, it's on, you know, it's on all the all the things. I'll put a link to it somewhere. There's a link to it on my website as well. Samwebster on there. Anyway, um yeah, I often think uh I don't do this the right way, do I? I don't think ooh what will get me promoted. I think ooh what will be useful for students and learning and that's not the way to get promoted. Uh he wants to get promoted anyway. I want to be more climbing. Right, we're going to work our way along here and hope that the sun comes out. Uh, and uh, see you guys next week, maybe.