Good morning. No, don't tell people that. No, I didn't go. It was supposed to be our seat. So, this is your boyfriend's car? Yeah. Bloody hell. Yeah. It's very nice. I've womanized it a bit. Like, it's 3:00 in the morning and Lissa is picking me up from the airport in the rain. As per usual, I can't. How come you're you're you're involved in organizing this again? Was one year not enough? You want it? No. I liked it so much this year. You like you lot was so organized. You were exhausted last year. Excellent. And I'm going to be exhausted this year. Russ is complaining about the time of night I fly at. They book they book the flight. I've I've had some sleep and I'm on a city tour and I've got four guides. Everybody else has bailed out. There's no other speakers. It's just me. So, I'm getting my own private city tour of Cluj. Um I'm inclusion a pocket in Romania in Transylvania and I'm here for the heart conference. The heart conference is it's it's run by students for students and it's about teaching the stuff that they don't teach them in textbooks. Is that right? Yeah. Trying to learn from other people. So Stephanie asked me to talk about my YouTube channel. So that's easy. I'm just going to talk about myself for 45 minutes. Right. Um steampunk Museum next. Steampunk. No. Right. That was interesting. Uh, now do some work. Come on in. Uh, cuz this is my second year in Cluge, Stefan has already shown me the major sites. So, he's showing me the weird sites now. Hence the steampunk steampunk museum which was really interesting. Uh introduction Friday afternoon talks all day Saturday Sunday uh party tonight. Oh my god, I haven't seen you. Oh, three of us. Okay, let's get if I get in the middle. Is my arm long enough? Just about long enough. Yeah, I just do those all the time. That That's like Vulcan, right? That's from Star Trek. No, that's from Westside. Westside. I'm sure it's Star Trek. Is it is it something to do with a super? No. Pick the Okay, I think I got two. I think I had the best smile. Oh, everybody. Here we go. Last day. Day three. I'm talking this afternoon. think I know what I'm talking about. Um, it's an interesting conference this one. These guys are a little bit different. I don't know if it's an Eastern European thing. It's a bit of a medical student thing, if it's these guys. So, normally when you run a conference, you do it kind of cuz you have to. And once you've done it once, you run away. You don't want to do it, you know, you give it to somebody else. These guys, they've got a team. They keep coming back every year. So, I'm recognizing all these people here last year with a few new additions. they keep coming back. So, they've got it's kind of like a they think of themselves more as a family and they they really enjoy this and they get a lot out of it and they're really supporting. But the thing that really stands out particularly like in the welcome uh talks was how they they wear their hearts on their sleeve really. They started the warm-up music. We go outside. Um yeah, so they're they're a lot more more open about their feelings and um so something I try and do a lot in medicine is because there's a lot of competition naturally in medicine. Um the sought after jobs are highly sought after. You're competing with other doctors to get the job you want in a lot of areas. In that sense, competition starts very early. I think that of course competition's put into kids in schools and it kind of just goes from there. So I am always trying to get cooperation and support amongst students as much as competition. Competition is also useful, but it's got to be balanced, right? These guys, they already do that. Um, they're very open about their feelings and what this means to them and what they're doing and that sort of that's what I'm trying to say, right? I'm a middle-aged white guy from Britain. I don't talk about my feelings. I keep them in here and squash them down. Right? These guys um they're very open about that which is uh refreshing and interesting and they're also really good and really nice and really well organized and really look after you. You got to say no to them. Right. My talk. My talk. Um so I'm answering three questions for Stephie. Stephie asked, "Why do I make anatomy videos? It's a very good question. How do I choose what to make videos about? And has it changed how I teach as a teacher?" Uh, if you want to know the answers, you'll have to be here and watching watching the talk. Right, I'll go get ready. Look at you two stiffening up now. Switch the camera on. Um, I think I might have made a mistake. So, first of all, I'm not supposed to be here. That's the biggest story. Um, but Stephanie asked me to answer three questions. Why do I make an atom videos? And how do I go about? What do I talk about? And how has that affected how I teach? And to answer that, I kind of have to tell you a story. But now I'm stood in front of a couple of psychologists. I'm wondering if I might get a diagnosis. We'll see. I'll go with it. See what happens. Um, so I think I have to do a bit of story time really. Good morning. Thank you very much. Thank you for having me. Thank you for looking after me. Thank you for getting up at 4:00 in the morning to drive me to the airport. I'm done. I'm going home. Had a good time. I'm tired. Thanks, man. Right.