But it's a sunny morning. I'm cycling to work. I'm thinking we should probably do another anatomy video. This week we're doing a couple of sessions looking at the heart. Maybe we should talk about the heart. Not bad, huh? But not so much that's the chambers of the heart and the valves of the heart that sort of thing. We'll rush through that more about the uh electrical system of the heart. Let's think about how the electrical impulses, how the nervous impulses travel through the heart, how they control the contractions of the atria and the ventricles. Uh let's talk about like the cyomeatrial node and the atrial ventricular node where they are. Um how the nervous system interacts with the heart to control the the rate of contraction and and that sort of Hey, it's sunny outside. Let's go outside and do this. Let's do this on the beach. Let's go for a run. Okay. So, I'm out for a an easy Friday afternoon run on the beach. It's a new thing I've added recently. I usually swim in the afternoon, but since I've been recovering from this tendon injury, I thought I'd start adding uh some more terminal Friday afternoon runs along the beach. It's nice and easy. Sometimes it is windy. Doesn't seem very windy today. It's very pretty. Tide's a little way out today. We'll run down to the tit in a bit. And since I've got a short 30 minute run, I thought I'd talk to you guys about the heart while I'm running. Like I said, let's skip much of the heart anatomy. So the heart's got four chambers. The superior and inferior vennea drain into the uh right atrium. The right atrium pushes blood through the tricuspid valve into the right ventricle. The right ventricle pushes blood out into the pulmonary trunk and into the two lungs. Then blood comes out of the lungs in the pulmonary veins into the left side of the heart into the left atrium. Then the left atrium squeezes pushes blood through the bicuspid valve into the left ventricle. And the left ventricle has got the big job pushing really hard pushing all the blood out of the left ventricle through the aorta and essentially around the body. So you know all that stuff. Let's talk about the electrical activity. How is all that coordinated? So the sinoatrial node initiates the contraction of the heart. It sends out an electrical impulse that then travels down the myometrium, the muscles, the muscle wall of the atria. It causes the two atria to contract. So they contract and squeeze and they pass blood through the two atrio ventricular valves the bicuspid and tricuspid valves and the blood goes into the ventricles. Now that wave of electrical activity can't pass directly through to the ventricles. The heart has a collaginous fibrous skeleton. And if you think about where the four valves are, the valves to the great vessels and the valves between the atria and the ventricles, they're kind of close together. Have a look on a model. And supporting those valves, we have this fibrous skeleton of the heart. And that's important because the valves, there's a lot of pressure in the heart. The heart keeps squeezing, pushing blood through and dilating, pulling blood in and squeezing. And the valves are crucial to this happening normally. Now, the valves have got to be held in place. So, the skeleton reinforces the circumference of the valves. If if the valves were able to stretch and get bigger and smaller, then the leaflets in the middle wouldn't work. So the valve wouldn't work. So blood would leak through. So this fibros skeleton reinforces the valves and let them lets them work properly. Now that fibrous skeleton is also an insulator. So the atria are insulated from the ventricles in terms of electrical activity and electrical waves of propagation. So you find between the atria and the ventricles and this is in the the septum between the atria low down posteriorly you find the AV node the atrio ventricular node and that wave of nervous excitation electrical excitation passes to the AV node. The AV node receives it and passes it on through some specialized nerve fibers. um in the AV bundle which used to be called the bundle of bundles of H. And these bundles carry the excitation down the uh septter, the septum between the ventricles towards the the base of the heart and the apex of the heart. And then that electrical activity is passed over to the pkingi fibers, endocardial fibers they're called these days. And those carry the excitation out into the walls of the ventricles. Now, if you think about it, that makes sense because the ventricles have got to contract not from the top down like the atria, but from the bottom up because they're going to squeeze the blood upwards and outwards through upwards and outwards through the semoluna valves and into the pulmonary trunk and the aorta. Right? So that means the wave that excitation is carried down to the bottom of the heart and then it's fed to the mioardium the muscles of the heart and then the myioardium contracts. It's not bad this is it. I mean this is one of the main reasons for staying in Swansea. the gala, the beaches, the sea, and the anatomy team that I work with. It's good fun. Uh to be honest, the weather's not usually this good. Okay, that's that's not entirely true. The weather is often this good, but it also often rains for long periods of time. Anyway, where were we? Yeah, so the layers of myioardium, the muscle in the ventricles in the heart are actually running obliquely. Um, and there are two layers. Essentially what this means is that when those muscles contract they squeeze and they ring the heart out. So they push the blood out from the base of the heart from the apex and push it upwards out through the pulmonary trunk and the aorta. Tidy, huh? So, right now my heart rate is in the mid 140s, which for me is a good aerobic effort. See, I can talk at this pace. I can run at this pace for hours and be fairly comfortable. It's worth holding on to a camera and a recording thingy. My arm's getting tired, but my heart rate at this pace is very regular. And that's the sinoatrial node. So the sinoatrial node receives fibers from the sympathetic and parasympathetic nerves, parts of the autonomic nervous system. So the autonomic nervous system controls the automatic parts of the body, the bits we don't think about. The sematic nervous system that controls the things we do think about. So the muscles that I'm moving now, the sceal muscles, the things I can think about and make move, those are all asmatic control, the sensation from my skin of the sea slashing on my calves, that's sematic. Whereas the sensory information is telling my brain how fast my heart should beat, that's autonomic. So in the heart, I'm getting to my turnaround point. So in the heart the uh there's a cardiac plexus which is a mixed plexus of sympathetic and parasympathetic that's a mixed plexus of sympathetic and parasympathetic fibers which are the plexuses between the uh trachea and the aorta and the pulmonary trunk. Time to turn around I think. So in the case of the heart, I might be in silhouette now, but hey, you can see the seat. It's pretty prettier than me. Um, so in the heart, the sympathetic nervous system will increase the rate of contractions. So your heartbeat heart will beat faster and it will increase the force of contraction. So it'll push more blood. So that's a sympathetic nervous system. Also well let's say that first that the parasympathetic nervous system does the opposite. So the parasympathetic nerves to the sinoatrial node will cause it to decrease the rate of contractions and decrease the force of contraction. So the sympathetic and ner and parasympathetic nervous systems in this case are working together. The other thing that happens is that when so if I slow down and my heart rate starts to go down the parasympathetic system is slowing my heart rate reducing the rate of the force of the contractions and it's also reducing the amount of blood flowing through the coronary arteries. So it's saving energy. is causing vaso constriction which is a little unusual for the parasympathetic nervous system. Now, so my heart rate's down to 136. As I speed up, the sympathetic nervous system will act on the sinoatrial node and will cause my heart to beat faster and the contractions to be more forceful. And it'll also cause my coronary arteries to dilate. to the the muscle of the heart will get more blood through the coronary arteries so it can do more work. So my heart rate so my heart rate's now going up towards 160 and that's the sympathetic nervous system acting. So if I ease up now the activity of the sympathetic nervous system will drop off. The activity of the parasympathetic nervous system to the say node will increase and as my muscles start to recover not yet my heart rate will start to go down and so will the force of contractions. Now the I think we can talk about the anatomy with your nervous system in more detail somewhere else. But um I'm not as fit as I thought I was actually. I know I'm not that fit. I'm not as fit as I was earlier this year before my injury. um the sympathetic nerves acting on the SA node are adronurgic. That means that the molecules causing the the link between the nerves and what have you and the receptors is adrenaline or noradrenaline based whereas the parasympathetic neurons are acetylcholine based. Now you know that when you have the fight or flight response, when do you get an adrenaline rush, when you get the fear or when before a race, uh I can even after I've warmed up, after I've warmed up and I'm getting ready for uh the start, I can see on my heart rate monitor that my heart rate's elevated, usually above 100 beats per minute before the race. now cuz my body knows a big effort is coming up and that is caused by adrenaline released by the adrenal glands flowing around the body and having all sorts of effects around the body like restricting blood flow to the GI tract sending it to the muscles releasing glucose making your heart beat faster. Basically getting you ready to to fight or or run away in the case of a race getting ready to run away. Um and that adrenaline will act on the receptors in the SA node directly. So instead of having adrenaline and noradrenaline passed across the zinapse, the adrenaline from the blood will act directly on the adinuric receptors and cause your heart rate to increase and uh the force of contractions to increase which is pretty clever. That cafe over there is nice. I'm running in Swansea Bay between the university and the um marina. They do really nice sweet potato waiters. Okay. So, we've talked about the structure of the heart. Basically, we've talked about how this flow of excitation passes from the SA node to the AV node through the AV bundle out to the endocardial fibers and then causing the ventricles to contract from the bottom up. Um, we talked a little bit about sympathetic and parasympathetic innovation to the uh to the heart. On comes to the end of my run. It's been lovely and sunny and blue skies and it's on a beach. What's not to love? Maybe holding this camera up. Uh, and now I've got to find my way back through these sand dunes. Uh, it's one of these. See that one?