Bone forms in two ways uh with long names endocchondrial oification and intramembranous oification. Endocchondrial oscification. Endo means inside, condr means cartilage. Oification means turned to bone. So cartilage gets turned to bone on the inside. That's what we're going to look at under the microscope. It's it's quite pretty. Have you looked at X-rays before? Or have you looked at X-ray radiographs of the limbs and have you seen those gaps in the bones which aren't fractures? Those gaps are the growth plates in long bones. Those tell you that these radioraphs were taken of young people of children of adolescence. Um whereas if we compare that to an adult bone you can see that it's not there. Although actually um when we look at this is a plastic skeleton but it's a pretty good one. You can see often a a a ridge, you know, some sort of sign that that that process happened. But this is all bone now. This is all fused together. Well, it's plastic cuz it's a plastic skeleton. But the bone this was taken from this was all bone. And um that that is showing us where the growth plate was. What we can see on the X-ray, remember that X-rays are passed through the bone. bone is calcified um which makes it hard for X-rays to pass through the bone. So bone is opaque, it's white. Uh less radiod structures are not white. So what we see as a gap is not a gap in there is cartilage. That cartilage is not calcified. It's not mineralized. So the X-rays pass through it. So we're looking at the growth plate. The bit we can't see is the growth plate. So in the embryo a cartilage precursor for the bone is laid down first. Misenal cells clump together start to form the shape of the bone but they make cartilage. That cartilage is turned to bone later over time and then those particularly the long bones. The long bones then keep growing through childhood through adolescence by the growth plates. The growth plates are cartilage and they continue to put down new bone. So the grow bones keep getting longer and that's what we're going to look at under the microscope. The other way in which bone is made in the embryo is intramebranous ocification. There's like a membrane that's laid down and bone forms. There's no cartilage stage in intramembranous ocification. The other thing about endocchondrial oscification which makes it interesting to us is this is the method by which uh bone repairs after a fracture. So if we look down the microscope what do we see? This was my PhD topic. So let's see how much I can remember. It was a while ago. We looked at normal cartilage last week I think. Let's just have a quick look. Here's the trachea. Um so in blue there there's the cartilage of the trachea. That's what a normal uh highline cartilage looks like. We've got condondraites in there. They're in the row in the lacuni. They're spaces. The rest of the blue staining there is the extracellular matrix that the condraittes are maintaining. And towards the edges we've got condondra blasts which will become condondraittes. And we've got the paricchondrium. In many cartilagages, there are far fewer cells than what we see here. But you can see that kind of random arrangement of cells, right? Okay. Um here is a developing joint and again the cartilage is uh stained blue, which is very nice. So this is this is bone and bone marrows. The bone is red, muscle is red, and as we slide across here, we're seeing the the bluey green of the cartilage. That's the growth plate. And you can see how the cells are not randomly arranged. We're seeing columns of cells. Then we have bone on the other side, more bone and bone marrow, and then more bone. So, what we're looking at here is there's the the epiphosis, the top of the bone, and then we're looking at the growth plate, and then we're looking at the diaphosis. So, the long bone keeps getting longer by more bone being laid down at the growth plate. Right? Um, and if we look over here, we can see some articular cartilage, some developing articular cartilage on the bone. And we can see another growth plate there. Let's do Should we do this one? Okay. So, let's zoom in. This is at 40 times magnification to my eye. This is now at 100 times magnification to my eye. And we can see some clear structure there. So to the left side then um you can see so the cells of the growth plate are cartilage cells. They are condondraittes. And to the left we can see some condraittes or possibly condondraasts and we can see extracellular matrix. Um this would be the the resting zone um or the reserve zone. And in here the cartilage is like the cartilage of highline cartilage. We've got type two collagen and other collagens that maintain it. We've got the main proteoglycan agrican. We've got glyosaminoglycans. We've got that whole. So the the the proteoglycan and glycosaminoglycans pull in the water and then the type two collagen hold on to all those molecules now that they're all hydrated and make that compressive highline cartilage. Uh and then as we move towards the right you can see those very distinct columns of cells and that's the proliferative zone. Here we've got condraittes that are rapidly proliferating. If we jump up to a higher power. If I go to 200 times magnification, we can maybe we can maybe see some of that mitosis. We can see some cell doubling in there. We can see some pairs of nuclei, right? So, there's rapid proliferation going on here, which is why we've got those columns of cells. And this is all very carefully organized. My PhD was looking at new genes and the signaling mechanisms that regulate all of this and the rate at which this happens so that new bone is laid down during childhood and adolescent years. So that's the the proliferative zone. Now as we move to the right you can see we're still still very blue, still very blue. So it's still very cartilage but those cells are getting bigger. So the cells have moved from the resting zone into the proliferating zone and then they proliferated in the proliferating zone and then what we're looking at there is a later stage. Those cells at a later stage they become much larger. They hypertrophy. This is the hypertrophic zone and things are starting to change here. Um these cells are making type 10 collagen. They're starting to make some matrix metalloproteinases which are able to break down the proteins of the extracellular matrix. So they're changing the extracellular matrix. They're making veg F vascular endothelial growth factor which is going to encourage blood vessels to grow into this region. And of course we know that cartilage is famously avascular. And the cartilage here the extracellular matrix is going to start to become calcified. As we look to the furthermost right, we're starting to see the junction between the bone and the cartilage. And the last thing these hypertrophic condraittes are going to do is they're going to enter controlled cell death. They're going to enter apoptosis and blood vessels are going to move in and that extracellular matrix will become calcified and mineralized and osteoblasts will move in and start laying down bone and those osteoblasts will surround themselves with with bone with external matrix of bone type one collagen now and lamela bone and they will become osteocytes and then we have new bone and that conveyor belt process continues um until your epiphyses oify or your growth plates fuse. And when we look at the growth plate, and again, it's one of those very distinctive tissues, one of those very distinctive structures. To the left, we have the resting or reserve zone. And hopefully you can see there how there is a bit more matrix. And we have some cells there that are essentially the progenitor population. And then those long columns make up the proliferative zones. is those cells are rapidly proliferating. Just look how we've got in many cases two nuclei right next to each other. That's a cell that's gone through mitosis to produce two cells. Then as we move to the right we see much larger cells. Those cells have become hypertrophic cells. That's a hypertrophic zone. And then to the right we start to see apoptosis and calcification. And then further right again we see osteoblasts and bone being laid down. And that's the entirety of the growth plate. This is obviously a very important structure. Um when we talk about long bones, we don't just mean the very long bones like these are long bones. Many many of the bones in your body, this is how they continue to grow is through growth plates um and in other ways. So can you imagine what would happen if this didn't work? And in many cases it doesn't work normally. So that was at 200 times magnification to my eyes. This is 100 times magnification, 10 times objective, 10 times eyepiece. It'll vary for you depending upon the size of your screen. Um, but this is a very carefully controlled process and when you stop growing, it's largely because of uh estrogen levels. So these cells are responsive to estrogen. So as it during puberty estrogen levels rise that the growth plate there gets shorter. Those columns get shorter and the cells stop doing the job of the growth plate and producing new bone and the growth plate is replaced. All of that cartilage is replaced by bone and the growth plates fuse and you can grow no more. Now, because girls both go through puberty earlier and have higher levels of estrogen during puberty, um, girls tend to stop growing earlier than boys. And this is one of the main reasons why women are shorter than men because of this biology and because of estrogen. Probably the most famous condition associated with growth plate is aroplasia. Um the most common cause of that is um deficiency in the FGFR3 gene fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 gene again one of the signals that controls all of this and in aia this means that the growth plates there's there's reduced proliferation there's increased apoptosis there are fewer hypertrophic cells the growth plate just doesn't function as we see here and that means that long bones don't grow as long as they normally would. So, uh, people with aondroplasia have short stature and you notice that that shortness of stature more in the long bones of the limbs and what have you than you do in the bones of the face and the skull, for example. The other clinical thing about about growth plates is a salt harris fracture is a fracture that incorporates the growth plate in some way. And it can it can be a fracture that goes through the growth plate in a number of different ways. So again, when you're looking at X-rays, as we started at the beginning, when you're looking at fractures, when you're looking for the growth plate, you need to be able to recognize the normal and the abnormal. And of course then salsa harris fractures occur in children and young people before their growth plates have oified. So the growth plate is an important bit of anatomy to be aware of but it's also I know I'm heavily biased but a particularly cool bit of biology some of which uh continues to be figured out today. Anyway, there we go. The growth plate. Lovely thing to look at under the microscope. um doesn't make me want to go back and do it all again. But all right, I hope that was interesting. See you next week.