Hello. Um, we're going to look at where tendons attach to bone. Partly because that's really important and really interesting. But it lets us look at tendons. It lets us look at fibroartilage. It lets us look at dense reg dense regular connective tissue and dense irregular connective tissue. It lets us look at something cool called the tide mark. Lets us look at a whole bunch of things quite quickly actually. Um, the other reason I really wanted to do it, because I was thinking about skipping this one, but I think the main reason I want to do this is in in memory of one of my anatomy teachers, uh, Mike Benjamin. Um, he died several years ago. I think he was about my the age I am now when he was teaching me. And he was excellent. I still clearly remember him giving live hisystologology practical classes from a microscope in a booth onto monitors. and we had our microscopes and that sort of thing. And you know, he's just one of those guys that was excellent and he learned so much from and he had this lovely nature and this was his research subject. He he he not many people were studying tendon which is why I think that's one of the reasons why he took it on. But he studied the tendon, the biology of the tendon, the signaling of the tendon, the cells of the tendon, and the anthesis where the tendon attaches to the bone. So when I look at this, I can't help but uh be reminded of Mike and some of my other anatomy teachers back in Cardiff University, right? Do you know about um bone spurs? Do you know about ankillosing spondilitis? Those are other good reasons for looking at um where the tendon attaches to bone uh we call this the enthesis. Now where the tendon attaches to bone we call that the enthesis where ligament attaches to bone we call that the enthesis. So similar principles so still I think not really there's there's still a lot of work to do to understand um tendon biology and ligament biology and being a connective tissue nerd I would quite like to get into that. That's the other thing that amazes me about my anatomy teachers is how they managed to do all the teaching that they did and the running of the courses. Uh, and they still managed to do all this research as well. Okay, I'm actually at my lowest power here. And there's some bone over there. So, what we've got here is I mean that's a bit bright, but the bone isn't really stained. So, we've got bone and bone marrow there, which is why that's so white. We're just seeing the edge of it. We've got some stains here for that that cartilage uh covering the bone. And then here we're getting into the tendons. We've got that that gap there you're looking at is there we go. There's the bone with a cartilage covering protecting it from the tendons. This is a um this is an Achilles tendon, a calccanial tendon. So the further we go up here, there's a bit less stain. Um, but we're seeing lots of blood vessels up here, right? Um, running in the connected tissues. We're getting closer to the muscle up there. And as we go this way, which is closer to where the tendon attaches to the bone, you can see how it changes partly because the stain that has been used to stain this section likes to stain the extracellular matrix here a bit better. uh but whatever is staining is getting more dense as we go in this direction. But you can clearly see lots of parallel tracks. Right? So this is the tendon. This is lots and lots of type one collagen which is very good at withstanding tensile forces. And these fibers are arranged in a number of ways like a rope. So they're really really good at withstanding tensile forces, pulling forces. And we we've got elastin in here and we've got some proteoglycans as well. So the elastin is giving some stretch because of course tendons are generally very good at stretching and that's part of the uh energy return system that makes particularly in the muscles we use for walking makes walking and gate so much more efficient. You stretch the tendon that most of that energy gets returned. Um and if we we might have some areas where we see some crimping, some um folding, but now you can see that we haven't really got a lot of blood vessels in here. The blood vessels are towards the edge, right? So tendon doesn't have such a good blood supply and we can see you can just about see the nuclei in there. We've got lots and lots of collagen fibers and then the cells because we can see the nuclei that are staying. The cells are kind of on the outside. The cells are in in rows out of the way of the collagen and those are tendon fibroblasts or teninoytes. And as we go up here, we can see a bit of a curve happening. And there we go. That's where the tendon is attaching to the bone. We're getting a little bit ahead of ourselves. Um, let me just jump up to a slightly higher power. And maybe we can see you can see how those cells are arranged in rows. Um, so yeah, and these cells I we can see the nuclear. We can't really see the shape of the cell too well. We kind of can there, but you can see how the cells are what we call spindle-shaped. They're long, bit of a fat middle, but they're long and thin cells. very fiberblasty, but they're doing they're a little bit specialized because they're in the the tendon. So, these cells are maintaining the extracellular matrix of the tendon. Like other connective tissues, these cells can sense load, modify the matrix around them. Your tendons can get stronger because you load them regularly through training for example. So, that is tendon. We can very clearly see long lanes of type one collagen. And there are other collagens in here as well which modify them and tie them all together. But that's tendon. Now we talked about cartilage recently. Where tendon goes over an edge. It's not under tensile forces. It's under compressional forces. It gets compressed and we see fibroartilage starting to form there. So if we go to the edge of the tendon, there's a lot of stain there. If we go to the edge the the part of the tendon that's up against the bone. So it's curving around the bone. This is tendon under compression and it looks quite different. This is now fibroartilage within the tendon. If I go this away, the matrix doesn't stain quite so darkly. But those cells are not they don't look the same, do they? Look, there's the there are the tendon fibroblast or the teninoytes. Here in the fibrocartilage, the cells are much rounder. They look more like condraittes. And yes, they are making type two collagen as well as type one collagen. And the matrix is more like cartilage, but it's a fibroartilage. It's a mix of tendon and cartilage. So the the the tendon can resist those compressive forces. Then if we go to the bone side, there we go. That looks similar, doesn't it? This cartilage covering the bone. And then as we go deeper, there's the bone. So the cortical bone and then the lamela bone in there. Very pretty. I do like these colors as well. So that's what fibroartilage looks like. And what we're seeing here again are two examples of dense connective tissue. So this is a dense regular connective tissue. All the fibers are very regularly arranged. They're running in longitudinal parallel rows. And this is a dense irregular connective tissue. That's what those terms are referring to. The fibers are running in lots of different directions. We talked about how cartilage has agan and glycosaminoglo glycans that pull in water and the type two collagen forms a net that holds all those hydrated molecules in making this a very uh good material to withstand compression, right? Um and these we kind of get a sense of it there, don't we? Um the type one collagen the extracellular matrix is arranged into facasacless uh bundles of fibers a bit like the muscle was. So we have um endotenum we have connective tissue organizing the connective tissue into bundles and then wrapping those bundles into bundles which is what like I say it's what we see in the muscle. In fact, the connective tissue that surrounded um the bundles of muscle fibers, the endomsium and what have you continues into the tendon. So there's this there is there is also another join between muscle and tendon. But that connective tissue is continuous which is what gives you that strength there. But that's another weak point between muscle and tendon. Um and then on the outside don't know what we've got. If we go to the outside um of the tendon, this is where we see the epiten or paratenon or peritenon. I'm still not entirely sure if anybody if if um the scientific community has settled on terms, but these do get easily confused. Um and we have blood vessels in there. This is where much of the blood supply of a tendon is. Um and the other important purpose of this surrounding connective tissue is that tendons are going to move. So they need to be able to slide freely amongst and against the other tissues of the body. An extreme example would be if you imagine all the tendons in your fingers and your hands and everything sliding over one another. So they need to be separated by that that other connective tissue. Anywh who um let's go to the enthesis. Oh, look at that. Right. Lower power. Okay. So bone is hard and mineralized whereas tendon is not hard and not mineralized. How does one become the other? We've got four zones. Um, can you see how um so here's our tendon and as we move towards the enthesis, can you see how those cells are starting to become rounder and the matrix is starting to stain more darkly? The tendon. So the first zone is the tendon is becoming a fibroartilage like we saw in the other region but it's not calcified and actually as we get closer and closer we can see that sh should I get closer. You can see that this does look quite cartilagy and when we talked about endocchondrial oification we talked about how cartilage becomes bone. So there's precedent for this. Um, so we have fibrocartilage that's not calcified and then there's a very distinct blue line there, isn't there? Uh, and that runs all the way along and that's the tide mark. So then on the other side of that tide mark on the bone side of the tide mark we have calcified fibroartilage and then next to the calcified fibroartilage we have bone. Those are the four zones tendon fibroartilage not calcified fibroartilage calcified and bone. And there are lots of signals being put out by these cells to carefully manage where that fibroartilage is calcified and where it isn't calcified. So if I zoom back out again again this is my four times objective. So with the 10 times eyepieces this is 40 times to my eyes. Um that's that tide mark between the calcified and the uncalcified tissue essentially gives a a smooth surface which is important because the bone is moving the tendon is moving relative to the bone because that's what's that's the whole point of all this muscles contract move the bones. So everything needs to move freely and smoothly and forces need to be applied evenly and what have you. Um so that tide mark is carefully managed by signals being put out by the cells in these regions. What do you think might happen if that signaling didn't operate as it should? Yeah, mineralization can extend from the bone into the tendon. By the way, it doesn't look like there's a lot of bone there. Um, remember on the outside of the bone, we've got cortical bone and we have tbacular bone on the inside, but that's cuz we're just looking at one thin section. That bone, that bony surface will actually be attached to all the tbacular. You got to kind of imagine a 3D um framework of bone. All this stuff is interconnected here. This is a lot stronger than it looks. It's a it's a light but strong framework. Anyway, so this is the enthesis. So if um um that control is interrupted, you can get enthesophites. You can get calcification moving into the tendon, mineralization moving into the tendon. This is a type of bone spur. This is how what we call what we describe as bone extends into the tendon which will then disrupt the mechanics of this region here and be painful and muck up the soft tissues and that sort of thing. So in these fights um usually this results this is a result of you know um repetitive movements repetitive high strain movements you know so athletes can develop this um or it's a result of uh inflammation now I mentioned ankyloing spondilitis the reason I mentioned that is because um it can be a disease that's reasonably well known uh amongst medical students and ankyloing spondilitis describes um a problem with the vertebral column in that the joints of the vertebral column um are affected. It's a form of arthritis and um over time the the vertebral column becomes stiffer because those joints are affected and much of that process is because of the anthesis changes to the enthesis soft tissues becoming calcified. So the the ver this is a chronic condition and the vertebral column can change shape and can lose movement and become quite a profound disability. So ankyloing spondilitis is partly associated with entheses. If you think about all of the the joints, all of the tiny muscles, all of the ligaments of the vertebral column. Can you imagine how those soft tissues could be turned to hard tissues by changes to this signaling at the enthesis that keeps that tide mark that keeps that calcification where it's supposed to be. Um, so that's why this is such interesting biology. Anyway, there we go. That's the enthesis. That is how tendon attaches to bone and it can go wrong. All right. Um, yeah, I don't think I did my anatomy teacher justice, but I did my best as always. And I think this is going to be my penultimate hisystologology video. Um, because we've almost looked at everything. But that's the tendon. So, we've looked at dense regular connective tissue. We also had the opportunity to look at fibroartilage, dense irregular connective tissue. And we looked at the anthesis with its four zones, tendon, uncalcified fibroartilage, and then the tide mark showing us where the calcified fibroartilage is, and then the bone. I hope that's added to your knowledge. I hope that's been interesting and useful. Um, it is one of those cool bits of biology that we have inside us that's so important. And it's all over the body if you think about it. And occasionally goes wrong. All right, that's enough. Stop talking, Sam. See you next week.