Cartilage. Finally, we get to cartilage. Oh, where do I begin? I used to be a cartilage biologist. Um, cartilage. Okay, so bone is great at withstanding compressive forces and it's very rigid. Uh, cartilage is also great at withstanding compressive forces, but it's flexible. So, it's similar to bone, but used in different circumstances. is a great building block. Um, tendons and ligaments are like ropes. They're great at withstanding tensile forces when you pull them apart. That'll come back later. So, we'll have a look at cartilage under the microscope. We'll look at the cells. We'll talk about the extracellular matrix and how it's arranged so that it's very good at withstanding those compressive forces. Now, we find cartilage between the ribs and the sternum. We find cartilage covering the ends of joints that are going to articulate like in synovial joints. We find uh a flexible form of cartilage, elastic cartilage in the outer parts of the nose and the ear and a more normal cartilage in other parts of the nose. We find we find a fibroartilage in the intervertebral discs and in the pubic symphysis in the labum around uh some of the joints and things like that. So there are cartilagages throughout the body. Which one should we look at? This is quite a nice slide. Uh this is the trachea of an animal. Very small trachea. So we have what's called highline cartilage forming the cartilage rings in the trachea and that cartilage is keeping the airway open. Um but it still is a flexible tube. Uh we also find this highline cartilage forming the major structures of the larynx. Uh the highline cartilage is also what we find covering the surfaces of senovial joints but we call it articular cartilage because it's a little bit special. Anyway, um this I think well we'll have a look. I think this has got a bit of alian blue on it which is why I think it would be quite nice to have a look at. Um let's see. There we go. Oh, that's brilliant. So, can you see uh we're looking at the trachea which has got a C-shaped ring of cartilage keeping that central airway open. And look, it's that's why it's a C-shape. It's connected there at the back. So, this is this is it's flexible. The esophagus sits at the back. Anyway, anyho, now if we jump up to this is um 100 times magnification to my eye. This is a 10 times objective lens and 10 times eyepiece lens giving me 100 times magnification. Now what we're seeing there is we're seeing that ring of cartilage. We're seeing the cells of the cartilage which are mostly condraittes and they're living in little spaces uh lacuni and those spaces are within the extracellular matrix. So it's the extracellular matrix that's looked after that's maintained by the condraittes that's special to cartilage. And then either side of the cartilage of that highline cartilage we can see a perchondrium. When we looked at bone we saw that it was covered in a perostium. Here we have a paricchondrium doing very similar features. And then as we move that away, that's the respiratory epithelium and that's the airway. So we're interested in the blue stuff. Like I say, I think so uh you can use a towine blue, you can use what a methyl blue, and you can use an alium blue, which stains the cartilage matrix quite nicely. Let's jump up to what is essentially 200 times magnification to my eye. Be a bit different to you depending upon what size screen you've got. And this is all we're looking at. It looks very simple, doesn't it? Now, the extracellular matrix, the matrix around the cells. Here we find type two collagen. This is a very long fibral and some other collagens managing that collagen. So, this is mostly type two collagen we find here. Whereas in bone, we find type one collagen and in other connected tissues of the body like ligaments and tendons, we find type one collagen. Uh they're different fibrals. Here, we're finding mostly type two collagen. And also in the matrix there we've got glyosaminoglycans which are essentially a chain of sugars a chain of disaccharides and we've got proteoglycans the the predominant one is agrican a proteoglycan is a protein core which all those glycosaminoglycans attach to. Now the reason that's so important is that that pulls water in. So it pulls water into the extracellular matrix and then the type two collagen kind of makes a mesh work holding all those molecules in molecules in place. So the water gets pulled in and then when you compress the cartilage it squidges because it's it's a gel, right? It's a it's a there's water in there and it's that that's withstanding the compressive forces, but the collagen's holding everything in like a mesh bag. If you took the collagen away, everything would just get squished out. So the type two collagen and the proteoglycans and the glycosaminoglycans work together to give cartilage its uh its function. That's how it all works. And there's something else we can see here. Do you see any blood vessels? Do you see any nerves in there? Cartilage is famously avascular and a neural. There are no blood vessels within the cartilage. Now there are blood vessels around the cartilage. There are blood vessels on the uh on the airway side. There are capillaries there. So condraittes um are pretty happy with a low partial pressure of oxygen. They've got pretty low metabolic requirements. So the gases and the nutrients for the cells have got to diffuse through that extracellular matrix and then the waste metabolites have got to diffuse out through that extracellular matrix to the capillaries. So there's there are no blood vessels within the highline cartilage. And likewise, there are no nerves either. So joint pain isn't usually directly, well, it's not directly because the cartilage has been injured. It's because other structures that are sensitive to pain in the joint are triggering that pain as a result of damage to the art to the cartilage, for example. Um, okay. So I started on probably the nicest spot. We can see like I say how there's a pale blue staining which is the extracellular matrix or the ground substance it sometimes gets called and we can see um the condraite we can see it's nucleus inside the lacuna and there's a slightly uh darker staining ring. So those are all condraittes. So like bone where we had osteocytes that had surrounded themselves with bone in cartilage we've got condraittes that have surrounded themselves with cartilage. Now if you look to the um the paricchondrium side we're seeing cells but they look a little bit flatter. These are likely to be condras. These are going to be like the earlier stages of the condraite. So they're coming from the paricchondrium. So the paricchondrium's got a couple of layers. The outermost layer will have fibroblasts and will be a very fibrous layer and the inner layer will have progenitor cells that will make condrablasts that will become condondraittes. Similar to bone, right? but different. Okay. So, this is your classic highline cartilage in the trachea. Um, this is the same sort of cartilage like I say you'll find in the larynx that you'll find between the ribs and the sternum. Uh, the articular cartilage is a little bit specialized but very similar. um higher line cartilage, fibroartilage would look similar, but you'd have it would be more fibrous, funnily enough, and you'd have type one collagen fibers in there. So, if cartilage is good at withstanding compressive loads, and tendons are very good at withstanding tensile loads, if you have a tendon that goes over an edge, it's now being compressed. So that tendon at that point where it's being compressed will change and will form fibroartilage and we'd find a cartilage like this forming but it would be it would have more fibers in it. It would be like a dense fibrous cartilage. It would be little bit of a mix between the cartilage and the fibrous cartilage. Miniski in the knee joint. Um the labreum of the glenoumeral joint. Uh the annulus fibrosis of the intervertebral disc. um the um in the pubic symphysis there, there's a fibroartilage uh bit in there. Those are all good examples of of fibroartilage. Whereas elastic cartilage, again, very much like highline cartilage, but we'd have elastin fibers in here. To see them, you'd need to use a a silver stain probably. So, you'd have elastin fibers, which makes everything a bit more elastic. So, those are the three types of cartilage. Now the other fun thing that cartilage does is it's a precursor to bone. Um so endocchondrial oscification condr refers to cartilage. Endocchondrial oscification oification turning to bone. Um endo on the inside. Endocchondrial oification um is the process by which a cartilage precursor for the bone is laid down and then slowly over time that cartilage precursor becomes bone. That's something we'll look at on its own separately. But I've got a developing uh a developing joint here, an early joint. So we can we can have a look at um the early articular cartilage here, but we can also have a we'll probably see endocondulosification happening. And again, this has got the same same sort of colors. Um so there's bone. Um that's the growth plate. That is um cartilage becoming bone. It will need more time dedicated to it. We'll do that at a different time. So the growth plate where a long bone grows is a form of cartilage. And then we've got more c well more bone. We can see bone marrow. And then the joints a little bit all over the place there. Just a plain section. But there we go. There's the surface of the joint. So, let's jump up to 100 times magnification. It's a little bit of a folded section, but that's well, this is a like a a developing articular cartilage. Um, an adult articular cartilage would look thicker and there would be fewer cells and more extra matrix. But again, you can see on the surface we got those flat cells and cartilage is great for articular cartilage because it makes a lovely smooth frictionfree surface. Um and then we can see that cartilage as we go deeper meets the bone. So the cartilage is an interface for the two joint the two bones to articulate against each other with rather than bone on bone. Um and like I say if we just if we slide over there that is um the beauty that is the endocchondrial uh that is the growth plate that is endocondification in developing long bone. I did it for my PhD. So anyway okay so that's it pretty simple. Now articular cartilage is really important because with diseases like rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis it uh it gets it gets uh broken down. You don't you don't wear your joints away if you if your biomechanics change. So you overload a point you can damage the cartilage. But osteoarthritis is a disease process that removes articular cartilage. And it's really important because when you lose the function, when you get pain using a big joint like the knee, that changes your lifestyle. You move less. So that has other health implications and what have you. Um now articular cartilage is the condraittes you see sat inside the lacuni do sense load. They sense various forces applied to the cartilage and their job is to maintain the extracellular matrix. So they can sense that load, respond to it, and make more extracellular matrix. So runners don't wear out their knees. Runners actually get thicker articular cartilage at their knee joints because they're loading the joints well. So the cartilage responds because it's a living tissue and makes a thicker healthier cartilage. Um, walking has a has a similar effect. Um so we've seen the condraittes in their lacuni surrounded by the extracellular matrix which is filled with glycosaminoglycans attached to a protein core making a proteoglycan that holds onto the water. The type two collagen fibers like a mesh bag hold all this together as the water's pulled in here and this becomes a a very good tissue for withstanding compressive loads. Um, but it's also a little bit flexible unlike bone because it's not calcified. All right, cartilage. It's all you need to uh all you need to know, I should think. See you next week.