Hello. Uh, I thought this is going to be my last hisystologology video. We're going to look at the eye and then I remembered how much anatomy is in the eye and thought if I try and do it all in one go, I'm going to hurt myself. So, going to break this into three videos. And today we will look at the gen we'll look at the whole eye. I've got a a section here with a whole eye on it. I don't know what animal it's come from. So, we'll look at the general layout and then we'll focus on the connective tissues. They are important. I'll tell you why in a minute. Look, here we go. This is the section that I've got. See, look. There's a whole a whole eye in section there. You can see the lens. You can see the corner at the front. You can see the optic nerve. Got a got a whole eye there that I got to try and fit in the microscope. Now, so the eye is an interesting problem anatomically, isn't it? If you if you're working with a camera, you know about the three. You you uh you consider the sensitivity of the sensor to light or the film to light. You consider the aperture, the size of the hole that lets light in. The bigger the aperture, the more light comes in. The smaller the aperture, less light. You tend to get a sharper image. And you consider shutter speed. Okay. With the eye, we don't really we don't really have shutter speed, but the other two we do. The brain kind of does shutter speed in terms of how we perceive the world, and it's kind of at a a fixed rate, I think. Um, then we've got other problems. Well, we need to make a transparent bit of the body. You need to make something transparent so the light can get in. And then you need to make some transparent structures that will focus the light onto the the sensor, the retina. So that's a challenge. And then so these are obviously going to be connective tissues. And then you may need to make strong connective tissues that are going to form the shape of the eye because the shape of the eye will affect how light is refracted as it passes through these surfaces and focuses the light on the retina. which means you need to make a tough connective tissue structure to form the eye and you need to make bits of it transparent and you need to maintain it and make sure that it doesn't change shape. Those are the bits we'll look at. We have some experience with this. We've looked at cartilage and if you're going to make a transparent bit of tissue, well, you got to take the blood vessels out, haven't you? Because blood vessels are well, they'll introduce color. Um, and we've seen in cartilage that cartilage is also avascular. And we saw how fluids near the cartilage would be used for gases and nutrients and metabolites to pass diffuse in and out to the cells there. Same with the connective tissue cells in the transparent parts of the eye. Right, we've got fluids on either side. We'll have a look. So, we'll do the we'll do the boring bits first. We'll have a general look around and overview and we'll do the outer parts and then um and you the connected tissues and blood vessels and stuff. Next week tantalizing next week we'll look at the lens, the siliary body, the chambers, um the the iris, the pupil, that sort of thing. Then in the last video we'll look at the retina because the retina is part of the central nervous system. be so complex, we're going to need to, you know, devote a little bit of time to it. Less is more bite-sized chunks. Right? There we go. So, we're looking at layers of the retina there. And you can see some pigment there. And you can see some connective tissue supporting it all. Here is the optic nerve. Oh my word, that's a whacking great big nerve. My objective lens here is four times magnification. I have 10 times to my eye. It'll be a bit different to you depending upon the size of screen you're looking at, but this is the lowest power I've got. And look, that's a whacking great big nerve. As we go around, you can see those layers. So, this is what we're going to talk about, these very discreet layers. Um, and as we go around, okay, we're losing a bit of um stain there, but we've got some folds. You know, you can imagine that supporting the eye, cutting thin sections is very difficult. So, we're going to get some folds. This is the best section that I could find. Now, here we're moving towards the anterior eye. We're seeing a lot more supportive tissue. This is the stuff we're going to look at today. Here, if I z if I pop in there, that is the lens or what's left of it. And that there is the siliary body that the lens is suspended from. So, here anterior to the lens, that's the iris. We're seeing some pigment there. And here we're looking at the cornea, the clear bit of the eye that the light passes through. So that's our overview. There's another fold there. But um okay, what are we interested in? What do we want to look at today? Well, the eye has three layers. uh the scara, the uvia and the retina or the um the fibrous tunic, the vascular tunic and the neural tunic. Tunic meaning coat. Those are the three layers. Um the scara. So that's the white of your eye. Assuming you're a human watching this video and you you have a white sclera. So the the the white scara is the connective tissue forming the outer, you know, forming the ball of the eye. It's white. It's opaque. You've got type one collagen fibers running in lots of different directions. You've got fibroblasts managing those type one collagen fibers. And you've got a little bit of um elastin in there. Um and these fibers are running in all sorts of different directions, which is what's making them opaque like the other connected tissues of the body. And you think about other connected tissues of the body like tendons and ligaments and fascia, it looks white, right? So that's what we're seeing there. most of most of it. Um and the sclera then is covering the posterior 56s of the eye. So that that fibrous tunic at the very anterior part is going to become the clear part the cornea and we'll have a look at that in a moment. Um but the scara has a number of layers. Let's look at the scara first. Can we see it? Um, so most of it, uh, so look, that's that's the outermost surface. That's where the tears are. That's the conjunctiva actually, which we'll come back to in a moment. There's the scara. Then as we go deeper, we start to see some pigmented layers we won't worry about right now. Um, but the scara then, uh, the stroma makes up most of the scara. And what we're looking at there then largely are like I say fibroblasts maintaining a collaginous tough matrix and we can see a number of blood vessels in there. Now that surface layer of cells there the conjunctiva which we'll come back to in a moment. The episcllera is the layer of the scara up against that and then we have the stroma making up most of it. And then we have the supracoroid lamina. Can you see how that see how it changes? We've got lots of fibers running in lots of different directions. And we seem to have this layer here which is particularly dense. And as we go around, we can see that it's up against that pigmented layer. We're going to have a look at the the coroid layer a bit later. So the supraoroid layer is that well organized layer that's next to it. So those are the three layers of the sclera the episcllera the stroma and the supraoroid layer and in that supraoroid layer we can see some melanocytes we can see some pigmented cells there. Right now the um the scaraa is covered by the conjunctiviver. So the conjunctiviver is an epithelium just like we find an ep epithelia everywhere covering surfaces of the body internal and external. And if we zoom in I could see at that point already but we can see that we've got a nice epithelium there but we can see some mucus cells in there as well. Some goblet cells. So the conjunctiviver is protecting the scara. It's the layer in contact with the outside world and the tears on your eye are projecting protecting the conjunctiva and stopping it from drying out. And the conjunctiviver is contributing by also having cells in it that make mucus. And there are also some some uh immune cells in here as well. And the conjunctiviver um we can actually see up there. So that that then would be the eyelid, right? So can you see how it the conjunctiviver is continuous around there? So the conjunctiviver covers the sclera and then folds back on itself and lines the inside of the eyelid and that's what we're seeing there. So the the front of the eye is sealed up. You can't just like stick your finger around the back. Um the conjunctiviver is transparent. It's a thin layer. We can see what five layers of cells there. It's a non-coratinized stratified squamus epithelium which is a sort of epithelium we might find covering most external parts of the body. And let me pop out to a lower power. The um the scara is so tough that when the eye is filled with fluid, it's the scara then that's determining the shape of the eye. And it's so tough that the extraocular muscles that move the eye insert into it. And what we're looking at here is then a dense irregular uh connective tissue. And if we follow the scera around anteriorly now, we've got a bit of a fold here which is going to muck things up a little bit. Um, actually, let's go from the other end. There's our scara. There's the conjunctiva. It's all pulled apart a little bit with tissue preparation and sectioning. So, there's our dense irregular connective tissue. And look, it's starting to become very regular. So here now this looks quite different doesn't it? This is the cornea. Those collagen fibrals have um become aligned in a very well-ordered manner so that light can pass through this tissue. So instead of collagen fibers running in lots of different directions, they're layered and adjacent layers probably run in different directions. So it's still very strong. Um but this is the cornea and we can see some nuclei in there. So there are some cells in there and the epithelium on the surface of the cornea looks a little bit different and the cells lining the deep layer of the cornea also look a little bit different. And so then the on the outer surface of the coroner you have tears and this is exposed to the air. So gases can diffuse and these cells can get the oxygen and get rid of the CO2 that they need. And um on the deep surface we have the fluids inside the eye which I'll talk about next week. So the cells in this clear tissue can get their nutrients, get their gases from the fluids that they're up against and then those molecules will diffuse through the tissues to the cells as needed. So what are the layers of the cornea? Okay, so we've still got that non-coratinized stratified squamus epithelium, but there are fewer layers now. So the epithelium is a little bit thinner and deep to that epithelium is a supporting connective tissue layer, uh, Bowman's layer, and then most of the width, what 90% of the width of the cornea there is the stroma. So fiberblasts are in there and those collagen fibers arranged in a very very well organized manner which allows light to pass through and then we have decames membrane. Um and so the cells we can see on the deep surface are an endothelium. They are a simple squamus epithelium. I think in this case they might be simple cubuidal a simple cuboidal epithelium sometimes. So it simple means there's a single layer of squamus flattened cells forming that endothelium on the deep surface of the cornea up against the fluid inside the eye and decame membrane is is supporting those cells but those cells of the endothelium are a little bit special because they have ion pumps inside them and they pump ions and they act to keep the cornea a little bit dehydrated which is important in keeping the cornea here transparent. Let's bump up and have a look at that at a little bit of a higher power. So remember, we're looking at the cornea. So that's the that's the outside world there. There's the surface epithelium. So there's that non-coratinized stratified squamus epithelium. It's maybe what three or four cell layers thick there supported by Bowman's membrane just deep to it. The stroma makes up most of the width and what we're seeing there are bundles of collagen fibrals and we can see the nuclei of fibroblasts that are maintaining those collagen fibrals and then we have another clear thickness there. So that's decame membrane decim I think it's decim membrane and then we see those endothelial cells on the surface there. So this again like I say it's all type one collagen um a little bit of elastin um but the layers are important to the function of making a connective tissue that withstands the pressures of the fluids in the eye which are important in degenerating the shape of the eye and yet also act to keep it transparent to let light into the eye. But not not that unlike other tissues that we've seen in the body. Maybe the other thing we should probably look for is the limbbus. The limbbus is where the scara becomes the cornea. It's actually a lot easier to see on on an actual eye. I say easier just because this section is a bit folded. But okay, if that's cor Oh, there we go. That'll be the limbbus there. Right, we can see a change, can't we? You can see that surface epithelium is getting a lot thicker there. Uh so that'll be the limbbus where the um sclera becomes the cornea. The cornea bulges out a little bit in humans as well. It's part of the refraction of light and what have you. Okay. So um it's like eating your greens, isn't it? You got I don't know if this is the boring stuff. I like it because I'm a connective tissue nerd, but I imagine that it's less interesting to other people. But there we go. We've looked at the cornea and the scera. So, as we come around here, oh, it's not very good on this side because we're losing the stain. But as we come around posteriorly, this is where we're getting the proper retina, the proper light detecting cells. You can see there's a heavily pigmented pigmented layer and then there's a connective tissue layer supporting all of this. Right? So there's the scara coming around there. It's essentially going to be continuous with the duramator. So the the eye develops as an extension of the brain of the cerebral hemispheres and the duramator and the pomator and arachnoid ma those are all covering the central nervous system. So essentially the guromeator extends out with the optic nerve into the orbit and the sclera is they're different but the scara is kind of continuous with the the duramator. Anywh who so we're saving the retina for the future and we're saving the lens and what have you for the future. We want to look at one more one more layer here if I can find a good bit. I was trying to avoid going to the retina, but let's go all the way to the back of the eye because this is actually going to be the Oh, yes. That looks lovely, actually. Uh, bump up. So, 10 times magnification. Now, we're right at the back of the eye here. I was avoiding the whole horrible truth until later, but on the left side there, we're looking at the cells of the retinus. We're looking at the neuron, the layers of neurons that are involved in detecting light and transmitting action potentials. And then we've got a pigmented layer. And in that pigmented layer, we can see blood vessels. So this is the coroid layer. The coroid layer is that vascular tunic, the vascular coat. The coroid layer is really important because this is supplying blood to the retina. So we can see pigmented cells in there. We can see um blood vessels in there. And then the layer to the right of that, that's the scara that we've been looking at, right? So the connective tissue and then over here's fat and what have you at the back of the orbit. But we're right at the back of the eye. Now if I jump up to my 20 times objective lens, um, which adding on the 10 times magnification to my eyepieces is giving me 200 times magnification. That is a beautiful both beautiful and terrifying image. Right. Now, the other thing the other thing we got to do inside the eye is um well, it'd be nice if you could stop light bouncing around. So, the inside of the eye is lined with melanocytes that make a dark pigment so that you don't get all those all that reflection of light, right? You don't get all the light bouncing around. So, if you've dissected an eyeball, I was doing that with some school kids a little while ago. You open up the eye, that's what you see. You see all this melanin inside the eye. It's very black. Um, okay. So, next to the scara is the supracoroid layer. There's a layer there. We can see some melanocytes in it. There's a layer right up against the scara. Most of the width of the koid layer is the vascular layer, which is where we're seeing those larger blood vessels, right? And then almost up against the retina we have the coro capillary layer. Coro capillary. So the capillaries of the coroid layer. All right. So we're getting small blood vessels in there. Maybe we can see a few of those. And then there's another layer. So a membrane. It's like a like a thicker basement membrane. Bruce membrane. Brooks layer well Brooks membrane and that's up against you can just you can see there the first pigmented layer of the retina itself. So that layer of pigment of the retina is separated from the coroid layer by Bruce's membrane. So we've got the sclera, the supracoroid layer, the vascular layer, the coro capillary layer, then Brooks membrane, and then we're into the retina properly, which we're going to save for future weeks because my brain is already struggling with all this sneak peek, but that that first layer of the retina up against that pigmented layer, that's those those are the rods and the cones. But like I say, we'll save those for a future week. Okay. So, the aim today in this first video, of course, if I've done all the videos, you can just uh run them all together and drive yourself crazy, can't you? But the aim was to look at the eye as a whole. So, we wanted to look at just get a general This again, this is my lowest power. You can see how big this is. And this is a small animal's eye. There's the lens. There's the iris. The gap in the middle there is the pupil. So anterior to that. There is the cornea. We talked about why the cornea is clear. How the cornea is clear. Why it's structured like this. And we follow the cornea around to find the scara, the whites of your eyes, right? Which are which is a Oh, it's really folded, isn't it? Which is a very tough connective tissue layer. That's important because it's withstanding the fluid pressures inside the eye which is giving the eye its shape and you need that shape to be perfect to be able to focus light on the retina because the retina is the shape of the retina is determined by the connective tissue and the forces right what have you. So, we talked about the layers of the the scara and then we talked about that coroid layer that's so important because it's supplying blood to the retina, those cells in there. Um, and we talked about the conjunctiva, the epithelium covering the surface of the eye. And we talked about how it's quite possible to make transparent tissues if you align the collagen fibrals in the right way and you take out things like the blood vessels and that sort of thing. But then you have to solve that problem of getting nutrients and gases in and metabolites out by putting fluid up against these tissues and diffusion and that sort of thing. Anyway, so anyway, those are the major connective tissues of the eye. I haven't done the lens yet. That's the other major connective tissue of the eye. The lens is important of course because it becomes cloudy with age forming cataracts and is is replaced. I think that's the most common surgery in the world. Um, so next time we'll look at the lens, we'll look at the iris, we'll look at the pupil, we'll look at the silary body, we'll look at all those bits involved in focusing light on the retina, and then we'll look at the retina in a subsequent video. Good lord. I hope that was useful because that was uh that was that was challenging. Um, I see you next week if you want more. Uh, okay.