In 1993, I started uh my degree. I started an anatomical sciences degree at Cardiff University. And in the third year of that degree, um, I took on a research project which would make up my final year thesis and probably the bulk of my mark for the third year and the bulk of my mark for the degree. That research project was trying to ask answer the question, why can some frogs stick their tongues further out from their mouths than others? uh is it something to do with the way the collagen fibers are arranged that support the muscle? So I spent a lot of time looking at tongues that I had dissected and prepared under a light microscope and under a scanning electron microscope. Um so getting getting around to look at the hisytologology of the tongue is a is a fun throwback. It was that um it was that research project that made me realize I wanted to become a scientist and I did a PhD and then I ended up here somehow. So I've got three slides. Don't worry, they're not going to take too long to look at. The reason we've got three slides is because well, we're looking at the tongue. Sure, great place to look at sceal muscle. We'll find some minor salivory glands, but the things we're really interested in are taste buds. We want to look at actual taste buds under the microscope. And the tongue has got a structure. I'll pinch this out of big head. Um, in that we have pilli. So there are some filifform pilli over most of the tongue. Those are just rough rough shapes to the mucosa that let us grip food and move it around our mouths. And then we have these recesses around here. And then we have um other pilli around here. So we have the fungyiform pilli. We have the foliate pilli. Back here there's a V of valate or circumvalate pilli. What I'm saying is I've I can't look at all those in one section. So we've got different sections of the tongue so that we can look at all the different pilli. We can look at the different taste buds. All right. Now this is going to be I think surprisingly pretty surprising for you not for me. Busman's holiday for me, isn't it? Um, okay. Let's have a look. Um, excellent. Massen's tri chrome as well. Um, so Massen's triome is, you know, rather than just hematoxin eosin where everything's a bit purple and a bit pink. Here we've also got green showing uh connective tissue. So the mus the the the tongue is largely sceal muscle. We can choose to move our tongues. We have let me this is the lowest power. This is the four times objective 10 times to my eyes. So 40 times magnification. And what we're looking at there are muscle fibers running in different directions arranged into bundles. So it's those bundles. We were we were looking at collagen fibers wrapping around those bundles. That's why I needed to use a scanning electron microscope. So I could look at this in higher power than we can see with a light microscope. But the tongue, people think the tongue is a special muscle because it's only attached at one end, but that's that's not what's going on here. You've got extrinsic muscles that move the base of the tongue around, but these intrinsic muscles of the tongue, inside the tongue, um are attached to the inside of the mucosa of the tongue. Look, that's what we can see there. Um so that's the other thing that we're interested in is uh the mucosa. So instead of having skin when we go inside the ural cavity, we've got a mucosa. Very very similar, little bit different. And the muscle is actually attached to the connective tissue supporting the mucosa. So when the muscle contracts, it pulls on the inside of the tongue, changes the shape of the tongue. So the volume remains the same, but you change, if you make it narrower, it gets longer. You make it fatter, it gets shorter. That's how you can stick your tongue out and move the tip of the tongue around. And what we're seeing on the top there, look at those beautiful spikes. Those are the filerform pilli. Now the epithelium of the mucosa in the tongue is a stratified squamus epithelium. So it's a multi-layered epithelium of squamus cells, flat cells. Of course it's an epithelium. Um and this is because um well the tongue and the oral cavity sees a lot of wear and tear because food is passing through here, right? So there's a lot of mechanical abrasion. Cells get lost, new cells get replaced from from the lower layers. And uh generally this is non-coratinized. So uh we have a caratinized stratified squamus epithelium in our skin which makes us waterproof. The keratin keratin makes the cells waterproof. Um what we've got here is with the film pilli with the spiky pilli it is lightly caratenized and that helps develop those spikes and that gives us the friction that we need to move the food around. inside our mouths. Um, and you know, some animals like cats have got really really rough tongues. This is what you're feeling um when you feel uh the roughness of that animal's tongue. These filopform pilli, didn't I see? Told you this was going to be unexpectedly pretty. Look at those shapes. Fantastic. I love it. My eyes are going funny, but I'm There we go. struggling to get a focus. So I'm struggling to get a focus I think because of the depth and the layers. So the green there is the connective tissue supporting the epithelium. The purple is the epithelium. And you can see just like in the skin how we have a basil layer. Um those will be the progenitor cells um producing new cells um as the top ones are lost. We've got those caratinized cells closest to the surface. uh those are performing that mechanical function and in between we've got cells on their way through that process to become um caratinosytes. Oh look look look look right there that is a funiform uh pilli. So we have a mix then. So throughout most of the tongue, this is the anterior two-thirds of the tongue where we find these pilli in these taste buds. Most of the tongue is covered in filopform pilli and you can check that yourself by feeling the texture of your tongue. Um but we've also got lots of little lumps and bumps all over the tongue and that's these fungy form pilli. Now a fungyiform pilli is fungi fungus shaped. um the chemicals in the food will collect in there uh or on the surface and they will be presented to the taste bud and that is what I'm seeing right on the surface there. Right on the top that that is a taste bud. You see that little little round thing and there's a little aperture at the top which is what connects it to the outside world. That's where the chemical reaction occurs. So here we have some specialized oral epithelial cells and we have some cells that can generate an action potential. When a chemical cue delivers well triggers that cell to produce the action potential that runs to the brain and we perceive that as taste be it, you know, bitty or salt, bitter, salty, sweet, sour, umami. Um, so that was pretty good, wasn't it? Straight away. Can you see the difference? So those are the film pilli and there's the fungiform pilli and just looking at this section we can see well I think so we can see that uh there are far fewer funform pill in this section and very very many filerform pilli. So, we've talked about the mucosa. We've talked about the connective tissue that's supporting it. And as I rove around, you can see these blocks. Oh, we can see these blocks of muscle running in lots of different directions. So, here then, um there we go. That's all pretty lovely sceal muscle. We can see some blood vessels. see the um the cells inside the blood vessels there. There'll be nerves in here as well. Yeah, there's nerves there. But the bit I should really highlight is this. So here we have sceal muscle fibers running longitudinally along the length of the tongue and transversely. Um and we can see them running through there. They've been cut in different directions. So the tongue is mostly sceal muscle. Right. Okay. So that slide lets us see phylopform pilli and fungioform pilli. Fortunately um the foliate pilli are in these ridges on the side here. Um I can't remember which of these is which. Let's have a look. I wanted to save the big ones for last. That's all. That's all. Oh yeah. Here we go. So you can see here um now we've got a different stain. See this isn't the mass and trichrome. This is your more your standard hemattoxulin and neosin. And again we can see ah there we go. Those are salivory glands minus salivory glands. But here we can see again we can see all that sceal muscle running through the tongue. And why is this suddenly gone so dirty? There it is. It was on the It's on the light source. Um, okay. So now you see this repeating pattern here. All right. So th those are those ridges that we see on the side of the tongue. So these are what we call the foliate pilli. So these are quite large. Now look, I'm back on my four times objective lens, 10 times my eyes, so 40 times magnification. And look at the size of the tongue. And these are taking up a significant amount of space. We've got that gap. So it's like a moot. That's what the the ridges are. You got a gap in between each of these and in there saliva collects and food starts to get dissolved. The chemicals get presented to the taste buds. Can you see the taste buds? There they are. So look, loads of taste buds in there. Um, so that's what the foliate pilli look like. So the taste buds now are down in the base of the uh this is two uh 200 times magnification. The taste buds are down there. Aren't they cool? So those are actual taste buds. That's the sensory apparatus that chemicals trigger cells to produce action potentials. And like I say, we perceive that as taste. Um, so this is the the foliate pilli on the the side of the tongue. Look, see these taste buds down here uh and uh and here again. Now the other thing that we can see so again look this is um stratified. This is a stratified squamus epithelium and it's not caratonized but you can see those multiple layers of thin cells on the surface there. Oh yeah, the other thing that we can see is um which I we could have seen better on the last one, but do you see how we have um if that's the mucosa there, it uh it's like it interdigitates with the tissue underneath. So it gives a really strong grip. If this is like between the dermis and the epidermis in the skin, uh these get called just dermal pilli. Um but yeah that's also a common feature. Then the mucosa is interdigitated with the tissues underneath. So there's a strong grip. Now look this here. This this is glandular tissue right? Pop that in the middle. So these are minor salivory glands within the tongue. So they're producing saliva. And we looked at the parotted gland last week which is almost almost entirely cirrus. So you have um these are compound tubular asinar glands as in they're branched they're tubular they have secretary cells around that tube and they end with a bit of a bit of a curved cap and they secrete into those ducts and then they go into a single duct and leave. Um and there are cirrus glands and mucus glands. The cirrus glands are more watery and produce lots of proteins, enzymes and what have you to help with digestion. And the mucus glands produce mucin which is a better lubricant. So these darker staining cells here will be uh cirrus cirrus secretreting um epithelial cells. Hopefully that looks familiar. Hopefully that looks a bit glandular. Hopefully it looks a bit like what we were looking at in the parotted gland. And then I saw some uh more lightly stained ones I think. Oh yeah. So they were lower down. Yeah. Look. See? Um, so there we see cirrus minor salivory glands and down here we're seeing mucus salivory glands and we're getting a bit of that ductal structure that we looked at when we looked at the parotted gland um, in that there's a there's a duct there. Go and watch the proted gland video if you want a bit more information about that where I might describe it a bit better. But here again, you can see cells arranged in circles around a tube. These are epithelial cells secretreting into that tube and they're mucus secretreting. Um, so they just when you stain them like this, they just look a bit paler. Um, cool. I didn't think to look at these when we were talking about salivory glands, right? So minor salivory glands. One more pillar to look at then. That must be this one. uh the circumallet pilli or the valet pilli. These are so large that you can see them unaded very easily. Um so this is a slightly different stain again, isn't it? But look, we're seeing those salivory glands again. I don't know what stain this is. Um, but look, okay, again, I'm at my lowest power, so 40 times magnification. And this this pillar is so big, we can only get one of them in the section. So these are the the pilli we see at the back of the tongue. So kind of separating the anterior 2/3 from the posterior third and forming this Vshape here. So there's maybe eight to 12 of these large pilli. They're kind of like the foliate. They're they're kind of like the fun pilli like big fun fungi but they're so much bigger and like I say they're arranged very specifically in this V. Fun fact the depression at the point of the V here is the forum and seeum and that's where your thyroid glands started to develop from in the embryo. Anyway, so these cells, same sort of pattern, big and special, but again, they've got they've got that that moat, that ring around the outside. And again, saliva collects in there. And of course, now we see where some of the saliva is coming from because we've got all those salivory glands. Food gets broken down. Chemicals get presented to um the specialized olfactory, sorry, specialized oral epithelium. And oh, we can just about see one taste bud in there. What about the other side? Oh, that's better, isn't it? Uh we can see um a whole bunch of taste buds down there. So, look, they're not high up, they're low down where you would expect the saliva and the chemicals to collect. so that they can be presented to these these taste buds. These look a little bit different, don't they? A little bit skinnier, a little bit pointier, but same principle, right? We've got that that mucosa, but then we're kind of seeing these these curved things. And depending on whether you get the plan of section right or not, there will be like a a central aperture um exposing the cells in that taste bud to the fluid that collects in that moat around the valate pilli. This is a real thick and wobbly folded section, isn't it? Because it's focusing a bit funny. Um but yeah, that's it for tongue, I think. Um, look, see, I have to go to the lowest power to get to get this this whole thing in. Wonder if it's just H& faded or whether it's a different stain, but there we go. So, again, lots of sceal muscle. We can see those running in different directions. We're seeing cirrus salivory glands, minor salivory glands here, mucosa, connective tissue, and that circumal pillar. It is cool though, right? It's not just me. If I didn't think it was cool, I'd be in the wrong job, wouldn't I? Um, but that is the hisytologology of the tongue. I Isn't it? It's just so good, isn't it, to look at it under the microscope because we talk about taste buds, we talk about mucosa, we talk about all these things, but you can actually see it. You can see how it's arranged and now you can better imagine, understand how the tongue works. So the tongue's functions are, you know, to move the food around to the teeth to help with chewing to push the bolus of food to the back of the oral cavity for swallowing. So the filopformia is so important, taste is so important to to appetite and eating. One of the big problems that the um head and neck cancer people tell me is that when their patients lose the sense of taste, you know, you worry about cancer patients losing weight, but when they lose the sense of taste, they don't want to eat. So, they, you know, it's even harder to get them to eat. And taste of course is associated with smell as well. But those taste buds that we're seeing here, they're part of that safety mechanism that we have figuring out whether what we're about to eat is safe or not, whether it's good for us or not. Um, but that is the those are the cells responsible for it. Uh, and then of course, um, you see all these funny lumps and bumps on your tongue and you're not entirely sure if they've always been there or if that's something new. That's what they are. the filopform pilli, the fungifor pilli, the foliate pilli and the valet pilli. So once you understand it and you know what they are, you know what they are. Okay. And um yeah, if you're interested Oh, if you're interested in skeletal muscles, this is a great place to look. Yeah. So what was the answer to the study? Um, was the were the collagen fibers arranged at a different angle in frogs that could throw their tongues out a long way to catch insects? No. Um, frogs that could throw their tongues out further, they cheated. They just had more tongue and they folded it up inside their mouths. The arrangement of connective tissue, the arrangement of the muscle was the same as we see in other mammals. They just had other mechanisms. A result is a result. We still answered the question. A good hypothesis means that either answer is a helpful answer, if you see what I mean. Yeah. Funny to think that set me on my path. All right. Um, thank you for letting me look at the um the hisystologology of the tongue. I won't see you next week. I'm taking a week off, but I'll see you in a couple of weeks.