Hello again. Uh, so this is the second eye hisystologology video. The eyes like that. There's a lot of anatomy in there. In the first video, we looked at the outer parts of the eye, the scara, the cornea, the vascular layer. Here, we're going to look at the front of the eye. There's maybe more anatomy in there than you realize. So, we're going to look at the pupil, the iris, the lens, the siliary body, the suspensary fibers, um, and we're going to look at the chambers of the eye as well and the fluids within the eye because they're flowing in that anterior part of the eye, which will then let us talk about some of the major causes of glaucoma. one of the major losses of ma one of the causes of major causes of loss of vision to the eye and we can talk about cataracts as well can't we look at the lens we can see how it all works okay so same slide as in the first video I've got a whole tiny eye on here um Maybe we should have a little little zoom around to see what we've got. Um, but here, okay, so there's the cornea. Uh, that's the anterior most transparent part of the eye. So, if I slide to the right there, we're seeing what's left of the lens. And that heavily pigmented thing up against it, that's the iris. So the gap between that iris and that iris is the pupil. That's where the light goes in through the lens. And then of course we slide back. I'm at my lowest power here. Slide back through this big space at the back and we get to well there's the optic nerve and the retina. And we talked about how the scara is the connective tissue layer. The koid is that vascular layer. We've got lots of blood vessels in there. And then the retina is that scary layer of neurons which we'll save until the next video. So let's go back to the anterior eye then. So we've done the cornea. What do we want to look at? Actually let's talk about the chambers first, shall we? So there are two fluids in the eye. Let's say two humors and three chambers. The acquous chamber is anterior to the lens and the aquous chamber has aquous fluid within it. Acquous humor within it. The humor is a fluid, right? Um the vitrius chamber is posterior to the lens and the vitrius chamber contains vitrius humor which is a bit more like a gel. It's got type two collagen in there, hyaluronic acid, pulls in a lot of water. Um, and the vitrius humor doesn't circulate in the posterior part of the eye, but the acreous humor does circulate. And the purpose of the acreous humor then is got um it's got um it's mostly water, but it's got glucose in there and salts and some proteins and bits and bobs. So the cornea and the lens um are transparent and don't have any blood vessels in them. So that acquous humor is conveying glucose and oxygen and salts to those cells so they can function and taking away their metabolites and CO2 and that sort of thing. Right? And the acquous humor does circulate. Now if if between the cornea and the lens is the aquous chamber that is broken up into two more chambers. If I scroll up, look there. That heavily pigmented structure there, that's the iris. And the iris is separating that acreous chamber into two more spaces. Right? So, we've got an anterior chamber between the iris and the cornea and a posterior chamber between the iris and the lens. And then posterior to the lens, we're in the vitrius chamber. So that's what I mean about kind of two fluids, three spaces. Think of the fluids and then you'll remember vitrius chamber chamber acquous chamber. Um and then the the acreous chamber is split into anterior and posterior chambers. And that's really important because fluid is constantly being produced that acquous humor and it flows around and it needs to be removed. And the purpose of these fluids is when we looked at the connective tissues of the eyeball last week um they're very very tough but they need pressure from inside to inflate the eyeball. So the fluids are generating pressure as well um to give the eyeball its shape and the shape is crucial because the curve of the cornea is important to the refract to focusing light and of course the curve of the retina is also important in collecting that light and focusing that light and the distances need to be correct. So the fluids are crucial in the shape of the eye, maintaining the shape of the eye and then maintaining the function of the eye. And the vitrius humor is probably helping hold the retina up against the koid layer and it's probably also helping support the lens to a certain extent. Right? Okay. Let's have a look at the iris first. The uh the pupil is pretty easy to look at, right? It's uh it's it's nothing. Now the pupil is the gap between well the gap um the hole that the iris goes around is the hole that there light passed through. It's just black because the inside of the eye is black. Right? So there's the iris. Now the iris, let's bump up. So that was four times a four times objective lens. This is a 10 times objective lens combined with 10 times magnification eyepieces. This is 100 times magnification to my eye. It might be a little different for you depending upon the size of your screen. Now um so anterior is to the left, posterior is to the right. So the anterior iris very interestingly actually is um it's it's connective tissue with fibroblasts and melanocytes. There's no epithelial covering there. Um, and what we've got there is the melanocytes, your particular distribution of melanocytes producing pigment in your iris, how they're distributed, and the pigments they produce, that's what determines what your iris looks like. So, that's those pigmented cells in there. And then we've got fibroblasts. Um, jump up to my 20 times lens, so 200 times magnification. um the fibroblasts are maintaining the connective tissue there and blood vessels are supplying blood. Right? So we're seeing lots of pigmented cells in the iris. So that's the anterior surface to the left of the screen. Now the deep surface to the right is incredibly heavily pigmented. We have got two layers on that side. There is a smooth muscle layer which is a little bit ready pinky and then there is a heavily pigmented layer. Now that heavily pigmented layer so again lots of melanin being made by melanocytes that's what we sign that's what we find throughout the inside of the eyeball. So this is a continuation of that. If I slide up is this going to be offputting? There we go. We follow the iris around. We can see how it how it meets the uh the inside of the eyeball and you can see how the inside of the eyeball is similarly pigmented as we follow it around. Let me go back to that the iris there. Okay. So, uh we've got that heavily pigmented layer. Uh the purpose of the pigment inside the eye is to stop stop light bouncing around and scattering which um helps with seeing properly. And then the smooth muscle layer that's up against that heavily pigmented layer. Those are the two muscles that dilate and constrict the pup the pupil. Dilator pupilli and constrictor pupilli muscles. Uh and the dilator pupilli muscles are in the outermost parts of the iris. Uh and the sphincta pupilli muscle is in the there we go. You see how that's a bit different? That's quite nice, isn't it? Now I look at it. The sphincta pupilli muscle is in the part of the iris closest to the pupil. So those are the actual muscles we're talking about. Absolutely tiny, aren't they? So those are under autonomic nervous control and they obviously change the size of the pupil by moving the iris to let more light in when it's dark and to let less light in when it's bright. Let me go back to the 100 times magnification. Okay, so there's the iris. Um, we can see the connective tissue layer with melanocytes. We can see the sphincta pupil layer and we can see the heavily pigmented layer. And actually, we're right up against the lens there. But that's probably because this is moved a little bit with preparing the specimen rather than maybe being completely true to life because we can see a few kinks here, right? It's lost a bit of its shape. Imagine this is a complete disc with a hole in the middle, right? A disc with a hole in the middle is structurally pretty sound, isn't it? Whereas here, we're just looking at a section through that. So, it looks like it's a bit of a a wafty thin bit of tissue, which is exactly what we're left with. Um, now, have you heard about the angle in the eye? Maybe you've heard of open angle glaucom and closed angle glaucom. What are people talking about? What is the angle? Well, let me go down to the other iris. There we go. So, there's the other iris. See those two layers again? Now, if we follow the iris down, it will meet with the cornea essentially. Um, let me go to a lower power again. This is the 40 times um 40 times magnification where the where the iris meets the cornea that is the angle of the eye in there. That's where the aquous humor is taken out of the anterior chamber. It's absorbed and and put back into the blood. This is really important. We will come back to this later because we need to tell a little bit more of the story first. So there we go. There's the iris. There's the lens which we'll look at at the at the end. Now if I go posteriorly. So look, there's the um there's the iris. So we're looking posteriorly. Um if I go further back, you can see how most of the eyeball looks like that. we've got uh like the the the retinal layer, the coroid layer, and the the connective tissue layer. So, as we go here, you can see that that's a little bit special. This is the siliary body. Now, the siliary body is special because this is a ring of muscle around the inside of the eye. So, it's a circular um smooth muscle and the lens is suspended from it. So, there's the lens. Can we see some little tiny fibers? We can, can't we? Don't know if I managed to focus it. Okay, for you guys. It's a bit tricky at this power. Let's jump up to 100 times. Um, you see those little wispy lines in there? Uh so those are the suspensory fibers linking the lens to the siliary body. One of the best names in the business, the zule of Zin. We don't call it that anymore because we use contemporary terms. Um so the siliary body then has got a number of features. Let me jump back out to four times or 40 times. So um these you got the siliary body which is a ring. The lens is in the middle and it's suspended from the siliary body by the suspensory ligament of the eye by zular fibers by the zulle of zin. Lots and lots and lots of tiny fibers. Um there's a bit of tricky anatomy understanding here and there's a bit of a cool fact. Um these fibers are actually made of fibrillin not collagen. Um, fibrillain is a it's another microtubial structure, but it's not collagen. It's different, which is really interesting. Um, it's it's it's one of those um micro fibrals that is not stretchy, great at withstanding tensile forces, you know, that sort of thing. And what happens is is that the lens being a little bit of a little bit like a gel it can change shape. So when that ring the siliary body when the ring is relaxed it is a big ring and the fibers are pulling on the lens. So the lens is pulled so that it is thin and when the lens is thin it is good at focusing on objects at a distance. When that siliary body contracts and the ring becomes smaller, the tension is taken off those suspensory fibers and the lens then is allowed to relax and shrink and change shape and as a result it gets fatter. And when the lens gets fatter, it's then good at focusing on objects which are close up. This is part of accommodation. The lens changing shape actually gets worse as you get older, which is why when you get to my age, you're pretty much guaranteed to need reading glasses. We'll come back to that later, but that's what the siliary body does, and that's quite tricky to remember and understand. It's a little bit counterintuitive. When the muscle contracts, the ring gets smaller, the lens gets fatter. You focus on near objects. But there's another feature we can see there, right? Those sticky outy bits that we can see are siliary processes. So these are sticking out from the siliary body. Now you can see there's the siliary body there. Smooth muscle and melanocytes and pigment like we find everywhere else in the body. Whereas those siliary processes are different. Um, I don't know if you can see there, but there are two layers of cells. So, we've got one layer of that heavily pigmented epithelium, and then we've got another layer of not at all pigmented epithelium. So this is at 200 times magnification and it's these cells. So we've got two epithelial cells there, two two epithelial layers there, right? Um we've got a bit of a simple cubuidal epithelium, which is very neat. And we've got those melanocytes. And the cells of the siliary processes are producing acreous humor constantly. They make less of it when you're asleep. I think they make more of it first thing in the morning, but they are continuously making acreous humor. And that acquous humor is going into the posterior chamber of the eye. So these cells look cubuidal here or maybe short columnar. They're often Oh, those look more columnar. Oh yeah, more columnar over there, don't they? These um that epithelium is often a simple columna epithelial layer in humans. I don't know what animal this is from. Now these cells are making acquous humor then. And that acquous humor like I say is passing into the posterior chamber into this space between the iris and the lens. And remember we can't see those zulara fibers those suspensory fibers in there. But that fiber mesh work is running all the way around the lens. So to all intents and purposes it is a it's a barrier. It's a wall a permeable wall. So the acquous humor passes into the posterior chamber and then flows around the lens between the lens and the iris and then it flows through the pupil to the anterior chamber and in doing so then it can nourish the cells of the cornea and the cells of the lens and that fluid is circulating. There are currents in here and the fluid at the angle that we were looking at earlier in here in there is a network of tbacular sinuses. So in um at the angle here now this this has all come apart a little bit with sectioning. So maybe you have to go on trust a little bit, but um because the layers have separated, right? But you can see how in there we've got some flattened tubes that have been cut in cross-section. Right now, they're different to the spaces over here. Over here, um so we're here, we're looking at where the cornea meets the iris. And in the cornea, you've got loads of collagen fibrals nicely arranged. And after death, fluid has moved in here and the collagen fibrals have have come apart. So we're not looking at real spaces there. We're looking at spaces that have occurred after death. Whereas here, these little diddy spaces I'm looking at there, they're lined by cells. They're lined by an endothelium. So we are in the connective tissue layer the cornea becoming the sclera and on that deep surface then there is a tbacular mesh work um don't know how well we'll be able to see anything but that tbecular mesh work are spaces in the connective tissue lined by endothelium. There you go. We're seeing some tubes there. Maybe maybe it's believable. And the acreous humor flows in there at the angle between the iris and the cornea. And then that tacular meshwork passes um passes that aquous humor into something called the canal of Schlim um Schllem Schllem's canal. And that's like a ring that runs around um the eye in this layer here. And then that acquous humor is passed into blood vessels and it goes back into the blood. So there's a constant flow. The cells of the siliary body are making aquous humor. um the the cells of the siliary processes rather are making making acquous humor. It flows through the posterior chamber through the pupil into the anterior chamber down to the angle into the tbecular meshwork into the canal of schlim and back into the venus side of the cardiovascular system. And that constant flow is great. It means the cells here that don't have blood vessels get nourished. All right, glaucoma. So, glaucoma is a general term. Um, raised pressure inside the eye for whatever reason will compress the optic nerve and damage the optic nerve leading to loss of vision in that eye. Um, and permanent loss of vision in that eye. And there are a number of causes. In terms of what we're looking at today, we're looking at the angle between the iris and the cornea. Acute angle closure glaucom or closed angle glaucom or um narrow angle glaucom. They're all the same thing. They just got different terms. Um that refers to that angle being closed. The iris has been moved and it's squashing. It's covering the opening to that tbacular meshwork which means that that acquous humor is still being produced but now it's not flowing out of the anterior chamber as it should as quickly as it should. This is an acute condition. This is rapid onset. There's a physical change. The iris has moved and so this will come on quite quickly and this is an opthalmic emergency. You need to fix this ASAP. It's very uncommon. But that's what we mean by closed angle glaucoma. That angle gets closed by the physical movement of the iris to somewhere it shouldn't be and that drainage system gets physically blocked by the movement of the iris. Um open angle glaucom is um is it the most common form of glaucoma? Probably. That means that that angle is as it should be, right? Nothing's moved. The angle is as it should be. So open angle glaucom means that there's something wrong with that tbecular mesh work. Something wrong with the fluid flow into it or through it or through the canal of Schllem because there's there's quite a lot going on there physiologically. So open angle glaucoma just means that the angle is normal as it should be. That's not the problem. The problem is with the fluid drainage system itself and that means that the fluid is going to be made by the siliary processes. It's not going to drain away properly and this is much more of a chronic problem. This is a very slow to develop problem. I think you get loss of the peripheral visual fields first. Um now the the lucky thing is lucky lucky I don't know there is an alternate route uh an unconventional route it gets called and some of the aquous humor can actually flow out through the siliary body and into the scara apparently and there are drugs that you can take as eye drops that will take advantage of that and increase the the amount of acquous humor that flows out through that route. So, managing the pressure in the eye. Interesting, huh? Glacoma is often a bit of a mystery. Hopefully, I've demystified it a little bit by looking at these microscopic structures and showing that they're real. All right. Uh, one thing left to talk about, and it's this guy up here, or what's left of him. Now, I haven't looked at this yet, so I don't know what this is going to look like, but this is the lens. Now, I I think the lens is a bit weird. It's I guess it's because I'm a connective tissue biologist or was. It's not It's not really connective tissue. What we're looking at there is we're looking at cells or the remains of cells that have taken up the stain that was added to the section. Okay. And there's other weirdness. Let's jump up. Let's jump up again. So, oh boy. You can just about see. Oh, we can just about. See, that's very neat. See if I can find a good bit. What we've got going on here is can you see just about maybe um the lens has a capsule but it's so you can see that you can see the capsule on the lens there, right? But it's actually a basement membrane. So, a basement membrane is a connective tissue sheet that epithelial cells stick to and that's how you make your epithelium. The basement membrane's on the outside. Usually, the basement membranes on the inside and the cells stick up from it, right? So, we've got this the capsule of the lens and I think it's the thickest basement membrane in the body because they're usually like super thin. So, we've got the capsule, this thick basement membrane, and then you've got a layer of cells. We can see their nuclei up against it. This is a simple cubuidal epithelium. So the subcapsular layer. Um and there we go. You can see you can see that capsule and you can see that subcapsular layer that subcapsular epithelium. Those cells will become the cells inside the lens because yes inside the lens those are cells and those cells they've lost their nuclei they've lost their organ organels and they've been filled with crystallins proteins specially adapted to change the refractive power of the lens to focus light on the retina. So normally of course they can this is all completely clear. This has just been stained so that we can see it. So what we're looking at in here are the remnants of um lens fibers. What were the cells of the lens packed with crystallins? Um so most of the lens is made up of of these things. Um, and that subcapsular epithelium is on the anterior surface of the lens. Oh, there. That's That's really good. Oh, we can see those layers as well. Look at that. Um, so we're now looking at the bottom edge. Well, we're looking at the side of the lens and we find that epithelium at the side of the lens and then it stops. Look, there isn't an epithelium on the posterior surface of the lens, but we've still got that capsule and it's even getting thicker. But I, you know, I haven't got many eye sections and I think this is the best one. But look at that weird structure in there. Isn't that cool? Lens fibers that come from Oh, they look good on this side as well. Yeah, capsule subcapsular epithelium and lens fibers. And look, you can see them going through that process. Those cells have still got their nuclei. As you go deeper, they've lost their nucle, lost their organels. So these subcapsular cells are producing new lens fibers through life, which is handy. Weird. Again, there are no blood vessels in here. The these cells are getting their nutrition from the aquous humor. Um, and actually while we think of the lens as focusing light on the retina, which it does, most of the refractive power of the eye is actually in the cornea. Um this structure here um this does most of the work of focusing light and then the lens um does the rest of it. Um the the lens with age is subject to um cataract. So a cataract is um a lens that becomes opacified over time. um it becomes cloudy which is obviously going to affect vision. Um the usual risk factors so UV light, age, smoking, diabetes um and the age is associated with um oxidation over time. Um so the older you are, the more likely you are to get cataracts. And you can fix this by taking the lens out and replacing it with a manufactured lens. Um, and I think that's the most common surgery in the world, isn't it? Cataract surgery. And of course, that lens, you can't use it to focus on near objects anymore because it's a manufactured lens. It's of a specific shape. But you can fix that with uh reading glasses. And by the time you need cataract surgery, you're probably using reading glasses cuz your lens doesn't change shape very well anyway, right? The lens is actually well hydrated. Whereas the cornea is dehydrated to help arrange the collagen fibbrals and make it transparent. The lens is made of different things. Cells filled with crystallins. It's actually well hydrated and that's important for its function. But there we go. We've looked at the structures of the anterior eye. We've looked at the lens, the siliary body, the suspensory ligaments, those fibers there. We've looked at the iris and the the layers and the siliary processes. We've looked at the chambers. We've looked at the pupil. We've talked about how acquous humor flows around. We talked about glaucom. We talked about cataracts. That's a lot of clinically relevant anatomy. The eye is so important. Um, you know, we're both using ours right now and we you don't need me to tell you how important the eye is. Anyway, I hope that's helped your understanding. Um, I hope that's improved your understanding of not just the anatomy of the eye, but the cells of the eye and how all this how all this works. Oh dear, we better try and grapple with the retina next week in the final video. Yeah, good luck everybody.