exams are coming up, our last exams of the year. Um, so I'm talking to students about how they're preparing and studying and things that have gone wrong and not gone so well. And that I think for the first time has made me reflect on how I used to study um when I was at school how I used to study for GCES for A levels and then when I was at university how I used to study and how that's changed what I and how what what I know now would affect what I did then. You know, it's always like that, isn't it? If I knew then what I knew now, I could do so much better. Um, but first of all, rock climbing. Um, haven't climbed for a few weeks, which always makes me grumpy. Today, the weather's turned out better than usual. The last few weekends we've been away, Kim's been ill, the weather's been bad. So finally we're able to get back out again. And there's a surprisingly steep but short route over here over here that Kim was working on. And she's not she's not, you know, at full power today. But I thought, let's get on it. See if it's dried out. Remember the moves. And then when she is at full power, bam, she'll tick it. You'll see how steep it is. I got to put Let me put a rope up first. Tin can or a lid of something. Maybe paint can lid or something. See, the sea does a pretty good job of recycling metal, doesn't it? Yeah. Kind of looks like a rock. It's turned it into the moon. You need no You have your eyes. Baby sh No more baby. there. Look how far away from the start the rope is. It's uh it's h it's very burly, but it's only a handful of moon. It's actually quite very difficult start cuz the starts haven't been cut. A very difficult top cuz you got to get over the top. Makes you breathe in and out a little bit. be able to climb a few weeks not being able to climb every day. So, fun place to climb this. It's not so good climbing steep stuff if you think it's going to shower cuz the holes will stay dry. So, one of the things I like about my job nowadays cuz I'm a a neverending stud student of the anatomy, physiology, and the body is that I don't just have to study what's in the learning outcomes. I get to study whatever I want. Particularly making anatomy videos, right? cuz I can uh I can make videos about whatever I want. So I can study and talk about whatever I want. So that's a change. But what what do I do differently now? And what would I tell my younger self to do? Number one is the obvious one. When I was at school, I thought I worked hard. Now I know what that really means. and a school I didn't work as hard as I should have could have. My A level grades weren't brilliant. There were various limitations there sure but I could have worked harder in school. When I started my degree that changed so in the first year I was learning how to study at university which I think is a normal thing. It's such a big step up but by the second year and third year I remember I was working a lot harder and I remember a feeling of being absolutely saturated. there is nothing more I can do and then go into the exams with that sensation and at that point I'm limited by my intellectual ability my the effectiveness of the skills I've been using to study rather than the amount of hours I put into it and the amount of hours you can put into it varies you know we all need different amounts of sleep and we've all got different levels of energy and that sort of thing right so number one I could have worked harder in school number two is I would have done it differently So you think about what I do now from now my learning is very active. I teach, I write exam papers, I make videos, I make podcasts, I run student tutorials. Um, so what I got to do is I've got to read about all that information. I still use textbooks. I use lots of different resources, but I got to read, understand the information, assimilate, assimilate it, and then create something new from that. And that for me is an excellent way of learning. Of course, there's a lot of repetition because I teach every year, but just making videos, making podcasts, it's a really, really good way for me to learn. I've said this before, if you um if you learn to teach, you learn more than you need to learn because you read around the subject and you pick out what it is you actually need to teach, but you understand more as a result and your learning is deeper and you've tied things together. But also that that whole active process means that I remember it better. And I ask I tell students to do this a little bit as well. you in small groups in pairs whatever just teach each other test each other because that act of remembering so like most anatomy exams are about recognition and recall if you've just done a thing with a friend where you taught somebody about the nerves of the lower limb and then when that comes up in the exam you feel more confident because you think I did this with somebody else and it went well or it didn't go well but you picked up all those errors and you fixed it. Um, it's a really effective way of learning, but also in building your confidence. Now that I'm thinking about what it is I do, I've actually I'm actually using LLM's, large language models, AI, like chat GPT. There's Claude and Gemini as well, but I tend to use chat GPT. I don't know why. Um, and that helps my learning. I don't trust it. It makes mistakes. So, it's not my first source that I use for learning, but okay, like if I'm learning neuroscience or neuro anatomy, I'll often I like reading textbooks, but I'll often get stuck on a term. So, I can use a large language model to ask it about that term and very very quickly it explains to me what that term is. Either I understand now what that term is so I can keep reading or it's pointed out to me that that's the same as that thing you already know but it's got a different name. So AI, LLMs, and they they're they're a tool that I use now because they speed up my learning when I'm using other resources. Obviously, they didn't exist when I was in school. The internet didn't exist when I was in school. That's something I use now. Number four, um again, these aren't things I've like planned to do. They're just things I've ended up doing. So this I'm just describing what I do, but I find that I uh do image searches. So like the hisystologology videos I've been doing recently, I'll do image searches on I use Doug Doug Go, but whatever search engine you like, it can pull up a whole bunch of images, right? And scroll through those images. And what that does, it shows me lots of sources. And if all those sources, if all those illustrations, if all those histoological illustrations or diagrams or photos, if they're all broadly the same, I feel more confident that what I'm reading is correct. Now there is a caveat because sometimes there is an error, everybody copies that error and then you see loads of resources with the same error. Sure. But apart from that, that's quite effective for me. Instead of just looking at one illustration, I look at lots. Also, by looking at lots of illustrations, sometimes you find that one that explains it better to you and you think, "Oh, wow. That's that's how that is." And number five, the other thing I find that I'm doing is I'm actually searching PubMed and going to I'm using research papers more. I'm either going to like the original research and reading the original paper or I'm finding systematic reviews and reading reviews. And these end up being absolutely excellent resources. Really well written, great figures, great legends. And look, as you go into the primary source, you're getting a bit more detail, it hasn't been hasn't, you know, been assimilated by other people into other articles. And that I really like and I find really useful. When I was at university to do when I was in when I was studying, if we wanted to get papers, we had to go to the library, find a physical paper paper journal in the library, photocopy it, which we had to pay for to make copies. That's if the library subscribed to it. If the library didn't subscribe to it, you have to send off for it which had a cost associated with it. It was a real pain in the butt. Now, I mean, okay, it's better if you're a student at a university or you work at a university. You just search online for these papers. You got links now to the full PDFs. You can read the whole thing. Again, if the university subscribes to it, it's just a series of clips. It's so much easier than it used to be. Um, I think it'd be dafted if I didn't take advantage of that. Anyway, that's what I do. That's what I'd tell myself to do if I was younger and studying now, but not my younger self who were studying in the '90s because most of this didn't exist. What do you reckon? I reckon you remember the moves? I think so. Until I get to the top at least. there. So, the hole over the top, the hole in the floor was a bit left of what I thought it was going to be. The um the the top ledge is a little bit dusty again. Um sorry, I got rain. It's okay once you get your left foot up. It seems intimidating to get your left foot up, but when you do that, you can stuff your right shoulder against the rock, against the wall, right? And then you're kind of there. Should be all right. No heart. No more. Heat. Heat. I'm only still it's going to be the fourth third day I've been feeling normal since so just kind of remember the moves get the nostrils working again when we come back next weekend Oh yeah I seem to get up into that pocket above the in that brake just above the overhang really nicely last time I don't know what I did different this Is it? I just wonder if it's just I'm not feeling great. It looked easy this time. It felt really hard. Yeah, it is hard, but it's really steep. I just didn't feel like I had the oomph to pull on anything, if that makes sense. Just, you know, like I was I had good position with my hand, but I didn't feel like I could let go and pull on it to do anything with this hand. I kind of bit felt a bit stuck really. Yeah. Do you want to have a drink or do you want another go? No, I'm right. Which one? A drink. Yeah. See that going half? Oh, look at him. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Nice foot on that one. That's it. Beautiful to the left. Yeah. Yeah. Go. Go on. Go on. Come on. Go on. Go on. Go on. I really don't have the on. That is the hardest bit. That is so powerful. That last bit. Oh my god. That is so exhausting that last bit. That top is so hard. It's like a blinking high step and then you loads of holes, but you just can't quite get the right angle to get over it. It's still a massive pull. It's such a big high step. Yeah. Try to pull yourself over. It's not an easy mic. It's so steep. Got that. That's where we came in. The tide's now cut us off. So, we can't we can't walk back out that way. So we will climb up over there. When the tie comes in, you can climb out. There's some easy routes. This is easy. You don't want hard rocks back on though. Yeah. You're like, "Oh my god, I'm tired. Weather forecast looks like it's going to be hot next week. Woohoo. So, we might be able to get out and we can do it. Yeah. Means uh feel like it needs the exam preparation is going to be extra annoying because it's going to be beautiful outside. Students going to have to spend all their time inside studying. All right. Right up the hill to the cafe and