morning. Um, I'm off to Romania next week. I've been asked to give a talk at their heart conference again and I'm teaching this afternoon. So, I'm talking all afternoon. Of course, as somebody that speaks to groups a lot, a common question I get asked is, "How do you get comfortable speaking to groups of people?" Well, I don't get anxious anymore, but I still get concerned about doing a good job, yeah, about doing a good job. More like more than worried about looking like an idiot. Uh, I think I'm past that bit. But I'll tell you what we do in science training to get to this point. And the reason I say science training is because that's the path I've been down. And in science training, you have to train people to speak to groups of people because in science, you do research and then you have to communicate the results of your research. You go to conferences and you present posters and talk to people. Uh you write papers and publish those. But you also give talks at conferences, at your local institution, to small groups and to giant groups. I've uh I've certainly spoken to groups of about 500 in size. I think I've spoken to a group of about a thousand at a really big international conference a long time ago. You know, one of those huge auditoriums where they've got two projectors. They got a camera on you cuz they got to make you bigger and project you onto one of the screens cuz nobody can see you cuz there's so many people in the room. They're so far away. I think you probably know the answer. uh you do it a lot and you get less nervous but also by doing it a lot you get better at doing it so you feel more comfortable about doing it you feel more confident because it works right so if you're studying science you do a degree right so you do a BSE and as part of that there will be some course work and part of that course work will be you um giving talks you know giving a presentation uh in the gem program that we run. You give it to your your peers. You give it to a small group of um other students and to say me who will be marking it. Of course, what we're trying to do there is we're trying to well what we're getting you to research information, synthesize that information and then reproduce it in your own words uh and to work out a way of presenting that information visually and orally and keeping to time. These are all skills that need practice. And if you're going to be giving a talk, we hope that you're going to practice that. Maybe you'll practice on your own in front of a mirror or with some other people. So, you're already getting practice in at that early stage. Um, now if you've done a degree and you go on to do a PhD, in a PhD you will be regularly giving presentations. There might be a journal club where you're uh reading papers, reviewing those papers and talking about that paper to other people and discussing it. You will have to regularly um talk about what you how your research project is going, the findings you've got, the difficulties you've having, maybe uh the introduction to the topic. You'll be giving presentations quite regularly to the research group you're in, maybe to the the school or you to some sort of larger group or some sort of regular speaking. And uh again, you practice all those skills over and over again. And you're probably still quite nervous and anxious at this stage, but hopefully either during your PhD or as a result of your PhD, you will produce enough uh original research that you're going to produce a paper, which means you're going to be presenting this work at conferences as well. So, it's getting you ready for that. And one of the other things you get there then is the conferences you get asked the awkward questions. That's another topic. So by giving talks regularly and your supervisors and your colleagues posing you with questions regularly making you think on your feet you kind of get used to that right. So more practice slightly higher level more often than with that extra skill of being asked tricky questions and then during your PhD uh I did you might get a demonstrator job like a bit of a teaching job. So I was AI was a hisystologology demonstrator when I was doing my PhD. So then you're not giving presentations as such, but you're you're helping with the teaching. So you're having those kind of some of those pro some of those conversations are prepared. You're showing a student how to go about a thing or find a thing or describing what that cell does, what that tissue looks like. But again, you're taking up a level and you're getting asked questions by students. How do I do this? What does this do? So you're kind of drawing on that wider knowledge, which is a useful skill in teaching. And then of course all that prepares you for if you get a a science job at a university, it's likely that not only will you be doing all that science stuff and presentations and conferences, but you'll also be teaching either a little bit of teaching or a lot of teaching like me. So all that has prepared you not just for sharing your research but it's prepared you to do one of the main jobs at university which is to teach students right this afternoon I am teaching the anatomy of the adrenal glands we're going to talk about the abdominal aorta which students should know about so I'm adding detail to that the abdominal well the inferior vennea right and we're going to talk about cavo cable and aimosis that will be new to them we'll talk about of corticco steroids and adrenaline. And so you can see that I've got a plan in my head of what I'm going to do. Not just a PowerPoint presentation, but a plan in my head of how I'm going to go about this. Hopefully Hey. Hey. Hey. So of course all that all that speaking practice that I was put through during my degree and my PhD of course I worked as a posttock as well so I was continuing to present as a posttock anyway all of that stuff I was put through when when I ended up coming here for an interview completely unprepared for a teaching job but kind of pushed towards it. I had a lot of experience of speaking to groups of people which is a major component of teaching. They're doing the um they're refurbishing the toilets upstairs. So there's drilling there's been drilling all day all week. And of course they're working on the toilets up there and there are toilets below those toilets. Guess what's happened to the toilets below? Well, there's water flooding down the walls, isn't there? Anyway, right, this will cut this short then. Um, so being put through all of that, which no, I did not enjoy at the time. I did not enjoy having to give talks. Did not like it at all. Very nervous, very anxious. I'm the sort of person that doesn't like doing that. Likes my own quiet spaces. Quiet spaces. Anyway, all of that teaching. All of that was really useful for me. And when I, you know, and then when you when I started this job, I'm pretty sure I was nervous about teaching. I was very anxious about teaching every week, but then of course I had to do it. That's what I'm being paid to do. You got to you just get used to it. It's exposure therapy, isn't it? Uh, and now like I say, I'm not anxious about speaking, but I am concerned about doing a good job, which is basically it's the same thing at a different end of the scale, isn't it? So, if you're in that position, if you're in, you know, if you're doing a course or whatever and you have to give talks and you hate it, don't worry. It's a good thing that they're getting you to do these things because it will it just gets easier gets easier over time, honestly. And I can say things like um you're you worry more about how other people perceive you than how other people perceive you. Do you know what I mean? You worry about how you look, how you sound, how you present yourself, that sort of thing. Everybody else thinks you look great, you sound great, you're doing a great job. You just don't feel like that at the time, do you? I mean, think about it. When you watch other people giving talks, particularly if they're nervous, how do you feel about them? They're doing great, right? You're doing great. Right. I wonder if I'm going to be teaching during the drilling later. Okay. Right. Things to do.