 Back in the day, um, with PCs, after the 386s and the 486s, the Pentium's and the Pentium's, probably into the 306s and the Pentium's, probably into the Athlons, um, to try to get the best value for money, we would, um, overclock our CPUs and our GPUs, our graphics cards. So we'd, uh, not all silicon comes out of the factory the same, it's all a little bit different, and, uh, you would try to basically increase the speed of your, of your silicon, increase the speed power power power power power power power power power power power that then pushes all the water around. And this worked pretty well. We could get better value out of our hardware, so I could get games to run that I wouldn't be able to get to run on hardware that I could afford by using the water cooling. It's a little bit different now. Because this PC has been upgraded over the years, this is my main PC for video editing. So it plays games, but I've upgraded it so I can edit videos faster, so it doesn't get in my way, so it lets me move quickly. So I edit 4K videos. The anatomy videos also do object tracking and animation. So this has now got a Ryzen 9 CPU in it with like 12 cores, 24 threads. It's got a Radian, what are they called? 7900 XTX on it. It's got like 48 gig of RAM. So all of those upgrades mean that I can edit 4K video and animate 4K video in real time. I'm not waiting for things to happen. For example, rendering videos used to take over an hour, and I can now render a video in just a few minutes. But the problem is that as I've upgraded the hardware, I haven't upgraded the case. The case was designed before graphics cards would use 350 watts to do what you want them to do. My CPU uses about 100 watts, my graphics card can use about 350 watts. The amount of heat they generate is huge. And I can't get rid of that heat efficiently. So it's noisy. The CPU throttles, so it boosts to 4.8 gigahertz. Its maximum temperature is 90 degrees, so it throttles as it gets towards the maximum temperature so it doesn't damage itself, right? So I've been avoiding this for years, but I basically need to rebuild this inside a bigger case with better airflow. That bigger case will give me more room for hard drives because I've got loads of hard drives for loads of video storage. And I'm going to upgrade my cooling. I'm actually going to get rid of all my water cooling rigs now, all that do-it-yourself stuff, and just put in an all-in-one cooler. Water cooling has become mainstream. Everybody does it now. I'm going to make it simpler. I'm going to make it... I'm going to try and make it cooler and quieter and better. But... I've got to... I've got to... I've got to drain it and take it all apart and rebuild it in a new case. All right, let's go. I am from the generation that was actually cutting holes in the sides of our PC cases and putting windows in. And now... you buy them with tempered glass. Crazy. There's sludge in the... hoses and dust everywhere. things get out. Oh, well, there we go. I am a successful person. I don't often say that out loud or even think that inside, but actually it's worth saying, isn't it? I am a successful person. The reason I'm successful is because I've moved the goalposts. I am successful because what I get to do and what I have roughly match with what I want to do and want to have, right? I mean, think about what I do. I... I love to cycle to work on a bike that's probably... it's at least 10 years old. I love to cycle to work. I like to own a van that's 25 years old. You know what I mean? So I don't need... I don't want new, shiny, big, expensive things. I'm not interested in that. So that's good. Because I cycle to work, I want to have a house that's pretty much next to the cycle path. For me, that is perfection. I don't want a big house in wherever. So my needs match what I have. So I am successful. I... It turns out, I didn't know this, but I want to be able to study anatomy and embryology and all those other subjects I study and the body as a whole physiology and that sort of thing. And I want to be able to talk about that sort of thing. I want to feel useful. I want to feel part of something. I want to help other people. And I get to do all of those things as part of my job and I get... I get... Don't tell anybody. But I get paid to do it. Universities in the UK do not pay very well. So I don't get paid very well. But then... I... I'm not... I've never been very good with money, but I don't really know what I want more money for. I don't need more money I need more time. Part of what Death Stranding 2 is doing is reminding me about how I want to go... Just go walking for weeks and weeks and weeks. I want to go out into the wilderness. Look at some... Look at some trails going across the Pyrenees for future years. We walked the South West Coast Path last year. We won't get back to the second half until next year because of time and commitments, right? I like to rock climb. I like to walk. I like being outside. These things are important to me. I like being by the sea and in the sea. That's where I live. All of that is on my doorstep. I am successful because the things I want match the things that I have. All of that success has come because of luck. I have been very lucky. I didn't know what I wanted to do at school. I was lucky enough to have a really good teacher who said, Hey, there's this anatomical sciences degree starting at Cardiff University. Maybe you should go and do that. I was lucky because that was the right choice. I then wanted to do a PhD afterwards and I applied for loads of PhD positions all over the country. Didn't get any of them and I was lucky enough that somebody in Cardiff we joined up and there were PhD posts in Cardiff and I was offered to study a PhD in Cardiff and I was lucky because that was an excellent PhD. It was just stimulating and difficult and challenging and all the things I needed to make me the person that I've become. I was very lucky and then after my PhD because we had no ties no commitments I was a little bit unlucky but I said Hey, let's go and we could go and work anywhere in the world but I only meant to do it for one year I always meant to come back to the UK or probably to Wales and that didn't go very well so I was a bit unlucky there but it didn't really matter because then I was really lucky and I was offered a job back in Cardiff and I was lucky to have multiple postdoc research jobs I was lucky to be able to follow the research to the point where I actually got my own funding so I was very lucky in science and then this job that I'm in now I never intended to do it, right? I didn't want this job I didn't apply for this job but I was lucky enough that I was pulled towards this job and then pushed towards this job by other people and then I was even luckier that it turns out that I really liked this job I took this job because it's a full-time job research postdoc jobs are not there two year, three year one year short-term contracts and I had a family at that point so we needed a permanent I needed a permanent job for that security and I was lucky enough that it came up at the right time that it was good see, just luck I'm here because of luck all of this is luck where I live is, it's, it's, it's luck and we all have a little bit of luck in our lives but many of us who are successful forget that alright, that's all my components it's clean and it's dust free as I'm going to get them just realised of course I'm supposed to be editing this video at the end of the day on, on, on this I haven't even taken the case or the new cooler out of the box yet so I don't even know what's in here genius I was actually considering having a PC without a window and that and the RGB I've still got the window the, uh the version of this without RGB costs 15 quid more so I thought I'd buy it with the RGB and switch it off no? anyway it's supposed to be good this one oh I've got to build that then oh well there is a case in there that's good hmm hmm hmm hmm and of course um the luckiest thing that happened to me out of everything was when I met Kim I met Kim before I went to university and Kim has been the thing in my life sorry thing that has affected me the most and changed me the most and directed me the most and put me where I am and made me who I am right Kim she's had the biggest effect on me of everything so my success is a result of my luck and it's just I'm I'm probably forgetting most of the unlucky things that have happened but that's because they haven't led to anything it's the lucky things that have put me in my place as it were okay oh wow that actually does fit I'll remove that okay that's neat I feel like this round is to get all the way exactly see if I was clever I'd have screwed this on no oh Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Perfect. That wasn't quite as satisfying as I thought it might be. Oh my god. I think if you had all your interior lights set to just white that would be... That's what I'm thinking. That's... Orange! I'm ready. Peel. Peel. Alright, ready? I'm ready. Thank you, trust. Oh. Nothing. Nothing. Oh. Oh, wait. Oh, wait. How are we going? Oh, wait. Oh, wait. Oh, wait. Oh, wait. Oh, wait. Oh, wait. Yeah, I did. I forgot to plug the fans in. There are a lot of new fans. I forgot to plug the fans in, plug them in. That's all good. Had a little problem with getting the hard drives recognized because of some weird NVMe configuration I've got, but we got there. It works fine. It's a bit cooler. It's a bit quieter. It's a bit nicer. Was it worth it? I don't know. Probably. Um. The more I work, the luckier I get. The longer I'm around for, and keep pressing forward, the luckier I get. We just keep rolling the dice. And the unlucky things don't lead anywhere, so I forget about them. But the lucky things lead me to places, lead me to things, and I remember them. Um. So, sometimes you have just got to keep going, just got to keep rolling the dice. And the more often you roll the dice, the luckier you're gonna get, right? Uh. Okay. Let's find tomorrow. Oh. Okay. Let's find tomorrow. Well.