 with the really high cost of diesel right now, the improving weather and the beautifully resurfaced cycle network, I imagine this is going to encourage more and more people to travel using their own best and by breathing in and out. Hopefully. There's even a handy pub to stop at halfway along. So this is an old railway line and I just went past a bit of a bit of a crater. I was cycling down here once with an older guy who told me that, because this used to be a railway line back in the day when Swansea was a really important port and it was important in moving metals and other materials around the world. So during the Second World War, these railway lines were important in moving supplies around. So the Germans bombed Swansea and bombed this railway line and there are a couple of craters along the side here. So he told me which are the bombs that missed the line but still left an impression in the countryside. they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're first up and they're! Peter's walking on the island must be protecting their eggs from the seagulls and stuff. Morning. Morning. Oh hell I've been playing far too much Death Stranding 2. Oh, disappeared. I've been doing this job a while. Is my PhD thesis on a floppy disk? I've got a lot of floppy disks in it. The reason I'm thinking about this is because I'm writing a talk about how technology has changed. And how teaching has changed as that technology has changed. Look at that. My whole PhD thesis fits onto this floppy disk. And the reason it fits onto this floppy disk is because, well, that's what we had at the time. We had floppy disks. We're talking about the 90s here. But it was because all the photographs I took were on film. And then I worked in the dark room. So you had to, like, if you're taking photos with a microscope, that's your cells. You'd take it onto film. You'd take it onto film. And then in the dark room, you would process it and print it onto black and white. You'd have black and white photographs. And those physically went into the printed copy of my thesis. So this is just text, you see, which is why it fits onto a 1.44 megabyte drive. It looks pristine. It doesn't look, um, uh, not quite 30 years old. 20-blah years old. Huh. All right. I will, um, talk about that in my talk. And, um, yeah, going back to that time reminds me that I failed. Um, so when I did my PhD, that was a plan I was going to become a scientist. And I did become a scientist. I was a researcher. I had multiple postdoctoral research jobs. And, um, I was looking at all sorts of things. But I eventually got my own research funding. Um, the group I was working in found that the progenitor cells of articular cartilage are in the surface of the cartilage. So, of course, when you injure the surface of the cartilage, you're losing your progenitor cells. You're losing the cells you would normally rely on to, uh, make new cells and repair the tissue for you. So I had the idea that, well, let's take some of these progenitor cells and let's put them into a wound that I create, uh, in a petri dish. The wound wasn't in the petri dish. It was some other cartilage, but it was in vitro. It was, it was, it was a lab experiment. And what happens if we put these cells back into a cartilage wound? What sort of matrix do they make? Do they bond with the cut surfaces or do they fail like everything else does? Um, and I, I really enjoyed all that. I loved that, that challenge, that, um, looking at new stuff that people haven't looked at before, that trying to understand what you're looking at, trying to make sense of it. Trying to, um, have a good scientific method, try to be skeptical and rational and basically spending time at the lab bench with these cells and these explants and, um, looking down the microscope. And all, all of that, and my colleagues were all battling with the same thing. I really enjoyed that. And that's, that's all I wanted to do. But it's a really tough job. Um, because mostly, well, it's a really tough job for lots of reasons, but, um, it's tough because of the short term contracts. You'll get money for a couple of years or one year or maybe three years if you're lucky. And then after that, you need to look for money again, right? Um, and when this job came up, it's one university of teaching job. I was warned that we are building a new program. It's going to be a huge amount of work. You are going to struggle to keep up your research. And I moved to Swansea, moved into a teaching job, brought my research money, employed a postdoctoral research associate to carry the work, set up a lab, set up all the things you have to set up to set up a lab, a new lab. And had PhD students in the lab and all sorts. Um, but it, I couldn't keep it going. It just, it, it all failed and it, it died. Um, when we started this job, we had an initial year where we had a very small number of students. So we could figure out what we were doing. Um, but then in subsequent years, we had an intake of 75 students per year. Um, and on top of building the anatomy program, I was also running another module and building that and running it and making sure that it runs. And then we have the, the creating, running marking of assessments and all the coursework. And your job just kind of grows and grows and grows and grows and grows. Uh, and then over the last couple of decades, so Joe left and, um, other people came in. There have been periods where I've been doing this job on my own. But the, um, the course has expanded. So we now have 150 students coming every year, which means every week I'm teaching 300 students, which is a big jump. So every time you think that it's settling down and you've got the program running and you don't have to do any more of that changing development preparation, all that big work around the course, it's now running. Every time I got to that point, we got more students. We would get, the course would slowly get bigger and bigger and bigger. And there are a couple of points where, well, now you're over a hundred students. We need to do it like this. So we want the teaching to be small group. It's now medium group and practical, which means we've had to get more teachers, rewrite how we do things, replan how we do things. It never settles down. And beyond the medicine program, um, we were, you know, I was then asked, oh, we want to run a physician's associates program. Could you, could you run an anatomy module for that? So we had to build that and then run it and then reflect on how it ran and change it. And then also there's an applied medical science degree program. Oh, could you do a double module for that? And could you be involved in this master's and that master's? So there's always been more and more and more and more teaching. Um, so you can see how all of that has just squeezed out the research. Now we have more students than ever to keep it practical. We need more teachers than ever because you want multiple teachers in that medium sized group. So the students have got people to talk to. Um, and yet pressures on the NHS, retiring consultants mean it's harder for us to recruit clinical teachers than ever before. So there's even more pressure on us. Marcy's done a fantastic job though of recruiting demonstrators. We've got peer to peer and near peer teaching going on as we have demonstrators from, from higher years coming in to help, which is good for their learning, good for their experience, for their CVs and what have you. Um, but I still feel like even with all of that, I should have been able to keep that basic research program running. But the truth of it is, is that to do that, you employ people and they do the research. Um, and you have to keep writing grant applications to get the money and to keep employing people. Um, you need to be working with those people to make sure that that research is getting done to support them, to support their development. You can't just like chuck them in the, build a lab, chuck people in the lab and leave it to run. Um, and then of course there's the whole, um, writing up publications, sharing at conferences, all that extra work. But really the truth of it is I didn't get into this to be a manager. I didn't want to manage a lab group. I wanted to be at the bench doing the bench work at the microscope, looking at the cells, making the discoveries directly, thinking about what was going on, um, at the bench. And that, that, that was impossible. I didn't want this to happen. I was happy at the lab bench. Um, but I'm happy here as well. These are the choices that I made. This is where I am now, luckily. And I wouldn't still be here, I guess, if I didn't enjoy it. But I do really enjoy studying and teaching and helping these other people along their pathways. I feel useful. Science, it's, teaching is much easier than basic science research. Uh, the, uh, job satisfaction is much more immediate. Um, it's much, it's just easier and clearer and more straightforward. Um, but I feel like I've failed. I feel like I should have been able to keep a basic science research program going alongside my teaching. I feel like I should have been able to do that. But I know that I would have broken at some point along the way if I tried to do that. Because everything I've done up to this point has been hard enough on its own. Anyway, so we are multifaceted beings. I am a failure. Right, uh, exam meeting coming up. We've got a standard set, the summer spotter. Alright, um, see you after I've had a bit of a break. Yeah, no anatomy video this week. Because I need a break. I am cooked. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great. Great.