 I am an idiot. I've always been an idiot. I do stupid things, but I don't realise they're stupid until afterwards. I was recently reminded that when Kim and I left home and went to university, when we were 18, 19, we only found someone to live two weeks before term started. Unfurnished. I say stupid things to my dentist because I'm nervous. Nothing upsetting, just stupid idiotic things. I'm changing dentist. I decided to teach myself how to rock-line. Kids are idiots. So I remember a lot of times, particularly for my teenage years, when I was idiotic. I've got quite the idiot CV. I only realise I'm an idiot after I've done the idiotic thing. As I get older, I look back on my younger self and realise what an idiot I was. Therefore, logically and philosophically, I am an idiot right now, but I don't realise it yet. I only realise it in the future when I look back. Knowing you're an idiot can be quite paralyzing. How do I do this thing that I think I'm thinking about doing as a known idiot? How do I talk to all these people I've got to talk to out in the real world, out in the university, given my history, the video scene? If I'm in a meeting and I have this idea in my head, how do I say it out loud as a known idiot? I went to the opticians yesterday and tried really hard not to be an idiot. Not complete success, but I think I was okay. First of all, I think that identifying as an idiot helps. My tagline on social media, back when I used to do social media, used to be professional academic amateur idiot, because I get paid for doing one of these things. It feels a little bit better to come out as an idiot, to recognise in myself that I am an idiot. I feel better about myself. I'm not sure better is the right word. Recognising that I am an idiot gives me the opportunity to reflect on the things that I have done that turn out to be idiotic or stupid, and try to not do the same stupid things again in the future. This would suggest that I become less of an idiot over time, but I have no empirical evidence to support this. If the option is to not do something because I worry about being an idiot, well that sounds like less fun. So maybe I should do the thing anyway, and if it turns out to be idiotic, it's another one of those learning experiences. See above, right? I can pretend to other people that I am not an idiot, brazen it out. I totally know what I'm doing. Most of the time, people don't seem to mind that I am an idiot. Maybe I'm lost in the crowd of idiots. We see a lot of idiots out there, mostly trying to drive a car. Maybe because I'm an idiot, I do idiotic things that other people don't consider doing. That can be a good thing and a bad thing, right? You want to see how I got those camera balanced? Idiotic. In a totally unrelated note, I have removed all AI, large language models and other things from my phones, my tablets, my computers. I'm kind of sick again, they pushed in my face, but also I haven't actually used it for ages. Yeah, I know, but I don't actually use the AI bit, I just use the camera and the microphone. I'm worried about the effects on the environment, I'm worried about the ground scale theft used to create these things. I realise that I learn more by looking stuff up and figuring it out. In this week's video about the muscles of the thumb, I read a thing about the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, innovating some of the deep parts of the thin arm muscles, which I went all the way back to the original paper translated from the German to see if that was really a thing or just one of those myths that had been spread. I learn more by looking stuff up and figuring it out for myself. I worry that relying on such things will make me even more of an idiot. Idiotic or genius, we'll see I guess. Anyway, professional academic amateur idiot, continue.