Uh, we were traveling last week. We were in Canada. Kim's never been to Canada before. She's having a bit of a special birthday this year. So, I wanted to take her to Canada for a bit of a treat. It's the first time she's been. She's always wanted to go. She loved it. And one of the things I've learned over the years is that um you go and visit these other places around the world, you have these ideas about them and they are good places. They are great places, but when I come home, I'm reminded that I really enjoy where I live and it's a really good place. Uh, I live in Swansea in South Wales in the UK and I work at Swansea University and I cycle on this cycle path to work every day and I've been cycling to work well ever since I started working in a bike shop when I was 16. This is the uphill bit. Um and surprisingly on the section after the bridge um there's a water main that burst the water the these cycle paths are all old railway lines right on used to be a center of industry. There are railways everywhere and when the railways well got reduced quite heavily. Railway lines went away. Eventually they became paths and cycle paths for uh getting around without your car. And apparently one of the water mates runs alongside and burst the other day. So let's see if the path is blocked or get down there today cuz workmen were fixing it. Morning. Is it open now? Yeah, you can get through. Brilliant. Thank you very much. Watch your vehicle. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Excellent. Cuz the other route I have to take goes up a whacking great big hill because well in South Wales it's all hills. Uh and I've got me fixy so I've got any gears. Um it was a great big pipe as well. You know one of those one of those massive massive pipes. U but we'll see as we go further down the path how it's just been upgraded. They widened it and made a whole load load of new fresh tarmac. When I was young and didn't have much money, I always thought that spending money on travel was not as good an investment as spending my money on stuff, physical objects, cuz you know, physical objects last longer, right? But probably as I got into climbing and started traveling to go climbing and climbing mountains and what have you, I realized that the opposite is true is that the stuff you buy doesn't last as long as the memories you make. And I really value spending money on traveling, going places, seeing places, building those experiences. And Canada was exactly the same. It's the second time I've been to Toronto. This is the first time I got to explore the city really well this morning. Whoa. Yeah. Look at this. It's wider and it's super fresh tarmac. Now, there's a few things about putting money into into cycle paths. Well, one is the obvious one of you get more people uh using active forms of transport, walking or cycling to work. Um, and they're healthier. So, people that cycle to work regularly have less disease, live longer. So, you know, it's it's good for that reason trying to get people more active. Um, but there are other things as well. So every cyclist, every person that chooses to make their journey by bike or by walking is one less car on the road. So if you're a driver, it's also good for you cuz it means there are fewer cars on the road, there's less traffic, there are less people getting in your way. And also when you invest in a cycle path like this, bikes don't weigh anything. We don't we don't wear down this tarmac. You know, it's not like cars that make potholes that get opened up by the water and the roads keep needing repairing. When you build a cycle path like this, it just we just don't wear it out like cars do. So, it's a really long investment. It doesn't need lots of extra maintenance other than like blowing the leaves off, giving it a sweep every now and then. On top of that, it's not just the council that pays for this. I pay every month to the major charity Susrands in the UK that uh develops, puts money into, maintains, keeps an eye on cycle parts throughout the UK. We got a lot of cycle parts in the South Wales. So they they actually pay for a big part of this. They're a charity and I pay to them every month and it's still so much cheaper than if I was driving to work and paying for parking and and fuel obviously. Plus, this is all honestly this is usually the best part of my day. Swansea is a large town, small city by the sea and I think there are very few universities like it. Um to be able to work in a university where I I literally cycle by the sea every day to get to work and I surf and I snorkel and I swim. Uh, and of course we climb on cliffs over the sea and we spend time, you know, it's just great living by the sea. And when you live by the sea and you have a job where you work by the sea, it's very difficult to imagine working and living somewhere that's not by the sea. And it's difficult to understand why why why doesn't everybody live by the sea? And I know the answer to that, but it's like how how do you cope? See my bike stops rattling because of its nice fresh smooth tama. Um, Swansea is on the Bristol Channel. The Bristol Channel has got the second highest tidal range in the world. Funny enough, the highest tidal range in the world is uh in Canada in New Foundland, I think. So, we get huge tides, which means that every day, every week, uh the seascape is different. The tide is in, the tide is out. The sun is up, the sun is down, the weather's different. It's always different when I cycle past the sea. Oh, it's a bit warmer here than it was in Canada, which is nice. Um, do you remember the bird box? So, the old bird box fell apart. The old bird box had a um a Raspberry Pi in there, which used to take photos of the birds when they were nesting and upload them to Twitter. But with uh the change to Twitter, it got banned. Um bird box fell apart. So I bought a new Bird Box, put a new Raspberry Pi. The new Raspberry Pi Zeros are powerful enough that they can run a a live video feed. That all worked. It's been sat there for a while. I thought I'd put it up um too late for the blue tits, but no, we have we have a nesting blue tit. And it is so nice being be able to watch the uh live video. So, um there's an infrared LED, so they're in the dark. The camera has got no infrared filter on it, which is why it looks purpley and bluey. Um because it's color, but it's sick anyway. Right. The colors are weird, but oh my word, I didn't realize how nice it would be. You can see you can see the little mummy blue. You can see her breathing. You can see her pining herself and getting herself all comfy and going to sleep. Oh, it's so cool. Seagulls are at it already. Um, today's Friday. We teach Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday because we had a bank holiday. The Monday teaching is on the Friday. It's good having holidays, isn't it? Your work just gets squeezed into fewer days. That's not entirely true. The university's been shut. There's been a lot less work to do. Although, first job today is catch up with my emails. But this afternoon we're teaching pancreas and gallbladder. But I'm running a spotter station. So an example spotter station where we that's how we test anatomy, right? You got physical items like plastic models, stick pins in them, ask a question about them. What's the name of this thing? What does it do? What happens if you cut it? That sort of thing. Um students, it was about a month since their last exam. They just had their results. So this is kind of a bit of a knowledge check but also it gives them an opportunity a session in the day where they can just ask me whatever they want to ask me about the last exam about things that are coming up about how the year is going about how they're studying whatever just gives them an opportunity to to get hold of me for 25 minutes and we could talk about stuff. Teaching is not just teaching, right? And looking at my emails, I'm reminded we're doing skull and teeth on Monday. One of my favorite subjects, but I'm reminded I've actually got a lot of stuff to do to get the teaching ready for Monday. Anyway, this is just standard work stuff. Um, so I learned, yeah, that traveling was valuable to me, worth spending money on, gave me a longerl lasting thing than just a physical item that you kind of need to upgrade and replace after a while. Anyway, um, the other thing that I've noticed over the years, like cycling to work, right? Um, so I used to be a highintensity athlete. You cycle, triathlon, running, that sort of thing. Um, and as I've got older, that's got harder because, well, mostly because as I've got older, it's been my recovery is slower, so I'm more prone to getting tendon injuries and that sort of thing, right? So, I slowed down my intensity and I stopped every now and then to look at the world. And it turns out I really enjoy this lower intensity ultra running, running very slowly and passing through the world at a pace where you can actually pay attention to the world, but traveling for such a long time that you'd see a lot of the world. And it's the same with cycling to work every day. You'd think I'd be bored of it by now. I never get bored of it. I love it. Like the trees are all green, the birds changed. What the squirrels are their behavior is different this time of year. You just notice all of this stuff. It's so nice moving through the world at a slow pace and paying attention to the world around it. And it's the same with Well, the reason the other reason I've stopped with this high intensity stuff is as the kids have got older, Kim and I have been able to get back to the mountains and we're exploring the mountains and we're climbing and that is again at a slower intensity and it's really nice. I used to try to win races to try to feel that reward of winning. And now I do something different and the reward possibly feels um even stronger than winning races, which isn't something that I expected, but it's good, right? Anyway, right emails. I'll see you guys next week.