I'm tired of sitting at my desk in my computer near the cockal. Need to get outside and move for an hour. I'm so Is it just me or is that like the whole AI thing is just being so forced into our faces all the time? I'm just sick of it. To a biologist that term is well applying artificial intelligence to a large language model and a stable diffusion model. It's it's insulting. It's a million miles away from intelligence. It's not even a faximile for intelligence. It feels like a big con. I mean, they're useful tools, but it just feels like the emperor's new clothes. And as someone who deals in knowledge and uh words for a living, I appreciate large language models and what they are and what they can do and how they can be helpful. It's just pretending they could do all these other things that drives me mad. I just feel bad getting outside. It's getting a bit wintry now. We've lost most of the leaves, which makes sense. So earlier this week um it's very wet. Remember I was running formative exams last week. We were running spotter exams where we have six groups of students and they turn up. We rotate them around the exam, send them away and get another group of students. And my numbers were all off um because um you know it's the first time they've done it. So students hadn't followed the instructions properly or whatever. So, I wanted to find out which students had turned up at the wrong time so we can give some feedback. Um, but I had a bit of a problem. We didn't we didn't take a register. We don't need formatives. But after each rotation, I took down the student numbers for each answer paper that they had been handed in. So for each rotation, I knew which student had sat that rotation, but only their student number. So you might as well tell you the story when I'm running cuz I can't show you how I did it anyway cuz I can't show you all the student numbers. So we got student numbers and then on the internet we've got all the other details, you know, number, name, uh, all that sort of stuff. And then I had another table which I only had as a PDF file which was a table given to me which said these students are in this group, this group, this group and this group and that was only in names. So I thought wow I need to combine this information and then find out which students were in the wrong groups. Ah perfect job for AI. And then through my own experiences with LLMs, I realized that you're probably not get well, it's probably not going to quite understand what you want. You're going to have to check the output so carefully that you might as well do it yourself by hand. Unless you check everything you can't trust it. [sighs] I'll do it myself. How on earth do I do this? So, I use what is probably already the old school method. I use my favorite search engine, which is duck.go. go by the way to search for that problem and it directed me to some very large Excel training websites which exist and are very good and the first one I went to it took me to the the right page cuz I switched off all the AI nonsense on the web browser this was like proper web search and there are a number of ways of doing it and the first one is there's a function called VLOOKUP and I had to figure this out But I've got my table with just my student numbers and the group they're in. And I've got my table which I've whittleled down to student numbers, surname, forname, email address, that sort of thing. What you do is you then take the second table, put it into your first Excel workbook as an extra sheet. And then you use the VLOOKUP function to say look into this sheet by the student number column and then pull out whichever column of data you want and put it in this column. Now the VLOOKUP function is fairly self-explanatory. You know it kind of generates some stuff in Excel which you can which helps you understand how it works. Then you can also look at the website. So I had to figure this out with my brain. that sheet, that sheet, and then tell it those columns are the same. But of course, the student numbers in different orders, right? So, I have to look at the student number and then on the same row, pick out the information I wanted. So, I made a row, a column of surname, full name, and maybe email address. Ah, tales of Excel. Excel. Isn't this riveting? Anyway, so now I've got my new sheet, which has got group, the group they're in, student number, and their names. And then I've only got a PDF of uh the lists of the groups and the student names. So I'm not quite there yet. Right. So you do the thing of trying to convert the PDF back to an Excel worksheet which is supposed to be doable but never works and it didn't. It failed. It failed miserably. Um but then I remembered of course that you can sort data in Excel and you can sort it hierarchically. So in my in my sheet I could sort by group number first and then surname in alphabetical order second. And that give gave me the same order as I had on the PDF. It's like I could just eyeball it. And during this process, I only had to do a few random checks of the data to convince myself that it was working absolutely fine because I had more control. I know I knew what was happening. I was in control. So I could use my brain then to look and I can see quite quickly. Aha, those three students, they came to a group too early. That's why I had so many students. Ah, it feels nice. I've been like really tired this weekend for no obvious reason. Um, so if I feel good and I wanted to run, really wanted to run this morning. That's a good sign that I'm coming out of that. Tightness isn't a bad thing. Fatigue usually uh means that with rest I'm going to get stronger. I don't know if I'm going to get stronger at my age, but maybe. So, that whole process only took minutes. Took me like 15 minutes tops to search for it, figure it out, do the thing. So, it didn't take a lot of time. And clearly, I'm very pleased with myself cuz I'm telling you about it. And uh that's one of the best things about problem solving, right? is that it makes you feel good. Um, I love solving problems. I have a problem. I figured it out. It works. This is why uh video games. One of the reasons why video games are so enjoyable is cuz they give you a challenge. They give you a problem. When you figure it out, it's like, "Yeah, I'm a genius." Um, you're probably not a genius cuz everybody else does it as well, but you feel like a genius. And that's what counts, right? Slippery in the woods. Um, those of you that use Excel a lot, um, probably think, "Yeah, obviously that's how you do it." And that's exactly the point, isn't it? I don't use Excel much anymore since leaving the research lab. Um, and by me figuring this out, I now understand how to do something. I understand that a solution exists. I can imagine how I might use that solution for other problems. I've learned something because I did it myself and I figured it out and the solution was already there. People have already had this problem before. They've already built solutions for it. There's no need to get somebody else to do your thinking for you. How how are we going to how are we ever going to learn anything if we never think anymore? If we get something else to think for us anyway, Sam's Adventures in Excel. I'm going to spend the rest of my day playing video games so I can feel like a genius um or a frustrated idiot. Yeah, it depends and we'll see what happens.