We're back at Brazili on a on a on a breezy, sunny August day, cuz that's what you do when you live next to the Gower. Um, and the pub, the the world famous, what's it called? By the Worm Hotel. >> Worms Head. >> The Worms Head Hotel. It burned down. Kim read about it, but I didn't notice. It burned down just after we were here last a few weeks ago. Yeah, >> it's a real landmark. That's why we always get beer and food afterwards. Catastrophic. Um I'm sure it'll come back. Right. Right. A few points of business. I will be running supplementary exams on Monday and then that is my last day at work in August. Actually, we are then off to England. We're going to go and walk. We're going to go and walk. We're going to go to the southwest coast path which goes around the southwest coast of England. It's 630 mi long. I haven't got time to do all 630 mi. I reckon I can just about squeeze enough time to do half of it. So, uh we're going to be away for possibly 3 weeks. That means there'll be no videos for 3 weeks. I have resurrected my blog, my written blog, which is where all of this came from. And that's on my website. I just I say resurrected. I just tidied it up a bit and moved some things around. When the internet was fresh and new, nerds like me, that's what we did. We blogged. We wrote stuff. We ran our own websites. We originally it was written in Notepad and now it's WordPress and stuff. WordPress has been around for a long time. Anyway, we made the internet. We wrote stuff and shared stuff and that's what the internet was. It's changed quite a bit since the '9s. Um, but when you're walking, it's quite nice to keep a journal. In fact, I was reading through some old blog entries. It was really nice reading um some of my accounts of the races I did back in the day cuz I'd forgotten all that detail and I really enjoyed that. It's really nice having a journal of stuff you've done and describing it to yourself for the future and then put it online to share with everybody else if anybody else wants to read it. Um, there's a link on my main samwester.net page to that and I'm going to try and write every day again because we're going to be walking on the coast. We may not have any internet at all. So, I might write every day, but it might only get uploaded every 2 or 3 days, I guess. Okay. Did you spot something? Uh, so I'm probably not going to make an ask me videos for 4 weeks and I'll record video while I'm away and then edit it when I get back. So there's going to be a gap big gap in the upload because I am taking a break. I am taking a holiday. That is the normal thing that you do every year and then you come back refreshed and renewed. Talking about refreshed and renewed, I am really excited about this. I'm really excited. We're going on Tuesday and I'm counting down the days like when I was when I was a kid, counting down the days for the summer holidays. I don't think I've done that for a long time. It's um it's a proper challenge because you don't know what's going to happen. There's no plan. And you don't know how far you're going to walk every day. You make it up as you go. It's just so I wonder what will happen which is exciting, right? And one. So the first aim will be get to L's end. Second aim will be to get to the halfway point. Third aim will be to get to Falmouth. And will that be possible? What will happen? I don't know. And I love that. And the simplicity of walking every day I love as well. Uh it's going to be it's going to be it's going to be whatever it's going to be. Uh we walked the Pamisha coastal path which is over over there a couple of years ago and it turned out to be one of it was one of those things we always wanted to do and we finally did it and it was it was one of the best things that we've ever done. So I want to feel that again. I would walk the whole thing but I cannot get that much time off work cuz I work for a living. So, we're trying to get out of the wind and out of the sun and avoid the rock pools and if we can do things we haven't done before. So, it's a bit like tapering for a race this where you do all your training and then in the race week your volume drops right off and you do some kind of efforts and stuff, right? So, you feel fresh for the race. Uh when you're about to go and walk 350 mi over 3 weeks, it's kind of the same. Haven't done any running this week. let me tendons, me connective tissues all kind of strengthen up, freshen up. Um, and then just kind of done strength work, do some climbing. But again, with climbing, you don't want to like slip and crack an ankle or something. So, might keep it easy. See how we go. Oh no, the rock pool island. How to get back without going in the rock pool. Nice. That's sand under you now. >> That's what >> sand under you now. >> So much more comfortable when you got a rope above you. Yeah, some big holds. Oh, that's kind of cool. Guess we got to go across to to that. Oh, that's a lovely wet one. Oh, yeah. Really wet. Yeah, it's a bit of a scramble. It's quite nice. bloody single. I really must donate to the bolt fund >> those single lower which I hate. >> Yeah, I saw one there that was a big single and I can't >> they both are I think >> you cannot do those. >> Yeah, I forgot when you go and climb easy stuff the bolts are further apart. You think it should be easier than it is. Um, and it's less steep, so you worry about hitting a ledge if you fall off. If you're climbing harder stuff, um, it's steeper, so falling off is fine. You fall off into space. >> Oh, that's really good. >> That's very good. Try again. Watch what you're doing. feeling a bit I don't know again it's the tapering thing we got too much energy left over um climb too easy maybe we'll go and climb something a bit harder tomorrow just so can you feel a bit worn out anyway Um the other thing that happened uh last couple of weeks is a colleague of mine retired and he's he's a surgeon. He was a surgeon. He's retired. He started teaching on this course just before I did. So he's been a big influence, right? Cuz he's been with me the whole time. And he retired. He's 70. So it's time to retire. But when he retired, I felt, wow, I don't know if I could don't know if I could do that. Don't know if I could stop. which is a weird feeling because I often think I want to retire so I can do all the other things that I can't do because I'm working. Anyway, right, we're going to get a cup of coffee. You're not going to see me for three or four weeks. It's fine. I'm taking a perfectly normal break. Uh, I'll see you and the new students in September.