the insertions and origins of the muscles of the uh the shoulder girdle, also known as the pectoral girdle. Uh we're talking about this up here, the clavicle, the scapula, they make the shoulder girdle, the upper limb hangs from it. So muscles that attach to it, stabilize it, move it, and that sort of thing. By insertion and origin, we mean the attachment sites of these muscles to the bone, the specific bony bits, which sometimes have specific names and sometimes don't. So, we'll have a little run through the muscles and then we'll look at the bony bits and then we'll put the muscles on the bones and then we're done. Maybe I'll try and remember to add the nerves as well. So, what are we interested in? Okay, we're going to be interested in trapezius. Take trapezius off. We see romboid major, romboid minor. We did the rotator cuff muscles the other week, so we're not going to do those. Um, oh, levator scapuli. Um, oh, and serus anterior, pectoralis minor, and then under there, subclavius. I think that's it. Okay. So, what bony bits do I think we're going to be interested in? got me stretchy skeleton today. Well, um, many of these muscles are linking the axial skeleton, the vertebrae, the skull, the ribs to the pectoral girdle or the shoulder girdle. Um, on the skull we have the external occipital protuberance here. Nice lumpy bit suggests that we've got some nice muscles attaching there. There is a superior nucal line here which isn't super obvious on uh this quality skeleton but trust me that it's there. Then of course we have the vertebrae which we number C1, C2, C3 and so on. And then when we get to the thorax T1, T2, T3 and so on. And each vertebrae has a spinus process in the midline extending out posteriorly. On top of the spinus process is a suprapinus ligament tying them all together. And then laterally or transversely we have the transverse processes out here. So the spinus processes and the transverse processes of the vertebrae. And we're going to number the vertebrae by region. Um with the scapula uh we see the spine of the scapula and up here that becomes the acromian. Today we're going to be most interested in the medial margin of the scapula, the lateral margin of the scapula, the inferior angle, and the superior angle of the scapula up there. If we turn you around in here, this is the corocoid process. You can actually palpate this on yourself if you get in there. He's a bit sensitive. Um but the corocoid process here is an anchor point for us today. The corocoid process of the scapula. I'll just point out the acchromian and the the acchromioclavicular joint just for fun. Um and then we have the ribs. Again, ribs are numbered 1 2 3 4 5 six and so on. And the ribs have their costal cartilagages as well. Uh that we'll see here. I think those are the bony bits that we need. So, do you see down here in the midline, this is the nucal ligament? Your vertebrae do that, right? So, they're filled in. There's a there's a a ligament in there tying them all together which these muscles can then insert into or have origins from. So the the nucal ligament and look that external occipital protuberance is up here. That's our attachment point right muscles. Let's well let's start with trapezius. Origins and insertions. Uh by the origin of a muscle we usually mean the attachment site of the muscle that doesn't move. And with insertion we mean the end of the muscle that then moves something moves the bone. Um the origin tends to be more proximal. The insertion tends to be more distal. If you fix the bone at the other end though the muscle can work in the opposite direction. So you know it's a little bit um but the origins then of trapezius. Look at this. Trapezius is a beautiful superficial muscle at the back. Gives many of the shapes that we see here. And you can see that its fibers are running in different directions. So the upper fibers run like this. The middle fibers run like this and the lower fibers run like this. The origins are the nucal ligament uh and the external occipital protuberance and the medial part of the superior nucal line. And then down here you can palpate that that first lump you feel is C7. So trapezius also has origins on the spinus processes of the C7 to T12 vertebrae and that supraspinus ligament that's there. So the origin very medial can't get much more medial than that right. Um the insertion then are into the spine of the scapula the acromian. You're going to get me, aren't you? And the lateral third of the clavicle. So very much the uh superior parts of that pectoral girdle, the shoulder girdle. And in doing so, then the weight of the upper limb is suspended by the trapezius fibers. But the trapezius muscle can rotate the scapula. So what trapezius will do is the upper fibers will give upward rotation of the scapula. The lower fibers will give downward rotation of the scapula. The middle fibers will do retraction of the scapula pinching your shoulder blades together. Um I've done a lot of videos on trapezius. I think basically if you don't move your scapula and you abduct your upper limb, you can only go that far. you then need to rotate your scapula to be able to raise your arm above your head. Um, so that's what uh trapezius is doing. These fibers here then of the neck and the head will also extend the neck and the head. If you use both muscles on both sides, if you just use muscles on one side, they'll take part in, you know, lateral flexion, lateral flexion of the head and the neck. Innovated by cranial nerve nine, the accessory nerve and a little bit from some the mo accessory nerve is the bit you need to know. If you take off trapezius, you see the romboids uh running between the vertebrae and the scapula. We have roboid minor and romboid major. They look like a single muscle here, but romboid minor is the thinner strip superiorly and the rest is romboid major. The origins of romboid minor are the spinus processes of the C7 and T1 vertebrae. Probably a bit of the nucal ligament as well. Probably also that suppinus ligament. And then the insertion is into the medial border of the scapula. Romboid major. Then uh its origins are the T2 to T5 vertebrae, spinus processes and the suppinus ligament. and it inserts into the medial border of the scapula. The romboid muscles then when they contract they retract the scapula, pinch your shoulder blades together. Um but like all the muscles of the the scapula including trapezius actually all these muscles also stabilize the scapula while you are waving your arms around. Right? So those are the robo muscles are innovated by the dorsal scapular nerve. While we're here, if we just go up a little bit, this muscle here is the levator scapula muscle. Guess what that does? Levator scapula has its origins in the transverse processes of the C1 to C4 vertebrae up in there in the neck. And it inserts into the superior angle, that top angle of the scapula. Um and a little bit into that medial border there. Um its job is to yeah, you know, elevate the scapula, elevate the shoulder girdle, stabilize the scapula. If it pulls, it can cause the scapula to rotate that away depending upon what the other muscles are doing. So levator scapula can also cause downward rotation of the scapula. So if you've raised your arms above your head, levator scapula can help rotate the scapula back down again. innovated by uh C3 and C4 spinal nerves and the dorsal scapular nerve. Given that it runs from the scapula to the neck, if the scapula is fixed, then it can also aid in extension of the neck, lateral flexion of the neck, you know, that sort of thing. Spin you around. And we see this muscle here. We can see slips of muscle running from well normally we'd say ribs three, four and five. He seems to have a variant. Um there's a slip from rib two here. So origins and insertions. Um the origins then would be ribs three, four and five near the near the costal junction. So this is more medial uh and kind of doesn't move. and the insertion is into the corocoid process of the scapula. So this then will draw the scapula inferiorly and medially. But again, this is another muscle that is helping stabilize the scapula while you do things with your upper limb or uh or move your scapula around. Innovated by the medial pectoral nerve. So ribs 3, four and five to the corocoid process of the scapula pectoralis minor. If we look even more closely, there's a muscle under here. This is the clavicle. This muscle is under the clavicle, inferior to the clavicle. This is subclavius. Now subclavius is actually running from the first rib and often the uh the cartilage of the first rib as well the costal cartilage of the first rib and then it's running to the inferior surface of the clavicle out here. So it's stabilizing the clavicle. So again a small muscle but also adding to stabil adding to that stabilizing function of the shoulder girdle. Um, and there is a it does insert into a bit of a groove there, like a subclavian groove. Um, and it can pull the clavicle, you know, inferiorly. Um, we can see some really important structures here. Look, there's the brachio plexus, subclavian artery, subclavian vein. Um, so the subclavius muscles probably most important function is that when you fracture your clavicle, a very commonly fractured long bone, I fractured mine, it it it stops the clavicle from being too much trouble. It stops the clavicle from going in and and the sharp ends of bone doing damage to your brachial plexus and uh arteries and veins, which is why a fracture of the clavicle doesn't cause as much trouble as you might think it would. Looking at the anatomy here right now, it is innovated by its own nerve, the subclavian nerve. Um, one more muscle to do down here. This is serratus anterior. Um, serratus anterior its origins are typically ribs 1 to eight. What have you got? Uh, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. Nine. Yeah, if you're lucky. Also rib nine. So, the origins of ribs one to nine. So, we have these individual slips of muscle. I think I think the first rib might actually have two slips. And then this comes around the lateral thorax and inserts into the medial border of the uh the scapula and in fact the uh the deep surface of the medial border of the scapula. This is the boxes muscle because what it does is it pulls the scapula around the body wall anterly. Can you imagine if this muscle gets shorter pulls the scapula around that way. Look at it. It's a great big muscle. So, it's called the boxers muscle because it lets you reach further forward. So, when you're throwing a punch, it drives um the punch forwards. Um it also stabilizes the scapula like the other muscles of the scapula. And because it's pulling on this end of the scapula, it can also pull the scapula so that it rotates. So, that also aids with that upwards rotation. So if you have trapezius pulling on this end, serrus anterior pulling on this end, you point your gleenoid fossa up and you put your arms in the air. So serratus anterior stabilizes the scapula, aids with upward rotation of the scapula and protracts the scapula, meaning it brings it anteriorly around the rib cage. It is innovated infamously by the long thoracic nerve because if the long thoracic nerve gets injured, you lose innovation to serus anterior and you lose some control of your scapula in certain positions and it causes winging of the scapula. Serus anterior. Lovely. Serus anterior then is a good example of that insertion origin thing in that we think of serus anterior most of the time as moving the scapula. So the origins are the ribs because the ribs don't move. Where would the ribs go? Uh the insertion is the scapula because that moves. But if you fix your if you fix your upper limb, you can then use serratus anterior to lift your ribs upwards. So it's an accessory muscle of inspiration. So in that sense, this end isn't moving because you hold on to something and you fix your scapula and then you contract serus anterior and you move your ribs. So it's all a matter of perspectives really, isn't it? But there we go. Those are the muscles of the shoulder girdle. The muscles of the pectoral girdle. Trapezius, the romboids, levator scapula, pectoralis minor, subclavius, and serratus anterior. Their origins, their insertions, and if I've remembered all the way around, their innovation. All right. It's I nice nice interesting anatomy. I like I like this. I like shoulders, but that's cuz I'm a rock climber. Okay. Hopefully hopefully you found it interesting, too. Um, and we'll continue this in the future as we work this way, I guess. See you next time.