Hello, how are you doing? Um, aneurysms. Uh, an aneurysm is a dilation in the wall of a blood vessel caused by a weakness in the wall of the blood vessel and the pressure of blood causes the wall to stretch and dilate. Uh, the risk of course is that that aneurysm uh ruptures and then we have internal bleeding. Uh, this is particularly dangerous inside the cranial cavity. The most common type of aneurysm inside the cranial cavity is a sacular aneurysm. Also known as a berry anneurysm because of its berry shape rather than it being named after Professor Bry. Um let's have a look at the anatomy here that predisposes us to sacular aneurysms and then we'll better understand where we might find sacular aneurysms if we go looking for them. About I think about 3% of people have one. I'm at the sort of age group where we're most likely to have one. In fact, if I say one, if you've got one, you're more likely to have more than one. Anyway, we'll come to that. Let's have Oh, this is a nice one. Let's have a quick review of the circle of Willis. So, the circle of Willis um describes the anatomy whereby there are four arteries supplying blood to the brain. the two vertebral arteries and the two internal corroted arteries and the circle of Willis describes the links between those blood vessels forming an aimosis. So some redundancy in blood supply. Is that an advantage? Maybe. Is that a disadvantage? Maybe because um aneurysms are most likely to form where you have an artery giving a branch to another artery because an artery is made up of multiple layers, right? The wall is made up of multiple layers. And if you branch from your artery, you're interrupting those layers. You're making a weakness in here. This is anterior. This is posterior. Look, there's the face. We have the two vertebral arteries coming through forum and magnum. They come together to form the baselor artery. The basler artery runs gives off cerebellar arteries, pontine arteries and that sort of thing. The basel artery ends by giving off the two the left and right posterior cerebral arteries which will run to the posterior part of the cerebrum. Um here anteriorly we have the two internal corroted arteries. The internal corroted artery will essentially continue as the middle cerebral artery which kind of runs runs out laterally. uh and then it will give off the anterior cerebral arteries which will run in the midline between the two cerebral hemispheres supplying blood to the the midline of the cerebral hemispheres. There's a fair bit of overlap. That's a general description. And then we have the communicating arteries. We have two posterior communicating arteries, one on the left, one on the right, and they link the posterior cerebral artery with the internal corroted artery. And then we have a single anterior communicating artery linking the two anterior cerebral arteries. Whistle stop tour refresher of the circle of Willis. Almost all intraranial aneurysms are associated with these blood vessels. 90% of sacular aneurysms are in the anterior circulation. So within that 90% about 30 to 40% of sacular aneurysms are where one of the anterior cerebral arteries gives the anterior communicating artery in the midline between the two cerebral hemispheres. um another 30% are where the posterior communicating artery meets the internal croted artery the branching there the joining there um and then that middle cerebral artery goes off here right circularness again so if we open this up in there. If I'm pulling the temporal lobe away from the parietal lobe, we look in there, we can see the middle cerebral artery running around there and it bifocates to give the two terminal branches like the superior and inferior terminal branches of the middle cerebral artery. That's the other popular place for sacular aneurysms. So if 90% of sacular aneurysms are in the anterior circulation, let's do the maths. 10% are in the posterior circulation. So here we see the baselor artery running up the brain stem. The basel artery is going to end as the left and right posterior cerebral arteries up there. That's where you're most likely to find a sacular aneurysm in the posterior circulation. But where we have these cerebellar branches. So the superior cerebellar artery comes from the basel artery. The anterior inferior cerebellar artery comes off the basel artery. The posterior inferior cerebella artery comes off the vertebral arteries. At those junctions as well you may find uh sacular aneurysms. Now consider the spaces that these arteries are within. Right? So these arteries are running in the subacoid space. So if they have an aneurysm, if that aneurysm ruptures, the blood is going to collect into the subacoid space. It's going to be a subacoid he hemorrhage most of the time. That blood could pass to other places, but um it's most often a subacoid hemorrhage. Uh and consider the spaces where these arteries are running and that's where you're going to start to see the blood collecting. That said, I think 60% of people that have a ruptured sacular aneurysm uh don't survive with a subacoid hemorrhage. The textbook signs and symptoms are then um rapid onset because it's arterial thunderclap headache or worst headache of my life. But if if it's not the worst headache of their life, don't disregard it. Don't rule out the possibility that it could be a subaractid hemorrhage. nausea, vomiting, effects on brain function depending upon which region of the brain has become eskeemic because the artery that was supplying it blood has ruptured and is now sending his blood elsewhere. Uh things like that, right? So subacoid hemorrhage um uh what causes uh sacular aneurysms or berry aneurysms? problems with, you know, connective tissue disorders can make these more likely. Um they're associated with high blood pressure. They're associated with high alcohol intake, high caffeine intake. They're associated with polycystic kidney disease. Um they're associated with arteriovenous malfforms. If the anatomy is different here, they're associated, you know, cardiovascular disease and inflammation. Those those general catch all terms, right? We're thinking about um damage to the layers of the walls of the artery making the walls weaker and then the pressure of blood within stretching the layers that are left and forming that dilation that berry shape that sacular aneurysm. Um if you want to know more about the structures of arteries go and look up my hisystologology of did I do a hisystology of blood vessels? I must have done whenever we're doing hisystologology, we're always looking at blood vessels. Yeah, hisystologology of the aorta or something maybe. Have a look at my hisystologology videos if you want to understand better what I'm talking about. But there we go. Sacular aneurysms or berry aneurysms. Um they're most likely to form at the places I described parts of the circle of Willis where we see branching the anterior communicating artery branching from the anterior cerebral artery. the posterior communicating artery joining that internal corroted artery, middle cerebral art where the middle cerebral artery branches. You know the anterior circulation is the most common site for berry aneurysms. The posterior um site is most likely to be where the baselor artery ends and gives the two posterior cerebral arteries. But other these other branches are also likely. And yes, because of the processes, not that they're all entirely understood, but because of the processes that lead to the formation of a sacular aneurysm, you're likely to find multiple sacular aneurysms because those same processes have caused the same problems in multiple sites around here. So, a little refresher of circular Willis um and adding some uh some important clinical context. All right, I hope that was interesting. might even have been useful. See you next week.