That's better. Um, so you might have seen last week's vlog. I was away at a conference speaking in Romania inclusion of pocka. Week before that I was talking about my history with, you know, learning to give talks, speak in public. Um, so how did it go? Well, it was it was I mean it was really good. I love those guys. They're so good at what they do. They're so nice. We get on so well. Um, and I love spending time with them. I love doing all the things that we do. Don't change what we did. Let's do that again. Definitely. It's just like, you know, when you when you're out in the sun all day and you get a bit too much sun and you kind of need to sit in the shade for a bit. That's what this is. Um, so most medical students, most medical students, not all because they're all very different, but a lot of medical students get into medicine because well, you feel the need to spend time working with people all day and that drives you and really really enjoy it and what have you. And I'm the opposite. I actually talked about this in my talk. I like this is why I like VR spaces cuz um there's nobody else here. I'm in my own world. Um, yeah, I like quiet. I, you know, I like talking to people. I get a lot from it. It's just more tiring for me than it is for some other people, I think. So, also out of the four nights, two nights I was traveling in the middle of the night. One of the nights was the party, so I had one good night's sleep while I was there. And I've been, of course, it's work, so I've been working for two weeks solidly. Um, and this weekend I've got a wedding. Uh, you know, so I do better at conferences than I do at weddings because at conferences we're all interested in the same things. We got loads to talk about, right? Whereas at weddings, I don't know. Anyway, yeah, cycling again cuz again it's peaceful. Uh so how how did my talk go? Okay. What were my experiences and how might they compare with your experiences as a as someone who has to give talks? Um I had written this c this talk specifically for this conference and this purpose. I'd use some slides from previous talks, but most of it was bespoke. And I spent a lot of time practicing. Practicing for me usually means if I'm in a hotel room or whatever, flicking through the slides, on PowerPoint, on me iPad, on me laptop. But also a big thing for me is I'll take the slides on my phone, go for a walk. Uh my slides don't tend to be very bullet pointy. They're not very PowerPoint. I the audience can do one thing at a time. They can either listen to you or they can read. You can't do both at the same time. So I don't tend to put much text on my slides unless it's really useful for particular learning things. So I have an image and I have usually have a lot of notes hidden away because that's what keeps me organized. So, I walk around with my PowerPoint in my phone in my pocket. And I think about what I'm going to say, what the message is, what the purpose of that slide is, have a link to future slides and previous slides, who my audience is, how they might react, what I'll do if they react this way, what I'll do if they react that way. They actually reacted. Well, okay. My jokes, my jokes landed. I was funny. So, I chose option A. And if you give a 45minute talk, it is a lot harder than giving a 10-minute talk. Um, and there's a lot to remember. And I'm sure I didn't remember it all, but that's fine because I remembered most of it. I think that talking is such a cognitively busy thing to do that um it's so cognitively demanding that you don't remember exactly what happened but from I don't know you know cuz I teach every week and I talk to groups every week I kind of got a sense that it went okay and then it made sense. Hey bud. Right there bud. So there's a lot of trust going on. It's just like in an exam. There's a lot of trust in yourself and um you know confidence and you build that confidence through practice. I tell students to practice teaching each other and that'll give you confidence in the exam because you'd have done it so many times anyway. Um, so just like an exam, you have to practice a lot and the more you practice, the more you rehearse, the more comfortable you feel and the more likely you will get it right. Um, so that's what I did and that's what I think happened. I usually have an introduction sorted out in my head for my talk. Mark seen it in the that's what I showed you last week about how I'm going to start cuz that's the hardest bit is starting right particularly if you're nervous and then after that I give myself an opportunity to pause and see how the audience is responding give myself time to think don't feel like I have to bam bam bam bam bam get through it but have time to breathe in and out and think and remember and say the thing wait for it to settle with the audience then to understand what I'm saying, then move on to the next thing. That would be my top tip. Think about it. When you're in the audience, do you mind a pause? No. It lets you catch up. Uh I've also used a pause. Yeah. As a teacher, I know that students are going to doze off every now and then. If I leave a big pause, students wake up from their day, what? Sorry, what? What's happening? What's happening? Uh silence can be a useful and powerful tool. Um okay, got that tip for free. So, what about my nerves? How nervous was I? I paid a bit more attention to this because we talked about this uh in a video a couple of weeks ago. So, during the conference, not nervous at all. Rehearsing my talk, not nervous at all. Um, often I remember I used to get nervous when the speaker before me was up and then you get nervous cuz you think, "Oh, I'm next. I'm next. All the things I got to remember. Not nervous. Um, and then during the talk, the sympathetic nervous system gets a little bit activated. Yes, there's a bit of adrenaline. And it's mostly because it's one of those tasks where I really want to get it right. I really want to concentrate. I really want to focus. I really want to remember everything. So, I guess there's a bit of worry, but I think it's that energy, isn't it? you need that energy to do that difficult strenuous thing but I enjoyed myself and then after the talk so a lot of speakers after a talk will go oh I'm glad that's over I don't get that feeling I finish the talk and and think for this particular talk I finish it and thought that went the audience reacted to that better than I expected cuz it's an international audience and language barriers and humor differences and that sort of thing. And I enjoy doing it. And yeah, I don't know. Uh when you're nervous about giving a talk, you get a bigger sense of achievement afterwards. I'm not nervous about giving a talk, so I don't get a big sense of achievement. Um when I'm rock climbing, if it's a really difficult route and it's going to be really strenuous and hard and I got to remember how to do all the things, then I get a sense of achievement when I complete it cuz I don't know if I can do it or not. That's the that's the comparable interesting thing. So I was only there for three days Friday, Saturday, Sunday. They're very long days and I'd met the volunteers or rather I'd met the organizers last year or many of them and some of them were new and we spent a lot of time together which was nice and by the last night so when the conference was over so their stress levels were down a little bit cuz it was all done my talk was done and because we spent quite a lot of time together we reached that point where we were quite relaxed and comfortable in each other's company can have silences and talk about um talk about other things like yeah how we feel and normal day-to-day stuff. It's really nice. Those of you that were at my tour last week, I showed you exactly where this is. Right, I'm going to try and have a quiet day at my computer doing work. I think I've only got one meeting. Drinking coffee. Shh. Quiet. All right, I'll catch you later.