What? Um, we're kayaking. This is our first sea kayak of the year. Our first kayak of the year. This is a typical route that we do for our first sea kayak every year. Um, to check the gear, to get your balance back, all that sort of thing. We live in Swansea. We live next to the Gower. So, we put in a Caswell. We'll paddle across to Puffy and then we'll go around underneath Southgate, which is where we go climbing a lot. Um, and the tide is coming in. So, the aim I think the tide's big enough today. The aim is to get to three cliffs when the tide is high so we can paddle through the cave. Um, but we also want to look in all the caves and the nooks and crannies as we go. Um, but so this is Wales. This is the Bristol Channel over there. Can you see the land over there? You got Somerset and Devon over there. Yeah. Uh, we probably won't see any seals today. We do get seals down this end of the g, but they tend to be at the far end at uh, the worm. Here we go. Here's Py. And the aim is just to chill out, enjoy being on the water, little bit of solitude together. And you know, Pocket is one of those beaches. There's no route to it. You have to walk to it. Um, so it's quiet and get a few boaties. The gor is bright yellow. It's all flowering. The grasses and the bushes and everything's really green. The sea's really blue and green. And the limestone's really gray. It's just I think it's after coming back from Canada where everything was still didn't have any color. So much color now. Kim walks faster than me and Kim kayaks faster than me. All right. Uh talking about those hills we can see on the other side of the Bristol Channel. Well, um not last year but the year before. Our summer holiday was walking the Pemisher Coastal Path. Uh 12 days. Um it's about 186 mi I think and we did about 200 miles cuz you know you go into cafes and campsites and stuff and it was one of the best things we've ever done. It was just amazing and simple and wonderful to just walk all day. Um so we're going to do that again this year. Now, on the other side of the Bristol Channel, uh, from what, Somerset through Devon and Cornwall and Dorset and have I missed one? Uh, there's a path, the longest, I think this is the longest path, the longest national trail in the UK. Um, and it's the Southwest Coast Path. So, we're going to go to England. And I think I can just about squeeze out three day, three weeks, maybe 21 days. And the path is 630 mi long. We're not going to get that done in 3 weeks, but we're going to start in Mine Head and we're going to aim for L's End. That's about 255 260 mi. So that's the plan for the summer and it's really exciting. 3 weeks of just walking every day, carrying everything, right? So we carry everything, tents, sleeping bags, cooking, food, pick up water. and um just just explore the coast because I mean walking is great but exploring the coast is wonderful. Yeah, the climate I mean look at it. How can you not want to spend every day outdoors doing this? Hopefully it's going to be great. This is the thing about challenges. You never They're interesting cuz you never know how it's going to work out. You plan and plan and plan and you try and Yeah, it's interesting cuz you see what happens. The sea is covered in seeds. There's so many seeds flying around at the moment. bolts up there. There's a big overhang to climb through. See, this is where we go climbing. Uh, but not in the Titan. And you can see the bolts. The boats are at sea level right now. Minion hole. The wind's blowing from the north. So, it's uh blowing from the land there. There's not supposed to be much wind, but it seems to be gap down the valleys. So, you can see on the water where we've got windy spots and less windy spots. Kind of take a bit of a rest in the less windy spots. Some people climbing on the new crack. Um, equal opportunities wall and we've got Utopia wall over there. Good to see. Uh, no. follow you. Yeah. I don't know if we'll be able to get through it or not. Never know until you get there. You never know until you get there. We're at We're at high tide, so and it's 8 and 1/2 m tide today, so it's as good as it's going to get. Perfect. Yeah. Oh, the wind's going through. SW's going down. That was good. We did it. That was good. Do you want to get out? Do you want to get out onto the sand for a sit or you all right? Really? Okay, cool. I was there's a swan on the sea over there. Swansea. That's not how it's got its name, but could have been So mine head is the starting point of the southwest coast path way over there somewhere. Then we got to walk all that we can see and then it disappears over the curve of the air. Yeah, it's going to be quite a long way. It's going to be it's going to be it's going to be an adventure.