So, this is nice. Um, it's the last Friday of the last teaching week in the medical school. Uh, so there's nobody else around. Well, there are some people around, but there's there are no students in here studying. Uh, nobody's doing any teaching. Uh, no sign of the technicians. So, I get to use the anatomy lab. Um, which means I don't have to do too much setup. I can just wander around and grab things and talk about them. So this week for the first years I was talking about uh the anatomy of the knee and in fact we were talking about uh the quadriceps and the hamstrings at the knee but um that also meant we ended up talking about the hip because some of those muscles cross the the hip as well. So let's do that again in video. Have you noticed how I try and keep these videos short? I say let's talk about this for 10 minutes and they always end up being 20 minutes. Typical academic can't keep things brief. There's always too much to talk about. Um, one group of people who are still around are the builders. Don't know what they're doing. Um, I think they're putting in a new chemistry department in the top floor of this building. And for some reason, they're also at the back there. So, I guess they're chucking stuff out. Anyway, so there's a bit of noise, few bangs and stuff, but it's all right, isn't it? So, the knee. Um, really we want to talk about the muscle groups of the knee. Um, so here's the knee joint. Here's my knee joint. And of course, the knee joint is a hinge. So, the movements of the knee joint are extension and flexion. So, extension of the knee and flexion of the knee. Extension and flexion. Um, and those are largely brought about by huge muscle groups in the anterior thigh and the posterior thigh. So take the time to look at the feur and look for the bony bits because the bony bits on the femur are particularly important. We've got the greater tracant back here. We've got the lesser tracer around there. We've got an interrocanteric line in between the two. If this guy is very flexible, if we look under here, this ridge is the linear aspa. And all of these lumpy bony bits means that muscles are attaching here. are the muscles that we're talking about. If you know the bony bits they attach to, if you know where they go from and where they go to, then you can work out their action. You can work out what they do. Um, some bones are very complicated. The femur isn't terribly complicated, but these bony bits are important. So, if we grab a model of the lower limb, we've got a bunch of muscles of the hip. We've got a bunch of muscles in the anterior thigh. We've got a bunch of muscles in the posterior thigh. And we've also got some muscles in the in the medial thigh. So the thigh is u divided into three compartments which is very handy. An anterior compartment, a medial compartment and a posterior compartment. And these compartments each have pretty much their own function. Um they also have their own nerve. So the medial compartment is innovated by the opturator nerve. The anterior compartment is innovated by the femoral nerve. And the posterior compartment is innovated by the sciatic nerve. There's the sciatic nerve there. And the sciatic nerve will run down the posterior compartment and innovate everything distal to the knee as well. And then the muscles in those compartments have similar actions. So the big one here, the big these are all big muscles in the thigh. And the reason they're big muscles is because they they take your entire body weight as you're walking, as you're lifting yourself out of a chair and sitting back down again. These muscles have got to take your entire body weight. they're the strongest muscles that you have. Um, so if you think about sitting in a chair and getting up and down from a chair, for example, if you think about the knee, when you stand up out of a chair, you're extending your knee joint. Also, when you're standing up out of a chair, you're extending the hip joint. This is flexion of the hip. This is extension of the hip. So when you get out of the chair, you're both extending your knee joint, straightening your knee joint and extending your hip. But also, of course, when you lower yourself into a chair, you don't you don't land very really hard. You you lower yourself steadily, right? So when you lower yourself, you're eccentrically contracting say these muscles, the quadriceps are getting longer as you you're now flexing your knee. and you're flexing your hip, but you're doing it against gravity, right? So, these muscles are contracting also to lower yourself down smoothly. So, these muscles have got to be big, strong, and powerful. And you'll notice with people who aren't very strong anymore, they're losing strength in in the glutal region and in in the anterior and posterior thigh that they have to use other parts of their body to lift themselves in and out of their chairs. So, what are these muscles? Well, if we look at the anterior compartment first, we've got this big muscle here which is quadriceps. Quadriceps meaning quad fourps heads. So it's a muscle with four heads and it's uh its full name is quadriceps femmeris. Femeris meaning of the thigh. So the feur femoral femmeris of the thigh. So quadriceps femoris is the foreheaded muscle of the thigh. Um, this guy here, you see this little slipper muscle around here? So, this is sartorius also in the anterior compartment and see how it's running from here. This is the anterior superior iliac spine here. Something you can palpate on yourselves, something if you've been looking at surface anatomy will be a major landmark for you. So this is running from the anterior superior iliac spine or the asis and it runs around here towards the medial tibia which we'll come on to in a moment. I take well what does sartorius do? Sartorius comes from the word meaning taylor. And sartorius brings you into a cross-legged position in that if you're going to bring yourself into a cross-legged position. So you have medial rotation of the feur and also you're flexing the knee. So to bring yourself into a cross-legged position, you're using your two sartorius muscles. So that's sartorius. Not a majorly important muscle. Also look, if you take off sartorius, you got this you got this canal under here, this groove, and this is the subsaratorial canal. And in there we've got the femoral artery and vein and the femoral nerve running through there. But here is quadriceps. Let me take this guy off. We'll talk about other muscles when we talk about the hip. But quadriceps femeris has then got four parts. This is rectus femmeris in the middle. Rectus meaning straight. So the straight muscle. Then we have three very large parts. And these are the vasus parts of the muscles. We've got vasis mediialis and vasus lateralis and vasus intermedius. And these can get very big. These are these can be huge well- definfined muscles. Particularly in cyclist, you'll see um vasis mediialis bulging up here. Vasus meaning vast, meaning big. And the vasis muscles are all coming from the feur. They're all attached to the feur and they run through as does rectus femeris. They all run through to the patella here. So the patella is an example of a sesimoid bone. It's a big sesimoid bone and it's protecting the knee joint. For example, when you're kneeling, my knees are covered in scars cuz as a crosscountry runner and a cyclist, particularly from cross country running, I keep falling over and stabbing myself in the knee and banging my knee. But my knees are fine because I'm a runner. But the patella has protected my knees from various injuries. But what the patella also does is it takes all of these muscles which come together as a tendon. And this patella tendon encompasses the patella and the patella pushes that tendon out away from the joint. So it gives it a mechanical advantage as the tendon extends here and it inserts into the tibia. Now there's a lump on the tibia here and you can feel this lump yourself. So your shin that you can feel the bony part of your shin that's all tibia and at the top of the tibia you can feel this lump and this is the tibial tuberosity and that's where the muscles are inserting. And if you flex your knee a little bit, you can feel that patella tendon or patella ligament taking tensioning as you as you do that. So that's the tibial tuberosity. That's where the quadriceps muscles insert. If we look on this guy who is backwards come here. So if we look at this guy, here's his tibia. This is the big bone. You can feel this in your shin. Here's the tibial tuberosity here. Here's the patella. And the patella's got a nice groove that it that it rides in as you flex and extend your knee. If the patella comes out of that groove, it tends to be very very painful. Now on the feur, these bony parts here. So if this is the greater tracer, the vasis lateralis part of quadriceps femoris comes from the greater tracer and the feur reaching round to the linear aspa. And that's where that muscle comes from. The uh vasis medialis on the medial side here comes from um attaches to bone here between the two tracers an interrointenteric line or ridge and also from parts of the linear aspir and come around whereas vasis intermedius comes from the feur directly and also wraps around from the linear aspera and comes forward. So those huge great big muscles are filling this space and coming forward to the patella. So rectus femeris though look it's actually crossing the hip joint as well and it's not coming from the anterior superior iliac spine it's coming from the neck spine down. So if we look here so here's the here's the anterior superior iliac spine here most anteriorly and just inferior to that we have another spine of course. So if we have an anterior superior iliac spine, we must have an anterior inferior iliac spine and that is the anterior inferior iliac spine and that's where rectus femmeris is coming from. This means that if rectus femmeris can also cross the hip joint then it's going to have an action at the hip joint and that's going to be flexion of the hip. So rectus femeris can also flex the hip. So rectus femeris flexes the hip and all the quadriceps extend the knee. If you've been watching my running videos, you'll know that my hamstrings are a bit tight and I'm not very good at extending my knee at the moment. So that's quadriceps innovated by the femoral nerve uh from which has spinal root roots of L2, L3, and L4. And you can test that nerve by tapping the patella ligament or patella tendon. So it gets called both by the way because a tendon passes from muscle to bone. So this is a tendonous structure here encompassing the patella. But of course a ligament passes from bone to bone. So we have bone here and bone here. So it gets called the patella ligament because it's passing between two bones. I'm not going to argue about it. Now in the medial compartment, let me put storius back on. in the medial compartment of the thigh. This doesn't have any effect really on extension or flexion of the knee significantly. These muscles involved in adduction of the hip. So bringing so adduction bringing the lower limb back to the midline will adduct the leg. It'll bring the leg back to the midline. The abductors are up here. An adduction and abduction is very important because when you stand on one leg, you keep your pelvis level so you walk very efficiently. Okay. So those are the the extensors of the knee. The knee being a hinge joint. Then to flex the knee, we use these muscles here. These are the hamstrings. So named because if you have a pig and you're a butcher and you want to string up your ham, this is where you put your hook through the hamstrings and you hang up your pig. That's all. This is glutius maximus here. Another great big muscle. Glutius maximus is a powerful um also a powerful extensor of the hip. Can't show you because the camera will do it in a minute. So we got glutius maximus up here that's acting at the hip. But the hamstrings here, you can see they're crossing the knee joint. And there are three hamstrings. We've got two hamstrings medially, semiendinosis and semimebrosis. And we've got biceps femeris laterally. How do you remember which is which? Semimebrinosis and semiendinosis go together because they're the two semis, two halves of the whole. And semimebrosis has all the M's. So, it's medial. All right. So, semimebinosis is the is the deeper, flatter, more membranous muscle. Semiendinosis is a bit more superficial and more tendon-like as it comes down here. The biceps femmeris then on its own is is laterally. Now you see here. Now look here at the medial knee. So we're medial here. Big toe is there. So we're looking at the medial knee and we have a whole bunch of tendons coming together here. So if this is the medial knee, this is a left leg. So this is a left leg. Big toe. This is also the medial knee of the skeleton. Here we've got the tibia. Fibula is over here. So fibula So the fibula is lateral. The tibia is medial. So these tendons are all inserting into the tibia. And we've got this uh this medial condile. So this medial part of the tibia. That's where all these tendons are coming together. Now what we've got is we've got three tendons that come together. Uh semmitendinosis and this is graasilus. This this is a medial this is a muscle of the medial compartment. This is an adductor of the thigh at the hip. So we've got semi semmitendinosis cascillus and this is sartorius that we were looking at earlier coming together in this shape. This is called pezanserinus literally the goose's foot. So it looks like a goose's foot. These three tendons come together and insert into the tibia at that point there uh in the medial tibia. Semimemeosis is inserting into the tibia just deep to that. Now if we look at the lateral leg so here is lateral right there's the little toe here's the lateral knee. This is biceps femeris. now laterally. So then this is also the left leg. See there's the little toe. So laterally we've got the fibula and this is the head of the fibula. It's an important landmark because you'll find the common fibular nerve running over the top of it and is therefore prone to injury. But the head of the fibula you can also But the head of the fibula you can also palpate. So you can palpate your own fibula. So if you lateral here, all right. So this is my lateral uh leg and you can follow this up and it's mostly muscle here and as you get up to here there's a bony prominence and that's the head of the fibula. Then it's at the So here's biceps femeris. So that inserts into the head of the fibula. So semiendinosis and semimeronosis insert into the tibia medially. Biceps femeris inserts into the the head of the fibula laterally. Now where do these muscles come from? We got to take off this guy. Take off glutius maximus. And here you see all of these muscles coming from a single point. And this single point is so this single point is this. This is the isial tuberosity. So here's your pelvis, right? Illium, pubis, and ishium. The three bones. Ilium, pubis, isium. These are the three bones making up the pelvis. And this is the isial tuberosity. Look at that. It's a great big lumpy bit of bone, which means you've got a fair few muscles attaching there. And yeah, so we've got these three large hamstring muscles. Their sight of origin then is the issial tuberosity. This is the bit you sit on. When you sit down, your glutius maximus gets out of the way. These are the bits if you're riding a bike are supported by the saddle. This is why saddles can be so small cuz they're uh they're just supporting these two bits of bone. So it's coming from the issial tuberosity, which means that the hamstrings are crossing the hip joint and they're crossing the knee joint. So the hamstrings can flex the knee and extend the hip. But normally muscles can only get so short. So hamstrings can only do one of those two jobs at a time. They can either flex the knee and then maybe um extend the hip a little bit or they can extend the hip and then maybe flex the knee a little bit. So as I walk, I'm flexing my hip, extending my knee, and then as I plant, my quadriceps are taking my body weight. My knee's flexed. Then I extend the hip. and then flex the hip. Bum, bum, bum, bum, bum. So, the hamstrings are doing a few jobs here. So, when I walk, I can feel my hamstrings are tightening. And my hamstrings are not just extending the hip, but also as I bring my knee through and my lower leg, my foot starts to swing through the hamstrings. slow down the rate at which my foot swings through, making it ready for me to plant my foot. And that's that's even more important when you're running. Glutius maximus is a large muscle. It's a very powerful extensor of the hip joint, but as I walk, I'm not feeling glutius maximus getting engaged. But when I sit down, glutius maximus is engaged. When I sit up, glutius maximus is engaged. When I go upstairs, glutius maximus is getting engaged. So, glutius maximus is adding more power when you need it when you're going upstairs um and so on when you're running, jumping, sprinting, all of those things. So given all of that, bear in mind that muscles are most easily damaged, most easily torn when they're both contracting and lengthening, which is an eccentric contraction, which my was my example with the quadriceps. When you're sitting down, I'm controlling my descent. My quadriceps are contracting, but they're also lengthening. If my quadriceps weren't contracting, I'd just fall to the floor. Um, so when somebody is um, say when you're hurdling, when you're throwing your leg out in front of you, when you're kicking a ball, there are a couple of injuries that can occur. You're you're lengthening your hamstrings a great deal, but you're also asking your hamstrings to contract to slow down that foot that's swinging through. So when you're length, so if you're hurdling, sprinting, when you're going for maximum stride length or throwing that foot down, but also trying to contract, this muscle is it's lengthening, that's when it's most likely to tear. Also consider rectus femmeris. Rectus femmeris is also crossing two joints, right? So when you're when you're kicking a ball and you're asking rectus femeris to contract and to extend the knee and also to flex the hip forcefully, you're asking that muscle to get as short as it can in a very short period of time. So it's a very forceful action. So again, there's a risk of rectus femeris within quadriceps femmeris tearing because because of that. Okay. So those are the movements at the knee. We've talked about the movements at the hip as well because some of these muscles cross the the hip and the knee. Uh we've talked about quadriceps, femoris, and the hamstring muscles and their actions at the knee and the hip. We talked a little bit about the adductors, but not a great deal. We've talked about the femoral nerve innovating the anterior compartment, the sciatic nerve innovating the posterior compartment. And you need to consider that a muscle or parts of a muscle can cross more than one joint. So you need to consider the role of a muscle in uh in more than one joint and more than one movement in some cases. All right. And now I'm going to go for a run on the beach and see how my hamstrings and my quadriceps are