Do you remember last week? Uh, was it last week? Yeah, last week when [crying] I said the toilets were smelling a bit funny outside my office. >> Oh dear. >> Oh dear. Is he stopped? Um, >> oh, the drain got blocked and it flooded and it back flooded back into the corridor and then into my colleague's office. So, everything smells of weed and her office has been destroyed. Nature inconvenience. Oh well, it's getting fixed. [sighs] Um, playing Hades. Um, the new Hades 2's come out and uh I never played the first one and it was a Fiverr on Steam, so I'm catching up and yeah, I can see why I've enjoyed it so much. Don't usually play Rogue Lights, but uh this is good. Anyway, the last couple of weeks we've been talking about how uh I've been growing away from you guys if you're a student. um in terms of uh the new learner experience and me who's been doing it for donkeyy's years and we were also talking about how you we were talking about stress and exams and what have you but I also understand there's a lot of anxiety when you start a new course and you meet teachers and and talking to teachers and asking questions and one of the things about learning is it's difficult to know what the right question is and I've had a couple of experiences of that recently which have been really good. I have had students come and see me over the last couple of weeks and because they've been finding anatomy difficult and they have been describing to me what their difficulties are and some of them don't like anatomy which is fine but they want to be doctors so we have to figure it out and we'll figure it out together and that has been really helpful because they've been really honest with me. They've told me the level they're at, the the things they're finding difficult, and they're really, really basic, simple things, which means I've been able to recalibrate my teaching and think, okay, we'll we'll start here and I'll capture you guys, and then we'll lift everybody up. So that those conversations that I've had have been really good for me, the teacher, and hopefully they've been good for the student as well because um I've hopefully encouraged you and made you feel like you can do this, right? Um I think a common feeling is that you might feel embarrassed that you should know more. Don't worry, I still feel like that. I always have felt like that. I imagine I always will feel like that. I always feel like I should know more. Students ask me questions I can't answer. It's like I should know that, right? And it might be things I've never looked at or things that I've I just don't remember. I know it can be difficult asking questions at the end of a teaching episode or during a teaching episode. You feel like you're interrupting the class, slowing things down. Um, you don't want to ask what you feel is uh a stupid question. You feel like everybody else in the room knows more than you. Fine. But approach the teacher after the session and ask them questions either immediately after or at some other time. We we love we love these questions. We love these conversations. If you can if you're one of those students that finds it difficult to go and speak to your teacher. Try and get over that um because it will help you a lot. Uh teachers are great. Teachers can speed up your learning. We can explain things to you which will get you over those hurdles you get stuck on like hopefully pretty much immediately. We can offer all sorts of advice, but because this is our favorite subject, we love talking about our favorite subject, right? That's why we're here. And we can explain it in a number of different ways until you get it. Um so try to go and um speak to your your teacher. humans in general, you know, if if if we all if we all talked together, if we all talked more, humanity probably wouldn't be in such a mess, right? We'd probably be solving some of the big problems of the world. And we've talked about failure before. Um there's a fear of failure. Um there's a fear of um appearing as a failure. Um there's a fear that once you have failed, everybody knows about your fa and and the point is that we have all failed. We've all got to this point and we've all failed, but you don't all know about it. like I I feel like a failure because I'm in a teaching job and I never um became that research scientist that I intended to be that I was becoming. I I I became something completely different and I feel like a failure because I'm not doing basic science. I'm not doing research. I'm not publishing papers. And yeah, I know that I can't I haven't got the time or the energy. I'd go I' I' I'd break if I tried to do that as well. So, I tried to do my teaching job to the best level I could be. But all of your teachers, all of those people maybe you put up on pedestals, they've all had failures in their pasts and they've all learned how to get over those and they can help you, too. So talk to your teachers. We love it. It's often difficult to know the right question to ask. Now, if you've been in a teaching episode and there's something you don't understand, great. You got a question to ask. Write it down. I've had well I've had three but I'll give you two great examples I've had in the last couple of weeks that have improved my understanding of the human body because of student questions. Number one I had a student um ask me about he was asking about the ovaries and the fallopian tubes and the fimri. Now there's a weird thing with the paritinium that lines the abdominal cavity and covers the pelvic organs right in that the ovaries well the uterine tubes are essentially an opening into the peritineal cavity and the ovary when it releases an egg when it releases an oam the fimbri kind of have to encourage it into the uterine tube into the fallopian tube it's not a seal he had just discovered this thought this was mad and he he I think he done some like reading around, he read that it was possible for the other fallopian tube to move and pick up the egg from the ovary in certain situations. And I I'm pretty sure that's not a thing, but I'll go and look it up. And I found this study. So there was this study uh I think it was from some uh OMG obsy surgeons um uh and it was based at King's College London. Really good study. They looked at 800 pregnancies. Um, and these were pregnancies in women that had previously had, I think, an ectopic pregnancy. So, they'd lost one uterine tube for one reason. So, they only had one uterine tube, but two ovaries. And then they looked at which ovary had the corpus lutium in each of those pregnancies. The corpus lutium is the remnants of the follicle that supported the egg when it was developing in the ovary. And the corpus lutium is important because after the egg has been released, the corpus lutium hangs around inside the ovary and it releases progesterone which keeps the endometrial lining in the uterus so that implantation and pregnancy can occur. So they looked to see which ovary had the corpus lutium. So which ovary had released the egg and which ovary still had a uterine tube. In a third of cases, the egg that led to the pregnancy came from the ovary that was not connected to the uterus by a uterine tube. A third of pregnancies. So the idea is that the ovary releases the egg and there's no uterine tube for it to go into. So it it's in the peritinal cavity. It floats around the pouch of Douglas. go posteriorly around around there and then floats gets picked up by the fimbri of the other uterine tube the functioning uterine tube and pulled in and fertilization happens in the uterine tube. It's one of those things I never knew about because I never knew to ask that question. Is it an anatomist? It's one of those things I'd say I mean it's it's it's possible but it seemed really unlikely but then you actually look you do the science. Amazing. Um, so there are psyia in the uterine tube and in the fimbri on the cells of the fimbri and they they actually create a current in the in the fluid which is what draws the egg from the ovary into the uterine tube. So, it's less random that it appears, but there must be. And number two, how does the lymphatic system take fluid from the plural cavity? Because we've been looking at the plural cavity and what have you. And well, you know, you there's not there's not that much fluid in the plural cavity. There's only a little bit. Um it's not like normal tissues of the body. So, the lymphatic system doesn't have that much work to do. You know, that sort of thing. Then I went to look it up. the visceral plura covering the lungs completely sealed. The parietal plura lining the walls of the thorax um lymphatic vessels open directly onto that surface. They are connected directly to the plural cavity. I never knew this. So if you looked at the parietal plura under a microscope, you'd see lots of little tiny pores. So the lymphatic system can directly pull fluid from the plural cavity and that's that's how it manages that's how the body manages the amount of fluid in the plural cavity that and of course the activity of the the fluid secretreting cells in the um in the misothelium in the the plura itself. Amazing. And then you think about the pressures involved when you're breathing and the low pressures the lymphatic system and how does all that work anyway? Asking the right questions. Questions that maybe felt obvious to the student or weird to the student or stupid to the student. And I mean just made my week. Really did. Um, that's the other thing, isn't it, about us growing apart is that I kind of know I know all the things, but I don't know everything. And I'm very conscious that I don't know everything. But I don't know what I don't know. All right. And a final bit of truth. This game's got quite a bit of cognitive loop, but Whoops. Um, final bit of truth. Did you know that every time I I record an anatomy video, sure, I've got an idea and I've got some notes to keep me on track and things I've looked up because, you know, got to check my memory. I'm not always correct. But every time I record an anatomy video, I think I've done a terrible job. I think I was too fast. I think I said things wrong. I think I missed it out. Missed things out that were important. Um, and it just feels really bad. And then when I go and edit it and play back the stuff I recorded, it was fine. Perception of myself and perception of how I perform and what I do at the time is not the same as what I really am like anyway. Yeah. Okay. So, ask good questions. Keep asking good questions. We love it.