Dear esteemed members of the audience, uh we will be looking at the ventricles of the brain. The ventricles inside the brain. We've looked at these before. So I am only focusing on the lateral ventricles. There are two lateral ventricles, one on the left, one on the right. And they are a more complex shape than we realize. Um and it's useful to understand the shape but it's difficult to visualize the shape to imagine the shape because for example when you're looking at transverse radioraphs of the head you will be looking at parts of the lateral ventricle um in different planes and sometimes it's clear that's the lateral ventricle. Sometimes you get a weird uh cut through the lateral ventricle and it's like what what what shape is that? So, we will look at the parts of the lateral ventricles, the horns, and what have you, and you'll have a better understanding of the shapes, where they sit in the brain, and also which bits of the brain are next to the bits we're going to talk about. You'll see this is a cast of the ventricles inside the brain. Uh, and when we look carefully at this, we can see that it's not entirely symmetrical. Is that part of the casting process? Or more likely, is that because we as humans are generally not quite symmetrical? Um, but by understanding the shape here, when you're looking at the ventricles on radioraphs, you can ask yourself, is that a is that a normal size? Is that a normal symmetry? Does the midline look normal? So, that's kind of what we're going to do. Now the cerebral spinal fluid inside the brain the CSF oh I've got a brain is uh useful because uh the brain is very soft and heavy um so one of the functions of the cerebral spinal fluid is to float the brain to protect the brain and by floating the brain because the brain hasn't got any connective tissue in it you don't squash your own brain and also inferiorly you've got most of your blood vessels and you've got your cranial nerves and you wouldn't want to squash those. So the cerebral spinal fluid is crucial to normal central nervous system function and it is first produced by the ventricles inside the brain and it flows through those ventricles to the spinal cord and then outside the brain and the spinal cord to bathe it. So the lateral ventricles are the first two ventricles. Um we have left and right. They're not named one or two, but we have a third ventricle in the midline that they both drain to. So, let's look at one of the lateral ventricles. So, here is our cast, the two lateral ventricles. So, here's the right ventricle. Do you see what I mean about having quite a big shape? So, the the lateral ventricles are large, larger than most people realize. Uh, and they take up um quite an interesting space. Um the main section up here is the body and then uh we have you can see how we got three horns. The simple naming then is we have the anterior horn, the posterior horn and the inferior horn. But then we can also name these by the cerebral loes that these horns are within. So this is the frontal horn, the occipital horn and the temporal horn. Um, where these two horns meet the body, this is the atrium and also known as the trigon. Yes, there's one in the bladder as well if that's where your brain's gone to. So, body, atrium, posterior horn, inferior horn, anterior horn, and in the in the middle there, that space that this cast is representing is the third ventricle. So the fluid that's uh the CSF that's being produced by the koid plexus in the lateral ventricle will flow through um a little channel a little canal to the third ventricle. That channel is called an intervententricular foromin the foromin of Monroe. Um intervententricular is very sensible right from ventricle to ventricle. So actually where uh the the intervententricular forman um pretty much marks where the anterior horn becomes the body. Now we will look at those shapes on transverse sections in a moment. Um um but if that's all you need then you're done. Um but here we have a midsagittal section of the head. So those uh lateral ventricles on that cast, those were cast. They're actually spaces filled with fluid, of course. So what separates the left and right um lateral ventricles? Well, here's the midline. And here in the midline, we see a number of important structures. We see the corpus colossum, we see the septum palucidum and we see the fornics. Now the corpus colosum these are loads and loads of white matter tracts crossing from one side of the brain to the other. They connect the two cerebral hemispheres and they're kind of doing that and they're also kind of doing that and they're going to be important in forming the walls and roofs and what have you of the lateral ventricles. But uh the forex then um the forex is um linked to the hippocampus is involved in forming memories and what have you. the septum palucidum there. If this was a real brain, the septum palucidum, we'd be able to see through. It's so thin. It is made of neural tissue. Like I said, there's no connective tissue in here. So, it is nervous tissue. You've got gal cells and neurons in there. Um, but the septum palucidum, so those are the Latin words meaning um like a translucent fence, a translucent divider. If I was to push my finger through the septum pollucidum, it would then be sat on the cordate nucleus, one of the basil ganglia, and if I pushed it around the back would be sat on top of the phalamus. Actually, we can see the phalamus here. So, the left and right lateral ventricles of the brain are separated largely by the septum palucidum, a little bit by the forex and what have you. Right? Okay. here. But I'm trying to get you to imagine those 3D spaces because that's going to be important. Right now, like much of neuro anatomy, you got to engage some of your imagination. So there are our lateral ventricles separated by the septum palucidum and we saw the corpus colosum coming through there right to c to link the two cerebral hemispheres. Um another a part of the corpus colossum a big part is called the tapetum or tapetum tapetum Latin for like a carpet. So those corpus colossum fibers are so we saw the corpus colosum in the midline superiorly here. So the corpus colossum the tpetum is forming the roof of the body of the lateral ventricle and the septum palucidum is forming the medial wall of the body of the lateral ventricle and then inferiorly down here like I say if I push my finger through the septum palucidum here this shape is made by the phalamus and the cordate nucleus we're down in the basil parts of the brain we will look at this again in a minute on transverse sections and I'll build this up. If we move from the body to the anterior horn, we still have the corpus colossum doing this. So the corpus colossum is then forming the roof of the anterior horn and the anterior wall of the anterior horn. We've still got the septum pucidum in the midline. So that's still forming the medial wall of the anterior horn. Like I said, we've also got that intervententricular forman. Um, and then this curved shape here is because the the floor is being made by the the cordate nucleus. And you see how that curve there means that the lateral ventricle maybe isn't the big space it always looks like it is. It's more triangular in crosssection. So the anterior horn, cordate nucleus makes the floor. Corpus colosum makes the roof and the anterior wall. Septum pollution makes the medial wall really. And if we run from the body through the atrium to the posterior horn or the occipital horn, we've still got the corpus colosum doing this. So the corpus colosum then is forming part of the lateral wall and the roof. Um and very much then the medial wall is being formed by well the occipital lobe of the cerebrum. So when people are talking about the tapetum particularly in relation to the lateral ventricles, that's what they're talking about that carpet of the corpus colosum doing this. And because it's such a long structure of loads of white matter tracks, white matter tracks we're talking about mileinated axons. Hundreds of millions of mileinated axons linking the two sides of the brain. So the topum is that part of the corpus colosum that's forming the walls here. Um there's a the the calccar avis or calcarine spur is one of a couple of indentations you might see um on the medial side of the um posterior horn of the lateral ventricle. We're we're definitely straying out of my normal knowledge area of anatomy and we're getting into the radiologist's territory there which I should step back out of. From the posterior horn, we can run around to the inferior horn. So the inferior horn has run inferiorly. It's now in the temporal lobe and we've run a little bit laterally and we're running anteriorly here. Now the the topum of the um corpus colossum is running from the temporal lobe up in that direction. So the topum is now forming part of the wall of the inferior horn of the lateral ventricle. We've gone around the phalamus. Thalamus is in here. So the phalamus is forming the medial wall of the uh inferior horn. Um and then uh oh no the important bit is that the the floor of the inferior horn is the hippocampus. I say important because if you're trying to figure out where the hippocampus is in the brain and you know that the inferior horn of the lateral ventricle this space has the hippocampus as its floor. It's pretty good landmark, right? You can find the hippocampus. It's like, you know, you're confident that's the hippocampus there. So that curve is kind of following the the neuronal pathways that go to the hippocampus as well. Anyway, um yeah, so the floor is the hippocampus and then the rest of the walls are made up of the temporal lobe here. How's that for shape, right? This is a big part of it is just trying to internalize that shape of the lateral ventricle in your own mind. And let's go and cut sections through the head transversely now and see if we can figure out what we're looking at. How the hecky bump am I going to do this? Right. Okay. Here we go. Here's our head. Um, so the sections, you can see how thick the sections are. They're like a centimeter thick, maybe. So, you're not going to see everything because we're going to see the section at the top. Then we cut a centimeter deeper. We might have gone through some of the shapes that you're imagining. Okay. So, no. No lateral ventricles yet. Ah, well, hey. Well, there's the lateral ventricles. We see the coroid plexuses in there. That is your, you know, you I don't know. It's pretty classic, right? The lateral ventricles. And you can look at the symmetry. You can look at the midline. You can look at the size. You can decide whether they're dilated or normal looking. And if you got previous images, you can compare. Um, but lateral ventricles, nice and easy. But can you see how we've got a couple of shapes here? The reason we've got these shapes is because the body is extending as the anterior horn or the frontal horn into the frontal lobe and it's extending back around there. It's it's going to become that posterior horn or the occipital horn. Um, and then we've got the atrium there. So if we go down another centimeter. All right. Now that is a weird shape. We can see some of the other structures we were talking about. There's the phalamus. There's the cordate nucleus. Here are other parts of the basil ganglia there. And do you see what I mean about it's kind of uh it's kind of thin. Like I say that lateral ventricle is almost triangular in cross-section in many places. So here clearly we're in the um anterior horn but it's maybe not quite the shape you were expecting but there's that cordate nucleus which is giving the anterior horn of the lateral ventricle its shape and then there now we're getting back into the occipital lobe. So back there there's the occipital horn there's the posterior horn. Okay. So, and then we've got it. It's curved over the top. Here is the body and the atrium. So, if we cut through another centimeter, oh, right. Well, we've lost the anterior parts. Now, we're inferior enough that we're very much seeing the posterior horn. And we can see if we look down there that that space is continuing. There's the phalamus. There's the cordate nucleus. These are other parts of the basil ganglia. So, at this section, we're only seeing the posterior horn because it's much more inferior than the body in the atrium. Let's cut another section, another centimeter deeper, or more inferiorly rather. Oh. Oh, no. We still got some bits. Um, but it's very thin now. Um, you have to kind of look for it to notice it. And you see the level we're at because there's the optic kayazm there. So, there's the the midbrain of the brain stem. Um and in fact well yeah there's the cerebral aqueduct there the other parts we go a centimeter deeper again um temporal lobe temporal lobe I don't see I don't see any um of the lateral ventricles we've now gone so inferior that we are inferior to the inferior horn and likewise so we are too low to see the lateral ventricles there. Oh, that is really heavy. Does that make sense? You see how we cut the section? So, the most superior sections, we very much see the body. And as we go a little bit more inferiorly, then we see the anterior horn. And as we go more inferiorly, we maybe get a bit of the anterior horn, a bit of the atrium, the start of the posterior horn. And if you cut a little bit more inferiorly, now you're completely missing the body and the anterior horn. And at this level, you're getting, if you cut a section through there, you're getting parts of the posterior horn. And depending upon your level, you might get a really good section through the posterior horn or just a glancing section. And then as you descend even more inferiorly, now you get to the inferior horn. So you might get a section with the inferior horn and the posterior horn um or just the inferior horn. And then when you cut down here, you're seeing the temporal lobe. You're seeing the you know, if you're right here, you'll be seeing the um the hippocampus. but you won't be seeing any of the of the lateral ventricles. So that's that's that's the exercise. Imagine that shape, which can be very difficult to do on video. It's much easier for me because I've got a threedimensional structure. My eyes, my brain doesn't have to do any interpretation. I I can I can understand the threedimensional shapes here. And then you cut sections through. And that's what you see on transverse head images. And imagine of course how that would look on coronal images, sagittal images, but hey, one thing at a time. Um, and like I say, you're very interested in when you look at the lateral ventricles. They're they're a very big landmark in certain sections. Um, do they, you know, is does the symmetry look normal? Uh, does the size look normal? Does the midline look normal? And that sort of thing. And also um where am I and what is next to um the lateral ventricles like I say we talked about a lot this being the corpus colosum of the tpetum and of course um if the um if the ventricular system of the brain becomes oluded or um say let's say if it becomes oluded and cerebral spinal fluid can't leave the ventricles the ventricles keep making the cerebral spinal fluid so they expand they dilate and then of course they compress the brain and you compress billions of neurons and tiny blood vessels and and that is bad. That's a bad thing. Okay, I hope that helped. It's helped me. I'm just going to use the terms anterior, posterior, inferior horn, body, and atrium because I think that's easy. But then, of course, I also know the loes. So, if somebody says the other names to me, I'm going to recognize that. Okay, cool. Nice talking to you. Speak to you next week.