Just come back from a run. Don't remember see ever seeing so many runs on a Sunday morning. It's that uh between Christmas and New Year thing, I guess, where everybody's thinking about taking up running. This is um the PC of my youngest. It's actually made up of uh parts that I don't use anymore. Um, and what they wanted for Christmas was to upgrade the CPU. My kids are big gamers just like me. Um, and when we um went to put the CPU in, we took the heat sink out and the existing CPU came with it. I initially thought, oh, the um the thermal paste has dried so hard to the CPU that it's pulled it out. But what had actually happened was that the socket on the motherboard, the plastic parts are so old that they have decayed and become brittle and the plastic parts of the AM4 socket have just given up. So, when the CPU came out, the socket was wrecked. When I put the new CPU back in, surprise, surprise, it didn't work. Uh, today's job. This, uh, this le, this is the old CPU back in it. This lever here is supposed to lock the CPU in place, which it does. Um, it's uh, it's difficult to Oh, you can just about see. Can you see how I'm pretty sure all of those pins, all of those uh gold contacts should be meeting the pins of the CPU, right? The uh the socket being a major part of the motherboard. Well, that's not replaceable, which means we got to replace the whole motherboard, which I think is being delivered right now. There we go. That knock at the door was the new motherboard. Right, cup of tea, get my glasses on. They were not too upset that their computer destroyed itself. Um, but my kids, like I say, they're big video gamers, but this is a huge part of their lives. This is how they keep up with friends. This is how they socialize. This is how they spend time with their friends. This is where they spend most of their time playing games. So, when your PC dies, it is a little bit catastrophic. Um, so I gave them my PC for a few days and ordered a new motherboard um to come as quickly as feasible, which of course being Christmas is um a little bit slower than normal. So, [sighs] I need to take this motherboard out, fit everything to the new motherboard, put the new motherboard in, see if it works. I I have built a lot of PCs in my time, so we should be Oh, old old Radian um should well, you know. Oh, yeah. NVME. But it's clear that I am living in the future. Um, we didn't even imagine this when we were kids. Um, I was a kid in the 80s. and we had video gaming consoles which were fantastic, but not like this. I have slowly traveled into the future into a different world and going to have to remove some of these standoffs around. I think take all the power cables out and there are screws attaching it to the frame um or the connectors out. and I'll take it out, swap over the RAM, the all the bits and bobs, and put the whole motherboard in. When I was a kid, I I remember working really hard in school cuz I remember I didn't go on a lot of school trips cuz I had exams coming up. I didn't do this. I didn't do the other cuz I was always focused on studies and exams. So obviously I must have been working really really hard and my GCSE results uh which I got when I was 16. They were all right. I went on to do A levels but my A level results weren't very good. Um, so looking back now, I think I was probably working hard, but I wasn't working in the right ways. Or maybe I wasn't working as hard as I thought I was working. Right now, both of my kids want to go to university at the same time. There's 5 years between them, but it's taken the eldest 5 years to think, I'd like to go to university, which is fine. That's what we're there for. [snorts] And you know with um now more than 20 years of higher education teaching experience um I I try to tell my kids, you know, I try to tell them um how to learn and how to work harder and how to work smarter. I try to take all of that stuff I didn't do and help them by telling them how they could do it. Oh, there we go. Okay. What do we What do we got? Oh, NVME screws. Probably good. New Oh, smell of new motherboards. Oh, paper manual. Um, sure. CD. That's Yeah, that's useful. U Oh, is that two NVME screws? Excellent. Um, and a multilingual manual. All right. Um, so as a um well, as a time traveler that has traveled slowly into the future, I I I I'm starting to feel what it must be like as a time travel if you've traveled back into the past when you're trying to convince people of something. Don't do this thing because this terrible thing will happen and nobody believes you. Yeah, I get it now. Trying to tell my kids. Trying to tell my kids what they should do so that they'll get better grades and they'll get into university and stuff. It goes about as I need to put that in the case, don't I? Is going about as well as it went for my parents when they tried to tell me uh what to do cuz of course I was a teenager. I knew everything. What on earth could my parents tell me? What on earth could they know? Uh, where's the square? There's the square. Zero insertion force. That's what we used to call them back in the day. Zero insertion force sockets. Oh, that's a much tighter grip. And I'm getting thermal paste everywhere. Let's pop the ram across first. And then I'll put the cooler on. One. Okay, there's four slots. We couldn't go for a cheaper board cuz I needed four memory slots. Two. And um not upgrading to the latest generation boards cuz I'm not paying for DDR5 RAM right now for um obvious reasons. Well, if you The price has gone skyh high cuz all the AI companies have bought it and there's none left for anybody else. Um, so there we go. Good clicks. Um, oh, wouldn't it be nice if the It looks like the connectors are in the same places. It should be fairly easy to put back in again. NVME. What makes it even worse is that the more I think about this, the more I realize that if if I, the me now, went back to the past and told the teenage me all the things I knew now, I still wouldn't believe me. I still wouldn't listen to me. but that's the teenage brain, isn't it? Ah it's a it's a futile endeavor but you can't give up. You always keep trying and um there's a lot in life we have to learn the difficult ways. I am still learning things the difficult way. Are you the right thread? Nope. You only work on the previous motherboard. Let's use one of these lovely new screws we've got for you. There you go. Cleaned it off. So, that is the old CPU, a Ryzen 5600X. That's like first generation Ryzen. We're changing it for a Ryzen 7 5800X. It should be great for gaming. This thermal paste is still liquid, so I'm only going to put a little bit of fresh stuff on. And then let's put this old crappy cooler on. Hey, I've just made a mess on the table, right? I better clean that up later. Um, where is the CPU fan? There it is. CPU fan thingy. Um, okay. On you go. Um, let's put you on nice and square and then put you on and then without squashing that. There we go. That's good. Plug you in. Okay, there we go. Swapped over CPU and cooler, RAM, NVME stick. What have I forgotten? Anything? I'll change the um IO shield on the box and then we'll we'll offer this up and see if it fits. [snorts] Right, then let's finagle it in. I've moved the new standoffs. Try and get all the cables out of the way. Oh yeah, easy. Right, it's screwed in. I think it's wired up correctly. I'm sure this was a lot easier. Like LEDs and power switches and reset switches. I'm sure that was a lot easier back when my eyesight was better. Or maybe it's always been that finicky. Just need to put the graphics card in and then we'll power it up. Um, let's see what other trouble I'm getting into. Okay. Oh, it's higher. I need to take out another thing and do a thing. Try again. All right. Screw it down like we mean it. Plug in the power for the graphics card. And um [snorts] fingers fingers crossed. Power it up. Some stuff is spinning. [snorts] Nothing's lighting up. Um I'm getting nothing. The seamos isn't blank like they used to be, are they? I plug something in the wrong way around. Oh, thank God it's alive. We're in the BIOS. Oh, what the hell was that all about? I don't know. Anyway, when you rebuild a PC, it does like to scale a little bit. Uh yes to receipt reset FTPM. Let's see if we can get in the BIOS or UF. Oh, there we go. He [applause] he [sighs] been be building PCs since PCs were a thing. And I thought nowadays they got out of the scaring you when you put them together and they don't boot up thing. But no, they still scare you when you put them together and they they don't boot up. But it's booting up right now. Now I can do all the things and get my PC back and move everything around and um all right, continuing on into the future.