I have been marking hundreds of exam papers and as a result partly um we should talk about the common lower limb nerve injuries. So this isn't aimed at surgeons who need to know every little tiny detail. This is aimed at the medical student or other health profession student who has some knowledge about the nerves and the muscles and the movements of the lower limb. And what I want to do is essentially summarize the things that come up in exam questions. The major nerve injuries, little bit of history associated to each one, and it's not really about sensation. It's about loss of motor function when the nerves of the lower limb have been injured. Okay. So, my aim is to improve your understanding. We're linking normal anatomy to functional anatomy to clinical anatomy, right? It's bites. Anyway, it's all good stuff. So, um, nerves of the lower limb, some are more likely to be injured than others. They can be injured by penetrating tor trauma. They can be in injured during surgery. So, the hip is a joint that's replaced. The knee is a joint that's dislocated. It ligaments are damaged and can be replaced. Some of these nerves are coming from the abdomen. So surgery in the abdomen can affect these nerves. Um intramuscular injections, torices, there are a number of ways in which these nerves can be injured. But there are also some locations where these nerves are more susceptible to injury because they're more superficial. Bone fracture repairs to those bone fractures. Um callous growths from those bone fracture repairs. All of those things can have an effect on those nerves. Okay. Let's start at the top. Let's start proximally and work distally. So you'll see today that my colleague here is elevated because I want to use um the lower limbs to demonstrate movements and lots of movement. If we start right up here, the lumbossacral plexus where all of these nerves come from is very very deep uh in the lumbar and sacral regions which means it's pretty safe. It's it's not often injured. um you you know fractures to the sacrum, fractures to the pelvis, some really high energy trauma is what will usually damage um parts of the lumbossacral plexus. Uh the most common pathology affects the spinal nerve roots as they leave the lumbossacral plexus such as intervertible disc prolapses and other things um that get the nerve roots you know we're thinking sciatica right so shooting pains that's not really what we're interested in today we're interested in more severe injury like completely severing the femoral nerve for example so the the femoral nerve nerve is here. The femoral nerve then can be injured during um surgery to repair ingral hernas because it comes from L2, L3 and L4 up here. It can also be damaged during abdominal surgery. Um the reason we're talking about this is that often exam questions have a little bit of a clinical vignette to start with, don't they? So bit of patient history, loss of function, what nerve has been injured? Okay. So um kidney transplant so renal surgery um abdominal access hysterctomy um uhctomy abdominal surgery. So the um the femoral nerves are in the posterior abdominal wall. Now if the femoral nerve is injured very proximally then you'll lose function of iliacis and uh rectus femmeris which cross the hip and are involved in hip flexion. So you'll lose hip flexion or have a weakness of hip flexion. Whereas if the femoral nerve is injured here just after the inguinal ligament then the whole of quadriceps femoris and sartorius but the whole of the muscles in the anterior compartment of the thigh will lose function. So the big loss of function will be the the loss of the ability to extend the knee. Opturator nerve the opturator the opturator nerve runs around the brim of the bowl of the pelvis. So the opturator nerve is inside the pelvis and then passes through the opturator canal to get to the muscles of the medial thigh. The muscles that adduct the lower limb at the hip. So these muscles here, the adductor muscles, they adduct the lower limb at the hip. So damage to the optator nerve will give weakness in hip adduction or loss of the ability to adduct the hip. These muscles are very important when you're standing on one leg and you're balancing your trunk over it. Abduction. Adduction. It's quite difficult to damage. It's nice and deep. It's quite safe. Um which means it can be damaged during uh total hip replacement, total hip arroplasty. It can be damaged during uh repair of um a fracture of the acetabulum and that sort of thing because it's running it's running on the other side of the bone to the acetabulum effectively. Opturator nerve. Here's a tricky one the students get stuck on. This is lateral. This is medial. Um out here laterally there's glutius maximus. Here we've got glutius medius and minimus. They're innovated by the superior glutil nerve. The superior glutil nerve can be injured by intramuscular injection around here. It can be injured um through total hip arroplasty. It can be injured through fracture and bony growths with repair of that fracture and what have you. And the job of the glutius, medius and minimus muscles is the opposite to the adductors. It is abduction. That is when glutius medius and minimus contract they abduct the lower limb at the hip joint. And that's how you would test that function. The bit that trips students up is that uh when you're walking, these muscles keep your pelvis level as you take the other foot off the floor. So when you take your left foot off the floor, uh the right glutius medius and minimus muscles contract and keep your pelvis level. Which means that if somebody has injured their superior glutial nerve and glutius medius and minimus are paralyzed or weak, the hip will drop, but the hip will not drop on the side of the injury. It'll drop on the other side. So the weakness is on the right side. The left foot is lifted off the ground. The left hip will drop and this is trenelenburgg sign superior glutial nerve glutius medius and minimus. Okay. And then we've got the big one. So under here if I take off glutius maximus we can see the sciatic nerve which is very small in the model. It's much bigger in real life. The sciatic nerve will run down the posterior thigh and split into two branches. So the sciatic nerve is innovating the muscles of the posterior compartment of the thigh that is um the hamstrings. The hamstrings cross the hip and the knee joint. So if the sciatic nerve was injured and again can be injured through total hip arroplasty can be injured through intramuscular injection. It can be injured along its length with fracture of the feur. repair of that fracture, bony growth as a result of that fracture. Right? So if the sciatic nerve is damaged, well, it's innovating pretty much everything distal to the knee and the posterior compartment of the thigh. Now, if you were to damage the sciatic nerve up at this level, the hamstrings would lose most of their innovation. Um, so you would lose hip extension except that you've got glutius maximus. So glutius maximus also does hip extension. Hip extension is when the lower limb is pulled posteriorly behind you. Extension of the lower limb at the hip joint. So the hamstrings do that. So there might be some weakness of that movement. Uh the hamstrings also flex the knee. So if the sciatic nerve was injured, the hamstrings had lost their innovation. So we're talking about an injury up here, then flexion of the knee would be weak or impossible with a sciatic nerve injury. But like I say, the sciatic nerve is also going to innovate all of the other structures down here. So the other losses of function that we're going to talk about in a minute also apply to the sciatic nervous if it's injured up here. There'll also be changes in sensation, shooting, we're talking sciatica, so neuralgia, shooting pains, changes to sensation. And it depends on which part of the sciatic nerve has been injured and how much of the sciatic nerve has been injured because it's a really big nerve. Has it been completely severed in which case you'll lose all that function or has just part of it been injured? So the sciatic nerve is complicated. It's often not a great exam question either because there are so many answers. But the sciatic nerve is going to divide into the tibial nerve which continues down the posterior leg and the calf and the common peronial nerve also known as the common fibular nerve. Um so if the common fibular nerve is injured and it can be injured here, here is very superficial. This is um around the uh the level of the head of the fibula. So the nerve here you don't need a deep penetrating injury to damage it. A blow to the the side of the knee here, the lateral knee here could damage the fibula. Dislocation of the knee, damage to the ligaments of the knee can damage the common peronial nerve. Um, a car bumper, is it still about this sort of height? So, a blow to the knee on the side from a car bumper can damage this nerve. If somebody has a an ankle fracture or a foot fracture and they have a cast, the top of that cast, if it's too tight up here, that can compress the common peronial nerve. Good exam question. Previous injury where Yeah. Yeah. Good clues, huh? Now, the common peronial nerve, and I'm emphasizing peronial because it has an O in the middle. If you were to call it the perennial nerve, you would be wrong. That's up in the paraneium. So, the common paronial nerve is going to innovate the lateral muscles of the leg and the anterior muscles of the leg. The anterior muscles of the leg will do dorsif flexion. Dorsif flexion is a movement at the ankle. So dorsif flexion of the foot is this movement. So the anterior muscles of the leg, the leg being the bit between the knee and the ankle. If the common peronial nerve was injured, dorsif flexion would be impossible or weak. So you would see foot drop. Um the common peronial nerve also innovates the lateral muscles, the fibular muscles and those are responsible for eversion. So ever version would be weak or impossible but really common peronial nerve injury to the lateral knee loss of dorsif flexion foot drop. Uh it has two branches by the way superficial and deep. If the common peronial nerve was injured because you're losing innovation of the muscles of the anterior leg. Uh you'd also lose innovation of the muscles of the dorsom of the foot. you'd lose toe extension, but really you're looking for foot drop. Okay, last nerve. The tibial nerve then runs down the calf, innovating the muscles of the calf. The muscles of the calf are responsible for plantar flexion, standing on tippy toes. Um the tibial nerve then is, you know, it can be injured at the poplial fossa um because of surgical access work here, maybe vascular surgery. It can be in injured you know um more distally in the leg by fracture. So a tibial fracture could damage the tibial nerve. Um so depending upon the level of the injury but if the injury was at the popl fossa you'd then lose innovation of gastromus and celus and what have you. So you'd lose planter flexion and again you'd lose innovation of the muscles of the sole of the foot. you would be able to flex the toes. Um, so planter flexion, dorsif flexion, planter flexion. Um, loss of dorsif flexion, common peronial nerve, loss of plant flexion, tibial nerve. That's it, I think. Okay. Can we run through all that again very briefly? So, you see what you're doing here. You've got to understand movements. You've got to know about the muscles. You've got to know about the innovation of the muscles, which is actually quite nice in the lower limb because um we can do it by compartment. And then you can add all that together and use only your knowledge of normal anatomy to predict the loss of function if a nerve was injured. So if the femoral nerve is injured, you'll lose extension of the knee, possibly uh flexion of the hip if the injury is in the abdomen. Um if the superior glutial nerve is injured, you'll lose the function of glutius medius and minimus. So you won't be a able to abduct the lower limb at the hip and you'll see trendelenburgg sign. You'll see the hip drop on the other side when the other foot is taken off the ground. If the sciatic nerve is injured lots, but if the sciatic nerve is injured such that the hamstrings aren't functioning, you probably will see some hip extension still because of glutius maximus, but you'll lose flexion of the knee. If the common paronial nerve is injured, you'll see foot drop because of the loss of dorsif flexion. If the tibial nerve is injured, you'll see loss of function of gastromus and sleas and the loss of the ability to plant flex to stand on your tippy toes. Um, that's the stuff like that's like the baseline in in our exam. Students need to know a bit about everything. That's the baseline. There's more detail. There's more complexity on top of that, but those are the things that you must know um if you've studied this to pass my exams. Uh oh yeah, opt nerve, you know, I always forget the optator nerve because it doesn't get injured very often, but opt nerve injures the um innovates the adductors. You would lose adduction. Um injuries to the nerves of the lower limb are not as common as injuries to the nerves of the upper limb. Injuries to the nerves of the upper limb um small injuries can give big changes and big effects on people's lives. Damage to nerves of the lower limb affect gate, affect walking, affect getting about. So they're also really important and we haven't talked about the sensory side of things, but can cause um neuralgia, inappropriate pain and sensation and what have you. All right, I hope that was useful. I should do the upper limb version sometime as well, shouldn't I? All right, see you next week.