So the year 2 students are coming to the end of their studies of anatomy anyway and they're kind of doing a pub quiz thing of anatomy and pathology. Yeah. Real nice clinical anatomy stuff at the moment and working together as teams. Not very informal but somewhat competitive. So I'm 3D printing the trophy or trying to for the winning team. It's going to be a big heart on a pl. Fingers crossed that it works. Okay, so while that's printing, which will take 13 hours, um, if it works, um, let's do a bit more anatomy. Um, we were talking about the female reproductive system last week. I went on for about half an hour about that and still didn't cover everything. This week, I thought I'd talk about the male reproductive system because, again, we've been doing it in teaching. Um, my penis is broken. It's lost a knobbyby bit. There are lots of things I'd like to talk about. I'd like to talk about testicular cancer. I'd like to talk about the blood supply, lymphatics, and spread of that. I'd like to talk about the hisytologology and the cells of the testes. I'd like to talk about the penis and the mechanisms of erection, all those sorts of things. But if I if I start talking about the male reproductive system and everything, I'll be here all day. I thought a sensible place to start um which covers quite a lot of this would be something else I do in teaching which is talk about how spermatzoa get from the testice out through the tip of the penis and by doing that we cover a whole bunch of uh interesting and important structures essentially we cover the functioning stuff of much of the male reproductive system right so let's do that we'll start at the testice out here um the testice testes testicle testicles got lots of good names, lots of other names as well. Each testice is essentially um a load I mean a load of microscopic tubes folded and these are the seminifpherous tubules and in the seminifpherous tubules around the wall we have germ cells we have so germ stem cells which are making new spermatzone all the time that process is spermatogenesis. So you can see if you look down the microscope at these uh spermatagonia u maturing and producing somewhat mature spermatocytes and you can see those spermatocytes and tails in the center of the seminifpherous tubules. Maybe we'll look at that one day. Maybe I'll get the microscope out. Spermatzo form in those seminifpherous tubules and in there you also have stolei cells and leig cells. uh so these are cells that are uh are looking after that process of spermatogenesis looking after those cells and doing a bunch of jobs there and also producing testosterone of course testes the main place that testosterone is made um so seminifpherous tubules loads and loads of spammatzoa loads and loads of tubes so massive massive surface area and those spermatzoa have got to pass through those seminifpherous tubules until they get to the way out. And the way out is is through this bit here. So the testice is covered in tunic albigenea. It's a really firm, smooth ovoid structure, the testice, but you can palpate posteriorly this ridge, this mass. And this is a normal mass. This is the epidmus. And the spatzora and the seminifpherous tubules are going to pass through the retestus um the straight tubules. They're going to they're going to pass out to the epidmus and they're going to descend slowly through the epidmus which takes a number of days and they're going to continue to mature as they descend. So spermatazor are being produced all the time. Um and they and they collect they descend in the epidmus and from the base of the epidmus we find the ductus deferrens. used to be called the vase deferren still gets called the vas deferrens and of course it's the vas defens or the ductus defens that you cut uh in a vasectomy because by doing that you stop any spermatzoa getting out of the testes and going anywhere um and by doing that you affect spermatzoa production all you know it's a self-regulating thing um anyway so drop down the epidmus pass into the ductor's defens and then they ascend and Here we've got the uh spatic cord and there are a number of structures and a number of layers in the spatic cord and inside there we've got all these blood vessels. You can see this pampinform plexus of veins. We've got branches of the testicular artery and what have you. Um but the vas deference inside this spatic cord will then pass through the abdominal wall that's passing through the inguinal canal. that special canal that's made by folds in the muscles of the anterior abdominal wall which is something else we can talk about another day and look it passes through the abdominal wall there and then appears on the inside of the abdomen of course uh underneath the paritinium so that's how the ductor's deferren gets into the abdomen and gets into the pelvis and of course up here this is the pubis bone Okay. So, it's going up above the pubis bone and then coming around. Of course, the pubis bone is here. And the bladder when it fills with fluid, when it fills with urine, can be palpated superior to the pubis bone. And and look, here's the ductus deference coming around here. Here's the bladder. So, it's going to come into the edge of the bladder, follow the bladder around. And up here, here's the urer dropping down from the kidneys. Right? So the ductus deferrens is going to cross over the urer as the urer enters the bladder laterally. So that's the ductus deferren so far. Now if we look posteriorly here's the ductus deference continuing around and the ductus deference continues and what we see here is a seminal vicle. There are two it's been dissected on this side. We've got two seminal vicles. Um, and the ductor's defer is passing next to the seminal vicle. And the seminal vicle is going to duct into the dctor's defer. So the job of the seminal vicle is to make semen. So we've got a couple of glands making semen adding to the volume of the smatazzo. Um, so the seminal vicles are not for storing sperm. Um, the ductus deference doesn't pass through the seminal vicles. It passes next to the seminal vicle and the seminal vicle will squeeze its secretion into the ductus deference. And of course, this is all occurring during emission and ejaculation. And we can see here the other gland, the prostate gland here. Let's pull this apart. There you go. So you can see the prostate. Hey, look. You can see here's the prostate gland here. So here's the so here's the ductus deference coming around and here's the prostate gland and here's the urethra. Here's the urethra which the semen is going to pass out through. So this is where the spatzora going to go through. So let's look inside the prostate gland and see what's going on here. Now can you see because we've cut a midsagittal section. There is a tube coming in at an angle. This is essentially the last part of the ductus deference. Right? So you've got the two ductus defer ends coming around and then they're going to meet at as the urethra is passing from the bladder through the prostate gland and out. So if we've cut a midsagittal section, we're getting a glancing section of these what are called ejaculatory ducts as they come together and meet the urethra. Um so that's what that is there. So this is the urethra passing out of the bladder. This is the ejaculatory duct essentially the last part of the ductus defer ends. So when the seinal vicles uh when their duct joins the duct the ductus deferrens and as it passes through the prostate gland that's now the ejaculatory duct and here's the prostate gland here. I've got another model. So this model here this has been cut not in a midsagittal section but along the plane of the ejaculatory duct. So, if I take that off, look, here's a bladder. Here's the prostate gland. There's the urethra descending through the prostate gland. Uh, the seinal we got, we've cut through the seminal vicle here and the ductus defer ends. And then here, this duct that's passing through the prostate gland and it's coming in at an angle. That's the ejaculatory duct. So there are two ejaculatory ducts and one urethra. Okay. So there's the ejaculatory duct. So the spermatzo passing through the ductus defer ends. The seminal viscles contract squeeze their secretions into the ductus deference into the ejaculatory duct and then this is passing through the prostate gland and the prostate gland squeezes. So it has a whole bunch of myepithelial structures um so it can squeeze its secretion into the urethra. Now the ductus deferens is a muscular tube. If you look at it down a microscope, you see a thick muscular wall. So what happens during emission and ejaculation is that the ductus deferren is contracting to push the spermatzora along it. So a lot of these structures are contracting to push the contents of the ductus deference and then the urethra along the urethra and out through the tip of the penis. Um the job then of the seminal vicles and the prostate gland just to lump them both together is they're adding volume. They're adding bulk to the spermatzoa. So they're giving them a a carrier medium so that they can be um pushed into the the female environment into the vagina, right? Um they are um alkaline because the female environment, the vagina and what have you are acidic. So the alkalinity um neutralizes the acidity um which is going to prolong the life of the spermatzer. All of these adaptations are to prolong the life the functioning time of the spermatzoa so they live longer so that they maximize their chances of fertilization right you can see how this has evolved this is a direct uh these are having direct effects on evolution right um they're they secrete fructose so they're secretreting uh they're adding sugars which will give energy to the spermatzoa so the spermatzoa can whip their fleella um their tails so they can propel themselves um up the female um reproductive tract towards the ovarian tube which is where hopefully fertilization will take place. Right. There's a coagulating agent which helps then once the semen has been ejaculated and put into the female reproductive system will hopefully hold it in place and stop it falling out. So the seminal vicles for example are producing um the vitamin C um a bunch of enzymes as well as the fructose prostaglandins um and if you if you if you measure the uh survivability of spermatzoa in a you know in a test tube or on a petri dish if you add these things like vitamin C we see that they they remain active for longer and they live longer. So all of these things all of these um the components of semen are there to give an advantage to the spermatzoa central viscles prostate gland ejaculatory duct urethra. Now can you see this here at the bulbo urethral glands there's one on either side and can you see there's a little gland there and it's got a little duct that's ducting into the urethra here and the bulb urethral gland is going to only produce a small secretion. So it's not really contributing to the semen much but it is adding a lubricate um to the urethra and passing out of the the tip of the penis as well. So that's the bobbo urethral gland. That's it. That's the path that spammatzoa take from the testice out through the tip of the penis. Um oh one other thing bladder. One difference between the male and the female bladder and urethra is that there's an external urethral sphincter down here which is under sematic control. So you can you can squeeze that and and hold stop yourself stop the urine from coming out. But the male bladder up here there's an internal urethral sphincter as well which the female um pelvis doesn't have. So the job of the internal urethal sphinct is to close off that opening to the bladder during ejaculation which will then stop ejaculate from going up into the bladder and will force it out through the urethra. So that's one other thing that's different between the male and the female pelvis. And of course um with um with the prostate gland um we get benign hyperplasia uh you know so this benign hypertrophy of the prostate gland and you can get cancers and tumors forming in there as well and it's you know look it's it's within a pretty small space there's nowhere for it to go really and it's surrounded by this fibrouscular capsule. Um what this means is that if the prostate gland becomes hypertrophic then it's going to compress on the urethra. So it's going to give some difficulties with with mixturation with urination with urinating and stuff. But also it's going to push up into the bladder and it'll push up into that internal urethral sphincta and that might be associated with um sensations of of urgency um to urinate even though the bladder is not full. Um and also um frequency, you know, feeling the need to go to the toilet more often um and feeling like um the bladder's never quite emptied. Right? So that's the the prostate gland there is right beneath that internal urethral sphincta. the male reproductive system in a nutshell. Nutshell. Right, let's go and have a look at that 3D printed heart. See if it's finished. The nozzle clogged. It's not printing.