

=== FILE: Be yourself (vlog) [RXBCeqSXMWU].txt ===

 I've interviewed the graduate medicine program. The graduate medicine program is an interesting one. Because I'm one of the people who help build it, I guess I take it for granted, but it's a place for second chances. That's kind of the main purpose of the course, that, and bringing more doctors to Wales, right? When we're in our 20s, let alone when we're at school, most of us don't really know what we want to do. We might think we know what we want to do, we might actually know what we want to do. Often when we start going down that path and we study the subject, or we start the career, we start the job, we realize that, yeah, this isn't entirely what I thought it was going to be. Or we learn more things as we go down that path. So the purpose of the graduate medicine program is to give those people who either didn't get the grades the first time around at school, or didn't have the right subject, didn't know they wanted to do medicine, have gone into all sorts of different careers and then discovered medicine and realized that, ha, I want to do that. So something I'm giving away, any trade secrets when I say we've had about 1200 applications, which is pretty normal. I'm not sure how many we interview. I think it's around 300. We spend about three weeks interviewing. When you come to interview, there are two interviews, a clinical lead one and an academic lead one. I look after the academic lead one. So we're kind of looking at different things. We get used to a presentation and things like that. So I've been chatting to people. I'm amazed how quickly people can think. I think, well, certainly when you get to the interview, you know what's expected of you. You know what experiences you need to demonstrate to show that I know about medicine. This is the right career for me. So we have all those lovely conversations. And I'm always amazed by how much people have done, which is a bit off-putting, isn't it? Oh, my word. These people, these are the people I'm looking at, they've done so much. I feel so rubbish, which is a bit like social media. It is an interesting part of psychology, isn't it? We're always comparing ourselves to other people, which isn't good. I mean, it can be motivating, right? You see somebody else doing this thing. I want to do that. You can have good role models, particularly for behavior and that sort of thing. But I think it's really important to realize that we're all different. We all want different things. We can all do different things. Maybe people do have expectations of us, but maybe much of that's in our heads. But when we compare ourselves to others and think, I should be doing that, I should be doing that, and I should be doing that, what are we really doing? Is that really helping us? If you see somebody and you think, I should be doing that, but is it something you want to be doing? It's like, I mean, the job I'm in, I'm still not entirely sure how I ended up here. I was a quiet kid in school. Now I stand at the front of lecture theaters teaching hundreds of students. And that sort of thing. And I never would have, this was never been planned for me, but I really enjoy it. And I think there's two aspects, two bits of psychology to this. One is, well, the obvious one that don't compare yourself to other people. Figure out what you want to do, what you like doing, let that motivate you. And you don't have to do as much as everybody else is doing. This whole product productivity thing. I mean, what does it even mean? Life isn't just work and producing stuff. Life is doing things you like doing, isn't it? I mean, I'm really lucky because I enjoy my job. My job is my life. It all overlaps so neatly. And yeah, it's hard work and difficult, but I spend all day doing something I enjoy doing most of the time on a risk assessment and standard operating procedures this week. Anyway, but the other thing, the other bit of psychology, which I find really interesting, often in interview circumstances, certainly in academic circumstances, and I know students do this in clinical placements as well, is it's fairly well known that when you put someone into a situation, they often behave in the way they think they are expected to behave. Now, if you're going into a clinical environment, yeah, absolutely, you should have respect for others. Think about other people's feelings. Think about how you're communicating and have respect for that hierarchy because it reflects knowledge and experience of people you're learning from. Yes, absolutely do all that. And students, a common bit of feedback I hear from students when I'm talking to them is, they'll say, oh, I saw this thing on clinical placement and I didn't like the way the doctor behaved and I'm not going to be like that. That's great. They've seen some behavior. They have reflected on that, decided whether they think it's good or not, and have decided not to be like that in the future. And they also tell me, I saw this, I saw this fantastic example of this thing. It's usually the way a doctor behaved. Sometimes it could be any sort of healthcare professional, but it's often a doctor. The way they behaved, the way it affected the patient, bub bub bub bub, good, good, good, and tick, tick, tick, and they say, I want to be like that. Now that, that's great. Do that. But the other thing I see, which is harder to notice, is that thing of people conforming to what's expected of them. And what I mean by that is they'll often match their personality and behavior to what they think is expected of them, of what is around them. Now what that does is that kind of blunts your edges. That makes everybody a little bit similar. That stops you from thinking outside the box, from expanding, from stretching yourself out a little bit and pushing your boundaries. And you don't need to do that. That's fine. You can, as long as you're polite, consider it respectful, you can be you. Right? I say, can you imagine this in an interview? So, you know, I'm expected to be the academic and behave in a certain way. There's the interview. E, they're hoping to get on the program. They're expected to act in a certain way. That's great. But I want to see your individuality. I want to see what makes you you. And it's the same when academics start academic jobs. Like the job I'm in, I mean, if I survive this year because universities are contracting and people are losing jobs, but if I survive this year, the academic job I'm in is one of those permanent jobs. It's like a job for life. And what I often see new academics doing, I'm pretty sure I did this as well, is fitting inside the box, conforming to that thing you think. You think this is the way I should behave. This is the work that I should do. Academic jobs are weird because, sure, there's a whole bunch of stuff that I have to do. That is expected of me that has to get done. But as long as that gets done, this is a role you demonstrated your ability to manage yourself, think broadly. That's what the PhD does. Right. But it's a job that you kind of make your own. You define yourself. You have to push the boundaries to a certain extent. Although it hasn't been great for my career, but then I'm not really interested in my career. I'm interested in doing interesting things. So some of us, back in the early 2000s, when the university was saying e-learning was in force, and this has led to me putting YouTube videos out every week and printing 150, really printing the bones of the hand for 150 students during COVID when they couldn't come in and send them out to them. You know, doing stuff that I think is good and useful, but other people haven't done before that isn't part of this, isn't part of the normal. Right. I think what I'm trying to say is watch out for that bit of human psychology that describes how people behave in the way that they're expected to behave in a situation. Because sometimes that's bad. Sometimes that's good. Like I say, be considerate, be thoughtful, be polite, respect the hierarchy, all good things. I'm not saying don't do that. I'm not saying be belligerent and horrible. I'm saying you are freer than maybe you think you are in your role. So in the medicine program, we're very keen to produce, well, to turn you into a doctor, not to make 150 doctors that all look the same. Do you see what I mean? Because medicine's broad and this is part of giving people second chances. I've got kids coming out of school, we've got kids who've got kids in their 20s. The same age as my kids, right? People who've got experience, knowledge, skills that they're bringing to the profession. And we want you to do that. And I kind of want to see that in the interview as well. And I think I'll do that in the interview. In the academic-led interview, I like asking the awkward question of what have you done wrong? What mistakes have you made? You might have noticed I like talking about failure. Medicine is often the first time anybody fails anything serious. And it's about how you deal with that failure and how you continue to progress. I often ask those awkward questions of, you know, that thing you didn't really feel, oh, well, how did you respond? How did you reflect on that? Did you just say, right, that's it, give up, walk away, I don't want to do that again? Or did you respond, reflect, change, adapt and succeed? Both answers are correct because, you know, it's not easy. Anyway, I don't know, the interviews just made me think about that this week, about the roles we fall into and how I spend 20 minutes trying to break that role and find out more about the candidate properly. And yes, I'm really interesting people to speak to. And likewise, these 20-year-olds, 20-something-year-olds who've done so much, try not to feel like you should be doing what that person is doing. Try and find what you want to do and, you know, be you. Do you? Oh, wow, it doesn't even sound easy, does it? Really doesn't sound easy. Anyway, it's interesting psychology. The more we learn about how our brain works, the more we can ignore it. Right.

=== FILE: I am an idiot but it's ok (vlog) [76XP9iDZpaQ].txt ===

 I am an idiot. I've always been an idiot. I do stupid things, but I don't realise they're stupid until afterwards. I was recently reminded that when Kim and I left home and went to university, when we were 18, 19, we only found someone to live two weeks before term started. Unfurnished. I say stupid things to my dentist because I'm nervous. Nothing upsetting, just stupid idiotic things. I'm changing dentist. I decided to teach myself how to rock-line. Kids are idiots. So I remember a lot of times, particularly for my teenage years, when I was idiotic. I've got quite the idiot CV. I only realise I'm an idiot after I've done the idiotic thing. As I get older, I look back on my younger self and realise what an idiot I was. Therefore, logically and philosophically, I am an idiot right now, but I don't realise it yet. I only realise it in the future when I look back. Knowing you're an idiot can be quite paralyzing. How do I do this thing that I think I'm thinking about doing as a known idiot? How do I talk to all these people I've got to talk to out in the real world, out in the university, given my history, the video scene? If I'm in a meeting and I have this idea in my head, how do I say it out loud as a known idiot? I went to the opticians yesterday and tried really hard not to be an idiot. Not complete success, but I think I was okay. First of all, I think that identifying as an idiot helps. My tagline on social media, back when I used to do social media, used to be professional academic amateur idiot, because I get paid for doing one of these things. It feels a little bit better to come out as an idiot, to recognise in myself that I am an idiot. I feel better about myself. I'm not sure better is the right word. Recognising that I am an idiot gives me the opportunity to reflect on the things that I have done that turn out to be idiotic or stupid, and try to not do the same stupid things again in the future. This would suggest that I become less of an idiot over time, but I have no empirical evidence to support this. If the option is to not do something because I worry about being an idiot, well that sounds like less fun. So maybe I should do the thing anyway, and if it turns out to be idiotic, it's another one of those learning experiences. See above, right? I can pretend to other people that I am not an idiot, brazen it out. I totally know what I'm doing. Most of the time, people don't seem to mind that I am an idiot. Maybe I'm lost in the crowd of idiots. We see a lot of idiots out there, mostly trying to drive a car. Maybe because I'm an idiot, I do idiotic things that other people don't consider doing. That can be a good thing and a bad thing, right? You want to see how I got those camera balanced? Idiotic. In a totally unrelated note, I have removed all AI, large language models and other things from my phones, my tablets, my computers. I'm kind of sick again, they pushed in my face, but also I haven't actually used it for ages. Yeah, I know, but I don't actually use the AI bit, I just use the camera and the microphone. I'm worried about the effects on the environment, I'm worried about the ground scale theft used to create these things. I realise that I learn more by looking stuff up and figuring it out. In this week's video about the muscles of the thumb, I read a thing about the deep branch of the ulnar nerve, innovating some of the deep parts of the thin arm muscles, which I went all the way back to the original paper translated from the German to see if that was really a thing or just one of those myths that had been spread. I learn more by looking stuff up and figuring it out for myself. I worry that relying on such things will make me even more of an idiot. Idiotic or genius, we'll see I guess. Anyway, professional academic amateur idiot, continue.

=== FILE: Interviews (vlog) [nLd3a1LOXcE].txt ===

оньRADE The cycle path is closed in its midsection between where I live and where I work. And the cycle path is an old railway line which means it cuts through the hills. Wales is all hills. So, because I can't cycle through the midsection, it means I have to climb over the hills. and on the road and I'm riding a fixie a fixed wheel bike no so it's got a single gear you can't stop pedaling which makes hills quite a challenge oh yeah sure I could pick up one of my bikes that's got gears on it but that seems like a well of a way to the challenge really and we're back on the cycle path it's not a big detail but it's really hard it's really steep on them so that's why I'm wearing a helmet I've been cycling to work every day since I was obviously on my first job when I was 16 so about 35 years sure there have been some breaks in that right for you close enough to walk but otherwise I cycle to work it back every day and the beauty of cycle paths is well you're not gonna fall off your bike there's no reason for you to fall off your bike the biggest danger of dogs when I like to slow down for dogs and say hi to dogs because I'm not in a hurry so in my experience there is just no reason for falling off your bike on the cycle path but on the road again I don't fall off my bike on the road I get hit by cars morning yeah I saw him it's fine I have never fallen off my bike on the cycle path unless it's icy I think I slipped off icy over nowhere a helmet when it's icy as well actually with regard to wearing helmets if you're thinking but what if that one time well if you're using that logic then looking at the statistics people over the age of should be wearing a helmet all the time and people under the age of 25 in cars should be wearing helmets while in cars I think that would make a bigger difference in that some of these lost these days isn't it is managing personal risk rock line does quite good at managing personal risk anyway remember like everything else I say this is not financial advice no it's not health it's not any advice we should be doing everything we can to reduce the risk of traumatic brain injury because you know it's soft and squidgy and really important my main method of reducing my risk of traumatic brain injuries be cycling to work on cycle paths every day cycle paths are great how about I should wear a helmet all year round I guess what happens is we get to summer it gets hot I don't want to wear my helmet because it's hot and then I just stop wearing it and kind of realize I don't need it and it just never goes back on again but no what I'm what I'm saying is you make your own decisions yourself about how to keep yourself safe right but please do remember I am just an idiot on the internet I don't know everything don't do as I say don't do as I do oh look it has started to rain what a surprise I've had quite a bit of anxiety this week I think caught me out both of my kids are looking at going to university in the next academic year so this September October hey that's my business so I know how this works youngest had two interviews this week the first one was an online interview these are portfolio interviews to look at the body of work and the quality of work and have a chat about stuff and see if it all fits but still a portfolio interviews the first one was online my job was to be technist tech support make sure everything worked make sure everything was set up and to be on hand if stuff went wrong then the second one was a physical in-person interview in Swansea she didn't have to go far we've been there before so I was just the driver and you know the supporter but I'm very used to doing stressful difficult things myself you know I teach every week I stand in front of large groups of people and I you know I do all sorts of stuff but with your kids you really care about your kids right you really care about your kids future you really care about the things your kids want to do and you want them to be able to do the things they want to do but you have absolutely no control over this and that anxiety is quite draining I've been quite tired this week I've been worn out by it both interviews went exceedingly well couldn't have gone any better both gave offers which is fantastic so why do I still feel anxiety it's because it's because you have kids for quite a long time right when your kids are kids you do everything for them and you have control to a certain extent you do almost everything for them and you know you got when they become adults you lose that control you still feel the same way you still want everything to be great for your kids but now you are relinquishing control you're they're taking charge it's up to them so you know the idea of leaving home moving away different responsibilities looking after themselves and not having that not being able to look after them anymore that's interesting that I thought it was supposed to get easier as they got older no so guess what I am doing next week I am interviewing candidates who want to study medicine here next week so I'm gonna be the interviewer I don't change what I do I already work really hard to make the candidate you know as relaxed as possible it's a potentially very stressful situation obviously because I can get the best out of them I want to find out things I'm gonna try and tick on my boxes I want to give them their best opportunity right I think I'm gonna feel more nervous for them than I did before they probably maybe I'm gonna feel more nervous for their parents they won't find out at the end of their interviews they will find out sometime later when we put all the numbers together whether we offer them a place or not I think I'm always a little bit jealous at this sort of time as well it's such an exciting time I know it seems stressful and scary although to be honest my kids seem pretty solid with it pretty chill not as anxious as me but I'm good at hiding my nerves right anyway it's a very exciting time it's setting your future it's it's going off on a path it's taking it's it's it's so exciting because it's new and interesting and you don't know what's coming up or where it's gonna take you or what you're gonna find out we're gonna learn or what you don't want to do and stuff and at my age you feel that you don't really have that anymore if you're going through that process and you're looking at us fuddy-duddies and thinking that we're all like elevated and stuff remember that we've been through this as well and we probably do look on it a little bit of rose tinted spectacles and wonder oh wouldn't it be wouldn't it be exciting too anyway back to my paperwork that's less exciting but it needs to be done okay

=== FILE: My path (vlog) [W5PSLddswrs].txt ===

! It's fun, isn't it? Even when it's grey and wet and miserable like this, I still can't imagine driving to work. That seems worse. I'm all wrapped up, I'm fine, it's only 30 minutes. I can't live in Wales, it does rain a bit. You've got to get used to the weather. But to be honest, certainly the mornings have started to get brighter. It's not quite so dark. When I cycle home sometimes, I can feel spring is coming, the flowers are starting to appear. It's been a long winter. Morning. They've been working on this cycle path, so the middle section, I couldn't cycle over a little while, I go for about four weeks. Oh, it's really fun. Morning, that's your age. Yeah, he's not in a hurry either. They've been removing a lot of trees, hundreds of trees, but then there are tens of thousands of trees down here. Widening it, I think they've laid down some tarmac now. They've cut some new drains because it regularly flooded, but they haven't laid the final fresh tarmac yet. So here they've widened on the left. So that first bit of tarmac is just like, they've dug a trench, they put in some hardcore, some thick gravel, and they've laid over that bit of tarmac. They'll come down and they'll do this whole, they'll re-tarmac it as a whole single sweep. I don't know when though. So this section of path by the Rugby Club, never a rain delight, it would always flood so you'd be cycling down a river. So they have dug out the channel, rebuilt the bank, we've got some decent drainage. Look, that's where the water comes in there. So all of these floods with heavy rain normally, so they fix that. Morning. I cycle the same path, the same route to working back every day, but it's not always the same route every day, if you know what I mean. We're starting to get a bit of spring. It's been very bleak and dark through the winter, when everything starts to leaf and fill in, it looks different again in the summer when it's hot. It's difficult to imagine, but I'll be in trance to see sure. Morning. We've come out by the sea. I think this time of year, almost or a little bit earlier, the sun's often coming up as I get to the sea so you get that rare sunrise. It's always changing, it's lovely. I've been riding this for more than 20 years and for some reason I'm never bored. I guess because I do it all the time, I can't imagine driving into work. Driving, traffic, parking, expense, sporing. So this is an old railway line, right? Used to have 60 train services running up and down here before they were closed. When the car came along, everybody started driving their cars. People stopped using the train. They needed as many train services. So then they streamlined the railways by closing all these branch lines, all these sidelines, they're just keeping most of the major ones. So it's nice that they've been repurposed to this sort of thing. The reason it's really nice is because Wales is really hilly and the railways per huge amount of time and effort, you can see the embankments here, cutting into the hill, cutting through the hill. So as a cycle path then, because trains can't really go up hills and down hills, they try and make a gradual climb and a gradual descent to the cycle path. Brilliant, right? Gradual climb, gradual descent. It's easy. I've got to be the headman today, but easy. Where I live and the villages and towns and communities around here, they all sprung up, well, largely the 1800s, because of the mining coal mines and metal oars around here. There are also lots of train lines and other tracks and trails from history. There's also lots of mines in the hillsides here, lots of entrances, lots of openings. Yes, a lot of the old infrastructure for mining. Well, it's all grown over now, it's all trees and lovely, and you often find a weird quarry or a weird opening, what have you, but it's mostly gone to green. You can't build houses over where most of the mines were, because, well, the houses might fall into the mines, right? Into the shafts. I'm sure they're not as well documented as you'd hoped. I'm going to go down there. Ah, there's the tailwind. That's better. Tides in, but it's very grey. Full Christmas had a TV thing request to do something with James May about anatomy and body and stuff, but it didn't panic for various reasons. We couldn't quite give them what they wanted. Just had another one through a colleague at work, another, this is for the BBC production company, I think it's making something about methanol poisoning, and could we do any visual stuff? I didn't know much about this. I looked it up. Very interesting. Methanol is a poisonous form of alcohol, because when you ingest it, you have enzymes in your body that just so happen to turn methanol into formaldehyde, then the formaldehyde gets turned into formic acid. So you have that acidosis problem, but also it interferes with your mitochondria, an energy production. So the first thing is you know it's failing at eyesight because of the retina, and the energy demands of the retina, and then basal ganglia, tremors and stuff. Very interesting. Not sure if this will come to be or not. That's coming up soon. I do like to see the geese in the park every day. They're out on the water today. They'll be laying eggs, they'll be getting pretty protective, I should think, in February, March. More protective than normal anywhere. Love geese, they've got an attitude. They're hiss, but they never bite. For the game of Cybert's work, one of the most important things I find is knowing where you're going to leave your bike. If you leave it indoors, great, it'll be rusty when you come back. I'm soggy on the outside, not too soggy on the inside, hopefully. So I'll give the first years some feedback on their formative anatomy exam, because they've got their formative anatomy exam coming up soon. Ilshehehe I'm not teaching, but I am giving a feedback session. back sessions. Do I put a shirt on? Do I change my trousers or do I just dry these out by wearing them? It feels like they fixed the heat and it feels like it's warm. My radiator has got warmth all the way through it. Oh joy, I've got that bug. So these are old Thunderbolt monitors but they're fine, they're good. But there's a fun bug with the latest Mac OS so Thunderbolt doesn't work. All these Thunderbolt monitors don't work properly anymore. It's great isn't it? You buy Apple stuff to work with Apple stuff, you buy new Apple stuff and the old Apple stuff doesn't quite work right. So you see how that middle display is dim now? Yeah I gotta go battle with the settings to try and get it to brighten up. Come on. Weird isn't it? Such a weird bug and when it's really dim you can't even see the settings menu. Maybe I should walk away and get a cup of coffee. Yeah. All right, gave the firsts their feedback on their formative exam with some advice and notes and other bits and bobs and they seem anxiously happy. Four weeks to their first summative exam so I've also written them 15 questions. We're gonna teach them one Monday. One of the stations will give them example spotter exam that goes follows the learning outcomes goes all the way back to week one. See if they can remember 20 odd weeks worth of anatomy and remind them of the revision they have to do. I say remind them. It's the first time they've done it so teach them. Teach them what they've got to do. Speaking of which I was playing Dave the Diver as you do and Bancho is it? Bancho. The sushi chef in Dave the Diver. He said something along the lines of we're blessed to have a path to follow. We're lucky to have a path to follow and Dave didn't really understand this fair enough. It's funny how games trigger thoughts isn't it but yeah absolutely and this is something I do talk about a lot. You're very lucky when you find your path and that you are able to follow that path but it made me think that so you see me as a teacher right? That's not the path I'm on. The path I'm on is the eternal student. I'm on a learning path. I want to know everything and the teaching is both like a byproduct of that learning path. You know so through teaching right I want to learn if I use that learning to teach that helps other people but I get paid for it which means I can do more learning and I can keep forging along this path but also that teaching is kind of like a method of learning and the teaching itself pushes you to investigate and learn and study and drives you along this path because students are great at asking you difficult questions you don't know the answers to for one example. So further along the path and helping other people along the path and then when I'm finished I will get back on the cycle path. And go home.

=== FILE: Origins and insertions of finger muscles [0I0gBe8IvCE].txt ===

 izethihi, izethihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi iz help give us that dexterity so we can do all sorts of strange things with our fingers that we find useful. So, oh, and then we've got some on the other side as well. So we will work our way through. We'll look at the, we'll introduce the muscles. We'll look at the bony bits, put the muscles on the bones. All right. This might take a while. It's going to be a challenge remembering all the muscles. So in the forearm, deep to these muscles, we looked at the muscles that move the wrist in a recent video. Take those off. Deep to that, we have flexor digitorum superficialis. The digits are the fingers. This is flexion, extension, abduction, adduction of the fingers. So flexor digitorum superficialis is the superficial flexor of the fingers. Take flexor digitorum superficialis off and deep to that, we'll find flexor digitorum profundus. Profundus meaning deep, profound. So we have two layers of muscle and they then send tendons up to the fingers. So we have two layers of muscle doing most of finger flexion generating that force. On this side, this is the little finger is called digitai minimi, which is quite nice. And we have three muscles here. We have abductor digitori minimi, which abducts the little finger. We have flexor digitori minimi brevis. I mean, it is short, but there isn't a long one. So I'm not entirely sure why it gets called brevis, but flexor digitori minimi brevis is the short flexor of the little finger. And then deep to those guys, we have opponent's digitai minimi, which helps with opposition, which is that sort of movement. We have a little bit of rotation as well as flexor going on. And then we have some very special muscles, the lumbricals, the little worms that run from the tendons to some connective tissue on the back of their hands and have a very confusing action, the lumbricals. And then we have the interosseous muscles. So interosseous, literally between the bones, we can see some of them in there. So we have two layers of interosseous muscles, some on the dorsal side and some on the palmar side. How am I doing? I think this doesn't sound so bad when I rattle through it like this. And then on this side, these muscles are going to do extension of the fingers. So here we have extensor digitorum, just that one layer. But then we also have a bit of extra control over our index finger, little extra control over our little finger. So we have extensor indices and extensor digitai minimi. Did I forget any? As we go through, I will probably remember them. Okay, what bony features are we going to need? Well, here are our main bones. We have the humerus. And then in the forearm, we have two bones, the radius and the ulna. Remember that your radial pulse is on your thumb side. So the radius is on the thumb side, the ulna is on the little finger side. There's the thumb. So here's the radius. Here's the ulna. So at the humerus, we have these two lumps on either side. So these knuckles in here, the word for knuckle is a condyle. So upon these condyles are these epicondyles. These are the bony features you can feel on either side of your elbow there. So those are actually parts of the humerus. So we have a medial epicondyle of the humerus and a lateral epicondyle of the humerus. We don't need to worry about these bits too much. We are going to talk about the radius as a whole and the ulna as a whole. So we have like the proximal end of the radius and the distal end of the radius, the proximal end of the radius. This is the head over here. But we'll often, we'll usually talk about proximal and distal ulna and that sort of thing. And then when we get to the wrist, we have a couple of carpal bones that we're interested in. So the wrist is the carpus, the collection of bones here that slide over one another to move the wrist of the carpal bones. We don't need to know about all of them today. We have a couple of major lumps which actually we saw when we saw some of the wrist flexors come in here. And it's the same bones we're interested in today. We have the pisiform and the hamate which is the hook of the hamate. And we'll see muscles on the little finger side, there's a clue, attaching to those features, the pisiform and the hook of the hamate. And then distal to the carpal bones, the long bones in here, which make up much of the substance of the hand, those are the metacarpal bones. And then when we get into the digits themselves, the fingers, we have three, one, two, three phalanges. Each bone is a phalanx. So we have proximal, middle and distal phalanges. And really what we'll probably talk about here is yes, we're going to talk about attachments to one or more of the phalanges, but the joints here. So the joint between the metacarpal bone and this proximal phalanx, this is the metacarpophalangeal joint here. And then between the phalangeal bones themselves, we have interphalangeal joints. Yeah. So we'll think about how these are moving because they move in slightly different ways. Those might be all the lumpy bits we need. That still doesn't seem too bad. Okay, then. So we're in the anterior forearm. Let me take that off. Yeah, there we go. And now we can see flexidigitorum superficialis. And we can see where it's coming from here. Look, we're on the little finger side. We're up at the elbow. There's a lumpy, bumpy bit. Up here. So there we go. There's the little finger side. We're at the medial epicondyle of the humerus. Now, in terms of origins and insertions, what we're talking about are where muscles attach to bone. The origin is typically the bit that doesn't move. The insertion is typically the bit that does move. The origin is usually more proximal or more medial. The insertion is often more distal or more lateral. But these rules often get broken. But in this case, the rules hold firm. So the flexidigitorum superficialis muscle actually has two heads. So it has two origin points. And it has this origin here from, like I say, the medial epicondyle of the humerus, the common flexor origin, where we see a common tendon here. And most of the flexor muscles of the wrist and the fingers, most of the flexor muscles in the forearm here come from this common tendinous origin at the medial epicondyle of the humerus. Now, the ulna here has also got this coronoid process that kind of goes up in there. So we have two origins for this head, the medial epicondyle of the humerus, the coronoid process of the ulna, and that makes up the humero ulna head. And then the radial head, so here's the radius here on the thumb side. There's kind of this narrow, so there's the radial tuberosity. So distal from the radial tuberosity, there's this thin strip where the flexidigitorum superficialis' radial head has its origin. So flexidigitorum superficialis is attached to the radius and the ulna and the medial epicondyle of the humerus. It then extends and sends its tendons across the wrist, across the metacarpal bones and the metacarpophalangeal joints, and all the way to the middle phalanges. And we can see those tendons here running to the middle phalanges of digits 2, 3, 4, and 5. The thumb is digit 1, so digits 2, 3, 4, and 5. And actually what we can see here is we can see that tendon splitting to allow the tendon of the deep muscle to pass through and further on. But that's the insertion of the flexidigitorum superficialis muscle into the middle phalanges of digits 2, 3, 4, and 5. The flexidigitorum superficialis muscle is innovated by the median nerve and it flexes the fingers at that metacarpophalangeal joint and the proximal interphalangeal joint. It doesn't actually go to your fingertips. So kind of, I don't know if I've got good, you get the idea right. So it flexes the fingers and it also is, it aids in flexing of the wrist because it crosses the wrist joint. Flexidigitorum superficialis, right, if I take that off deep to the nerve here, the muscle in there is flexidigitorum profundus. So it's much deeper and it's slammed up against the radius, the ulna, and the interosseous membrane. That'll be what I forgot. So the interosseous membrane, if we have our radius and ulna bones, in the plastic skeleton here, we see a gap between them. But in life, these two bones are joined by a flat sheet of connective tissue. One of the purposes of that flat sheet of connective tissue is to give something for muscles to attach to. And that's what flexidigitorum profundus attaches to. So its origins are here. So flexidigitorum profundus, it does not attach to the radius. It has most of its origin from the ulna. So from the anterior surface of the ulna, the proximal half, or maybe the proximal three quarters of the ulna. That's where flexidigitorum profundus has its origin and also the interosseous membrane next to it. So that's the origin of flexidigitorum profundus, the anterior surface of the ulna and the interosseous membrane. It then sends those tendons through the wrist, past the metacarpophalangeal joints, past the proximal... I'm saying too many words now. It sends its tendons all the way to the distal phalanges, the bases of the distal phalanges of two, three, four, and five. So we have the tendon of flexidigitorum superficialis splitting and the tendon we see running through here is the tendon of flexidigitorum profundus and that's running all the way to the base of the distal phalanx bone in digits two, three, four, and five. So this tendon will pull on the fingertips. So the job of flexidigitorum profundus is to again flex the fingers through all of those joints and aid in flexing the wrist. This means that if you were to tear your flexidigitorum profundus tendon you wouldn't be able to do that, right? Because that's flexidigitorum profundus, flexidigitorum superficialis is pulling on there. So the parts of flexidigitorum profundus that move digits two and three are innovated by the median nerve. The parts of flexidigitorum profundus, moreover on the ulnar side that move fingers four and five are innovated by the ulnar nerve. As we get into the hand, I have a hand. So let's have a look at the muscles of the little finger. So this muscle here then is abductor digiti minimi. So it abducts the little finger, does that. It's origin is the PZ form bone. So this little P-shaped bone of the wrist. And also other connective tissues around here that are also attached into PZ form kind of blend a little bit. And then this muscle is going to pass across this joint here, which would be a carpometacarpal joint, across the metacarpophalangeal joint and insert into the base of the proximal phalanx bone and on the kind of the medial side, on the on the ulnar side there. And in that way, it's able to abduct the little finger. It will also help in flexion of the little finger. Now, what this muscle is doing is it's letting us, it's letting us do that, right? It's letting us grip things that are bigger than our hand, like, like maybe a big ball or something like that. So it's quite important in that sort of grip type thing. So abductor digiti minimi, it's innervated by the ulnar nerve. Now, if I take off, without all this falling apart, that's the palmaroponeurosis. If I take that off, so if that is abductor digiti minimi, right next to it is flexor digiti minimi here. It is a separate muscle. Now, the origin of this muscle is the other carpal bone we were just looking at. So if there's pisiform, abductor digiti minimi, there's the hook of the hamate. That is the origin of the flexor digiti minimi muscle. And also the palmar, the flexor retinaculum that runs across here, that connected tissue. And then this muscle, flexor digiti minimi, is also actually going to run very similarly, as we saw in the model, to the other muscle. And again, it's going to run to the base of that proximal phalanx, the fifth proximal, fifth digit, little finger, on the medial side or the ulnar side. We can look at see, see the path it's taking, right. So flexor digiti minimi is running similarly, but as it's a little bit more towards the midline of the hand, it's much better at flexing the little finger across those joints there. There's a little bit of rotation as well as we start to get into opposition. So flexor digiti minimi from the hook of the hamate to flexor retinaculum. Those are its origins and inserts into the base of the proximal phalanx of the fifth digit on the ulnar side. It is also innervated by the ulnar nerve. Now where, where oh where, is opponent's digiti minimi? Let's take these off. Oh, there it is. Opponent's digiti minimi is deep to those guys and it's wrapping around that metacarpal bone. This muscle is different. Its origin again is the hook of a hamate and the flexor retinaculum, but its insertion is in to the metacarpal bone, does not go to the proximal phalanx. So the, by wrapping around that metacarpal bone, that fifth metacarpal bone, it can also aid in flexion, but it's acting at the carpometacarpal joint. So it can aid in flexion and kind of rotation of that joint there. But you see what it's doing? It's curving the palm of the hand. So opponent's digiti minimi is important in opposition, bringing say the thumb and the little finger to meet like that. But look at the shape of the hand. The shape of the hand is changing. So this is, this is what lets you grip onto something that's, it's curved, right? Opponent's digiti minimi, from the hook of the hamate and the flexor retinaculum to the fifth metacarpal bone. All of those guys make up the hypophenar eminence, that pad on that side of your hand, and they're all innovated by the ulnar nerve. Before we dive deeper, we need a bit more connective tissue. So these are the extension extensor tendons on the back of the hand that will extend the fingers. Now what happens when these extensor tendons get to the metacarpal phalangeal joint and beyond, is that that connective tissue expands, it's a bit like an eponeurosis. And here we have an extensor expansion, or at this point an extensor expansion hood, or an expansion hood. So as the, as the extensor tendons pass into the fingers, they broaden out into this triangular shape that sends connective tissue around the metacarpal phalangeal joint here. And then the tendon continues on the dorsal surfaces of the digits all the way out through kind of a, a somewhat complicated collection of cords and tendons and bits and bobs. But this, this extensor expansion hood is important, right? It's a tough connective tissue, it's part of the extensor tendon, but it wraps around the metacarpal phalangeal joint. All right, back to the palmar side, and deeply we dive to the lumbricals, named after earthworms because they look like worms. These guys are kind of, are they unique? They might be unique. The origins of the lumbrical muscles are the tendons of flexor digitorum profundus. So we're seeing, so that the deeper, we've got two pairs of, we've got a pair of tendons running into each finger right on the flexor side. So the lumbrical muscle here and here and here and here and here, these four lumbrical muscles, their origin is the tendon of flexor digitorum profundus. And then they run across the metacarpal phalangeal joint and insert into the extensor expansion hood, which means that they can aid in flexion of the metacarpal phalangeal joint, right? Flexion of the fingers of that joint. But because they can pull on that extensor hood, they can also extend the interphalangeal joints. In a nutshell, the lumbrical muscles do that. That's what I, you know, if you're doing, when you're, you know, when you're writing and do that upstroke, that's the other classic example. So that, that movement, because you're not just using the extensor muscles back there because the metacarpal phalangeal joint is still flexed. So the lumbricals do that. Flex the metacarpal phalangeal joints with other muscles that do the same thing and extend the interphalangeal joints with other muscles that do the same thing. The lumbricals. See what I mean? I have not described a bony attachment site. They've gone from tendon to tendon, essentially. We have four, so we can see them here. Digits two, three, four, and five. So this is lumbricals one and two over here are innervated by the median nerve. Lumbricals three and four over here are innervated by the ulnar nerve. One of those really awkward things to remember. Take the lumbricals off and those flexor tendons. And now we're as deep as we can go. We can see the metacarpal bones. And now we can see the interosseous muscles. The interosseous muscles are then between those bones. So we have palmar interosseous muscles on the palmar side. We have dorsal interosseous muscles on the dorsal side. And these muscles are between the metacarpal bones. So the origins of the interosseous muscles are the metacarpal bones. And okay, so these interosseous muscles cross the metacarpophalangeal joint and insert into the base of the proximal phalanx bone and into the extensor expansion, the hood that we can see there actually a little bit. The extensor expansion hood. Now the palmar interosseous muscles are uni-pennate. It means they're kind of pulling. I did a video on that. The dorsal interosseous muscles are bipennate. So the palmar interosseous muscles run from metacarpals and the palmar interosseous muscles. So the palmar interosseous muscles are adducted. And look, they're coming into digit three. Right? So you've got palmar interosseous muscles for digits two, four, and five, but not for three, because you adduct into three. Whereas the dorsal interosseous muscles are bipennate. So they they have origins on metacarpals one, two, three, four, and five. And again, they're kind of, well, pad, palmar adduct, dab, dorsal abduct. So they do that. So they, again, this is so you can grip onto big things, right? You adduct your fingers, plus, you know, general dexterity and stuff. So they have, they can pull your fingers apart. Again, this is in action largely at the metacarpal phalangeal joint. So they're bipennate muscles. Their origins are from all five metacarpal bones. And again, they insert into the base of the proximal phalanx and the dorsal expansion, the dorsal extensor expansion hood. The interosseous muscles are innovated by the ulnar nerve, making these pretty good tests of the ulnar nerve in the hand, because you're testing those interosseous muscles. Because of the way the interosseous muscles run and they insert into the extensor expansion hoods, it means they can also aid the lumbricals in doing lumbrical type movements, which are best kind of demonstrated and described. But I think that's it. I think that's the, I say that's it. Stay, stay where you are. Sit down again. That's the flexor side. Now we can look at the extensor side, which I promise you will be a lot quicker. There we go. There's the extensor side. Here is extensor digitorum. Our arm is a little bit twisted there. It's a little bit partially pronated. So extensor digitorum is the main muscle of finger extension. Its origin is the lateral epicondyle of the humerus, the common extensor origin. When we were looking at the muscles that extend the wrist, they come from that same, that common extensor origin, mostly. So the origin is the lateral epicondyle of the humerus. There are a whole bunch of muscles deep to it between it and the bone. So extensor digitorum then sends those tendons all the way through, tied down by that extensor retinaculum there. And these tendons enter that dorsal extensor expansion system here, which essentially takes them all the way to the distal phalange. So they're able to extend all the way to the fingertips. We see here inter-tendinous connections. This means that the fingers kind of move together, right? So as you move these tendons, they're all tied together a little bit, which kind of ties all the movements together a little bit into tendinous connections. So origin, lateral epicondyle of the humerus, insertion, extensor expansion of the digits on the dorsal side. That muscle is innovated by the radial nerve, the nerves of the posterior compartment of the forearm. For extensor indices, we can see two tendons here, but one of them we don't really see where it comes from. And that's because it's deep to extensor digitorum. It's under there. It's so well hidden because if your index finger is over here, there's the radius bone. The origin of extensor indices is the distal third of the ulna. And as it's, as the extensor indices muscle is so deep, its origin is not only the ulna, but also the interosseous membrane between the ulna and the radius back here. So its origin is here, and then it's diving across to get to the index finger to get to digit two. So the origin of extensor indices, distal third of the posterior surface of the ulna, crosses the carpal bones, crosses the hand, and it becomes the dorsal extensor expansion of digit two. And it lets you point, doesn't it? It's your pointer. It's your pointer muscle. Extensor digiti minimi, over on the little finger side. Again, we can see a pair of tendons there. Now this one, extensor digiti minimi, its origin is also the lateral epicondyle of the humerus. And then it runs across to the dorsal expansion of the extensor expansion of digit five. So that's what gives your little finger and your, gives your little finger and your index finger some independent movement. Whereas the other fingers tend to move together because of the, yeah, anyway. Extensor digiti minimi is also innovated by the radial nerve. So the posterior compartment of the forearm, it's all radial nerve, all these extensor muscles, radial nerve. But wow, see, that's just the fingers. We haven't even looked at the thumb yet. Ah, and so we've looked at flexor digitorum superficialis, flexor digitorum profundus, the hypothenar muscles of abductor digiti minimi, flexor digiti minimi brevis, I bet I forgot to say brevis a whole bunch of times, opponent's digiti minimi, and then we went deeper and we looked at the lumbricals and the interosseous muscles before turning around to look at the extensor muscles of extensor digitorum, extensor indices and extensor digiti minimi. Okay. And now we better understand the bones, where those muscles attach. We probably understand their depths a little bit better as well now. We understand why we can't see some of these muscles muscles on these models because they're deep to other muscles. We understand how they move the fingers. And it's kind of like one of those things you kind of got to, you kind of got to get, feel it out with your brain to understand how these muscles coordinate to give you the dexterity, and yet also that strength and power. Okay, well done. I'll either brave and do the thumb next week, or we'll go back and look at supination and pronation, but the origins and insertions of the muscles that move the fingers. All right.

=== FILE: Origins and insertions of hip flexor and extensor muscles [MCN31-4oFug].txt ===

αιαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι gamestαι chunks i think as it is we've probably probably got about nine muscles to look at so these videos looking at the origins and insertions of muscles we are going to look at the muscles we are going to look at what they do we are going to talk about the nerves that innovate them but we're going to look at the bony features that these muscles attach to and the bony features are largely caused by the attachments of these muscles so this is kind of at a slightly higher level maybe this is the sort of thing that might be useful for anatomical science students like me for osteopaths physiotherapists maybe surgical trainees for the curious and what it'll do is it'll help our anatomical understanding of the lumpy bits on bones it'll help our understanding of where bones lie in three dimensions because we'll understand how they attach the different bones it'll help our understanding of how they move those bones and it'll help us to answer those exam questions and write those essays about the origins and insertions of gluteus maximus or whatever okay that's the challenge yeah so we are going to um not roll the skeleton off the table we're going to introduce the movements we're going to introduce the muscles then we will look at the bony bits we need to look at and then we'll put the muscles on the bony bits and we'll talk about what we mean by origins and insertions so here's the hip joint we are going to look at the muscles that do flexion of the femur at the hip joint and extension of the femur at the hip joint to see that another way flexion of the femur at the hip joint and extension of the femur at the hip joint so the muscles we're going to need to look at we're going to look at um psoas major up here i might go and grab a torso model so we can see more of this but here's psoas major uh psoas minor as some of us have iliacus in here and these actually come together and often get termed as iliopsoas right and then we've got this muscle here this part of quadriceps femoris this part rectus femoris is crossing the hip joint and the knee joint so rectus femoris we need to look at that does hip flexion then we have sartorius running all the way across here the tailor's muscle and this is crossing the hip joint so those are our those are the flexors we're going to look at spin around we've got gluteus maximus and then we've got uh biceps femoris semitendinosus and semimembranosus over here one two three four five six seven eight oh nine including psoas minor okay bony bits uh so we need to consider the vertebral bodies so we've got the vertebrae the vertebral bodies their lateral sides here and the intervertebral discs in between them we have the transverse processes of the vertebrae coming out transversely those are going to be attachment sites for some of these muscles as we get down towards the pelvis uh we've got the sacrum here so um here's the sacrum posteriorly and the coccyx posteriorly the pelvis is made up of three bones the ilium the ischium and the pubis uh those three bones have fused by the time we've become an adult um but that gives us some naming conventions for structures around here we have lumps like this uh this is the iliac crest ends anteriorly is the anterior superior iliac spine the aces and just inferior to that is the anterior inferior iliac spine and just inferior to that there's another little bump there um which is the this is where the ilium is becoming the pubis this is the iliopubic eminence and then we have a line here uh the pectineal line or pectineal line which is uh of the pubis is running along that superior pubic ramus there those are features that exist because some of our muscles are going to attach there if if the socket of the joint is the acetabulum so the socket in the pelvis is the acetabulum can you see this kind of a it's like a ridge in a groove superior to the acetabulum so we have a supra acetabular groove there it's kind of a distinctive shape um and can we see i can just about kind of see some of these some of these ridges some of these um there are these gluteal lines on here uh which are sometimes more pronounced than others the posterior gluteal line um it's a rage it's a raised curve of bone because this is where we see one of our muscles attaching to guess which one so the posterior gluteal line and then i think we get on to the um oh down here your sit bone the ischial tuberosity there the ischium um that's where our hamstrings are going to come from and then we get down to the femur and actually if we're in this position this here is the greater trochanter this uh knobbly lump you can palpate this on yourself on your lateral lateral to your hip there the the grip uh the greater trochanter uh giving this little lump back here the lesser trochanter there and notice how the femur is rotating and maybe how muscles pulling on that trochanter might not just flex and extend the hip but also might rotate the femur in this ball and socket joint greater trochanter lesser trochanter so we're looking at the posterior femur here right because that's the butt um and there's a distinctive feature there's the linear aspera this line running down the posterior femur there now if you follow that linear aspera up at its highest point up here we haven't quite got as far as the greater trochanter but up here is the gluteal tuberosity it's not it's not a very obvious tuberosity when i look at real skeletons it's not it's also not like a super obvious big lump i can kind of feel this is a plastic skeleton of course it's a good quality one i can kind of feel a lump there but that's the gluteal tuberosity so there's your method take the linear aspera follow it up so the gluteal tuberosity is up here somewhere then if you follow the linear aspera down that it gives off these two lines going left and right now if if these are the the condyles of the femur these are the knuckles the condyle is the knuckle um then these would be supracondylar lines this is the midline so this is medius this is the medial supracondylar line this is the lateral supracondylar line and again these shapes these lines they exist because muscles attach here and then as we descend to the knee joint we see the tibia and the fibula still looking posteriorly here um so again we've got the head of the fibula um this is the proximal tibia we've got a medial surface a lateral surface and we'll find muscles attaching there i spin you around there we go we can look at the anterior versions there's the patella the kneecap here's the femur um here's the tibia here the big chonky bone fibula is the slender bone so head of the fibula and then we've got this medial proximal part of the tibia and this lateral part again these are this is the tibial plateau but we would be talking about condyles here okay i think we've introduced the bony bits we need let's uh let's put the muscles on the bones as it were now by origins and insertions we generally mean well we mean the attachment sites of the muscles to the bones through their tendons the origin is uh usually the end of the muscle that doesn't move when it's doing its primary action the insertion is usually the end of the muscle that does move when it's when the muscle gets shorter the origin is often more proximal or more medial the insertion is often more distal or more lateral um so origin insertion but we see that those rules often get broken this is why sometimes people prefer to call these the the proximal attachments and the the distal attachments muscles can also move different things in different ways depending upon what you need to do what you're moving but because origin insertions are often standard requirements for knowledge of musculoskeletal anatomy that's how we'll turn them right we'll start at the top the psoas major let me get a body here we are we've taken everything out um you can see the aorta and the inferior vena cava the common iliac arteries and look here is psoas major and here is psoas major and if psoas minor was present we'd see a very slender thin muscle running on its anterior surface down here um when we're dissecting it's often also not obvious you have to be quite careful i think less than 50 percent of people have psoas minor muscles maybe as many as 40 percent of people do but psoas major we see here so the aorta and inferior vena cava here are led upon the lumbar vertebrae so maybe you can appreciate how psoas major is its origins are the lumbar vertebrae well the lateral borders of vertebrae t12 to l4 and the transverse processes of lumbar vertebrae l1 to l5 and also um if it's if this muscle is attached to the sides of the bodies of the vertebrae it's also attached to the intervertebral discs in between those vertebrae right so that's the origin of psoas major and then the insertion of psoas major so it's crossing the hip joint is passing deep to the inguinal ligament down here the insertion is going to be into the lesser trochanter of the femur here so it's running over the top there so can you see how psoas major when it pulls on the lesser trochanter of the femur it will do flexion of the hip can you see how if it pulls on the lesser trochanter of the femur it's also going to pull the femur that away it's going to do a lateral rotation or external rotation of the femur as well at the hip joint so the insertion is the lesser trochanter of the femur imagine as well if psoas major is running from the lateral parts of these vertebrae across here it'll also if you keep the the lower limb fixed in place it's also going to flex the lumbar vertebrae it's going to flex the torso towards the the lower limbs if you're doing sit-ups also because it's running across in this direction it will also have a role in lateral flexion of the trunk lateral flexion of the lumbar vertebrae relative to the to the lower limb and because the psoas major muscle is coming from these sites here so from if it's if its origins are the transverse processes of the lumbar vertebrae and the sides of the bodies of the lumbar vertebrae that means the muscle is either side of the spinal nerves as they come out from between the lumbar vertebrae so it it is enclosing much of the lumbar plexus and is innervated directly by nerves of the spinal nerve roots of the lumbar plexus as they pass through so as minor being anterior to psoas major if there is one a minor that is is going to have its origins uh from the t12 and l1 vertebrae and again from the vertebral bodies i don't know where i am five four three two one oh wow way up there one t12 and l1 and the intervertebral disc in between and then run down but the psoas minor is not going to insert into the femur it's not going to get that far it's going to run down with psoas major and it's going to insert into the pectineal line until and into that ileo pubic eminence that little lump down here so it's running between the lumbar vertebrae and the pubis bone largely being a very small muscle then it's a very weak flexor of the torso and because it's running from medial to lateral it's a very weak lateral flexor of the torso as well right so as minor will be innovated by um branches of the l1 spinal nerve root of course the anterior rami and maybe a bit of l2 so on our model here we can see psoas major and then here we can see iliacus and iliacus is very much filling the the ilium the wing of the ilium here and then we can also see more iliacus here as it passes uh deep to the inguinal ligament and runs into the the thigh so iliacus's origin is the iliac fossa right the iliac fossa here the anterior surface of the wing of the ilium and then it's going to run and it's also going to insert into that lesser trochanter there um and will blend with the tendon of psoas major as it as it gets to the uh lesser trochanter so iliacus is more lateral than psoas major um but that run from the uh iliac fossa to the lesser trochanter means it is an excellent flexor of the femur at the hip it will also pulling on the lesser trochanter cause lateral rotation of the femur at the hip um and um but it's not going to do the lateral flexion of the torso like psoas major did because it's running in a more direct line there um iliacus is now going to be innervated by the femoral nerve as it runs past it okay so then we get into the thigh the rectus femoris this central uh superficial part of the quadriceps femoris muscle rectus femoris is the only part that crosses the hip joint and the knee joint and rectus femoris's origin is the anterior inferior iliac spine that we see here there's the anterior superior iliac spine i shouldn't say too many words because it just mucks up your memory the rectus femoris muscle has its origin from the anterior inferior iliac spine it actually has two heads so it it also has an attachment from this supra acetabular um groove up here those two heads then come together to cross the hip joint anteriorly run across the uh the length of the thigh and like the other parts of quadriceps femoris they all come together at the patella so it inserts as the patella tendon into the tibial tuberosity that's an obvious lumpy bit i didn't mention earlier so the tibial tuberosity is a really nice tuberosity you should be able to palpate your own but just past the knee down here there's a nice big lump because you have a a nice big muscle inserting all of its fibers in there so its insertion is into the tibial tuberosity with the patella tendon that means that running anterior to the hip joint rectus femoris is great at um flexing the hip also extending the knee so rectus femoris can flex the hip and extend the knee the knee is for a future week uh rectus femoris like the other muscles of the anterior compartment of the thigh is innervated by the the femoral nerve okay um the last one i think on this side is this guy going all the way across here look it's going from lateral to medial so this is sartorius and sartorius is origin well if the origin of rectus femoris is is under there the origin of sartorius is a little bit more superficial a little bit more obvious look here's the iliac crest follow it to the end and we get to the anterior superior iliac spine so iliac crest anterior superior iliac spine nice landmark you should be able to palpate that that's the origin of the sartorius muscle the sartorius muscle will then run from lateral to medial across the hip joint it's a long slender muscle but you know kind of a strong muscle and it's going to run across the knee joint and now we're at the tibia so we're we're over here the the medial part of the tibia so sartorius is going to insert into the proximal medial side of the tibia and what we see here is we see three tendons coming together and inserting at this site and this gets called pes anserinus so pes foot anser a goose so this is like the goose's foot we see these three tendons coming together like the goose's foot so sartorius is one of them gracilis and we'll see semi-tendinosus forming the other one so medial proximal tibia sartorius because of this interesting run we'll do flexion of the hip joint so flexion of the femur of the hip joint it'll also pull the femur around that away because the way it pulls on the tibia so we'll do lateral rotation of the femur it'll also do flexion of the knee and it'll also do a bit of abduction as well of the femur at the thigh joint not that we often think of it as an abductor of the thigh sartorius is a muscle of the anterior compartment of the thigh so it is innervated by the femoral nerve correct all right those are our hip flexors spin around and we get to our hip extensors so you can see um gluteus maximus's origin to an extent here right so gluteus maximus has an origin from the ileum posterior to that posterior gluteal line also has origins from the posterior sacrum the posterior coccyx the um um sacro tuberous ligament runs across here as well so we can also have an origin from there and then it runs across so do you see how the fibers are running in in that direction the gluteus maximus muscle will insert into that gluteal tuberosity which is up at the superior end the proximal end of the linear aspera but in fact it probably will insert most of its fibers into this this is the iliotibial tract so the lower limb is covered in a fascia the fascia lata this thickening here is the iliotibial tract it runs across the knee and helps stabilize the knee joint particularly when you're standing and gluteus maximus will insert into the iliotibial tract and into the gluteal tuberosity this makes it a very powerful extensor of the hip these are the hamstrings we'll look at in a moment and look we can see part of gluteus maximus going in here going in this gap and that's the bit that's going to insert into the gluteal tuberosity the iliotibial tract is going to insert into the the lateral tibia out here gluteus maximus is a powerful extensor of the hip but particularly from a flexed position so if the hip is flexed say you're sat down or you're going upstairs now gluteus maximus becomes particularly powerful and particularly useful because the fibers of gluteus maximus are running across the hip like this and inserting into the femur over here they can also pull the femur around this other way so they can also so gluteus maximus can also take part in lateral rotation of the hip right gluteus maximus is innovated by the inferior gluteal nerve it's a little bit more inferior to these other gluteal muscles up here the inferior gluteal nerve okay the hamstrings then so the three hamstrings all have a shared origin and there's some sharing of tendons here as well so the origin this one so laterally here this is biceps femoris its origin is the ischial tuberosity your sit bone up here now biceps femoris by two seps head so this is the two-headed muscle of the thigh has a short head and a long head so the long head has its origin on the ischial tuberosity its short head is from the linear aspera of the distal third of the femur and then also the lateral lateral supracondylar line here so the short head comes from here the long head comes from here and then those will combine and biceps femoris will insert into the head of the fibula this means it crosses the hip and crosses the knee so it does extension of the hip flexion of the knee and biceps femoris is innovated by the sciatic nerve like all of these hamstring muscles the sciatic nerve is going to give a tibial division and a fibular division the long head of biceps is going to get its innovation from the tibial division of the sciatic nerve and the short head of biceps femoris is going to get its innervation from the um fibular division of the sciatic nerve and you can remember that because the uh this muscle is lateral the common fibular nerve is going to come around the fibular head laterally so common fibular nerve lateral that's where the short head is maybe that helps maybe it doesn't help anyway sciatic nerve otherwise all right so remember that biceps femoris is lateral so it inserts into the lateral bone of the leg the fibula in the head of the fibula and the lateral surface of the head of the fibula whereas these two here so the two semis these two hamstrings semi membranosus is flatter like a membrane semi tendinosis is rounded like a rope like a tendon and these two are medial i always remember semi membranosus has got all the m so it's medial and the two semis go together so um if the hamstrings all have the same origin that means that the origin of semi tendinosis is the ischial tuberosity the sit bone under here and then this muscle will cross the hip joint and cross the knee joint these muscles are medial so they are going to insert into the medial bone of the leg here we see the tendon running to insert into the medial tibia as part of that pes and serenus arrangement of connected tissues coming together here so semi membranosus is going to insert into the this is the medial side here it's going to insert into the the medial side well the posterior side of the proximal tibia around here right so semi membranosus inserts into the tibia both semi tendinosis and semi membranosus will extend the hip flex the knee and they are both both innervated by the tibial division of the um sciatic nerve but remember semi tendinosis semi membranosus medial insert into the tibia biceps femoris lateral insert into the fibula and then you're good we're done i think um flexor and extensor muscles of the hip um origins of insertions can you see why i didn't want to do everything right i don't know about you but for me that was a lot right what did we look at so we looked at the muscles so as major and so as minor iliacus sartorius rectus femoris gluteus maximus biceps femoris semi tendinosis and semi membranosus we looked at their bony sites of origin and their insertion sites now we better understand the lumpy bumpy bits of the bones we have better knowledge of bony anatomy we know these names and we've added a little bit more detail to the pelvis we can maybe now imagine a little bit better exactly where these muscles run to and we had all our other anatomy on top of that our spatial anatomy our general anatomy knowledge of where things lie in relation to everything else is a bit better and we can also better figure out what happens when a muscle gets shorter and how that's going to affect uh the bone right and if you're really clever you can figure out how that'll affect the bone differently when the joint is in different positions because that's kind of like the next level anyway that's enough for me um i guess next week we'll be looking at the other uh directions abduction and adduction um looking forward to it all right see you next time

=== FILE: Origins and insertions of pronation and supination muscles [Ql-JzjvddT8].txt ===

 SUP distempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempempemp version you won't find anatomy textbooks using those terms anywhere else except in the forearm so we are going to look at the muscles involved in pronation and supination that is spinning the radius about the ulna so we've only got four muscles that i'm going to talk about i think and we'll do what we normally do which is we will introduce the muscles got a nice big arm here we're going to go deep today and then we'll look at the relevant bony bits and then we'll put the muscles on the bony bits in our minds but also visually as it were and by doing that we'll be looking at the insertions and the origins we'll be adding detail to our knowledge of these muscles and by knowing the insertions and the origins that is where the muscles attach to the bones we can better understand how the muscles move the bones and then our relational anatomy is better to other structures that are nearby and what might happen if bones are fractured and that sort of thing insertions and origins or origins and insertions i should say the origin of a muscle is usually the bit that doesn't move when the muscle gets shorter the insertion is usually the bit that does move when the muscle gets shorter the origin is often more proximal or more medial the insertion is often more distal or more lateral but rules were made to be broken right which is why sometimes it's confusing and particularly what is the insertion and the origin of a muscle going like this do you think or like this all right then the bones that we're going to focus on we'll have a little bit of humerus and we've got the scapula back here we'll come to those later but the main two bones are interested in the ulnar and the radius now there's the thumb so this is lateral there's the little finger so that's medial you know your radial pulse is over on the thumb side so that's where the radius bone is so we've got the radius bone and the ulnar bone now the ulnar is actually making a very nice hinge joint with the humerus so the ulnar and the humerus really can only articulate like this flexion and extension of the elbow whereas the radius has got this this circular humeral head and that exists to allow the radius to spin pretty much along its long axis and by spinning along its long axis you can see that the ulnar stays where it is and the radius moves around the ulnar and back again and in doing so you can see how the hand is supinated in this position pronated when the radius is pulled around the ulnar and supinated again so the movement of pronation and supination is the movement of the radius spinning on its long axis around the ulnar and all our muscles are going to be contained in here so we don't need to go into the wrist or the hand if we look at our upper limb model the thumb is on this side so this is lateral there's the little finger that's medial so it's a right arm so on the medial side if we run up to the elbow anterior to the elbow we have this triangular shape here so we have the the cubital fossa and the cubital fossa this triangular shape is made by muscles this muscle here forming the medial margin of the cubital fossa so in me that's that's there that muscle is pronator teres um just for fun that is brachioradialis but we don't need to remember that word today pronator teres so it's a fairly long slender muscle running across in this direction um the teres bit means it's it's like round round so if you cut a cross section through it it's nice and it's nice and round it's a nice fusible muscle so pronator teres can we see any of the other muscles we're interested in what apart from biceps no we're gonna have to dissect which can be a bit challenging on this model um okay since we've looked at prodrate pronator teres we should look at the other pronator muscle um so i've got to take off all of these muscles actually i'm gonna have to take off pronator teres um and we're gonna go deep all the way to the bone and we're gonna go distal um not quite as far as the wrist so we're taking off all of these oh there we go there we can see it now all of these layers off okay i suppose i better take that guy off as well and down there very helpfully hidden by this metal band is pronator quadratus quadratus because it's quadrangular rectangular shaped and the fibers are running in that direction between the radius and the ulna pronator teres pronator quadratus um if i take all these muscles off why am i going to be able to put it back together am i going to have a a real puzzle oh well okay so we are moving to the posterior forearm now um okay so let's take some of these off there's anconius let's take there we go um maybe if i okay let's try and keep these together so i remember which side they come from um and here actually let's take this guy off here we see a muscle um kind of wrapping around like this again very deep is wrapping around the bone it's right up against the bone this is the thumb side so here's the radius so it's wrapping around the radius remember it's the radius that's moving in pronation supination uh and it's coming from the ulna here so this is supinator these fibers are kind of running like this so we've seen pronator teres pronator quadratus and supinator these these two are very deep and then up here we've got biceps brachia which we've seen a couple of times before but biceps brachii is running from the scapula across the shoulder joint across the elbow joint and it also inserts into the radius so if it's the radius that's moving with pronation and supination biceps is very powerful when your elbow is flexed it's a very powerful supinator but we'll talk more about these muscles let's okay let's have a look at the relevant bony bits okay you've got a very wobbly humerus uh so the humerus here has got these two sticky outy bits on either side um which you can palpate here very easily um now these here these these are the condyles the condyle is a knuckle so these uh say they they have other names as well but these are condyles they are articulating surfaces that look like knuckles which articulate with the ulna and the radius uh with that classic elbow movement there so if these are the condyles these lumpy bits upon the condyles are the epicondyles uh this is the medial side this is the lateral sides this is the medial epicondyle of the humerus this is the lateral epicondyle of the humerus and look there is a ridge um running up from that epicondyle a very distinctive shape of the humerus at this point here this is a supracondyler ridge so this would be the lateral supracondyler ridge up here these ridges exist because and the tuberosities really they all exist because muscles attach here and the soft tissues and the hard tissues all grow together and that's what gives the bone shape if your muscles get stronger your bones get stronger so the epicondyles of the humerus and the supracondyler ridges um at this hinge joint here um so we have this this part of the ulna curving around the humerus here and the bit we're interested in is this sticky uppy bit here this is the coronoid process there is a little bit of a fossa for it so when you flex your elbow it's that coronoid process passing into the fossa and that the coronoid process in the fossa preventing any further flexion so that limits movement and this is also another attachment site for muscles the coronoid process of the ulna on the radius over here we can see a little little sticky uppy lump it's a tuberosity it's the radial tuberosity and we also need to think about how we might term the surfaces of the of the bones here so this end would be the proximal ulna and the proximal radius this would be the anterior surface the lateral surface the posterior surface because we're going to be talking about surfaces of these bones as as attachment sites and then it's down here as we get closer to the wrist this is the distal radius and the distal ulna now on the ulna so there's the thumb the radius this is the lateral side the ulna on its lateral surface there is a crest in here like a sharpish ridge and that is the supinator crest guess which muscle attaches there so it's on the radial side of the ulna it's um it's this kind of ridgy shape here which when you have the radius and the ulna next to each other just looks like that's how they fit together really nicely right and it is but when you have the ulna on its own it's more a more of a more of a distinctive kind of uh cresty type feature and then for biceps we need to go up to the scapula so we're going up to the the flat bone of the scapula up here biceps we'll do this in a moment but here poking anteriorly here is the coracoid process like a crow's beak and here is the socket of the shoulder joint the ball and socket joint there this is the glenoid fossa there's a little tubercle above it that little tubercle above the glenoid fossa is the supraglenoid tubercle um that might be it for bony bits we do have some ligamenty bits as well maybe so there are some soft tissues that i can show you that are going to get involved all right so oh look that bone is spinning so that's the radius that's the ulna which means this is a right arm so on the radial side the lateral side we have some ligaments um the radial collateral ligaments and there's also a ligament that runs around the radius which holds its head in place as it spins and that's the annular ligament and we'll see that those will also get involved um with some of these muscles attachment sites okay i think we have everything we need okay here is pronator teres i put it back on again it has two origins um it one origin is the medial epicondyle of the humerus um and or the medial supracondylar ridge of the humerus um it varies depending upon the sources that you read but we can see it's got quite a broad origin here so a bit of both is fair um and its second origin is from the ulna and from that uh coronoid process of the ulna so it has an ulna head and it has a humeral head the pronator teres muscle then runs distally and laterally across to the radius and it inserts into the lateral radius and look we're about midway along the radius here so uh its insertion is to the lateral radius in this narrow patch here so when it contracts it will pull the radius around the ulna to bring into a pronated position pronator teres is innovated by the median nerve and actually the median nerve will run between the two heads of pronator teres up here because it it runs down the median the middle of the forearm and it's quite deep okay pronator teres pronator quadratus is down here um so it's obviously attached to the anterior surface of the distal ulna and the anterior surface of the distal radius given the rules i described earlier which is the origin and which is the insertion do you think well um when this muscle contracts it's the radius that moves we saw that it's the radius that spins about the ulna so the origin of pronator quadratus is the anterior surface of the distal part of the ulna bone and the insertion is into the anterior surface of the distal part of the radius bone and when it contracts it pulls the radius around the ulna it's also kind of tying these bones together just like the the um the interosseous membrane is in there uh this muscle is also elevated by the median nerve and actually the anterior interosseous nerve the anterior interosseous branch of the median nerve but we're supposed to be talking about origins and insertions not attachment size can you imagine how these two muscles work together to pull the radius around around that away pronator quadratus pronator teres moving posteriorly all right so radius ulna have a quiet squat going on here um here's supponator um so again the origins of supponator are going to be on the ulna because that is the bone that is not moving the insertions of supponator are going to be onto the radius because that is the bone that is moving so the origins of supponator and again we can see two attachment sites here if we go up to this one so this is the humerus so one origin of supponator is the lateral epicondyle of the humerus and those fibers run across the elbow joint there it also has an origin of the supponator crest of the ulna not too surprisingly because that's how the supponator crest gets its name but also here we saw that you have those ligaments that are supporting the radius so the this muscle also has origins on the radial collateral ligaments here and that annular ligament and that's what this muscle is covering what it's wrapping around right so it's attaching to all of those things so those are the origins of supponator and then look it's wrapping around the radius so it is going from the humerus from the ulna around the radius and you can see the thumb here so we're lateral so the insertion of supponator is to the lateral part of the radius and then that means that this muscle is a very good supponator it doesn't really matter what position the elbow's in if it's flexed or extended but supponator is very good at supponation no matter what position the elbow is is in because it's passing from the ulna and and the humerus but it's passing around the radius like that unlike biceps which kind of needs to be in a particular position supponator is innovated by the radial nerve it's really in that posterior compartment of the forearm biceps then we've done biceps before if you've seen the other videos you know this one really well i should know that's going to fall off as well because it always does his biceps so biceps is called bicep seps means head bi means two so it's called that because it has two heads the long head and the short head the origin of the short head is the coracoid process of the scapula and the long head passes from the supraglenoid tubercle of the scapula so those are the origins of biceps and then this muscle runs across both the shoulder joint and the elbow joint and what we see here is we see its insertion into the radial tuberosity but it also inserts into the anti-brachial fascia the fascia of the forearm is the bicep to the poniurosis so biceps of course is an excellent elbow flexor but because it inserts into the radius if you if you are there's the radial tuberosity there if you are pronated biceps is now being pulled all the way around with um the radius so biceps can contract and pull on that radial tuberosity to pull the radius back into its supinated position so biceps is a very powerful supinator but it's most effective when the elbow is flexed for example say at 90 degrees it's not very effective at supination when the elbow is extended and we know this because what we're doing so this is the left hand but um screws screw like that because right-handed people use biceps to powerfully supinate to turn the screw with the screwdriver and screw it into something right so when the elbow is flexed biceps is a very powerful suppinator because it pulls on the radius biceps is innovated by the musculocutaneous nerve it's in the anterior compartment of the arm all right there we go we have looked at the muscles that supinate and pronate the forearm there are four of them that we're most interested in that do most of the work pronator teres pronator quadratus supinator and biceps brachii and they do their job by moving the radius as it spins around the ulnar my main job now is going to be figuring out how to put all this back together again um it's a bit of a puzzle right i hope that was useful i hope that was interesting um it explains some nerve palsies why the forearm gets pulled into certain positions if if certain nerves are injured at certain places right so it's useful also we see the depth here like project a pronator quadratus is super deep you're just not palpating that actually i know i have done tasks where there's lots of pronation like tiling and stuff where you're putting the grout in and you get this soreness across here and you have to know your anatomy to realize that oh my pronator quadratus is really sore because i keep doing that pronation action getting the grout in between the tiles anyway right um we'll see what's going on next week and maybe i can psych myself up to talking about the origins and insertions of the muscles of the thumb because the thumb is special all right see you next time you

=== FILE: Origins and insertions of thumb muscles [E4A5CIlkNKA].txt ===

 arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm pull on the bones and move the bones. And the thumb is special because it's a little awkward to describe. We've got eight muscles that move the thumb that we've got to look at. So we should probably go steady, right? All right, what do we need? We need words. The thumb is the polex. Muscles that move the thumb are polycus or polysis muscles. The pronunciation guide says polysis. It's from Latin. But you'll find most people say polycus. I'm going to switch between the two because I use both in teaching all the time and talking to different people. So polysis muscles or polycus muscles. We need to consider what the movements of the thumb are because then the names of the muscles that move the thumb make sense. We need to introduce the muscles that move the thumb. Then we need to look at all the bony bits that those muscles are going to attach to. And then we'll put the muscles on the bones and describe the origins and insertions of the muscles that move the thumb. I hope your afternoon is freed up. Okay, first of all, then the movements of the thumb. The thumb is considered to be on a plane at right angles to the fingers, right? Because the fingers are easy. I think flexion of the fingers, extension of the fingers, abduction of the fingers, adduction of the fingers, right? Same with the thumb, but at 90 degrees. That means that this is flexion of the thumb, right? So that's flexion of the thumb. So the opposite movement is extension of the thumb. You see where my thumb is? It's kind of still on that plane there. So flexion and extension, flexion and extension of the thumb. So abduction is different. Abduction is pulling my... You can imagine it as pulling my thumb as far away from the hand as I can. So it's going in that direction. And what I'm seeing is I'm seeing this web space is getting properly stretched out. The muscle in there is adductor polycus. That is the muscle that is going to adduct the thumb. So if I know that this web space is stretched out, then I know that I have abducted my thumb. So there's abduction of the thumb, adduction of the thumb. Abduction, adduction, right? Abduction, adduction, reflection, extension. It's a good start, isn't it? Nice and confusing. But we need that because the muscles are named for the main action that they do. Okay, muscles, movements of the thumb done. Muscles. I know I should get a shorter trolley. But what we'll do is we'll start in the hand. So the intrinsic muscles of the hand versus the extrinsic muscles of the hand in the forearm. We'll start up here and then we'll do these. Both like when we're introducing them and working our way through them properly. So up here, this bulge is the thenar eminence, this muscle mass here. These are muscles that move the thumb. And we have this muscle out here. So it's a short muscle. It's a brevis. It's a muscle of the thumb. So it's a palicus or a palisis. And this muscle is actually, it's going to pull the thumb away from the hand. So it's going to abduct the thumb. So this is abductor polysis brevis. Now this muscle here, right next to it, this is a separate muscle. It's a bit more medial. It's a bit more to the midline of the hand. This muscle is going to pull the thumb across the hand. So this is going to flex the thumb. And it's a short muscle. This is flexor polysis brevis, the short flexor of the thumb. All right. So we've got those two there. Now those we'd have to take off. Actually, I've got another model. So here, let's take that off and hope everything doesn't fall down. So there's the thumb. These two muscles here, again, are the two brevis muscles we just looked at. Abductor polysis brevis and flexor polysis brevis. Now you have to take at least one of these off. And now you see a muscle deep to that that's kind of wrapping around. And this is opponent's polysis. This is the movement we didn't talk about. This is opposition. So you can oppose your thumb to your little finger. And what we have here is we have a little bit of rotation of the bones here. And a little bit of flexion and a little bit of magic. And you can oppose your thumb to your little finger. Opposition. So it's very much this muscle here which is doing a lot of that movement. Opponent's polysis. Oh, so that's three. Number four is this one here. And I already mentioned this one. This one is the one in the web space there. This is the muscle that brings the thumb back to the hand. It adducts the thumb. This is adductor polysis. That's it. There's no brevis because there isn't a long version. If you look hard you'll see that rule gets broken elsewhere. But I didn't make the rules. Just adductor polysis. Whereas these brevis versions, they've got longest versions in the forearm. Okay. So the other thing about adductor polysis is it's not one of the thenar muscles. It's that bulge there that's the thenar eminence. It's not in that bulge. So it's not a muscle of the thenar eminence. It's another intrinsic muscle of the thumb in the hand. Okay. So those are the four intrinsic muscles of the hand. What about the extrinsic ones? Let me put this back on before I lose it. So there is a long flexor of the thumb which has a rock climber I'm a big fan of. And I've got a lot of tendons, a lot of muscles here. But we can see a tendon on this side running all the way up the thumb. So that's going to be a flexor of the thumb. But what is it down here? Well we can see a bit of muscle in there. But really what I need to do is I need to take off all of these muscles. We need to go really really deep. And now we can see this muscle here. So up against flexor digitorum profundus, the deep flexor of the fingers, we've got another muscle here. And it's sending its tendon to the thumb. So this muscle, very very deep, this is flexor pollicis longus. The long flexor of the thumb. Okay. That's it for that side. Now it gets worse on the other side. Do you see all these tendons running up to the thumb here? Yeah, we've got to figure those out. These are some of the anatomical structures in the body that I really struggle to remember reliably. Let's try and fix that. This is the anatomical snuff box, by the way. If you do that with your thumb, you'll see these tendons lift up. It's the anatomical snuff box. We'll talk more about that when we get here, looking at this in detail. But, okay, so that is extension. Ah, that is extension of the thumb. And I can see both of those tendons are working to extend the thumb. These must both be extensor pollicis muscles. One of them is going to be a long one. And one of them is going to be a short one. That tendon there, this is extensor pollicis longus. I'm going to remember it's long because it's up against the long fingers. This tendon here is extensor pollicis brevis. I'm going to remember it's short because it's up against the short thumb. We'll see if that means that I remember it properly in the future. Honestly, I really struggle with these. So, but that's my first bit is, okay, to make the tendons appear, what do I do? I extend my thumb. Okay, they must be extensor pollicis muscles. They're going to be extensor pollicis longus and brevis. How do I remember which is which? Longus is there. Brevis is there. They're forming the boundaries of the anatomical snuff box. And there's actually another tendon here as well. And that is going to abduct the thumb. So this is the long abductor of the thumb because we already saw a short one in here. This is abductor pollicis longus. And these are very, very deep in here. We can see the muscles here, but then they're deep to extensor digitorum. This is the model I've chosen to show these because I think I can describe how they attach to the bones. But we need to see the tendons, where the tendons run to to see the insertions. The other models I've got aren't quite, there's no model that's entirely complete, but this is the best one, I think. So that's it. Flexor pollicis longus, extensor pollicis longus, extensor pollicis brevis, abductor pollicis longus. Those are the four extrinsic muscles of the thumb. Oh! I think you can see we have our work cut out for us. Right. Not interested in the humerus today. We are interested in the radius and the ulna. The carpal bones, some of them in particular, and, well, the bones of the thumb and some other bits and bobs. All right. Shall we start up here? Yeah. So the ulna is the bone that forms the hinge joint with the humerus. The radius is the one that spins and rotates in pronation and supination. But, look, it's the radius that articulates directly with the bones of the wrist. The ulna is off to the side there. So the forces from the hand go through the radius bones. We're interested in the radius. We're interested in the ulna. In between the two, in our plastic skeleton, we see a gap between the two bones. In life, there is a membrane, a sheet of connective tissue tying the two bones together here. This is the interosseous membrane, literally the membrane between the bones. And we'll see that muscles attach this. That helps separate the forearm into compartments, anterior and posterior. But it also provides an attachment site for muscles. So that's the forearm. Now, in the wrist, the bones of the wrist are known as the carpal bones. Here's the thumb side over here, which is the side that the radius is on, the thumb and the radius. We are interested in some of these carpal bones in particular. So the scaphoid bone is here. It's on the thumb side adjacent to the radius. And the trapezium is under the thumb. So this is the trapezium here between the metacarpal bone of the thumb and the scaphoid bone. And we'll see muscles are attaching to those. The big central bone of the carpals is the capitate. It's a bit like a big head. I always think of it like an Easter Island head. So the capitate bone in there. And we've also got trapezoid, which is in between those bones there, which some muscle, there is a muscle that might attach there. So the carpal bones, notably scaphoid, trapezium, capitate. Yeah. And then when we get into the hand, the bones that are making up the bulk of the hand, these are the metacarpal bones. We number them from the thumb. So the metacarpal bone of the thumb is metacarpal 1. And then we have 2, 3, 4 and 5. So we're obviously most interested in metacarpal 1 today. The other interesting thing about the thumb is these are the phalanges, the phalanx bones. And the thumb has only got 2, whereas the fingers have got 3. So we would term this the proximal phalanx and the distal phalanx. There is an anterior retinaculum here. There's actually a posterior one as well. We can see up here this connective tissue. This flexor retinaculum is tying down the tendons that are going into the hand. And that flexor retinaculum itself is a sheet of connective tissue tied down to some of the carpal bones here, forming a tunnel deep to it. But the flexor retinaculum itself is an attachment site, as we can see, for some of these muscles. That's got to be pretty much everything, I think. OK. Back up into the hand to where we started from then. So when we talk about origins and insertions of muscles, the origin of the muscle is usually the attachment to the bone that doesn't move when the muscle gets shorter. The insertion is often the end of the muscle that does move when the bone gets shorter. The origin is often more proximal or more medial. The insertion is often more distal or more lateral. Them's the rules. They kind of work most of the time. So those are the origins and insertions. And what we're seeing when we look at the bones, the reason they've got these lumps and bumps and shapes and what have you is because the muscles attach there. The muscles, the tendons, the bones, they all work together. They all grow together. They all change together. So as your muscles get stronger, your bones will get stronger and vice versa. If your muscles atrophy, there will be signs on the bone for that as well. So those are the origins and insertions. So let's start with our first muscle, this little muscle here. This is abductor pollicis brevis. Its origin then, or origins, are, there's the thumb side, the scaphoid and the trapezium. But they've got a couple of little tubercles, little lumps on them. Well, little lumps because the muscle attaches there. That's why there's little lumps. Now, so on your hand, on the thumb side, try not to twist myself too much. Okay, so you know your radial pulse is there. So the radius bone is there. If you work your way up the radius, you can feel the styloid process of the radius laterally. And as you move the wrist bones, it's not moving. So it's part of the radius, not the other bones. Now, if you work your way up towards the thumb, you can feel a bony lump. That's the scaphoid tubercle. It might be closer to your wrist crease than you think it is. And as I move my wrist, it moves around. So it's the scaphoid. So the scaphoid tubercle is there. And if you work your way up a little bit further towards the thumb, you can feel the tubercle of the trapezium. And that is the origin of abductor pollicis brevis and the flexor retinaculum, what we're seeing there. So those are the origins. Tubicul of the scaphoid. Tubicul of the trapezium. Flexor retinaculum. And then we can see this muscle extends. Then it's extending across the carpometacarpal joint. It's extending across the metacarpophalangeal joint. And it's inserting here into the proximal phalanx, into the base of the proximal phalanx and on its lateral side. And that's how it's able to pull the thumb that away and abduct the thumb. So this is lateral when you're in the anatomical position. But when you wave your arms around, you kind of have to figure out where's the anatomical position. This is the side that the radius bone is on. So this is also called the radial side, which can make it much less confusing. So the insertion is into the radial side of the proximal phalanx base. This muscle is innervated by the median nerve. Okay, so if we go a little bit towards the midline of the hand, this is the other muscle. This is flexor pollicis brevis. The origins of flexor pollicis brevis are also the tubercle of the trapezium. So flexor pollicis brevis will have an origin from the tubercle of the trapezium. And it's got a superficial head and a deep head. So that superficial head has an origin there and also from the flexor retinaculum. The deep head, if there is one, is probably going to have an origin on the capitate bone, maybe from the trapezoid bone, maybe from ligaments and connected tissues around here. So the superficial head and the deep head. Not sure anybody needs to know that. And then the insertion is again into the proximal phalanx of the thumb on that radial side, on that lateral side. So the same place as the other muscle. The difference is because this muscle is more towards the midline of the hand, when it pulls, it's going to pull the thumb across the hand, not away from the hand. Hence the flexion of the thumb. Here, look, you can see the origin from the flexor retinaculum as well. Now, you may not have a deep head. So flexor pollicis brevis has an origin from the tubercle of the trapezium. The flexor retinaculum, possibly the capitate, runs across like this, inserts into the lateral side of the proximal phalanx of the thumb. So when this contracts, it's causing flexion at the carpometacarpal joint and the metacarpophalangeal joint. It's giving that flexion. It's also doing a little bit of rotation and helping with opposition here as well. OK, so that's those two. Of course, we've got to take those off to see a ponens pollicis. Its origin is, again, the tubercle of the trapezium, the flexor retinaculum. But the insertion is quite different. This muscle is pretty much wrapping around the first metacarpal. It's going to insert into the first metacarpal along its lateral border here, on its radial border. That means when it contracts, it's going to rotate the metacarpal bone, the first metacarpal bone, about that carpometacarpal joint. Actually, what a ponens pollicis is going to do is going to do some medial rotation. It's going to do some flexion. And it's going to do some adduction. And we lump all that together and call it opposition. You can see, actually, that movement of opposition needs the other muscles to cooperate as well for it to happen. But a ponens pollicis, rotation, adduction, and flexion to give opposition. A ponens pollicis is innervated by the median nerve. In most people. In some people, it's innervated by the ulnar nerve. Which is a fun bit of evidence about how embryology works and stuff. But anyway, the muscles of the thenar remnants, we tend to say, all these muscles are innervated by the median nerve. So a ponens pollicis is typically innervated by the median nerve. But in some cases, it's not. Yeah, we're zipping along now. And then deep to that, well, not deep to that, but deep to these guys I'm taking off here, there is adductor pollicis, that muscle in the web space that's doing adduction of the thumb. And this has also got two heads. And we can see where it's coming from. We can see its origin here from the metacarpal bone. So you can see how it's not this bit that's moving. It's the thumb that's moving. So the origin is here and the insertion is in the thumb. Now, what we're seeing here are the oblique head and the transverse head. The oblique head's origins are the anterior surfaces of metacarpals 2 and 3. And the capitate bone down there as well, again. And maybe some other bones nearby, but we'll put capitate in our list. Whereas the transverse head, look, we can see it up here. Its origin is just the anterior surface of metacarpal bone number 3. So whereas the oblique head is quite low down, the transverse head is from up here. Now, these will run across to the proximal phalanx of the thumb again, but the insertion is into the medial side. And there's usually a sesamoid bone in there as well. So it's a very powerful adductor of the thumb. And being a very powerful adductor of the thumb, you kind of test it like that. But it's actually really important in many forms of grip between the thumb and the fingers. It's working. Sure, we've got lots of muscles doing work here, but it is doing work when you are making all sorts of grips between your thumb and your fingers like this. So adductor palicus. The trick here is whereas these muscles of the thenar eminence are innervated by the median nerve, this muscle here is innervated by the ulnar nerve like most of the other small muscles of the hand as the ulnar nerve comes around like this. Okay, good. All right, that's the intrinsic muscles of the thumb done. Hey, that means we're halfway. Okay, so the extrinsic muscles of the thumb. This one first, this is flexor pollicis longus, so the long flexor of the thumb, giving a whole load of extra power to thumb flexion. We can see that it's lying on the radial side, it's lying lateral to flexor digitorum profundus. So, the origin of, here's the thumb side, here's the radius, the origin of flexor pollicis longus is the radius. And the anterior surface of the radius, almost like just distal to where the radial tuberosity is, all the way along to where we find pronator quadratus. So, the origin is the anterior surface of the radius along much of its length and the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane. The tendon then, of flexor pollicis longus, then goes through the carpal tunnel and runs all the way out to insert into the distal phalanx of the thumb. That means it can flex, it can flex the wrist, but we'll ignore that. It can flex the thumb at the carpometacarpal joint, at the metacarpophalangeal joint, and at the interphalangeal joint. So, this is the muscle that does full flexion of the thumb all the way to the tip. I love this as a climber because if you're on a route and you're mostly using your fingers and your fingers, your muscles in your forearm that you're using to climb with are getting tired and you're starting to get a pump, if you find a pinch and you get to pinch on something, you get to use flexor pollicis longus. This is a muscle, it's fresh, you've hardly used it and you get a nice pinch and you get to use some of the energy stored in that and it just feels great as your other muscles are getting tired. So, flexor pollicis longus, it's a very powerful pinch thing. Picking up a brick, flexor pollicis longus. And look, you can see, look, there's the tendon there. See how it's running all the way up there. Flexor pollicis longus, okay, and then we've just got to do the other side. We've only got to do the anatomical snuff box. So, as we move to the other side, if most of the muscles in the anterior form are innervated by the median nerve, that means the flexor pollicis longus was also innervated by the median nerve. As we run around to the muscles that we're going to look at on the posterior surface, this posterior compartment, these muscles were innervated by the radial nerve, the posterior interosseous branch off. Right, so in terms of the anatomical snuff box, let's work our way from this way to that way. And like I say, what we do to remember, okay, see if I can remember what I said at the beginning. What we do to remember is we extend the thumb, ah, and we see both of these tendons have appeared, so these are extensor pollicis muscles. We remember that the longus is over here because the finger's long. The brevis is over this side because the thumb's short. I don't know, it works for me. So this is the tendon of extensor pollicis longus. This is the tendon of extensor pollicis brevis. And these guys are really, really deep. They're right up against the bone, so they're deep to extensor digitorum. And I can't take extensor digitorum off here, but look, we can see them there. So there's the tendon. The reason we talk about the anatomical snuff box is the scaphoid bone is in there, so you can poke in there if somebody's got a scaphoid fracture and see if it hurts. And also we've got the radial artery running through there. Anywho, so here's that muscle there of extensor pollicis longus. What is its origin? We can disappear in here. So, there's the thumb. There's the dorsal surface, the posterior surface of the forearm. The origin of extensor pollicis longus is the ulna and the middle section of the ulna, the dorsal surface, the posterior surface of the middle section of the ulna. So like I say, it's deep. It's right up, slammed against the bone. And also the interosseous membrane here. And now that tendon is going to, that muscle in the tendon is going to run across to the other side. It's going to run across all of these joints, and it's going to go all the way to the distal phalanx of the thumb because it's extensor pollicis longus. The long one goes to the very last digit. So this can fully extend your thumb. Oh, look, we can see Lister's tubercle. There's a little lump here, right? So why doesn't it, like, cut the corner and just go straight across? Well, Lister's tubercle here is a little ridge that keeps the tendon of extensor pollicis longus in place. So it has to go around there. And in going around there, that's how it pulls the thumb in the right direction to give extension. The other thing about this muscle is you put your hand flat on the table and you lift your thumb up off the table. You'll see that tendon working. This movement gets called retropulsion. So put your hand flat on the table, lift your thumb up, and you'll see extensor pollicis longus lifting the thumb up off the table there. Look, and there we can see. We can see the tendon. We can see how it's coming from the other side of the arm. So from the ulna and running across. Long tendon goes all the way to the dorsal surface of the base of the distal phalanx of the thumb. So that's that border of the anatomical snuff box. So the tendon on the other border, oh no, there's a spoiler. We can see it doesn't go quite as far. But this is also, it's on the thumb side. Its origin is the radius. If extensor pollicis longus comes from the ulna on the other side, extensor pollicis brevis comes from the radius on the thumb side because it's shorter so it doesn't have to go as far, right? So there's the thumb. This is the dorsal or posterior forearm. Here's the radius. So the origin of extensor pollicis brevis is the posterior surface of the radius and the interosseous membrane here. Oh, I've lost the thumb. There it is. And then it runs across to the thumb and it inserts into the dorsal surface of the base of the proximal phalanx of the thumb, which means it can cause extension at the carpometacarpal joint and the metacarpophalangeal joint. So it doesn't extend all the way to the tip. It pulls the proximal phalanx of the thumb into the extended position. Also innervated by the radial nerve, that posterior interosseous branch of. So extensor pollicis longus extensor pollicis brevis and next to it is the muscle that pulls the thumb, not into extension but into abduction. So we have abductor pollicis longus, the long one. And we can see the other muscle here. We can see it doesn't go as far as extensor pollicis brevis. It only goes this far, the tendon. But it's very, very close to it and it wraps around as well. Now this muscle actually has origins more proximal again. So this is abductor pollicis longus. And it, again, here's the dorsal surface of the forearm. Its origins are the posterior surface of the radius and the posterior surface of the ulna and the posterior surface of the interosseous membrane, proximally, all the way back here. And then it runs across the wrist and it inserts into the metacarpal of the thumb. Because we're doing abduction, it's moving the metacarpal, not the phalanges. So it inserts into the first metacarpal. So look, there it goes. It appears from its deep to extensor digitorum. It appears, it runs around. And look, it's inserting into the base of the first metacarpal of the thumb on this kind of, this lateral side. It needs to be in that position to abduct the thumb. It's also probably going to insert into trapezium. It might insert into some other connective tissues and bits and bobs nearby. So its action then is going to be abduction of the thumb at the carpometacarpal joint. And it's also going to do a little bit of extension. And this is a really important muscle because you need it to drop things, right? When you drop things, that's what you're doing. Also, if you want to pick up something really big, you need to abduct your thumb so you can get your thumb over it and get a grip on it. So it's a surprisingly important movement. These movements that we talk about, when patients lose them, when people lose these little movements, you really notice it. You don't really think about it when everything's working fine. So, abductor pollicis longus. And of course, abductor pollicis brevis was right there. And that's where we started, right? Being where it is, it can also help with radial deviation. On my work, that's it. We've done the muscles of the thumb. But not only have we done the muscles of the thumb, we have looked at the origins and insertions of all of the muscles of the upper limb. I think we started up here and we've done it stepwise and worked our way down. And as a result, I, don't know about you, but I've got a better understanding of where these muscles lie and what they attach to and how they move things and the names of lumpy bony bits. And my detailed anatomy has got a little bit better as a result. So, if you're still here, well done. If you're not, fair enough. Excellent. Okay, that's it. The insertions and origins of the muscles of the thumb. See you next time. выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб

=== FILE: Origins and insertions of wrist muscles [TJdsUSP_VNI].txt ===

 wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier wier w and then in future weeks we'll look at muscles that move the fingers the thumb will get its own session and we'll come back to pronation supination I should think something like that so what do we want to look at here well the movements of the wrist then we have a flexion of the wrist and extension of the wrist or flexion of the hand of the wrist extension of the hand at the wrist and then we have to put ourselves into the anatomical position and adduction and abduction abduction is the takeaway so abduction of the wrist is that which is quite difficult to do adduction of the wrist is that if we move out of the anatomical position it gets a little bit more awkward right so what we can do is we can remember that the radius is on the thumb side that's where your radial pulses the ulnar bone is on the other side ulnar radius so we can talk about ulnar deviation so we're bending the wrist towards the ulnar bone and radial deviation ulnar deviation and radial deviation be easier because you don't have to imagine where that is in the anatomical position right the regions we're going to be looking at are the forearm wrist and hand so the forearm between the elbow and the wrist the wrist is also known as the carpus that's an important word today and the hand will actually find that these muscles run across the elbow joint so we're going to include the humerus across the elbow joint and across into the hand to cause these movements what we do is we will introduce the muscles look at the bony bits and then put the muscles on the bones and then we'll be done the I've been marking so many exam papers today that my brain is a bit jelly the origin of a the origin of a muscle is usually the bit that doesn't move and the insertion of the muscle is usually the bit that does move the origin is often more proximal more medial closer to the body the insertion is often more distal further away from the body more lateral but as you look at the body the muscles around the body you'll see how often that that rule gets broken now so here we're on the the anterior surface the palmar side and these muscles here these are all flexors they're they're generally all flexing the wrist or flexing the fingers this is the flexor compartment and if we turn around to look at the posterior forearm these muscles are in the extensor compartment these are extensor muscles are extending the wrist or the forearm so what we do when when students are wondering how on earth to identify these muscles they say look to see where it comes from and look to see where it goes to and we can see we've got a muscle here that only goes as far as the wrist it's in the flexor compartments it's on the older bone sides this is flexor carpi ulnaris we've got a muscle in the middle here we're going to include this is running to the palm this is palmaris longus then we have a muscle that's running on the radial side and it's in the flexor compartment and it's running to the wrist the carpus this is flexor carpi radialis we've got three muscles on this side if we spin around and look at the extensor side similar we've got two extensor carpi radialis muscles running to the wrist one long one one short one so extensor carpi radialis longus and extensor carpi radialis brevis and then we have just extensor carpi ulnaris there and like i say we'll come back to the fingers next week because my head will explode if i try and do the whole forearm in one go and the video will be like a week long okay so what bony bits do we need to be aware of here's the humerus here's the thumb side so there's the radius and there's the ulna so we've got to go back up to the humerus the humerus has got these two lumpy bits on either side here which are quite palpatable and these knuckles of the elbow joint a knuckle is a condyle so these sticky outy bits are upon the condyles these are the epicondyles so we have a medial epicondyle of the humerus and a lateral epicondyle of the humerus oh it's got a letter a on it oh we've got some letters left over from last week have we okay um and from this epicondyle here there's a there's a fairly sharp ridge running up here this is a a supra condyler ridge so there's the epicondyle here's a ridge running proximally from the condyle it's superior to it it's a ridge it's a superior it's a supra condyler ridge um as i turn this around actually we can see the sticky 80 lumpy bit of your elbow there's the olecranon the olecranon is part of the ulna so we will need to know about the olecranon and the ulna here so epicondyles supra condyler ridge olecranon and then i think we can run all the way down the radius and the ulna to the wrist we don't need to know about all the carpal bones today surprisingly enough considering we're talking about wrist bones i can jump straight over the carpal bones the little bones of the wrist here that all slide over each other and into these and these are the metacarpal bones so we have the metacarpal bones they're kind of like in the in the main substance of your hand the body of your hand there um and we number them the thumb is number one so one two three four five so first metacarpal second metacarpal third metacarpal all right so we'll need to know those and in terms of the carpal bones of the wrist the little bones in here we're going over to the opposite side to the thumb the little finger side and we can see two sticky uppie bits of bone we can see this hook here this hook well the bone is called the hamate the hook is called the hook of the hamate so the hamate bone the hook of the hamate and this p-shaped bone is the peasy form bone so we need to know about the hook of the ham and the peasy form bone by the way these um these sticky uppie bony bits are uh largely taking a connected tissue structure called the flexor retinaculum which is going to tie down the tendons that run to the fingers and the medial nerve will run deep to that so we have we have these sticky up bony bits to make a carpal tunnel when you put the the flexor retinaculum over the top um is that it that seems sounds devilishly simple if that's all we need i may have forgotten something we'll find out all right first muscle here so the first muscle there is the pronator muscle we'll come back to that in the future this muscle here we can see running all the way to the wrist and can you see it's running from the medial side here so this is flexor carpi radialis and flexor carpi radialis is origin is the medial epicondyle of the humerus so it's running across the forearm so it's running from the medial epicondyle of the humerus across the forearm to the radial side of the forearm and it extends across the wrist and will insert into the base of the second metacarpal bone and maybe a bit of the third as well so you see how it goes straight across all these wrist bones these carpal bones that go straight into the second metacarpal bone just to the base there so that means that it doesn't have an action at the elbow but at the wrist it will give flexion of the wrist and also if flexor carpi radialis and extensor carpi radialis work together it will give radial deviation at the wrist uh innovated by the median nerve next we see so we're working this way we see this muscle here which is actually going to run into the palm of the hand this is palmaris longus and palmaris longus there's the flexor retinaculum there palmaris longus its origin is also the medial epicondyle of the humerus it will again run across the forearm but to the midline of the forearm and run across the wrist but it will insert into the flexor retinaculum and it'll insert into the palmar aponeurosis the palmar aponeurosis when aponeurosis is a flattened tendon it's kind of considered fascia tendon is this structure here now the palmar aponeurosis you can see it spreads out into this flattened triangular shape and it sends slips of connective tissue in towards the fingers it attaches really well to the skin of the palm of the hand and to the transverse um metacarpal ligament here um so it's insertion so palmaris longus has its origin in the medial epicondyle of the humerus and its insertion into the palmar aponeurosis which might even be considered the tendon the flattened tendon of palmaris longus 10 of us don't have palmaris longus on one side or both sides this means that when this muscle contracts it can also flex the wrist but it can also um pull on the flexor retinaculum or um pull on the palmar aponeurosis we can tense up the palmar part the palmar aponeurosis and this helps with grip when you're gripping something in the palm of your hand right um the other thing about the palmar aponeurosis is being a very thick incredibly tough connective tissue it's protecting all your delicate arteries and nerves and other blood vessels uh deep to it palmaris longus is also innervated by the median nerve okay final muscle on this side that crosses the moves the wrist intention anyway um this muscle here flexor carpi ulnaris um flexor carpi ulnaris its origin is the medial epicondyle of the humerus so it actually has two heads so its humeral heads origin is the medial epicondyle of the humerus and can you see how uh these muscles here are kind of coming from a a single tendon so this is the common tenderness origin of the flexor muscles of the forearm the medial epicondyle of the humerus um now we've got the ulnar bone on this side as well so um this is this muscle gets a bit more complicated flexor carpi ulnaris is ulnar heads origin is kind of the olecranon and the posterior parts of the the ulnar back here but this muscle again is going to run through the forearm but of course it doesn't really need to cross to the other side it stays on the ulnar side running towards the little finger so it's going to insert into little finger sided stuff so it inserts into the peasy form bone the hook of the hamate bone and the base of the fifth metacarpal bone which we have over here um i have another model uh look there's the thumb so this is the radial side this is the ulnar side here's that well here's that medial epicondyle of the humerus here we follow it down we can see that it's cut at the wrist but we can see um where it inserts into the peasy form and the hook of the hamate there is the tricky one um being on the ulnar side the ulnar nerve runs down here so it might as well innovate flexor carpi ulnaris as it goes and it does so flexor carpi ulnaris can flex the wrist and being on the ulnar side if it works with extensor carpi ulnaris if both of those muscles contract they will give ulnar deviation of the wrist and if you put that into the anatomical position that's adduction of the wrist that's the flexors of the wrist done let's look at the extensors yes i did think about getting a shorter uh trolley but i can find one um okay so it's all a little bit covered up around here again we have a we have a common extensor origin a common tenderness origin for all these extensor muscles back here and it's on the other side of the humerus it's on the lateral epicondyle of the humerus but there is a little bit more to the story so the thing i get stuck on is okay so we have two extensor muscles running to the wrist on the radial side so we have extensor carpi radialis longus and extensor carpi radialis brevis brevis being short longus being long the long one has to go further so if the first muscle we see here is brachioradialis the next muscle that we see is extensor carpi radialis longus because it has to go further and then next to it is extensor carpi radialis brevis so what we're looking at here if you remember when we looked at brachioradialis we saw that this supra condylar ridge here is the origin of the brachioradialis muscle so then next to it the supra condylar ridge of the humerus so the lateral supra condylar ridge of the humerus that is the origin of extensor carpi radialis longus and then it runs again across the elbow joint um and it's gonna stay we're on the radial side it's gonna stay on the radial side it's gonna run all the way across to the it's gonna run all the way across the wrist jump across all those carpal bones and it's gonna run to the base of the second metacarpal bone because look that's on the radial side and the dorsal surface of the back the posterior part of the base of the um second metacarpal bone and then in doing so uh the um the extensor carpi radialis muscles both of them extensor carpi radialis longus will obviously then extend the wrist now the thing about um those extensor muscles is um sure they extend the wrist or the hand at the wrist but also when you make a fist the flexor muscles want to pull the wrist that away so the extensor muscles are contracting to stop wrist flexion so if you want to make a fist if you want to grip hold of something your extensor muscles your your wrist extensor muscles contract to keep your hand in line with your forearm and prevent wrist flexion so that's the other job they do which is why they're important extensor carpi radialis longus next to it extensor carpi radialis brevis extensor carpi radialis brevis its origin is the lateral epicondyle of the humerus and it runs from the lateral epicondyle of the humerus across the elbow joint doesn't have an action of the elbow joint runs all the way along the forearm jumps across the wrist and inserts into the base of the next metacarpal bone number three so the dorsal surface or the posterior surface of the third metacarpal bone so that means that um extensor carpi radialis longus and extensor carpi radialis brevis will have the same actions of wrist extension and as i said of course if you work with flexor carpi radialis yeah that's it flexor carpi radialis they'll all work together to do radial deviation of the wrist um extensor carpi radialis longus and brevis are innovated by the radial nerve the nerve of the posterior compartment of the forearm that's two out of the three done already we've only got one more to do haha okay so if we go to the other side so to the ulnar side the little finger side this muscle here is extensor carpi ulnaris um and this the origin of extensor carpi ulnaris is he's spotting the pattern here the lateral epicondyle of the humerus that common extensor origin and then this one i mean this this this arm is a little bit um pronated right but the um that's the lateral lateral epicondyle of the humerus the extensor carpi ulnaris muscle will run from the common extensor origin across the forearm so it has to go across to the ulnar side over here and it's going to insert into the base of the fifth metacarpal bone on the dorsal surface on the posterior surface uh will also be innovated by the radial nerve and we'll also do wrist extension and as i said we'll do ulnar deviation of the wrist if it works with the flexicarpial naris muscle on the other side oh my word that didn't feel as bad as i thought it was going to feel it's it's helpful i think for me certainly to break these things up into smaller chunks because i can retain that if i try and do everything at once i'm going to get a little bit a little bit uh lost and confused and make more errors but there we go so we've looked at three muscles in the anterior compartment of the forearm that flex the wrist so flexor carpi radialis flexor carpi ulnaris and palmaris longus and we talked about the common flexor tendon origin of the medial epicondyle of the humerus and how these largely attach to the bases of the metacarpal bones and also the hook of the hammer in pisiform and then we looked at the three extensor muscles of the wrist extensor carpi radialis longus and brevis their origins at the lateral epicondyle of the humerus or that that lateral supra epicondyle ridge and how they run also across to the metacarpal bones on the finger side two and three and then we talked about um extensor carpi ulnaris which runs again from that common extensor origin through to the metacarpal bone on the ulnar side which is the fifth one the one that goes to the little finger all right um okay i hope that was helpful fingers next week see when you do fingers you haven't got just the muscles in here you've got to get up in there as well all right that was useful for me anyway i'll see you next time

=== FILE: Running is simple (vlog) [rA-m2xD9Mjs].txt ===

 you can hear the wind in the trees, it is cold, I've nipped out in between the rain, what on earth am I out running when it's so cold and grey and miserable and wet and slippery? All my life I've been chasing big targets that take long-term, consistent effort, winning bike races, completing a PhD, running a sub-3-hour marathon, doing triathlon, getting research grants, completing research projects, getting lots of subscribers on YouTube, I don't know, that was more of an accident, all of those things have been long-term, consistent output things that have got me to where I was aiming for, or often actually beyond. Kim said it was really cold, I'm running uphill and I'm actually feeling very comfortable, so of course the reason I'm running is because it's a habit, I've met a weird point in my life where I'm not actually chasing anything, I'm trying to keep hold of what I've got, when I was climbing back in the day I was chasing grades, nowadays I'm not even doing that, so running is very much a habit that I created a long time ago, that is incredibly difficult to give up, if I don't do it I feel weird, and it's very easy to take up running to get started, but I think some people, I don't think it's more complicated or think too hard about it, so I think my only goal at the moment is to run three times a week and I often break them, if I'm travelling on my way or I've got long days at work and I can't fit it in, fine, it doesn't matter, next week I'll do three, when I was training I had to always be adjusting my training plans to make sure I've got my training load in to get myself to the fitness I wanted to be at, but these days I can even stop and walk if I want to, or just stop and look around if I want to, never used to be able to do that, always had to be a certain pace for a certain distance, so all I'm doing is getting outside of it, I like, you know, if I'm sat indoors all day I want to go outside, and running, it's obviously good for me, great for that health and fitness stuff, reduces my risk of disease, this light is helping my, everything, my circadian rhythms, my sleep, my energy, you know, you know it's good for you, the trick is getting out and doing it, told you it was windy over and under, but this week, so at the moment, it's getting brighter in the mornings, but I'm often running in the dark, and then it gets a lighter, and I get that, I wouldn't call it a sunrise, I'm not not seeing the sun, from getting that changing colour, the reds, it's just lovely, it's just such a great time of day to be out, but when you open the curbs and you look outside and you think, oh I want to go out, but then because you do it three times a week, you realise that, I just don't know, it'd be fine, if you want to start running, sure there are lots of plans out there, if you want to do one of those things, and be organised and stuff, fine, but you can wear whatever you like, wear tracksuit trousers and top, wear shorts, wear t-shirt, wear hoodie, whatever you like, doesn't matter, trainers, any trainers will do, it's fine, do set yourself that goal of once, twice, three times a week, don't bother with setting a distance or a time, maybe set a time of day, so it's part of your routine, I like to do it early, because then it's done, and I feel good for the rest of the day, already tired for the rest of the day, which is part of feeling good, but, and then just go out, just go out, you've got a routine mind maybe, you've got a lap or a loop or whatever, and maybe warm up with a walk, and then start running at that lamppost, and then just run as fast or as slow as you like, for as long as you like, if you want to stop a walk, that's fine, it's allowed, there are no rules, this is your thing, you can set the rules, my rules are, I like playing in the mud, so I'm out in the mud, I've got my spiky shoes on, this has been really slippery, you see I think this is fun, a lot of people think it's not fun, Kim doesn't think it's fun, but it's fine, then I'm doing my thing, they're my rules, I can do whatever I want, the only kind of rule is going out three times a week and running, some days, okay, I don't want to go out, but maybe I'll just run 500 metres down the road, and if I run 500 metres down the road, and I feel awful, I can turn around and walk 500 metres back again, that's me a kilometre done, I went out and did a thing, but of course what always happens is you start and you realise that, huh, it's as bad as it looked, I feel alright actually, I'll keep going. They've closed off the local path because they are widening it, it's going to be lovely when it's done, but at this point I would normally have three options, I could go further, or I could go home on tarmac, or I could go up the mud, and around the hill, I'm feeling really good, it's not my nearest path as I thought it was going to be, so I'm going to continue on my preferred muddy route. Here's to keep you warm, that's another thing about running, the reason I like running, is that it's much easier to stay warm. On this route I'll run through cold streams, get soaking wet feet, and still be warm, because it's called the blood flow, and stuff in it. You might feel a bit self-conscious about yourself going running, what you're wearing, what you look like, how fast you're going, that you're walking, that you know, maybe your middle aged guide has overdressed a little bit, and is getting really muddy, but the truth is, nobody else cares, everybody else is out running, is focused on what they're doing, if you're lucky, running around here, share a nod, or wave, if you're really lucky, smile. But nobody's thinking about you, nobody's thinking about themselves, often the way we try something new isn't it, you feel very self-conscious, it seems to be an expert. Here we go, this is where it's really slippery, so I like running off route, because it's a bit soft, I've dropped my tendons and stuff, and it's fine, and it's more variable, and I get to play in the mud, but the increased risk is falling over, I'm hurting myself, although often when you fall over, you just land in more mud and get covered in mud. The thing I'm skirting around is, that when you start running, it kind of sucks, it's really hard, because you haven't got the fitness, and that's why most people start and then stop, because it feels too hard, it doesn't feel like everybody says it does, and it's the same actually, if you skip running for a few weeks and go back to it, it sucks, one of the reasons why we try to never stop running. So without in mind, don't overdo it, be gentle with yourself, you're starting, less is more, do less, get into that regular pattern, and your fitness will build, it will get easier, you will get faster just from turning up, and you will be able to run further, honestly. The other reason I'm running is a birthday cake at home, so if I go for a run, I can have a slice of birthday cake, I can't very well have a slice of birthday cake, if I'm sat on my bottle, can I? One of the side effects I like about running is I've built up a much better understanding of my local area, my network of trails and roads and paths, and just everything is where everything is, and you find out things join up, you can make new loops, it's good, I like that sort of thing. Humans are built to do this, this weird bipedal stretch that we've got. This is what it's for.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.338979Z ===
