some more introductory muscle stuff today. Some more first chapter of the textbook stuff. Um muscle function and I'm particularly thinking about sceal muscles. We have lots of words for types of contractions. Isotonic, isometric, eccentric, phasic, reflexive. We talk about muscles being agonist and antagonist and prime movers and synergists. What does all that mean? Well, let's just let's do all that. Let's slowly work our way through um how muscles act with some examples. Most of the time when we're thinking about skeletal muscles, we're thinking about isotonic contraction. And isotonic contraction is when the muscle is changing length. And as this muscle is changing length, it's pulling on a bone and it's moving a bone. Isotonic contractions. But there are actually two more um definitions inside this movement. We have um a concentric contraction where the muscle is changing length and getting shorter. And we have an eccentric contraction where the muscle is changing length and it's still contracting but it's getting longer. So it's uh it's it's paying out my forearm against gravity, isn't it? It's a controlled movement rather than just bump. So this is a concentric contraction of biceps brachi and brachiialis. We'll talk about that in a moment. So this is a concentric contraction. This is an eccentric contraction. Those are both isotonic contractions. I think isotonic because the tone of the muscle stays the same but it changes length. You're applying an even amount of force as we go. Anyway, isotonic. Concentric eccentric. The other type of movement is isometric. So isometric I do I do this because this is the classic example. We're thinking about the deltoid muscle here. If I abduct my upper limb, if I hold my arm up, you know, that takes effort and energy. My deltoid muscle is now contracting to keep my arm held up, but the muscle isn't moving. This is an isometric contraction. The muscle is not changing length but is it is having to um generate contractile forces to keep my arm in the air. An isometric contraction. These are all also phasic contractions because they're happening over a relatively short period of time. Even if I hold my arm up like this in an isometric contraction, I can only hold it for a certain amount of time. Right? So these are phasic contractions because they are occurring in a short period of time. Um you also have tonic contractions. I'm stood upright. I have a lot of tone in various muscles of my body that hold me upright. So the like if you're sat up in a chair, you have tonic contractions of lots of these torso muscles. So this is your natural tone within the muscle that keeps you upright for a long period of time. Tonic contractions. Keep your mouth closed. Keep your eyes open. So tonic contractions long period of time. Phasic contractions relatively short period of time. So those phasic contractions then include those isotonic and isometric contractions. Oh, we quite quickly get into a uh big collection of words, don't we? And the other type of uh so if we have phasic tonic, we also have reflexive. Um, you may be aware that if you tap a tendon, you stretch the muscle and that muscle then reflexively contracts. We have reflexive contractions. Um, usually in response to changing muscle stretch and oh, look at me. I'm swaying already. Um, reflexive contractions manage the tone um, without you having to think about it, without you have to use the central nervous well without you having to use your brain. These are often reflexes that happen in the spinal cord. some reflexive contractions or automatic contractions of the muscle usually in response to stretch so that you can sit upright in your chair or stand up. Anyway, the other key idea here is that if the tonic contraction is the muscle tone that your muscles normally have, keep your mouth shut, keep your eyes open, to keep you set up right in your chair, a phasic contraction um sees an increase in the contractile forces of the muscle above that tonic almost resting level. Does that make sense? So the tonic contraction is a really longterm level of contraction and then the phasic is at a higher level than the tonic contraction for a short period of time. So after that we can then think about movements at joints. Whenever you make a movement it's way more complicated than you think it is. There are way more muscles involved than you think there are. Um so we like to divine these things, right? Because of course we do. If we go back to elbow flexion because that's a nice straightforward movement. In the anterior arm you've got two muscles. You've got biceps bra. We got more than two, but you know what I mean. You've got biceps brachi and brachiialis. And those two cross the elbow joint. So they're both involved in elbow flexion. Now brachiialis um I think is generally considered to be the prime mover. You will re you'll read it the other way around. Anyway, the prime mover is the muscle that does most of the work in that action. So brachiialis causes elbow flexion. it does most of the work. It has an it has an advantage over bicep because it only does one thing and that's the one thing that it does whereas biceps can do other things. So brachiialis is the prime mover but biceps brachi is helping. So biceps brachi is a synergist. It's helping with that direct movement. So we have the prime mover and the synergist. Now both of those muscles are performing that action of elbow flexion. So they are both agonists. Um we don't tend to use agonist that much. We talk about prime movers. We talk about synergist. Agonist is a word that also applies. But we do talk about the antagonist. So if that's the agonist, then over here we have the antagonist. So to flex my elbow, the triceps brachi muscle over here has got to get longer. If it doesn't get longer, if that also contracts, I can't move my elbow. So, biceps brachi and brachiialis are the agonists and they get shorter and cause elbow flexion. The antagonist triceps brachi gets longer and allows the movement to happen. And in fact, it will usually contract eccentrically. So, it'll contract and extend so that we are producing a smooth movement. Right? So, these movements, these muscles are working together. to help us move. Well, note that sometimes the prime mover is gravity, right? It's it's gravity that is pulling my forearm in this direction. So, when I'm extending the elbow against imagine if I had a dumbbell particularly, then gravity is the prime mover and biceps brachi and brachiialis become the antagonists to that movement. And then we have fixators. Um, a fixator prevents an unwanted movement, usually in a more proximal joint. A good example of this is when we're making a fist with the hand. So in the forearm, we've got two layers of muscles that run to the fingers. And when we flex the fingers, those two layers of muscle, flex digtorum superficialis and flexodigtorum profundus cause finger flexion. So the muscles get shorter and pull on tendons that pull the fingers in that direction. But imagine that if they're pulling on the fingers, they also want to do that, right? They would also flex the wrist. Can you imagine that? If you're pulling that point closer to that point, those flexor muscles of the fingers would also flex the wrist, which we don't want. And actually, the muscles can't get short enough that we can make a fist. That's a anyway, I say that's how you disarm a knife wielding maniac, but that's a different talk. Um, so the fixator muscle are the muscles on the other side here which insert into the wrist. So the muscles that extend the wrist, the word for wrist is carpus. So we have extensor karpy muscles. We've got the on the bone and the radial bones. We have extensor carpy narus extensor carpy radiialis brevis and longus. But the extensor muscles of the wrist on this side when you flex your fingers to stop the wrist flexing the wrist extensors pull on the wrist and keep it in a neutral position. So these wrist extensor muscles are fixators when you flex your fingers and keep your wrist in a neutral position. Does that make sense? Um so they fix the wrist and stop it flexing which would be an unwanted movement. Fixators. And we might also talk about stabilizer muscles. The definition can get a little bit woolly with stabilizer muscles. They're muscles that kind of stabilize things when you're moving things. Uh is a fixator, a stabilizer muscle. The best example are the rotator cuff muscles in the shoulder. So we have rotator cuff muscles running from the scapula to the um the humorris. Uh and these muscles are quite small. They can cause actions themselves, but a lot of what they do is they stabilize the head of the humorris into the gleoid fossa. So they stab stabilize the ball and socket joint at the shoulder while you're moving your arm around. So the rotator cuff muscles are not directly involved in this movement. I've got deltoid. I'm using biceps and triceps and all sorts of muscles in my fingers to point at you. But I need to use my rotator cuff muscles to stabilize my shoulder while I'm doing that. They're not a fixator. They're not preventing unwanted movement, but they are stabilizing another joint while I'm moving other joints. So, stabilizing muscles, but your mileage may vary when you read about stabilizer muscles and how people describe them. So, watch out for that. But, um, when we're talking about a movement, those are the words we tend to use. Prime mover and synergist antagonists are on the other side of the joint and usually have to lengthen to allow you to make the movement. And then fixators pretend prevent an unwanted movement usually of a joint proximal to the joints you're actually moving. There are just a couple more terms spurt muscles and shunt muscles. The muscles we've been talking about have been acting as spurt muscles. So muscles can act in different ways depending upon the movement you're making. But um a spurt muscle, I guess it's called a spurt muscle because it creates a fairly fast movement. So a spurt muscle is essentially it's it's making a movement, right? Because of the way it inserts on the bone and the angles change and that sort of thing. A shunt muscle is pulling along the length of the bone. My favorite example is deltoid. So when your arm is hanging by your side, your deltoid muscle uh attaches to the humorous there. Um and if you contract your deltoid muscle, all it does is pulls your humorris into your shoulder into your shoulder joint. Um it doesn't do abduction. You actually need to use another muscle to get abduction started and then deltoid can take over and do abduction. In this position, deltoid is a shunt muscle. It is pulling along the length of the axis of the humorris. And the reason for that is when you're carrying something heavy, deltoid stops this joint being pulled apart and your arm falling off. Um, so a shunt muscle is keeping the joint together while you're doing a movement. So you're carrying your shopping. Deltoid is a shunt muscle holding the joint together. You put your shopping down. When you raise your arm, the deltoid muscle becomes a spurt muscle now because it's doing a spurt muscle job and it would be doing one of those other named functions that we described earlier depending upon the movement that you're doing. There's quite a lot of words there. Can I remember all those words? So we have phasic contractions um movements that happen over a relatively short period of time and then we have isotonic contractions where the muscle is changing length as that phasic contraction and if that isotonic contraction means the muscle is getting shorter that's a concentric contraction. If that isotonic contraction has the muscle g getting getting longer that's an eccentric contraction. Um if that phasic contraction has the muscle not changing length that's an isometric contraction. And then we have tonic contractions. The tone that we have the tone of the muscles of our body. That is your tonic contraction. That's at a tonic level. The phasic contractions are at a slightly um there's more force involved than the the tonic level. So keeping your mouth shut, your eyes open, keeping you sat upright. So you don't you imagine if you switched off all that tone, you just slump and collapse and your eyes would close and your mouth would open, slack and drool would come out, right? And then you have the reflexive contractions where you stretch a muscle and it automatically contracts a little bit for balance. Uh what else did we talk about? And then we talked about prime movers and synergists, agonists. And then we talked about the antagonists that have to lengthen to let the agonist do their job. And we talked about fixators and uh spurts and shunts. All right, good luck. Wow, there is a lot of anatomy. These are all terms that I just kind of we just use. This is part of our language. We get used to and you forget how hard it is to learn all this. All right, good luck with that. Uh speak to you next week.