! It's fun, isn't it? Even when it's grey and wet and miserable like this, I still can't imagine driving to work. That seems worse. I'm all wrapped up, I'm fine, it's only 30 minutes. I can't live in Wales, it does rain a bit. You've got to get used to the weather. But to be honest, certainly the mornings have started to get brighter. It's not quite so dark. When I cycle home sometimes, I can feel spring is coming, the flowers are starting to appear. It's been a long winter. Morning. They've been working on this cycle path, so the middle section, I couldn't cycle over a little while, I go for about four weeks. Oh, it's really fun. Morning, that's your age. Yeah, he's not in a hurry either. They've been removing a lot of trees, hundreds of trees, but then there are tens of thousands of trees down here. Widening it, I think they've laid down some tarmac now. They've cut some new drains because it regularly flooded, but they haven't laid the final fresh tarmac yet. So here they've widened on the left. So that first bit of tarmac is just like, they've dug a trench, they put in some hardcore, some thick gravel, and they've laid over that bit of tarmac. They'll come down and they'll do this whole, they'll re-tarmac it as a whole single sweep. I don't know when though. So this section of path by the Rugby Club, never a rain delight, it would always flood so you'd be cycling down a river. So they have dug out the channel, rebuilt the bank, we've got some decent drainage. Look, that's where the water comes in there. So all of these floods with heavy rain normally, so they fix that. Morning. I cycle the same path, the same route to working back every day, but it's not always the same route every day, if you know what I mean. We're starting to get a bit of spring. It's been very bleak and dark through the winter, when everything starts to leaf and fill in, it looks different again in the summer when it's hot. It's difficult to imagine, but I'll be in trance to see sure. Morning. We've come out by the sea. I think this time of year, almost or a little bit earlier, the sun's often coming up as I get to the sea so you get that rare sunrise. It's always changing, it's lovely. I've been riding this for more than 20 years and for some reason I'm never bored. I guess because I do it all the time, I can't imagine driving into work. Driving, traffic, parking, expense, sporing. So this is an old railway line, right? Used to have 60 train services running up and down here before they were closed. When the car came along, everybody started driving their cars. People stopped using the train. They needed as many train services. So then they streamlined the railways by closing all these branch lines, all these sidelines, they're just keeping most of the major ones. So it's nice that they've been repurposed to this sort of thing. The reason it's really nice is because Wales is really hilly and the railways per huge amount of time and effort, you can see the embankments here, cutting into the hill, cutting through the hill. So as a cycle path then, because trains can't really go up hills and down hills, they try and make a gradual climb and a gradual descent to the cycle path. Brilliant, right? Gradual climb, gradual descent. It's easy. I've got to be the headman today, but easy. Where I live and the villages and towns and communities around here, they all sprung up, well, largely the 1800s, because of the mining coal mines and metal oars around here. There are also lots of train lines and other tracks and trails from history. There's also lots of mines in the hillsides here, lots of entrances, lots of openings. Yes, a lot of the old infrastructure for mining. Well, it's all grown over now, it's all trees and lovely, and you often find a weird quarry or a weird opening, what have you, but it's mostly gone to green. You can't build houses over where most of the mines were, because, well, the houses might fall into the mines, right? Into the shafts. I'm sure they're not as well documented as you'd hoped. I'm going to go down there. Ah, there's the tailwind. That's better. Tides in, but it's very grey. Full Christmas had a TV thing request to do something with James May about anatomy and body and stuff, but it didn't panic for various reasons. We couldn't quite give them what they wanted. Just had another one through a colleague at work, another, this is for the BBC production company, I think it's making something about methanol poisoning, and could we do any visual stuff? I didn't know much about this. I looked it up. Very interesting. Methanol is a poisonous form of alcohol, because when you ingest it, you have enzymes in your body that just so happen to turn methanol into formaldehyde, then the formaldehyde gets turned into formic acid. So you have that acidosis problem, but also it interferes with your mitochondria, an energy production. So the first thing is you know it's failing at eyesight because of the retina, and the energy demands of the retina, and then basal ganglia, tremors and stuff. Very interesting. Not sure if this will come to be or not. That's coming up soon. I do like to see the geese in the park every day. They're out on the water today. They'll be laying eggs, they'll be getting pretty protective, I should think, in February, March. More protective than normal anywhere. Love geese, they've got an attitude. They're hiss, but they never bite. For the game of Cybert's work, one of the most important things I find is knowing where you're going to leave your bike. If you leave it indoors, great, it'll be rusty when you come back. I'm soggy on the outside, not too soggy on the inside, hopefully. So I'll give the first years some feedback on their formative anatomy exam, because they've got their formative anatomy exam coming up soon. Ilshehehe I'm not teaching, but I am giving a feedback session. back sessions. Do I put a shirt on? Do I change my trousers or do I just dry these out by wearing them? It feels like they fixed the heat and it feels like it's warm. My radiator has got warmth all the way through it. Oh joy, I've got that bug. So these are old Thunderbolt monitors but they're fine, they're good. But there's a fun bug with the latest Mac OS so Thunderbolt doesn't work. All these Thunderbolt monitors don't work properly anymore. It's great isn't it? You buy Apple stuff to work with Apple stuff, you buy new Apple stuff and the old Apple stuff doesn't quite work right. So you see how that middle display is dim now? Yeah I gotta go battle with the settings to try and get it to brighten up. Come on. Weird isn't it? Such a weird bug and when it's really dim you can't even see the settings menu. Maybe I should walk away and get a cup of coffee. Yeah. All right, gave the firsts their feedback on their formative exam with some advice and notes and other bits and bobs and they seem anxiously happy. Four weeks to their first summative exam so I've also written them 15 questions. We're gonna teach them one Monday. One of the stations will give them example spotter exam that goes follows the learning outcomes goes all the way back to week one. See if they can remember 20 odd weeks worth of anatomy and remind them of the revision they have to do. I say remind them. It's the first time they've done it so teach them. Teach them what they've got to do. Speaking of which I was playing Dave the Diver as you do and Bancho is it? Bancho. The sushi chef in Dave the Diver. He said something along the lines of we're blessed to have a path to follow. We're lucky to have a path to follow and Dave didn't really understand this fair enough. It's funny how games trigger thoughts isn't it but yeah absolutely and this is something I do talk about a lot. You're very lucky when you find your path and that you are able to follow that path but it made me think that so you see me as a teacher right? That's not the path I'm on. The path I'm on is the eternal student. I'm on a learning path. I want to know everything and the teaching is both like a byproduct of that learning path. You know so through teaching right I want to learn if I use that learning to teach that helps other people but I get paid for it which means I can do more learning and I can keep forging along this path but also that teaching is kind of like a method of learning and the teaching itself pushes you to investigate and learn and study and drives you along this path because students are great at asking you difficult questions you don't know the answers to for one example. So further along the path and helping other people along the path and then when I'm finished I will get back on the cycle path. And go home.