If a dermatome is a patch of skin innovated by branches of one particular spinal nerve from one particular level of the spinal cord. A myo is a block of muscle that's innovated by branches of a single spinal nerve from a single spinal cord level. Well, that's how it starts out in the embryo. That's when it's all nice and neat. But in the adult, uh, when muscles as we recognize them are made, multiple muscle blocks come together to make a muscle. So many of the muscles we see in the adult are innovated by multiple spinal cord levels. But nonetheless, uh, a muscle or muscles within a compartment will often have the same innovation from the same spinal cord levels and perform the same action. For example, um, in the anterior compartment of the arm, these muscles simply speaking will do flexion of the elbow. Uh, and the muscles of the anterior compartment of the thigh will do knee extension and hip flexion. for example. So we can use that we can use that to kind of bring all this information together so that we can use tests of the strength of different movements to test the functions of different spinal nerves and spinal cord levels. And this is us using our knowledge of myo. So let's try and do that for the lower limb. Let's link spinal nerves to movements of the lower limb. Okay, this isn't a clinical how-to. This is an anatomy of video because that's what I do. I do anatomy. Um, but let's link spinal nerve levels to movements of the lower limb. Um, and of course, deep tendon reflex tests are also useful for this and tell us a little bit about the quality of upper motor neurons versus lower motor neurons, but that's a topic for a different video that I've probably already done at some point. Um, okay. So, these muscles of the lower limb are going to be innovated by nerves of the lumbossacral plexus. That is, they're going to be innovated by spinal nerves numbered for how they leave the spinal cord. L1, L2, L3, L4, L5 and S1, S2, S3, S4, S5 spinal nerves. So that's the spinal nerve level. So for example, the femoral nerve here is made up of multiple spinal nerve roots or fibers from multiple spinal nerve roots that have come together to make this nerve and run to the anterior compartment of the thigh and innovate these muscles here. So at the hip, we've got hip flexion, we've got hip extension, we've got hip abduction, and we've got hip adduction. We've got the anterior compartment of the thigh, the medial compartment of the thigh, this posterior compartment, and then we've got these glutal muscles up here. Now, we shouldn't shy away from the complexity, but we'll do a bit of the complexity first. Now, look out to see if you see a pattern as we go around, and then we'll summarize. nice and succinctly with that pattern at the end so that you can remember it. But hip flexion then so lifting the thigh up hip flexion um uses L1 and L2 whereas hip extension uses L5 to S1. Hip abduction also uses L5 to S1 and hip adduction uses L1 to L4. The muscles that will extend the knee are using L3 and L4 spinal nerve roots. Whereas the muscles that will flex the knee are using L5, S1 and S2 nerve roots at the ankle as we go more distal. Dorsif flexion, bringing your toes towards your shin, uses L4 and L5 spinal nerve roots. And inversion, bringing the sole of the foot to face inwards, uses L4 and L5 spinal nerve roots. Eversion, tilting your foot the other way, uses L5 and S1. And to stand on tippy toes, plantar flexion uses S1 and S2 spinal nerve roots. And then if we go down to the toes, extension of the toes uses L5. That is bringing the toes towards the shin as in literally lifting your toes up. L5 spinal nerve roots. Flexing the toes. So clawing the ground uses S1 and S2. Now did you notice a pattern at all? Well, what just happened was as we went down the front of the lower limb, L1, L2, L3, L4, L5, S1, S2, S1, S2, S2, bit L5. That's what happened. That embionic pattern we can still see here. Let me break that down a bit more. Now, the bit that's actually useful, the bit that you actually need to remember is L1, L2, L3, L4, L5, dermy toes, S1, S2, doomy toes. S1, S2, dermy ankle, S2. Tada. What do you think? That's got to be the way to remember it, right? Oh, by the way, um, external anal sphinxer reflexive contraction S3 S4. So, the lumbar nerves are taking control of the anterior leg and the sacral nerves are taking control of the posterior leg. Certainly this far. Let me get back up to lumbar stuff up there. But the way to remember it is, yeah, start up here with the first lumbar nerve. So, hip flexion, L1, L2. Knee extension, L3. Dorsif flexion of the ankle, L4. Uh, extension of the toes, L5. We've run out of L's now. Sacral nerves go around the bottom. Uh, flexion of the toes, S1. Bit of S2. S1. Uh, and we come around to the ankle. Planter. Flexion of the ankle. S1 bit S2. And then as we come up to the the back of the knee. So flexion of the knee. S2 P L5. Um and then whatever. All right. Um sure we're all humans so we vary a little bit but that is a nice neat barely simplified method of remembering it. And remembering it reliably is going to be really useful. Right? So you can competently use this in clinical testing. But that's the method. All right, I'll get back to marking exam papers, get ready for running another exam next week, and um think about doing the same thing with the monotones and movements of the upper limb next week. All right, see you next week.