Okay. So, you want to better understand my better understand how you can use the movements of the upper limb and that knowledge of mymes to test the functions of spinal nerve roots and spinal cord levels. Am I right? Cuz that was the title of the video. Um so a dermatome is a patch of skin innovated only by branches of a particular spinal nerve root level and therefore of a particular spinal cord level because that spinal nerve root comes out of a particular spinal cord level. Right? A myo is the same principle. It's a block of muscle innovated only by branches of a single spinal nerve root and therefore a single spinal cord level. Um the trick is that in the embryo, sure you have nice neat muscle blocks, but in the adult those muscle blocks come together to create the muscles of the upper limb and everything gets messy and compl complicated. Nonetheless, we can simplify this in a functionally useful way. Well, I think I can anyway. Let's try. The brachial plexus is a great example of what happens, right? we have a nice neat segmented pattern of spinal nerve roots. But when they enter the brachial plexus, those uh the axons of those neurons come together, form new new nerves, and those nerves then innovate the muscles of the upper limb. So we can see how we go from something very neat and tidy to something very complex. That means that when you're considering myoes and movements of joints, well, there is actually quite a bit of overlap for most of the movements and there is some variability between people just as we see with dermatomes. Um, which limits the sensitivity and the accuracy of this testing mechanism. But as I understand it, it's a useful tool and it's one of the best we've got. I just teach anatomy. Somebody else will have to teach you the clinical side of things. Right. There's a very nice neat pattern as we work our way down the upper limb from proximal to distal. So the first movement is uh testing the C5 myo and it is abduction of the upper limb of the shoulder joint and it's also external rotation of the humorris at the shoulder joint. Both of those are C5. So here we're thinking about uh the muscles of the rotator cuff and the deltoid muscles. So C5, C5, and then we go to the elbow joint. So C6, C6 is flexion at the elbow joint. C6 is also suppination. That makes some sense because we're using biceps and biceps is also a powerful senator. So C6 and C6, but counterintuitively at the wrist C6. So extension of the wrist is C6. And then C7 is the opposite. So extension of the elbow C7. Pronation of the forearm C7. Flexion of the wrist C7. And then we go to the fingers for C8. This is quite a nice test. So So C8 finger flexion C8. also finger extension C8. Oh, look, my thumb is extended. Also C8. So C8, C8 and C8. And then as we go more distally, still now we get to the small muscles in the hand T1. So the muscles between the bones, the interosius muscles. Um the dorsal interosius muscles abduct. So abduction of the fingers T1. That's your test, right? Abduction against resistance. So abduction of the fingers T1. And that's it. We've gone all the way through the brachial plexus. And and I think T1 will do all of the little muscles in the hand, all the intrinsic muscles of the hand. Um so that's the method, right? We work our way down the joints and we go we start at C5 and we work our way to T1 as we get most distal. I think the the the elbow is and the wrist are the trickiest bits. But if you remember that it's tricky maybe that helps to remember it. So C5 abduction C5 external rotation at the shoulder. Uh C6 uh also C6 also C6 C7 and uh C7 and then C8 C8 C8 C8 and then we get to the hand um T1. So also T1 T1. Um there's quite a bit of overlap. C6 and C7 tend to try and get involved in everything. But I think I think C5 only does abduction as in only C5 contributes to abduction of the shoulder and external rotation of the humorous of the shoulder rotator cuff muscles. um only um C6 is involved in suppation and only T1 is involved in uh the intrinsic muscles of the hand. I think that's right. I haven't tested every single human on the planet. So, some of us might be a little bit different, but that's that's the memory map, right? Um yeah, good luck. But that that's what we mean by. So, the idea of mymes and dermatomes is confusing. A dermatome is a strip of skin innovated by branches of one spinal nerve root. A myo is a block of muscle innovated only by branches of a single spinal nerve root. But as those muscle blocks in the embryo came together to make the muscles that we see in the adult, a muscle is made up of multiple embryionic muscle blocks. So innovated by multiple spinal nerve roots. So that list I just described is a simplification but is what's generally listed in most places as the movements that you would use and you'd compare the two different sides and you'd see how you see how strong the person was. Those are the movements that you use to test those myoes at different levels to test those spinal nerve functions and then you would relate that to dermatome findings and other clinical findings and it just it just adds to your picture of what's going on in your patient. Right? If that helps you remember uh my work here is done. All right. Speak to you next week.