Hello. Okay. Wow, lots of bits. So, so this week um in teaching here we were talking about the nose and some other bits and bobs. So, I thought I'd do a little bit of anatomy of the nose. And I like the uh I like the skull a lot. I like the bones of the skull a lot. The anatomical society chucked out some tweets this week to ask anatomist, what's your favorite part of the body? What's your favorite anatomical structure? And I've been struggling all week. There are so many really nice parts of the body. Um, so many, you know, really nice anatomical structures. I can't pick one. Um, and I tweeted them that and I think I've taken me so long to try and come up with one that it's blown over a bit now. Anyway, the skull is an awesome piece of anatomy there. It's I mean, it's inc it's just very human, isn't it? The the skull. Um, and if we look at the front of the skull, we're going to look at the nose. So, let's look at all the different bones here. I've got this guy. Got this guy. Exploded colorful skeleton skull. Bit too exploded. And I've got this one. This might be better. Anyway, so let's start off by looking at the bones of the skull. um some of the features. But then the other important thing about the nose is that there's a septum dividing the left and right sides of the nasal cavity and that's important. Uh and let's talk about fractures. Nasal fractures which living in Wales we get a fair few uh nasal fractures, broken broken noses. You'll see a lot of guys walking around with broken noses. Usually the big guys because there's a huge rugby culture in Wales. Right. So the skull on the skull look. So this is the frontal bone. This is the magilla. This is the mandible. Right? We've got the orbit. We've got the nasal cavity. You can see in there that the bony bits that make up the dividing septum are still there, but the cartilage is gone. So there's a piece of cartilage here and much of the much of the the nose is made up of cartilage which is why you can move it around, right? Um so we'll look at that in a moment. But now there are two bones here on either side right on the on the top of the nose there. And those are the nasal bones. And then on either side we have the lacrimal bones. And that's really hard to see on a white skull, right? So, how about this guy? Is that better? Frontal bone, magilla, nasal bone. See the two white nasal bones there. And then see the orange bit, that's the lacrimal bone. Now, if you look, you see how in the lacrimal bone there's a hole, right? There's a hole in there. So that's the nasol lacrimal duct. Your lacrimal glands up here secretes tears and you lacrimate and those tears go across the the eye and then they drain through the nasol lacrimal duct through from which is in the lacrimal bone there which then goes and opens up in your nose. You can kind of difficult to see. Grab one of these and have a look. That's why when you cry, you also make a load of snot and it all dribbles out your nose and it's really attractive. Um, the other bone in here, can you see this yellow bone? All right, that yellow bone there. And look, so that the yellow bone in the roof of the nose, that's the same bone. That's the ethmoid or ethmoid bone. And that's an important bone that the other side of that ethmoid bone is the brain. Well, you know the meningi in the brain. This is the zygoma. This is the sppheninoid bone. This is the temporal bone. This is the parietal bone. This is the occipital bone. Down here we've got the hyoid bone. Okay. So, those are the bones of the nose. Now, you see this orange bone in here? That's vulma. And this orange bone is in the midline, which means that pretty much all of the other bones that we talk about are paired. There are two of them. There's a left one and a right one. Um, the vulmer is an unpaired bone in the midline. Right now, let's if we pull all that apart, that's upside down. We get that. Right. So, there's the nasal cavity. These are the the conchi the turbulent bones and stuff and air comes in through the nostril and goes through there and down is the nasop fernx and blah blah blah all that this then see this this is the ethmoid bone. So up here well you can see it there look that is the oldactory nerve cranial nerve one. So this is your the sense of smell travels through the alactory nerve. So up here if you look inside the skull you've got the cribraform plate right that see where we are that is the cribraform plate and it's in the ethmoid bone and the reason it's got lots of little holes in it is so the alactory bulb sends through a bunch of little neurons which can then detect smell and then send it back to your brain. So that's the ethmoid bone there. So, so ethmoid bone and what you can't see there is this is part of the ethmoid bone as well. This is the um so this is the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone. So this is this this bit here is actually continuous with the ethmoid bone here and it goes down. This is the magilla here right in the front and this is the magilliary crest. This is vulmer. There's this is vulma. This is the bone in the midline. And then this is the nasal septal cartilage. And look, this is the rest of the nose. You can see this is all cartilage as well. So these three things together form the nasal septum that split your nasal cavities into left and right sides. We're looking at it. Look, this is the sppheninoid bone back here. There's the sppheninoid sinus. This is the frontal bone up here. Here's the frontal sinus, right? which is up here. Now, the thing is, of course, when you get an impact to your nose, if you're in a scrum, when you get tackled and your face gets wall up, or or if you're in a fight and somebody punches you to the nose and there's or if you're in a traffic collision and you bang your head against the steering wheel and your nose gets cracked, if it's not too bad a collision, then you're likely to break some of these cartilages and, you know, those might just get fl cuz you're broing the cartilagages and no big deal. Maybe you want maybe you want to straighten it back up again, but you might get it deviated. It might get pushed to one side or the other or some of these bones might break. Now, if some of these bones break and you get a hematoma and the hematoma gets stuck under the perryostium, that's likely to cause a problem for the septum. And if that's not fixed, i.e. you remove the hematoma, you remove the collection of blood, then um the septum might start to necro in future months. So sometimes a broken nose isn't as straightforward as it might seem. Also in the walls of the nasal cavity because of course we're breathing air in through our noses and we're warming that air up and we're humidifying it before it goes into our lungs. Means there's a huge blood supply in the nasal in the the walls of the nasal cavity and blow to the nose often bleeds quite a lot. So, you want to stop that bleeding, you know, pack of ice gets the inflammation down, uh, closes off all the blood vessels, closes the all that sort of stuff, you know, usual first aid stuff. But when the swelling's gone down, you need to have a look at the nose and see if it's broken and if it's like pushed to one side or whatever. So now look, if it's an upward blow and this has pushed the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone up, you could crack the ethmoid bone up here and it's very thin. There it is. There. So we're looking at the same stuff again. We just got all the soft tissue squidged in around it. Here's the here's the nose. Here's the cartilage bit. Here's the nasal cavity. We've lost, you know, vulmer would be here. The the perpendicular plate of the ethmoid bone would be down here. We've removed those so we can see the nasal cavity. But if that perpendicular plate gets pushed up and the ethmoid bone cracks, then you may well have a patient with a drip drip drip of clear fluid from their nose. What's that clear fluid? Yeah, cerebral spinal fluid. So cerebral spinal fluid that the brain is bathed in is leaking through the durometer and through that cracked bone. Boom boom boom boom. That would be bad. Let's get that fixed. Um so a fractured nose can be a pretty dangerous thing. Um as I was saying before, look here's the frontal bone. So there's the frontal sinus. This is the sppheninoid bone back here. Um one of the tailtails of this is the well two tail tails here. There's the pituitary gland. We know the pituitary gland is sat within this depression within within the sppheninoid bone, don't we? That's the celotica. Boonk. Here's the sppheninoid bone. That's where the pituitary gland lives. Here's the magilla here. And this is the hard pallet. Here's the soft pallet. The soft pallet is muscular. The soft pallet lifts to to close off the nasop fernx and the oruro fernx during swallowing. But the hard pallet is made of a palatine bone and the magilla. So this palatine bone again we're just seeing in section. If we look on our ever cheery skull we see look here's the palatine bone here and there's the magilla forming the hard pallet there. This is the palatine bone. You see the shapes that makes. Unfortunately, on this model, they've made the palatine bones and the sppheninoid bone red, which is a bit annoying. There are lots of colors to choose from, and those two bones that sit next to each other, they've made them both red. Whatever. Um, so here's the sppheninoid bone back here. Here's the palatine bone here on either side. And look there in orange there. There's vulmer. So these are the turbinate bones. We have superior, middle, and inferior turbinet bones, also known as the konchi because the Greeks thought they look like the curves of sea shells, which I think is fair enough. And they're covered in a in a thin mucosa. And the the mucosa and the blood supply and the secretion of mucus and all that sort of stuff is is actually really carefully regulated and changes with weather and temperature and and all sorts of things. It's actually there's actually an awful lot going on inside your nose. Um, but don't forget that I talked about the sppheninoid sinus and the frontal sinus. Don't forget you've also got a maxillary sinus inside the magilla on either side. And right, see how there is a hole through there. So in there, that's the entrance to the maxillary sinus. So yeah, the sinuses inside the face um, they're also lined with the mucosa. it can get infected. Um, and you get, you know, swelling and blockage and pain with pressure changes. So, you want to you want to clear out the maxillary sinus in there. You go. Um, don't know if you saw the blue pool video a little while ago, but jumped um off. There's a blue pool in North Gower. It's hidden away. It's a bit of a thing to find, but we found it and we jumped into it and it was very cold. Um but later when we got home when I when I bent over and dropped me head I don't know what I was doing um bent over to undo me shoes or something um all the sea water came out of me sinuses into my nose so it jumped in or the water got pushed up uh probably into the maxillary sinus and I don't know these spaces and stuff when I bent over came out again. It was uh interesting. If you want to talk about the blood supply to the nose, that's a whole other video to be honest. Um, the external nose, oh, you can kind of see on there, receives arteries from the facial artery, but structures inside the nasal cavity receive branches from the internal and external corroted arteries, the athalmic artery. We have spphenopalatine arteries and greater and less. We got there's a huge amount of blood passing through the nasal cavity. While we're in there, we could mention nerves. What's the major sensory nerve of the face? The trigeminal nerve. That's right. Cranial nerve five. So, sensory stuff in here is going through branches of the trigeminal nerve. Um, now what's the cranial nerve that innovates um dribbly, snotty, weepy structures, organs in the face? Huh. Um so in the head and neck um there are so in the nasal cavity there are uh mucus secretreting glands which make mucus which I'm sure you've all experienced and of course as I said we make tears through lacrimmation and we have the salivory glands making um saliva. So two of the salivory glands on either side and all the mucosal glands and the lacrimal glands are innovated by the facial nerve cranial nerve 7. So that's parasympathetic innovation. You don't have any control over it. Um and it's all motor. So cranial nerves of that region as well. It's about it really. Okay. So we've talked about the bones on the front of the face and we've talked about the bones of the nose. There aren't that many but it's worth learning them. We've talked about the bones and the cartilage making up the nasal septum. And we briefly mentioned the cartilage forming the shape of the nose. And we've looked at those in three dimensions. Um, so consider those in in injuries of the nose. I've managed to show you a load of stuff, but you haven't seen too much of the building work. Oh, you seen that's the edge of the wall building there. I've hidden most of it. Haven't we got it done before the builders came in? I thought the builders were going to pay halfway through this, but all right. See you next time.