It's the start of a new academic year. We got lots of new students finding their feet on various courses. Our medicine students have been with us for a month or so. They're still finding their feet. Uh it's a big step up going to university. It's a big step step up going from one degree to medicine. You got to you got to figure out how you're going to study. It's a very personal thing. It's very individual cuz we're all different. I don't want to run today. I got tendons in my right ankle that are scratchy and painful. Got a bit of pain under my left heel still. I'm slow. I feel like I'm tired all the time. And it's blowing a gale literally today, which is getting dampened down by the woods at least. It's not I'm not training for anything. I don't race anymore. It's not like when I had a marathon coming up or had to maintain my fitness for triathlons or whatever. Of course, as I'm getting older, it's not about races or winning anymore. It's about my health and fitness. I want to be strong as I get older. I don't want to get weaker. I want to keep being able to do the things that I do. And of course, running, fitness, any sort of exercise reduces my risks of developing cardiovascular disease. Hear the wind. reduces my chances of getting cancer. And I'm at that age now where I've I've had friends that have had heart attacks. Some have survived, some haven't. Family have had cancer. So you go from that, oh, it's something that happens to somebody else to other people to no, this is something that could happen to me. Sorry, that's a bit a bit of a down, is it? But running helps with all of those things. means I'm going to be healthier and it needs to be a regular activity. It needs consistency to have that effect. And also I know that that consistency means that running will get easier again. I'll get fitter again. And actually now I'm starting to warm up. Of course, I'm very happy to be out here and I'm really enjoying this now. The sun's out. I'm not getting as blown around as much as I thought. But it's habit. Some people might call it discipline, but habit and discipline overlap quite a bit. It's the same with uh work and studying and learning, isn't it? I learned the lesson quite late that I can work a lot harder than I think I can work. And actually, I need to work harder, a lot harder than I thought I needed to. And those two things, I don't know. Well, got me where I am today. Sounds trit, doesn't it? But I'm not super bright. But once I realized I can work really hard, that's what got me to the places I was quite keen to get to. Let me do the things I wanted to do. talking about studying and sport. And with sport, you you keep pushing yourself. Well, you can push yourself harder than you think, but when you realize how hard you can push yourself, you push yourself to the point where you do break and you injure yourself and then you have to recover, which is not great, but it is part of the learning cycle. I can go I can push myself that hard and I'll break. So, you just re in a little bit. You find you find your limits. You only find your limits by really pushing yourself over your limits. This actually isn't great advice. A lot of sport isn't particularly healthy when you get to the very top end of it. Um, but finally got to this hill. This is the first time I've run this hill in ages. So, I'm running a bit further today. Oo, feels good. Um, but once you found your limit, then you can rain it in a bit. And there are periods in the year where you have extended periods of rest. When racing, it tends to be the autumn or after the autumn, marathons, for example, through the winter, you rest. And with studying when you're doing a degree, you tend to have a really long summer period. So you have long periods of rest. So you do have opportunities to push yourself really hard without doing without doing yourself permanent damage. So running, training to race, you have periods of self-inflicted suffering and uh academic works like that too. You you chose to do this, you want to do this, your motivation will rise and dip, but it's up to your discipline or your routine or whatever it is you've got. You got to have this schedule. You're not really thinking about it. This is just the time when you study and this is the stuff you're going to study and the first rule is just turn up. Um Oh, pretty. And it's that long-term consistent work that sets you up for success. And the more you work, the more time you put in, the better your exam grades will be, the better your degree will be, the more you'll get from your studies, which means you'll be better at the profession that you want to go into. It's all it's all positive benefits except for the feeling of exhaustion, uh, the risk of burning out and draining your motivation. Uh so the secret really here is uh is sleep. The thing about self-inflicted suffering is you're in control. You can stop. You can take a break. You can do less. But of course, if you don't do enough, you ain't going to be as good as you could be. As an academic myself, the rules still apply. Um, I have a lot of things I have to do, but then there are a lot of things that I choose to do on top of that. You might have noticed I make videos. Uh, so not only am I studying every week for the stuff that I'm teaching or the books that I'm writing or the research research that I'm trying to do, but I'm also studying every time I'm making a video. And I enjoy this process. I like learning. Um, but because it's part of my habit, my routine, because I put out a video every week, it's in my routine. uh I have to lean into it and pick a topic and research around it and make sure my knowledge is still up to date and accurate and add to my knowledge which is the best bit. I'm always adding to my knowledge. Um I've never come across something that I know everything about. The ferns are starting to change color. The hillsides changing color is such a tough time of year academically. getting back. It's a tough term. It's just tough. Um, but I should probably get out of my mountain bike soon. It's a good time of year for mountain biking as it gets muddier. Hey, look. I failed exams in the first year of my degree. Uh that's what made me realize I had to do things differently. And it was only like kind of after that that I realized I had to work more. And then when I saw the rewards of working more, I realized how hard I could work. Um but but it's the same for exercise. When I realized I could train that much, I got really fast. But like I said, the secret is sleep. I'm not saying you work all hours. Not saying you work in the middle of the night. I'm saying you schedule your time appropriately and you get exercise and you are tired. Oh, it's really deep. Um, and you have good sleep, so you go to bed at the same time, wake up at the same time, manage your life, all that sort of stuff. You know how athletes talk about those sacrifices they made to achieve that thing that they've just achieved the sacrifices that nobody sees. Work hard, sleep well, repeat. Consistency is the key. I know it's not rocket science. Well, unless you're studying rocket science. It's not brain surgery unless you're studying brain surgery. Yeah. Actually, I feel pretty good. Ankle feels a bit scratchy. See what it's like tomorrow. See how much damage I've done. See how long I need to rest. Okay, good luck.