We are going to Sheffield University. I love universities. We're not going for me. Been to Sheffield University the last few years. Uh cuz I've been asked to to speak up there. This time we're going up for these two cuz they want to go to university. Sheffield's up in the north of England, so it's a long way. Uh Sheffield's got it's a big town. It's not a city, is it? It's big town. Is it? It's a city cuz it's got a cathedral. It's very big. It's got two big universities. Very good universities. Sheffield University is the one that does all the medicine. That's the one I usually end up going up to. We're going to Sheffield Hallum University, which is the other university, which is also very good. >> Your hoodie. >> Ah, thank you. Uh, so I'm not in charge. I am just the driver. just the parent uh hotel. Um that's a good omen. There was a rainbow when we left and there's a rainbow when we got it. Well, it just means that it's raining. We got a got a view of the canals and the boats and stuff. Our kids are both adults now. One is 5 years older than the other and doesn't know what the heck he's going to do. So I think another cheesy one. Thank you. But youngest >> is keen to go to university and do in front of him. It seems to have spurred on eldest. >> Youngest has got an idea of a couple of topics which is great. Right. Genuine enthusiasm. Eldest could do with some more skills, some life skills. I don't know, some something to lift him up. Uh, no. Breakfast is not included. But then I like going out to breakfast. You remember what that nice cafe is? It does all the nice things with the sofas and stuff. Cuz that's down this end, isn't it? We'll we'll figure it out. >> Oh, the one by the cathedral that we used to always go to. >> I still don't remember that being the ca Oh, no. I do remember the cathedral now. Yes. >> Oh, look. Halloween leftovers. Kids, I'm pretty sure they're supposed to get easier as you get as they get older. Turns out that's not true. Um, turn this around. The reason I make anatomy videos, the reason I teach anatomy is because I'm a massive nerd and I love talking about my favorite subject. I've been talking about this in previous weeks, right? I love I love universities. I know I'm institutionalized. I live in an ivory tower. [snorts] Um, but universities give me the the freedom to study the thing I'm interested in, to read about it, to study it, but in payment I have to teach it, but then in payment I actually get paid for all that. Do you see what I mean? It's like there's just this thing that I really like and then there's this institution that gives me an opportunity to look at that as hard and as long as I can and as much detail as I can. So I love universities. Um but I think that's an important part about going to university is you need you probably don't know exactly what it is yet. You might have an inkling of things you like doing, but universities will show you so much more. So much more breath, so much more detail, so many things you did not even know existed. And universities will prepare you for work. They'll give you experience. They'll they'll give you all all these other skills other than just knowledge. Um, but I think you do need that fundamental thing. You need that that nugget, that nugget of nerdom, that nugget of uh something that you're really interested in. um because going university is really hard. So that's what we're doing is we're shopping around and we're seeing um we're seeing things and seeing what seeing what bites >> [music] >> Heat. Heat. Sheffield home to half a million people. Uh and Sheffield University has got 30,000 students and Sheffield Hallum University has also got 30,000 students. So that's more than 10% of the population are are young people. It's very very very student town. The main reason we're in Sheffield is because youngest has got a very good friend who I think is doing a foundation here probably in biomedical science or something like that at Sheffield Hallum. Biomedical science great degree, proper vocational degree sets you up for well biomedical science jobs, right? Um and they're good friends but they're online friends. So this is the first time they've met and uh they recommend it. Come and see the university. It's great. So we're doing both doing the open day and they're meeting for the first time in in uh in RL. Hooray. >> Round one, uh, I had a friend pop into work this week, uh, who retired a little while ago. I've been doing my job long enough that quite a few people, quite a few of my colleagues have have retired. Um, which is a funny thing to think about. I think the the way the UK is these days, I doubt I'll be retiring until I'm well for another 20 years given my pension and economics [clears throat] and politics. Anyway, um he's having a great time, loving his retirement. Uh still working as a swim coach, so you know, still staying active and doing stuff. But um I struggle with the idea of retiring working at a university when you have spent so many years earning all this knowledge, all these skills to suddenly stop and not do that anymore, not use that knowledge that has taken decades to develop. Uh find quite a strange idea. But I guess that's not just unique to universities, is it? Anybody that's been working in a skilled job or a knowledge based job for decades has a super high level of knowledge and experience that needs to be passed on to the next the next generation coming through, don't they? All right, we'll go check out this open day. See what these courses are like. So the university is like obviously not going to film any of that cuz universities whilst being public are also private. >> [music] >> It's not a good start. There's a power outage in Sheffield, so many of the university buildings have got no power, so they're scrambling, which is a good challenge. Um they didn't advertise when and where the talks would be before the open day only now we've got here which is fine and we're being looked after and there are students who know how stuff works but the talks and buildings we're going to the talks going to be this afternoon so they've got well power should be back on by then right but we've missed the first welcome talk this morning coffee shop >> yeah smells of coffee they got the coffee shops in between the university buildings not not too surprising uh they've scrambled they they've moved the talks to other rooms given up on the walking talks are going to be recorded and sent later, which is sensible. Uh, yeah, I know what it's like when the poop hits the fan and you have to scramble. It's difficult to imagine what it's like for the people on the other side. They figured it out. They moved the talks that needed to be moved. The art talks were in the art building. The old head post office were fine. Um, so what have we learned? Uh, the history course isn't the sort of history course the youngest ones to do. Illustration course looks amazing. How are those lecturers so young and confident and good at what they do? I was a mess at that age. So impressive. Great building. Uh, they teach him great. just looks like a great course all around. Uh turns out the history course is probably more suitable for eldest who loves talking about politics. It's kind of more of a modern history course. Um and uh the English and creative writing course looks like it suits eldest. So you know they learn a lot of good things. Also you see university, see how things work and you get a feel. Um top things kids have mentioned is that personality is really important. um they enjoyed or thought more of the subjects where the people giving the talks were really enthusiastic about their subjects and had a personality that kind of suited what they were expecting. Universities aren't for everybody, but from every talk that I've seen, universities are the purpose of the course is setting people up for work. can even well especially in the humanities when they're talking about history and English it's not just setting you up for history in English [music] but it's giving you a wide range of skills critical thinking you know researching synthesis of knowledge writing reports that can set you up for a wide range of careers and do set you up for a wide range of careers because all these courses look at where their students go because this is a requirement for the TE process now it's really interesting though I mean universities like I said they are they are places for nerds like me to to [sighs] learn high levels of knowledge and uh talk about our knowledge. So they're obviously crucial um for civilization and society to pass on that high level of knowledge to the next generation. Otherwise civilization is not just going to stop but it's going to go backwards. We have to pass on this high level of knowledge. >> Yeah. Nice. >> We in the UK do have some of the best universities in the world, some of the best teaching in the world. Um, it's a great export of higher education. Um, people want to come here to study and then largely go back to their own countries and do great things. 65,000 students a year. Um, yeah, Sheffield is a great international university. So is Swansea. Right. Speaking of Swansea, we got to drive back to Swansea. Uh and I I recognize like I said I am heavily biased uh towards truth, knowledge, education, learning, passing on knowledge because I think that is the future of humanity. But I know I'm also biased cuz I live in my ivory tower where I am both uh safe and uh challenged in my own nerdom. I really enjoy today. >> Good. >> [music] >> We're home. It's late. It be very interesting to see what comes as a result of uh of that weekend.