 izethihi, izethihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi, izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi izhihihi iz help give us that dexterity so we can do all sorts of strange things with our fingers that we find useful. So, oh, and then we've got some on the other side as well. So we will work our way through. We'll look at the, we'll introduce the muscles. We'll look at the bony bits, put the muscles on the bones. All right. This might take a while. It's going to be a challenge remembering all the muscles. So in the forearm, deep to these muscles, we looked at the muscles that move the wrist in a recent video. Take those off. Deep to that, we have flexor digitorum superficialis. The digits are the fingers. This is flexion, extension, abduction, adduction of the fingers. So flexor digitorum superficialis is the superficial flexor of the fingers. Take flexor digitorum superficialis off and deep to that, we'll find flexor digitorum profundus. Profundus meaning deep, profound. So we have two layers of muscle and they then send tendons up to the fingers. So we have two layers of muscle doing most of finger flexion generating that force. On this side, this is the little finger is called digitai minimi, which is quite nice. And we have three muscles here. We have abductor digitori minimi, which abducts the little finger. We have flexor digitori minimi brevis. I mean, it is short, but there isn't a long one. So I'm not entirely sure why it gets called brevis, but flexor digitori minimi brevis is the short flexor of the little finger. And then deep to those guys, we have opponent's digitai minimi, which helps with opposition, which is that sort of movement. We have a little bit of rotation as well as flexor going on. And then we have some very special muscles, the lumbricals, the little worms that run from the tendons to some connective tissue on the back of their hands and have a very confusing action, the lumbricals. And then we have the interosseous muscles. So interosseous, literally between the bones, we can see some of them in there. So we have two layers of interosseous muscles, some on the dorsal side and some on the palmar side. How am I doing? I think this doesn't sound so bad when I rattle through it like this. And then on this side, these muscles are going to do extension of the fingers. So here we have extensor digitorum, just that one layer. But then we also have a bit of extra control over our index finger, little extra control over our little finger. So we have extensor indices and extensor digitai minimi. Did I forget any? As we go through, I will probably remember them. Okay, what bony features are we going to need? Well, here are our main bones. We have the humerus. And then in the forearm, we have two bones, the radius and the ulna. Remember that your radial pulse is on your thumb side. So the radius is on the thumb side, the ulna is on the little finger side. There's the thumb. So here's the radius. Here's the ulna. So at the humerus, we have these two lumps on either side. So these knuckles in here, the word for knuckle is a condyle. So upon these condyles are these epicondyles. These are the bony features you can feel on either side of your elbow there. So those are actually parts of the humerus. So we have a medial epicondyle of the humerus and a lateral epicondyle of the humerus. We don't need to worry about these bits too much. We are going to talk about the radius as a whole and the ulna as a whole. So we have like the proximal end of the radius and the distal end of the radius, the proximal end of the radius. This is the head over here. But we'll often, we'll usually talk about proximal and distal ulna and that sort of thing. And then when we get to the wrist, we have a couple of carpal bones that we're interested in. So the wrist is the carpus, the collection of bones here that slide over one another to move the wrist of the carpal bones. We don't need to know about all of them today. We have a couple of major lumps which actually we saw when we saw some of the wrist flexors come in here. And it's the same bones we're interested in today. We have the pisiform and the hamate which is the hook of the hamate. And we'll see muscles on the little finger side, there's a clue, attaching to those features, the pisiform and the hook of the hamate. And then distal to the carpal bones, the long bones in here, which make up much of the substance of the hand, those are the metacarpal bones. And then when we get into the digits themselves, the fingers, we have three, one, two, three phalanges. Each bone is a phalanx. So we have proximal, middle and distal phalanges. And really what we'll probably talk about here is yes, we're going to talk about attachments to one or more of the phalanges, but the joints here. So the joint between the metacarpal bone and this proximal phalanx, this is the metacarpophalangeal joint here. And then between the phalangeal bones themselves, we have interphalangeal joints. Yeah. So we'll think about how these are moving because they move in slightly different ways. Those might be all the lumpy bits we need. That still doesn't seem too bad. Okay, then. So we're in the anterior forearm. Let me take that off. Yeah, there we go. And now we can see flexidigitorum superficialis. And we can see where it's coming from here. Look, we're on the little finger side. We're up at the elbow. There's a lumpy, bumpy bit. Up here. So there we go. There's the little finger side. We're at the medial epicondyle of the humerus. Now, in terms of origins and insertions, what we're talking about are where muscles attach to bone. The origin is typically the bit that doesn't move. The insertion is typically the bit that does move. The origin is usually more proximal or more medial. The insertion is often more distal or more lateral. But these rules often get broken. But in this case, the rules hold firm. So the flexidigitorum superficialis muscle actually has two heads. So it has two origin points. And it has this origin here from, like I say, the medial epicondyle of the humerus, the common flexor origin, where we see a common tendon here. And most of the flexor muscles of the wrist and the fingers, most of the flexor muscles in the forearm here come from this common tendinous origin at the medial epicondyle of the humerus. Now, the ulna here has also got this coronoid process that kind of goes up in there. So we have two origins for this head, the medial epicondyle of the humerus, the coronoid process of the ulna, and that makes up the humero ulna head. And then the radial head, so here's the radius here on the thumb side. There's kind of this narrow, so there's the radial tuberosity. So distal from the radial tuberosity, there's this thin strip where the flexidigitorum superficialis' radial head has its origin. So flexidigitorum superficialis is attached to the radius and the ulna and the medial epicondyle of the humerus. It then extends and sends its tendons across the wrist, across the metacarpal bones and the metacarpophalangeal joints, and all the way to the middle phalanges. And we can see those tendons here running to the middle phalanges of digits 2, 3, 4, and 5. The thumb is digit 1, so digits 2, 3, 4, and 5. And actually what we can see here is we can see that tendon splitting to allow the tendon of the deep muscle to pass through and further on. But that's the insertion of the flexidigitorum superficialis muscle into the middle phalanges of digits 2, 3, 4, and 5. The flexidigitorum superficialis muscle is innovated by the median nerve and it flexes the fingers at that metacarpophalangeal joint and the proximal interphalangeal joint. It doesn't actually go to your fingertips. So kind of, I don't know if I've got good, you get the idea right. So it flexes the fingers and it also is, it aids in flexing of the wrist because it crosses the wrist joint. Flexidigitorum superficialis, right, if I take that off deep to the nerve here, the muscle in there is flexidigitorum profundus. So it's much deeper and it's slammed up against the radius, the ulna, and the interosseous membrane. That'll be what I forgot. So the interosseous membrane, if we have our radius and ulna bones, in the plastic skeleton here, we see a gap between them. But in life, these two bones are joined by a flat sheet of connective tissue. One of the purposes of that flat sheet of connective tissue is to give something for muscles to attach to. And that's what flexidigitorum profundus attaches to. So its origins are here. So flexidigitorum profundus, it does not attach to the radius. It has most of its origin from the ulna. So from the anterior surface of the ulna, the proximal half, or maybe the proximal three quarters of the ulna. That's where flexidigitorum profundus has its origin and also the interosseous membrane next to it. So that's the origin of flexidigitorum profundus, the anterior surface of the ulna and the interosseous membrane. It then sends those tendons through the wrist, past the metacarpophalangeal joints, past the proximal... I'm saying too many words now. It sends its tendons all the way to the distal phalanges, the bases of the distal phalanges of two, three, four, and five. So we have the tendon of flexidigitorum superficialis splitting and the tendon we see running through here is the tendon of flexidigitorum profundus and that's running all the way to the base of the distal phalanx bone in digits two, three, four, and five. So this tendon will pull on the fingertips. So the job of flexidigitorum profundus is to again flex the fingers through all of those joints and aid in flexing the wrist. This means that if you were to tear your flexidigitorum profundus tendon you wouldn't be able to do that, right? Because that's flexidigitorum profundus, flexidigitorum superficialis is pulling on there. So the parts of flexidigitorum profundus that move digits two and three are innovated by the median nerve. The parts of flexidigitorum profundus, moreover on the ulnar side that move fingers four and five are innovated by the ulnar nerve. As we get into the hand, I have a hand. So let's have a look at the muscles of the little finger. So this muscle here then is abductor digiti minimi. So it abducts the little finger, does that. It's origin is the PZ form bone. So this little P-shaped bone of the wrist. And also other connective tissues around here that are also attached into PZ form kind of blend a little bit. And then this muscle is going to pass across this joint here, which would be a carpometacarpal joint, across the metacarpophalangeal joint and insert into the base of the proximal phalanx bone and on the kind of the medial side, on the on the ulnar side there. And in that way, it's able to abduct the little finger. It will also help in flexion of the little finger. Now, what this muscle is doing is it's letting us, it's letting us do that, right? It's letting us grip things that are bigger than our hand, like, like maybe a big ball or something like that. So it's quite important in that sort of grip type thing. So abductor digiti minimi, it's innervated by the ulnar nerve. Now, if I take off, without all this falling apart, that's the palmaroponeurosis. If I take that off, so if that is abductor digiti minimi, right next to it is flexor digiti minimi here. It is a separate muscle. Now, the origin of this muscle is the other carpal bone we were just looking at. So if there's pisiform, abductor digiti minimi, there's the hook of the hamate. That is the origin of the flexor digiti minimi muscle. And also the palmar, the flexor retinaculum that runs across here, that connected tissue. And then this muscle, flexor digiti minimi, is also actually going to run very similarly, as we saw in the model, to the other muscle. And again, it's going to run to the base of that proximal phalanx, the fifth proximal, fifth digit, little finger, on the medial side or the ulnar side. We can look at see, see the path it's taking, right. So flexor digiti minimi is running similarly, but as it's a little bit more towards the midline of the hand, it's much better at flexing the little finger across those joints there. There's a little bit of rotation as well as we start to get into opposition. So flexor digiti minimi from the hook of the hamate to flexor retinaculum. Those are its origins and inserts into the base of the proximal phalanx of the fifth digit on the ulnar side. It is also innervated by the ulnar nerve. Now where, where oh where, is opponent's digiti minimi? Let's take these off. Oh, there it is. Opponent's digiti minimi is deep to those guys and it's wrapping around that metacarpal bone. This muscle is different. Its origin again is the hook of a hamate and the flexor retinaculum, but its insertion is in to the metacarpal bone, does not go to the proximal phalanx. So the, by wrapping around that metacarpal bone, that fifth metacarpal bone, it can also aid in flexion, but it's acting at the carpometacarpal joint. So it can aid in flexion and kind of rotation of that joint there. But you see what it's doing? It's curving the palm of the hand. So opponent's digiti minimi is important in opposition, bringing say the thumb and the little finger to meet like that. But look at the shape of the hand. The shape of the hand is changing. So this is, this is what lets you grip onto something that's, it's curved, right? Opponent's digiti minimi, from the hook of the hamate and the flexor retinaculum to the fifth metacarpal bone. All of those guys make up the hypophenar eminence, that pad on that side of your hand, and they're all innovated by the ulnar nerve. Before we dive deeper, we need a bit more connective tissue. So these are the extension extensor tendons on the back of the hand that will extend the fingers. Now what happens when these extensor tendons get to the metacarpal phalangeal joint and beyond, is that that connective tissue expands, it's a bit like an eponeurosis. And here we have an extensor expansion, or at this point an extensor expansion hood, or an expansion hood. So as the, as the extensor tendons pass into the fingers, they broaden out into this triangular shape that sends connective tissue around the metacarpal phalangeal joint here. And then the tendon continues on the dorsal surfaces of the digits all the way out through kind of a, a somewhat complicated collection of cords and tendons and bits and bobs. But this, this extensor expansion hood is important, right? It's a tough connective tissue, it's part of the extensor tendon, but it wraps around the metacarpal phalangeal joint. All right, back to the palmar side, and deeply we dive to the lumbricals, named after earthworms because they look like worms. These guys are kind of, are they unique? They might be unique. The origins of the lumbrical muscles are the tendons of flexor digitorum profundus. So we're seeing, so that the deeper, we've got two pairs of, we've got a pair of tendons running into each finger right on the flexor side. So the lumbrical muscle here and here and here and here and here, these four lumbrical muscles, their origin is the tendon of flexor digitorum profundus. And then they run across the metacarpal phalangeal joint and insert into the extensor expansion hood, which means that they can aid in flexion of the metacarpal phalangeal joint, right? Flexion of the fingers of that joint. But because they can pull on that extensor hood, they can also extend the interphalangeal joints. In a nutshell, the lumbrical muscles do that. That's what I, you know, if you're doing, when you're, you know, when you're writing and do that upstroke, that's the other classic example. So that, that movement, because you're not just using the extensor muscles back there because the metacarpal phalangeal joint is still flexed. So the lumbricals do that. Flex the metacarpal phalangeal joints with other muscles that do the same thing and extend the interphalangeal joints with other muscles that do the same thing. The lumbricals. See what I mean? I have not described a bony attachment site. They've gone from tendon to tendon, essentially. We have four, so we can see them here. Digits two, three, four, and five. So this is lumbricals one and two over here are innervated by the median nerve. Lumbricals three and four over here are innervated by the ulnar nerve. One of those really awkward things to remember. Take the lumbricals off and those flexor tendons. And now we're as deep as we can go. We can see the metacarpal bones. And now we can see the interosseous muscles. The interosseous muscles are then between those bones. So we have palmar interosseous muscles on the palmar side. We have dorsal interosseous muscles on the dorsal side. And these muscles are between the metacarpal bones. So the origins of the interosseous muscles are the metacarpal bones. And okay, so these interosseous muscles cross the metacarpophalangeal joint and insert into the base of the proximal phalanx bone and into the extensor expansion, the hood that we can see there actually a little bit. The extensor expansion hood. Now the palmar interosseous muscles are uni-pennate. It means they're kind of pulling. I did a video on that. The dorsal interosseous muscles are bipennate. So the palmar interosseous muscles run from metacarpals and the palmar interosseous muscles. So the palmar interosseous muscles are adducted. And look, they're coming into digit three. Right? So you've got palmar interosseous muscles for digits two, four, and five, but not for three, because you adduct into three. Whereas the dorsal interosseous muscles are bipennate. So they they have origins on metacarpals one, two, three, four, and five. And again, they're kind of, well, pad, palmar adduct, dab, dorsal abduct. So they do that. So they, again, this is so you can grip onto big things, right? You adduct your fingers, plus, you know, general dexterity and stuff. So they have, they can pull your fingers apart. Again, this is in action largely at the metacarpal phalangeal joint. So they're bipennate muscles. Their origins are from all five metacarpal bones. And again, they insert into the base of the proximal phalanx and the dorsal expansion, the dorsal extensor expansion hood. The interosseous muscles are innovated by the ulnar nerve, making these pretty good tests of the ulnar nerve in the hand, because you're testing those interosseous muscles. Because of the way the interosseous muscles run and they insert into the extensor expansion hoods, it means they can also aid the lumbricals in doing lumbrical type movements, which are best kind of demonstrated and described. But I think that's it. I think that's the, I say that's it. Stay, stay where you are. Sit down again. That's the flexor side. Now we can look at the extensor side, which I promise you will be a lot quicker. There we go. There's the extensor side. Here is extensor digitorum. Our arm is a little bit twisted there. It's a little bit partially pronated. So extensor digitorum is the main muscle of finger extension. Its origin is the lateral epicondyle of the humerus, the common extensor origin. When we were looking at the muscles that extend the wrist, they come from that same, that common extensor origin, mostly. So the origin is the lateral epicondyle of the humerus. There are a whole bunch of muscles deep to it between it and the bone. So extensor digitorum then sends those tendons all the way through, tied down by that extensor retinaculum there. And these tendons enter that dorsal extensor expansion system here, which essentially takes them all the way to the distal phalange. So they're able to extend all the way to the fingertips. We see here inter-tendinous connections. This means that the fingers kind of move together, right? So as you move these tendons, they're all tied together a little bit, which kind of ties all the movements together a little bit into tendinous connections. So origin, lateral epicondyle of the humerus, insertion, extensor expansion of the digits on the dorsal side. That muscle is innovated by the radial nerve, the nerves of the posterior compartment of the forearm. For extensor indices, we can see two tendons here, but one of them we don't really see where it comes from. And that's because it's deep to extensor digitorum. It's under there. It's so well hidden because if your index finger is over here, there's the radius bone. The origin of extensor indices is the distal third of the ulna. And as it's, as the extensor indices muscle is so deep, its origin is not only the ulna, but also the interosseous membrane between the ulna and the radius back here. So its origin is here, and then it's diving across to get to the index finger to get to digit two. So the origin of extensor indices, distal third of the posterior surface of the ulna, crosses the carpal bones, crosses the hand, and it becomes the dorsal extensor expansion of digit two. And it lets you point, doesn't it? It's your pointer. It's your pointer muscle. Extensor digiti minimi, over on the little finger side. Again, we can see a pair of tendons there. Now this one, extensor digiti minimi, its origin is also the lateral epicondyle of the humerus. And then it runs across to the dorsal expansion of the extensor expansion of digit five. So that's what gives your little finger and your, gives your little finger and your index finger some independent movement. Whereas the other fingers tend to move together because of the, yeah, anyway. Extensor digiti minimi is also innovated by the radial nerve. So the posterior compartment of the forearm, it's all radial nerve, all these extensor muscles, radial nerve. But wow, see, that's just the fingers. We haven't even looked at the thumb yet. Ah, and so we've looked at flexor digitorum superficialis, flexor digitorum profundus, the hypothenar muscles of abductor digiti minimi, flexor digiti minimi brevis, I bet I forgot to say brevis a whole bunch of times, opponent's digiti minimi, and then we went deeper and we looked at the lumbricals and the interosseous muscles before turning around to look at the extensor muscles of extensor digitorum, extensor indices and extensor digiti minimi. Okay. And now we better understand the bones, where those muscles attach. We probably understand their depths a little bit better as well now. We understand why we can't see some of these muscles muscles on these models because they're deep to other muscles. We understand how they move the fingers. And it's kind of like one of those things you kind of got to, you kind of got to get, feel it out with your brain to understand how these muscles coordinate to give you the dexterity, and yet also that strength and power. Okay, well done. I'll either brave and do the thumb next week, or we'll go back and look at supination and pronation, but the origins and insertions of the muscles that move the fingers. All right.