 msaritalliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftliftlift And in doing so, we'll better understand how the muscles move the bones. So, the muscles that move the knee, we've got the big obvious ones. We've also got some other ones back here and another little ditty in there. We will introduce the muscles, look at the relevant bony features, going to have to lift you up a bit, and then we'll put the muscles on the bones and maybe mention the innervation, because why not? Okay, then muscles. We've got quadriceps, femoris, quad, four, seps, heads. The femoral region is the thighs, this is the four-headed muscle of the thigh. We've got sartorius, which actually I'm going to skip, because we talked about that when we did the hip. We have some squeaks. We have the hamstrings, biceps femoris, semitendinosus and semimembranosus. And those are the main muscles that we think of when you think about the movements of the knee, extension and flexion. But then down here in the calf, this posterior muscle here, this is the belly of the calf or the belly of the knee. This is gastrocnemius. Gastro means belly. It's got these two heads here. These actually cross the knee joints. We'll talk about gastrocnemius. There's a diddy muscle, actually. I don't even know if it's... Oh, I should know. There's a little muscle. It is on this model. This is plantaris. That also crosses the knee, so we'll mention it there. Why not? It overlaps with gastrocnemius. Oh, lovely. And then under there, we've got popliteus here. Honestly, I haven't taken this apart for a while. I wasn't sure what was here. Those are our muscles of interest, I think. Okay, if I put you back together for the minute. So, to better understand how these muscles work, we want to know what bony bits they attach to underneath all of this. So, you. I could do with a height-adjustable trolley to get you to just the right height, but UK University's not exactly made of money at the moment. But there we go. There's the knee. Okay, so for our longer muscles, you can hold onto yourself up there. For our longer muscles, we do need to go up to the pelvis. So, up here, here's the pelvis. I think the most useful thing we need will be... We're going to need the ischial tuberosity here. Your sit bones that you are probably sat on right now. Walking and watching videos probably isn't a great idea. Here's the ilium. And as we run here, anteriorly, at the end of the iliac crest, we have the anterior superior iliac spine. And if we keep going, there's another sticky-outy bit. That's the anterior inferior iliac spine. The socket of the ball and socket joint of the hip joint, the socket is called the acetabulum. And if that is the anterior inferior iliac spine, on the superior bit of the acetabulum here, there's a bit of a groove, a supra-acetabular groove. Then I think we move to the femur. Yeah? I'm trying to think about where the muscles attach. So on the femur here, if that's the head and the neck of the femur, here is the greater trochanter, that big lumpy bit that you can palpate laterally, that bony landmark. There's the greater trochanter there. The lesser trochanter is here. So greater trochanter, lesser trochanter. So there's a line anteriorly, the intertrochanteric line. And posteriorly, let's swap to the other side. Grab that. So greater trochanter, lesser trochanter, intertrochanteric crest. It's a bigger feature here, this crest. And also, if we look posteriorly, running down the midline of the shaft, the posterior shaft of the femur, we can see a ridge. That ridge is the linear aspera. And as we descend down the linear aspera, we can see that we get these two ridges running out to either side. Now, these are the main knuckles here of the femur. A knuckle is a condyle. So these ridges are the supracondylar lines here. This is medial. So the medial supracondylar line, lateral supracondylar line. Okay. And if we're still looking posteriorly, if a condyle is a knuckle, here's the femur. Like I say, this is lateral. So this is the lateral femoral condyle. This is the medial femoral condyle. And this is the tibia and the fibula. So we also have tibial condyles here, making that tibial plateau. Lateral tibial condyle, medial tibial condyle. And then here's the head of the fibula. And we will come back to the other side. But if we just look here, there's the foot. There's the heel. There's the calcaneus. We're going to need the calcaneus today. Now, if we spin around. Anteriorly, we can see the patella, which is the sesamoid bone. And then here in the tibia, there's the tibial tuberosity. I think those are all the bony features that we need. So now we can attach the bones to the bony features. All right. So if this is the foreheaded muscle of the thigh, then we've got quite a bit of work to do. Let me take off Sartorius. Let's see, it does cross the knee, but I'm skipping over it. Cordyceps femoris. The four parts are rectus femoris. So this straight part here. Vastus medialis, medially. Vastus lateralis, laterally. And then if I can take you off, I might need to do a bit more dissection. If I can take you off, we see Vastus intermedius. Intermiddle of the other two. Vastus obviously means like big, the big, big chunky bits. So rectus femoris has its origin from the anterior inferior iliac spine. There's the anterior superior iliac spine up there. So the origin of rectus femoris is the anterior inferior iliac spine. And then also the ilium here, superior to the acetabulum. So that supra acetabular groove there. So that's rectus femoris passing down here. Vastus lateralis out here. If ever we see, you know, a line or a feature on a bone, it's usually caused by an attachment to the bone. So the linear aspera here, that's the origin of Vastus lateralis, the lateral side of the linear aspera. Vastus lateralis is coming from that. It's also coming from the greater trochanter. That's another origin. And also that intertrochanteric line over here. By origins and insertions, what we're trying to describe are where a muscle runs from and where it runs to. The origin, when that muscle contracts, the origin is usually the bit that doesn't move. The insertion is usually the bit that does move. The origin is usually more proximal, which is what we're seeing right now. The insertion is usually more distal. But your mileage might vary. So the origins of Vastus lateralis are the lateral side of the linear aspera, greater trochanter, intertrochanteric line. The origins of Vastus medialis, also that intertrochanteric line, the medial side of the linear aspera, actually also the medial supracondylar line back here. So these big muscles are really wrapping around this big bone, huge, great big muscles, huge, great big bone. And that's where they're getting their bulk from. So the femur is like deep in there covered by these thick, thick muscles. So Vastus lateralis, Vastus medialis, Vastus intermedius then in the middle is attached directly to the anterior surfaces and lateral surfaces of the shaft of the femur. The insertion of those quadriceps muscles is, well, they come together at the patella. So there's a central tendon that they all converge on. The patella is a sesamoid bone within that central tendon, the quadriceps tendon. And then that tendon continues and ultimately inserts into the tibia, the anterior proximal tibia at the tibial tuberosity. That's what this big lump is for. And you can usually palpate that lump quite nicely. The tibial tuberosity here. So the structure that runs between the patella and the tibial tuberosity gets called the patella tendon, the patella ligament. It's a tendon. But people like to use ligament for structures that attach bone to bone. People actually use ligament for a lot of things. But the patella tendon and then all of that muscle largely inserts into the tibial tuberosity. But there's more. Look here. Look. So here are all those muscles. Here's that central tendon, the quadriceps tendon. There's the patella. There's the patella tendon. There's the tibial tuberosity. Look. There's more. So we actually have quadriceps retinaculum. There's a connected tissue here. So vastus medialis is actually also inserting into the medial tibial condyle. Vastus lateralis is also inserting into the lateral tibial condyle through these connective tissues. These are like a ponurosis, like flattened tendon sheets. And look. Here's the iliotibial band. So if the lower limb is covered in a layer of deep fascia, which in the thigh is called the fascia latae, in the leg is called the crural fascia. In the thigh, that fascia thickens laterally as the iliotibial tract or the iliotibial band. And look. The vastus lateralis part is also inserting into that iliotibial tract. So whilst we normally talk about tibial tuberosity, there is actually more to the story. These muscles can actually pull on the tibia in slightly different ways. So rectus femoris is the only part that crosses the hip and the knee. So the rectus femoris part of quadriceps femoris can flex the hip, flex the thigh, flex the femur at the hip joint. Quadriceps femoris as a whole, as it crosses the knee, is a very powerful extensor of the leg at the knee joint. It extends the knee. Innovated by the femoral nerve, which we can see. There. That's the big one done. Okay, spin around posteriorly. Let's take off gluteus maximus so we can see a little bit better. And here are the hamstrings here. So there are three muscles. And we can see their common origin here. Their origin is the ischial tuberosity. Come on, spin you around towards your butt. So their origin is this large, lumpy, bony bit here, the ischial tuberosity. So if we take biceps femoris first, biceps femoris is the lateral muscle here. Its origin is the ischial tuberosity, maybe a bit of the sacro tuberous ligament that runs across there. And then it's running. And as it goes, it actually has two heads, biceps femoris, right? So we've gone from quadriceps femoris to biceps femoris. Biceps means it has two heads. This is the long head that has its origin up here in the ischial tuberosity. Here's the short head down here. And its origin is that. So the origin of the short head then is again the linear aspera down at this end, the distal part of the femur. And where it continues is that lateral supracondylar line. That's where the short head of biceps femoris comes from. Those two heads then will insert onto the head of the fibula out here, which is what we see there. The action of biceps femoris then, because these hamstring muscles cross the hip and the knee, they can have an action at the hip and the knee, kind of and or really. They can do one maximally or the other maximally, or they can do them both a little bit. So the muscle's running like that. So biceps femoris can extend the femur at the hip, or it can flex the leg at the knee joint. There's a little bit more. Can you imagine how, if you were to have a flexed knee, biceps femoris is now running from the ischial tuberosity to the head of the fibula. So now if it pulls, it can actually rotate the leg. So that would be lateral rotation of the leg or external rotation of the leg. It can do that. If you don't believe me, which is fair enough, sit in a chair, feel the head of your fibula and your tibia, and contract biceps femoris. Basically just try and do it, and you'll feel that biceps femoris is turning your leg down away. You can feel it moving. So also, so we talk about, see these are the things we don't talk about. The knee is a hinge joint. It also has a little bit of rotation to it, but biceps femoris can externally rotate the leg. When the knee is flexed, biceps femoris is innervated by the sciatic nerve, as all these hamstring muscles are. The long head is innervated by the tibial division of the sciatic nerve. The short head is innervated by the common fibula division, or the common peroneal division. Okay, semi-tendinosus and semi-membranosus. Well, these two muscles, the two semis, go together and lie on top of one another. Semi-membranosus, its origin is also the issue of tuberosity, and it runs down and inserts into the medial condyle of the tibia, which is what we're seeing down here. Semi-tendinosus, similarly, its origin is the issue of tuberosity, and it runs down and it inserts into the medial side of the proximal medial tibia. What we're seeing here, this structure, we're seeing three tendons come together here, this muscle I've taken off. We're seeing the three tendons of gracilis, semi-tendinosus, and sartorius coming together to form what looks like a goose's foot on the medial tibia. Okay, so semi-membranosus, again, is good at extending the femur at the hip. It's also good at flexing the knee, flexing the leg at the knee. Again, it can only do one of those maximally because muscles can only change their length by so much. Can you imagine how, if it's running from the issue of tuberosity to the medial condyle of the tibia, that when the knee is flexed, it can also do internal rotation of the leg at the knee joint or medial rotation, so the opposite of biceps femuris. Semi-tendinosus, running in the same way, has the same actions. Both muscles are innervated by the sciatic nerve, the tibial division of. In terms of the origins and insertions of the muscles of the knee, that might be all you need, but some of us are going to go further and look at other muscles across the knee and have an effect on the knee. Let me take the hamstrings off then. So here is gastrocnemius, the belly below the knee, and it's got two heads. This is lateral, the little toe is there. This is medial, big toes over there. So we have a lateral head and a medial head. The origins of the gastrocnemius heads are the femur. Those two heads of gastrocnemius, they come from the femur. We're on the opposite side now. There's the little toes. This is lateral. This is medial. There's the big toe. So the lateral head of gastrocnemius comes from the lateral condyle of the femur on the lateral side. The medial head of gastrocnemius, its origin is the medial condyle of the femur and the posterior surface, and then also a bit of the popliteal surface and then also a bit of the popliteal surface of the shaft of the femur. So those are the origins of gastrocnemius. Like that. And then the insertion is kind of famous, really. The insertion is into the calcaneal tendon or the Achilles tendon, this great big tendon down here. Well, I say insertion. The insertion, really, is the calcaneal bone, the calcaneus back here. So gastrocnemius, soleus, and plantaris, our next muscle, all contribute to form the calcaneal tendon, which inserts into the calcaneus bone. All right. So, oh, innovation, tibial nerve. The actions of gastrocnemius, well, it crosses the knee. So it is a flexor of the leg of the knee, not as powerful as the other great big muscles. It's mostly interesting and it can pull the calcaneus like that. So it's a powerful plantar flexor at the ankle. You step on your tippy toes. So we'll talk about this next week, no doubt. Soleus is what you use most of the time when you're walking. Gastrocnemius gives extra power to plantar flexion. So, yeah, flexion of the knee, plantar flexion. Tibial nerve. Plantaris. I'm leaving the tricky one until last. Plantaris lies between gastrocnemius and soleus. So soleus is that deeper muscle there. So plantaris is, it has a muscle belly up here. It has a tendon running down there, which will become part of the calcaneal tendon. It's origin. It's origin. So that's what we can see coming around here. It's origin is actually, again, from the femur and the distal end of the lateral supracondylar line and the oblique popliteal ligament, which we kind of haven't got in there. I mean, yeah, for a vestigial muscle that 90%, I think, of people have both of them. I don't know how much detail we need. But plantaris' origin is the distal end of the lateral supracondylar line and then becomes part of the calcaneal tendon and inserts into the calcaneus. It's a weak plantar flexor of the ankle. It's a weak flexor of the leg of the knee joint plantaris. Okay. Popliteus. If I take these guys off, so we're now nice and deep. Here's popliteus here. The muscle isn't difficult to describe. It's kind of what it does is a little bit difficult to describe. You can see the angle that the fibres are moving at, moving at, the direction the fibres are running in. And they're running between the femur and the tibia. So up here, the origin of plantaris is the lateral condyle of the femur and also the lateral meniscus. You know the menisci? Here's a cune. Well, there's the fibula, so that's lateral. Spin it around so we can see back as you see a bit more easily, the posterior side. The meniscus is a fibrocartilage, kind of like a C shape. There is a bit of a wedge, a bit of a space packer between the femoral condyles and the tibial condyles to spread the load, even things out a little bit. Oh, these are these both left legs. They are jolly good. The origin of plantaris is the lateral side of the lateral condyle of the femur and the lateral meniscus. The insertion then is into the posterior surface of the proximal tibia. That's what we're seeing there. And look, we have a narrow origin and quite a broad insertion, and these fibres are wrapping around. So that direction suggests that this is going to rotate the tibia relative to the femur. Right? Why would you want to rotate the tibia relative to the femur? Well, the articular surfaces of the knee plus the meniscus mean that you can fully extend your knees and lock them. And now you're in a very stable position, which is great because it makes it very easy to stand and you don't need to use much energy. Flex knees is much, much harder, right? So when you're walking, every time you take a step and your foot is in contact with the ground, the femur medially rotates relative to the tibia to put it into that locked position. So we have these nice congruous articular surfaces all kind of lined up nice and neatly. Now, to flex the knee with a fully extended knee that's locked into position and the foot is on the floor so the tibia is fixed. Popliteus, remember, is running from the lateral femur across to the tibia. Look, it's running across in that direction. So if the tibia is fixed in place and it contracts, it's going to pull the lateral femur around, right? So it's going to pull the lateral femur around laterally. So it will laterally rotate the femur or externally rotate the femur. This is described as unlocking the knee, which then is the first part of flexion of the knee. The amount of rotation is really small. It's like five degrees. It's a very small amount of rotation, but that's what popliteus is described as doing. That's the closed chain thing. So when the foot is on the ground, the tibia is fixed in place. If popliteus contracts, the tibia is not going to move. The femur is going to move and the femur will rotate laterally. Now, when the foot is off the ground, this is the open chain position. Now, if we have the popliteus running from the lateral femur across to the tibia, if it contracts, it can pull the tibia like that. It can medially rotate the tibia. So it's medially rotating the tibia relative to the femur or it's laterally rotating the femur relative to the tibia. That's what it's doing. It's the same movement, right? Kind of two bones relative to one another, right? If the muscle is running like that, then just that's the rotation that's going to occur. We're looking at the anterior knee. If you want to see that from the posterior side. So the muscle is running. Popliteus is running from lateral femur to posterior tibia. So it's running across like that. So if that muscle gets shorter, it's going to pull those two points back to one another. I am exaggerating to show the effect. But that's what we're trying to talk about is the rotation of the tibia relative to the femur and vice versa. Did that make any sense? So don't forget, it's also attached to the lateral meniscus. So as you flex your knee, popliteus also pulls the lateral meniscus posteriorly to protect it. It is a major stabilising muscle of the posterior knee and the floor of the popliteal fossa. It is also innervated by the tibial nerve. Popliteus. All right, you know, okay, fine. So we have looked at a number of bony features. We have looked at the quadriceps muscles. We've looked at the hamstring muscles. We've looked at gastrocnemius and plantaris because they cross the knee. And we've looked at popliteus because it crosses the knee and it does have a role in knee flexion and rotating the femur and tibia relative to one another to unlock it, to flex the knee and relaxes to let them lock together so we can stand easy. I hope I was helpful. It's worth a go, isn't it? All right, speak to you next week. We'll see you next week.