 undownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownownown and have a greater understanding than maybe the initial descriptions in some textbooks. We have been working our way down the lower limb, we're getting towards the ankle and the foot and there are a lot of muscles down here. So in this one, I am gonna break it up and we are gonna look at the muscles of the posterior calf. There are six that we should look at, three superficial ones, three deep ones, and we already looked at gastrocnemius and plantaritis last week. So I will cover them properly, but you know, if you think you know it, you can skip forward. Okay, so let's introduce the muscles, introduce the movements of the ankle, find the bony bits that we need and then we'll put the muscles on the bones. Okay, so the main calf muscle, I mean, we've got layers of calf muscle here, so they're all working together. But that bulge that we recognize inferior to the knee, this is gastrocnemius. Gastrocnemius. So the belly of the knee, gastro meaning belly. It has two heads and this actually crosses the knee. So it comes from the femur and then runs down here. And that's gonna have an effect at the knee and the ankle. Gastrocnemius lies upon, we can see this other muscle layer here, this is soleus. Soleus is more your day-to-day muscle. You're using this all the time pretty much when you stood up. So here's soleus and then, I have to take, I have to dissect some of the other bits to get this bit off. Between soleus and gastrocnemius, we have this other muscle, plantaris. There's a weedy little muscle with a very long tendon there. So gastrocnemius and soleus, actually, the two heads of gastrocnemius plus the one head of soleus gives triceps surae, the three-headed muscle of the calf. And they all come together into a single tendon here with plantaris. If we take that layer off, we find the blood vessels and the nerves running between that superficial group of muscles and the deep group of muscles that we can see here. So there are three muscles here, and they are slapped onto the fibula and the tibia and the interosseous membrane in between. So the three muscles, I always remember that. Look, here's the big toe. So that's medial. The big toe, the great toe, is called the hallux. I always remember that the long flexor of the great toe needs as much room as possible because it's a powerful muscle. I don't know, just help me remember it. So the big toe has a big muscle, a big powerful flexor. So it runs all the way across to the other side, to the lateral side. This is the little toe over here. So this muscle here is flexor hallachis longus. It flexor hallachis longus. It flexes the big toe, amongst other things. So the muscle on the other side is flexor digitorum longus. It flexes all the other toes. And then in between them, we have another muscle under there called tibialis posterior, which is going to wrap around the ankle here and be a major, let's say, supporter of the arches and help with inversion and what have you. So flexor hallachis longus, flexor digitorum longus, tibialis posterior are our deep three. Okay. What about our bony bits? Well, in terms of movements of the ankle, sorry, this is a bit of a weird twist. Movements of the ankle, when you stand on your tip toes, that's plantar flexion. When you raise your toes towards your shin, that's dorsiflexion. And then you can twist your foot inwards and outwards, right? So that movement there is inversion, where you're turning the sole of your foot to face inwards, to face medially, inversion. And then if you turn your foot to face outwards or laterally, that is eversion. Eversion doesn't go as far as inversion. So inversion, eversion, inversion, eversion, dorsiflexion, plantar flexion. Those are the movements of the ankle. And in terms of the bones that we're, or the bony features that we're interested in, well, this is the femur. This is the tibia, the big bone. And then the little, little pin like bone to the side there is the fibula. Looking at the posterior femur here, but these are the condyles, the knuckles. So we have a medial femoral condyle, a lateral femoral condyle. And we can see up here, there's a couple of lines, kind of making a V shape here. These are supracondylar lines. These lines have formed because muscles are attaching here. The hard tissues and the soft tissues form together and make all these shapes. And then down here, so if this is the fibula, here's the head of the fibula. This is the tibia. One feature we're going to need is there's a ridge here. So this is this ridge here is running from lateral to medial. That's the soleil line. There's a good ridge there. And then we've got the posterior surfaces of the tibia and the fibula. Those are the named bony bits that we need. When we get to the foot. Well, now we've got a lot of bones. We've got the calcaneus is the heel bone. This is the talus here forming the ankle joint with the tibia and the fibula. And then in the foot, we've got all of the tarsal bones of the ankle. So talus and calcaneus, but then also navicular, the three cuneiforms and the cuboid bone before we get into the metatarsals, these long bones forming much of the length of the foot. The toes are numbered one to five with a great toe being number one and the little toe being number five. So we have metatarsals one, two, three, four, and five. And then we have the phalanges and most of the toes have three phalanges, a proximal, middle and distal phalanx each. But the big toe only has two, a proximal and a distal phalanx. I guess we are going to need to talk about this is the navicular bone here. It has a tuberosity sticking out medially. That's going to be needed. And the calcaneus here, it has this shelf helping form the articulation between the calcaneus and the talus. This is the sustentaculum tali, this shelf here. I think those are all the bony bits we need. I've told my word, I've turned your knee all the way around. These are all the bony bits that we'll need to describe where these muscles will attach to, I think. Okay, let's put this layer back on again and begin with gastrocnemius. So as I said, gastrocnemius has got these two heads. Little toe is here. So this is the lateral head and this is the medial head and these cross the knee. So the origins of these two heads are the femoral condyles. The origins are the femur. So the lateral head, here's the fibula here, so this is lateral. The lateral head of gastrocnemius has its origin in the lateral surface of the lateral femoral condyle. The medial head has its origin as the posterior surface of the medial femoral condyle and the popliteal surface of part of the shaft of the femur here. Now by origins and insertions, we're talking about the attachment sites of these muscles to bone. The origin, when the muscle gets shorter, the origin is usually the bit that doesn't move. The insertion is the bit that does move. The origin is often more proximal. The insertion is often more distal, but depending upon the movements we're describing, your mileage might vary. But those are the origins there. And then the insertion, well, the insertion of gastrocnemius is into the heel, the calcaneus, through the famous Achilles tendon or calcaneal tendon. So what we're seeing here in this very, very thick tendon, very, very strong tendon, is we're seeing gastrocnemius soleus and plantaris coming together as a single tendon to insert into the posterior part of the calcaneus bone. And that sticky-outy bit, so the calcaneus sticks out posteriorly, if the pivot is here, that gives a mechanical advantage, gives some leverage by putting the attachment site at a distance from the pivot point. So those muscles now have a mechanical advantage if you know your moments. So gastrocnemius, the nerve that innovates gastrocnemius is the tibial nerve, which we saw running between these muscle layers, between the superficial and deep muscle layers of the posterior leg. If gastrocnemius crosses the knee and the ankle, that means it can aid in flexion of the knee, so flexion of the leg and the knee joint. And it can also pull on the calcaneus and do plantar flexion. So gastrocnemius is a very powerful plantar flexor. It's for added power when you're running, going upstairs, jumping. It's added power to plantar flexion. Yeah, okay. Because it crosses two joints, muscles can only change their length by so much. So if your knee is flexed, you now can't really use gastrocnemius to do plantar flexion, it's too short. But we have other muscles that can do plantar flexion, such as soleus. Now soleus does not cross the knee. No. So soleus is the head of the fibula. So soleus has its origins from the head of the fibula, that posterior surface there, the posterior surface of the fibula here, so like the proximal quarter. And it also, well, it comes from the soleal line of the tibia. And that soleal line is named the soleal line because that's an origin of soleus. And the medial third of the tibia here. Now what we don't see is that there's an interosseous membrane between the tibia and the fibula. But we're not really talking about that yet. So soleal line, head of the fibula, posterior fibula, medial third of the tibia. And in doing so, there's like an upside down U. There's a tendinous arch formed by soleus and its origin up here. And then soleus runs down. Soleus is also going to insert into the calcaneus via the calcaneal tendon. So soleus is a plantar flexor. It doesn't cross the knee, which means it's great at plantar flexion no matter what position the knee is in. Soleus is your everyday muscle of plantar flexion. So if you're standing, if you're walking, if you're running, whatever, soleus is pretty much always active if you're stood up. Even if you're standing easily because it's balancing you over your feet. So soleus is your everyday always-on muscle. Gastrocnemius is your extra power when you need it muscle for plantar flexion. Soleus is also elevated by the tibial nerve. Soleus is named soleus because you know the flatfish, the sole, that lives on the bottom of the sea? It looks like a flatfish. It looks like the sole. Not the sole, but the sole, the fish. Soleus. Yeah, so soleus, gastrocnemius. So that muscle in between then here, we've got our plantaris. So plantaris has a little muscle belly up here and then becomes a long tendon that runs from lateral to medial and will insert into the calcaneus, via the calcaneal tendon. So don't mix that up for something else. It's not a nerve. It's a long, skinny tendon. About 10% of people don't have a plantaris or both of their plantaruses, but 90% of us do. The origin of plantaris up here, it crosses the knee as well. It's coming from the femur. So it's coming from that lateral supracondylar line, kind of low down on there. And there's a couple of other connected tissues that it attaches to. But popliteus runs from there. So it crosses the knee, crosses the ankle, runs all the way to the calcaneus. So popliteus is a weak ankle flexor, weak plantar flexor, can be injured. So that would be a separate injury to the other two guys here. But those are the three muscles of the superficial calf. Plantaris, again, is innervated by the tibial nerve. Yeah, that's those three, isn't it? So then we take those off and we see the deep three. All right, now we're talking. So little toe, so we're lateral. So this is the fibula. So that muscle there then is flexor halachys longus. And we can see. Its origin then is the posterior surface of the fibula. So the rest of the fibula. So the distal two-thirds of the fibula. Between the fibula and the tibia is the interosseous membrane. So it also has an origin from the interosseous membrane. The muscle in between is tibialis posterior. This is also going to attach to the fascia. If tibialis posterior, that's going to be another origin. Oh, and saving this for future weeks. But this muscle group here, this is the lateral compartment of the leg. We talk about compartments. So we've got the posterior compartment, lateral compartment, and then an anterior compartment here. And these compartments are separated by fascia. It goes from the bone, around the muscles, around the muscles to the bone, around the muscles to the bone. So there is a deep fascia separating the lateral compartment from the posterior compartment. So, and you can see that here, that flexor halachys longus also has an origin. It also attaches to that posterior intermuscular septum. Flexor halachys longus. Where on earth could that insert into, do you think? So the tendon goes from lateral to medial. This is the medial malleolus here. All these tendons are wrapping around posterior to the medial malleolus. So flexor halachys longus will send its tendon across the ankle, posterior to medial malleolus. And then there it goes. There's the tendon. It runs all the way to the distal phalanx of the big toe. Which means when that muscle contracts, it's going to flex every joint on the way there. Which means it can aid in plantar flexion. It can aid in inversion of the foot. It will give flexion of the metacarpophalangeal joint. It will give flexion of the interphalangeal joint. You get the idea. It's also going to support that medial longitudinal arch of the foot. Right? So that's the insertion to the distal phalanx of the big toe. Guess which nerve innervates flexor halachys longus. Yeah, it's that one. It's the tibial nerve. All right, let's jump across to the other side. So here is flexor digitorum longus. And if that's the fibula under there, then you know the tibia is under here. So the origin of flexor digitorum longus is the tibia. Posterior surface of the tibia. Poster inferior to the cilial line under here. And this then is going to, again, run. Run the medial malleolus. Run across the ankle. Run across to the foot. And I don't know if we can actually see the tendons there. But because we can see other muscles in the foot. Oh my word, there's so many more muscles to do. The insertion of flexor digitorum longus is into the bases of the distal phalanges of, the bases of, they're very small, the distal phalanges of digits 2, 3, 4, and 5. This means that if that muscle contracts, again, it's going to flex all of the joints on the way there. So it's going to aid in plantar flexion, aid in inversion. It's going to support those longitudinal arches of the foot. And it's going to flex all of these joints here, which will result in flexion of the toes. But not the big toe, because that has its own muscle. Again, innervated by the tibial nerve. One more muscle. I wouldn't say I've saved the best till last. But the muscle in the middle under here, that is in between flexor hallicus longus and flexor digitorum, that muscle under there, tibialis posterior, I used to injure it all the time running. So, well, its origins then are, it's in between the two of them. So it has origins from the tibia and the fibula and the interosseous membrane. So it has origins in the posterior surface of the tibia, inferior to the soleil line. The posterior surface of the fibula, the posterior surface of the interosseous membrane, right? So it's really squished in between these guys. And then this muscle is also going to send a tendon around the ankle, posterior to the medial malleonus, into the foot. And it will insert into everything, pretty much. So tibialis posterior will be in the middle here, with origins from the posterior surface of the tibia, posterior surface of the fibula, interosseous membrane in between. Run around that medial malleonus. So by everywhere, it's going to insert into, there's the navicular. So the tuberosity of the navicular. It's going to insert into the sustentaculum talis. So it's going to insert into this shelf of the calcaneus. It's going to insert into all of the cuneiforms. It's going to insert into the cuboid bone. And then it's going to insert into the bases of metatarsals 2, 3, and 4. So maybe not everywhere, but pretty much everywhere. Makes a great exam. Well, makes a great exam question if you've got to remember all of them. But if you just want to pick one, you can just roll the dice, right? That means that because it's running around the medial ankle here, it's really important in inversion. It can aid in plantar flexion, but it is really, really important in balance and stability and in supporting that medial longitudinal arch, holding that arch up, which is why I used to injure it running all the time because you just, just through overuse. So tibialis posterior comes around the ankle, inserts into all of these tarsal bones and metatarsal bones down here and really helps stabilize your ankle when you're balancing over one foot or two feet. Again, it's innovated by the tibial nerve. Okay, that was a useful bit of revision for me. For those of you that have to know or are learning all of that detail about these bony bits and where these muscles attach to the bones, hopefully that will be helpful. Certainly helpful for me and helps me understand as a runner and a rock climber, how I can better imagine how these muscles are acting and functioning as I'm doing various things and why I cause various pains and aches around my ankle and in my calf. All right, I guess next time we'll either do both of those compartments or one or the other. We'll see how brave I'm feeling, right? See you next time. Well, either way, either way, either way, either way, either way, either way, either way, either way, either way, either way, either way, either way, either way, either way, either way,