Hi, how you doing? I think I want to make a series of videos looking at the origins and insertions of muscles. I mean, looking at the muscles as well, but and the bones. Often when we're teaching the muscularkeeletal system at the levels I teach it at, we avoid that because you've already got the muscle, you got the new names, you got the innovation, you got the blood supply. We have a visual understanding of the attachment site. So that when the muscle gets shorter, we can imagine what will happen. But I think I think I can do this in a nice clean visual way in that I'm adding more detail, but I'm not adding more complexity. So we'll look at the muscles, name their origins and insertions, and better understand the bones, the muscles, and the movements as a result. Right. I could I could try. I'll try. So today we'll start deep in the shoulder in the rotator cuff and then bit by bit we'll work our way around the body I guess upper limb first with origins and insertions you kind of get into some quite lively debates. It's a bit of a moving target. Um, okay. So, the origin and insertion of a muscle, this describes where a muscle attaches to a bone. The origin of a muscle is usually the end that doesn't move. Uh, say the scapula in the case of the rotator cuff and the insertion then inserts attaches to the bone that does move. Origin fixed in place, insertion moves. Um and then often we find that the origin is more medial and the insertion is more lateral or distal. But muscles aren't as simple as that. I think the rotator cuff muscles probably are. But when we often look at muscles, we find that they can move different ends depending upon which other muscles are fixing that joint and limiting other move. It's not as clearcut as people make it out to be. There might be big tables in textbooks and what have you can look at for reference. But I think the best ways of learning the origins and insertions is to do it visually is to uh look at the lumps and bumps on the bones, look at the muscles, get that 3D thing in your head and better understand it. Now um bones and muscles form together which means that where muscles attach to bone they affect the shape of the bone. Um so we often see lumps and bumps. We we we always see lumps and bumps where muscles attach origins and insertion sites. Being anatomy, we love naming things. So these origins and insertions have names. Um so by doing this we are better understanding the parts of the bone and we are better understanding muscle function. And you do need to have a bit of an open mind and think that muscles can move in different ways because movements are not as simple as we make them out to be. Right. Rotate a cuff. Uh the rotator cuff describes the muscles that run from the scapula to the humorris. And up here they form a muscular tenderinous um cuff [laughter] where they all attach to the the the rad the humorous up here. The purpose of the rotator cuff muscles is largely to stabilize the head of the humorris in this very shallow gleenoid fossa of the scapula. Uh so to stabilize the glenoumeral joint at its deepest aspect up against the bone because these are really heavy things. we can we can generate significant forces and as we move our upper limbs that ball is moving around in that socket. So the rotator cuff muscles keep it where it's supposed to be but they are also very small muscles whereas these can be very big muscles we can generate very big forces which means it's these small rotator cuff muscles that often fail if they're not strong enough if they're not up to the task. There are four rotator cuff muscles um and um they run from the scapula to the humorris. Let's take the deltoid muscle off so we can see them better. So the deltoid muscle is the rounded muscle of the shoulder and we will get to those muscles in later weeks. Here is the spine of the scapula and that gives supraspinatus its name. It's superior to the spine of the scapula and infraspanatus its name. anteras minor. And then on the deep surface of the scapula, we have subscapularis because it's sub the scapula. [music] So now let's look at the bones first. Did you know this the word scapula comes from the word meaning spade or shovel? I [snorts] think that's right cuz it's flat like a spade or a shovel. Anyway, um okay. So if that's the spine of the scapula and there's the acchromian there, here is the suprapinus fossa. Here is the infraspinus fossa and down under here is the subscapular fossa. And then we have a lateral margin and a medial margin. There's some other bits and bobs I've talked about elsewhere. [music] If we look at the humorris, um here's the there's the head of the humor humorous in that ball and socket joint. And look, there's a very notable feature anteriorly on the proximal humorous, the bit of the humorous up here, we see a groove. Um, so that groove is made by these two lumps. Uh, these lumps are tubicles. This is the smaller, this is well, okay, it's called the lesser tubicle and the greater tubicle. Don't know why I was building up to that, but here, so this is the greater tubicle here. And look, we can see it there. It's got a it's got a particular, it's got a bit of a lumpy bit on the top. And as we move around laterally, we're still looking at the greater tubicle. And as we run around posteriorly, we've still got greater tubicle. So this is all this is all greater tubicle. Uh essentially, right? And then if that's the greater tubicle and that's the lesser tubicle, it's quite a pointy one that lesser tubicle in between we have the inter tubercular sulcus, a groove between the two tub tubicles. And that's all the bony information that we need. [music] Okay. So, uh muscles the suprapinatus muscle up here its origin is the supraspinus fossa. The muscle then has to pass inferior to the acchromium, passes through that subacchromial space to insert into the greater tubicle and the superior part of the greater tubicle. Um, and in doing so, you see where it's sat there. So, in doing so, suppinatus will begin abduction of the upper limb, pulling the upper limb away from the body. uh infraspinatus. Its origin is the infraspinus fossa and it also inserts into the greater tubicle and in doing so um can you imagine if that muscle contracts? So when um infraspinatus contracts it causes that movement it causes external rotation or lateral rotation of the humorris at the glenoumeral joint. Likewise, terraz minor here. Terraas means round, the minor round muscle. Terra's minor um looks very similar but it does a similar job but has different innovation and is a separate muscle. Um teras minor also has its origin as the infraspinus fossa and inserts into the greater tubicle and the inferior part of the greater tubicle. Spin around. Look at the deep surface of the scapula. the subsurface of the scapula and we see subscapularis muscle. Subscapularis its origin is the subscapular fossa and it inserts into the lesser tubicle of the humorus. That's what gives that pointy pointy shape to the lesser tubicle there. Um subscapularis then if it's on this side if it contracts it will give that movement there. It will cause medial rotation of the humorris. Um, and like I say, the main jobs of those muscles is to stabilize the head of the humorris in that socket as we do weird things with our arms and we move them around. So, stabilize, keeping keeping the head where it's supposed to be, not letting it roll up or roll out of that socket, right? Um, but it does those other actions. Terra is minor. You might also say that it helps with adduction. But um and if we're talking about these guys, so if those are the the um rotator cuff muscles here, we have uh the odd one out. This is terra major. And look at this. It runs from the posterior surface of the inferior margin of the scapula and then it inserts into the anterior humorous under there. Now, terraas major because it runs to the anterior humorris, it will also cause medial rotation. Sorry, medial rotation of the forearm. Um, that groove then you can see what muscle we've got here. Here's biceps. That's for a future week. Biceps means two heads. These are the two heads. And that long head, that tendon there, the tendon of the long head of biceps, that's what's running in that inter tuberculus sulcus. Um, which is why it also gets called the bicipital groove. But here, actually, let's take off that muscle as well so we can see a little bit better. There is terraas major. So terraas major, look, it's running to the medial lip of that interuberccular sulcus there. So its origin is the posterior scapula. Its insertion is to the medial lip of the intertubercular sulcus. And in because it attaches because it inserts into the anterior humorus, if it contracts, it will pull the humorous around that way. Medial rotation. And look, here's subscapularis. And now you can see subscapularis coming around and inserting into the the lesser tubicle there. We can add on some innovation. Um, suppinatus is innovated by the suprcapular nerve. Infraspanatus is innovated by the suprascapular nerve. Um, terraas minor is innovated by the auxiliary nerve. Subscapularis is innovated by the upper and lower subscapular nerves. And um Terra's major is also innovated by the lower subscapular nerve. Okay, we've looked at the bones, we've looked at the scapula, we've talked about the origins of the rotator cuff muscles, these fsy, and we looked at the greater tubicle and the lesser tubicle of the humorous, the insertion points of the rotator cuff muscles. I am having deja vu right now. Is that cuz I do this all the time or have I done this before? Anyway, right, we will um add on other muscles. We'll probably go out from the scapula in future weeks, I guess. Um I hope that was useful. I hope I didn't spend too much time on it and see you next week.