Okay, I got a skeleton. I got a leg. We are looking at the muscles of the hip. There are lots of muscles in the hip. Last week we looked at the flexors and extensors of the hip. This week we're going to look at the big abductors. No, big abductors and adductors of the hip. And there's still another layer of deeper muscles we'll get to in the future. Because we're looking at these muscles in more detail than we've looked at them before, we're looking at their attachment sites to the bones, the origins and insertions. I will try not to rattle through this, but again, there's quite a lot of muscles to get through. We will first of all introduce the muscles. We'll look for the relevant bony bits that we need to know about and then we will put the muscles on the bones and talk about the innovation. Just cuz you do. >> We are going to have to lift you up here so we can actually see your hip joint and your bones, aren't we? Oh, spring is coming and I'm getting the sniffles. It's a It's kind of a kind of a good sign, right? Um, so we need to do movements as well, don't we? So, if we're talking about abduction and adduction, we're talking about abduction and adduction of the feur at the hip joint. So, this would be abduction, taking the feur away from the midline. This would be adduction, bringing the feur back to the midline. Um, your hip joint moves more than this. This guy has got a bolt through here, so it's a bit limited. Um, in terms of the muscles, we like to think about compartments. anterior compartment, posterior compartment, medial compartment, bit of a lateral compartment up here because that helps us better understand and group together muscles that have similar function, similar innovation, similar blood supply. Couple of the muscles today actually overlap um compartments. I don't like telling students the whole horrible truth. I'd rather they found that out later when they were working, but we're going to get into we're going to get into some truth. Um so glutius maximus we saw last week as a powerful extensor of the hip. So we have glutius maximus we take away and we see glutius medius the middle one we would have to take off glutius medius to see beneath beneath it. So deep to glutius medius is glutius minimus and glutius medius and minimus are different and important because they do hip abduction. The important thing about hip abduction in the lower limb is actually look these muscles are running between the pelvis and the feur. So what they do is when you take one leg off the ground the muscles on this side the abductors on this side contract to keep your pelvis level level. So a lot of these muscles are about stabilization of the pelvis. Um the there's a lot of big adductor muscles in here. And the reason for that is again if you take a leg off the ground, these big muscles are balancing the weight of your torso over the leg that's still planted on the ground. And you take one foot off the ground every time you take a step when you're walking. Um so these are these are really important for walking. Okay. Stay after staying the obvious uh glutius medius and minimus. But then around here we see this muscle. This is the tensor of the fascia or tensor fasculate. Uh this is the fascia latte here. Um well the in fact this there was a stocking around the thigh called the fascia latta. There's a stocking of fascia around the leg the bit distal to the knee that's called the cural fascia. This thickening here laterally is the ilotibial tract or ilotibial band ilotibial. So it goes from the ilium to the tibia and the tensor of the fasculata or the tensor. This is tensing the ilotibial tract. You can guess what it does, but we'll get to that later. So those are our lateral compartment muscles, our abductors if you like, although that's not strictly a major role of that muscle. Here's the anterior compartment. We looked at those guys last time. Then we get into the medial compartment. So the inside of the thigh and in here there's a big muscle bulk. And we have a whole bunch of adductors. We have adductor magnus, the big one, which is taking up most of what we see in there. Adductor longus which is the long one which is going in there. Adductor brevis which is deep to longus we can't see on here. And then the most superficial medial muscle here is graasilus the graceful muscle. And then up here we have peectinius or peectinus. That's it. That's that's that's all the muscles we need to know about. Okay. What have we got? So, well, this is the pelvis or the hemi pelvis. There's one on either side. The pelvis is made up of three bones. The illiam is up here. The pubis is anteriorly here. And the is it or iskium is down here. The bit that you sit on. Those three separate bones have fused by adulthood. Um so they are to all intents and purposes a single bone on either side. This is the feur and um the feur articulates with the pelvis to give you that ball and socket of the hip joint, right? The synenovial joint up here. Um so with the illium we have the iliac crest up here which is something that you can palpate. It's an important bony landmark. And if you follow the iliac crest anteriorly to where it points out anteriorly, that landmark anteriorly there is the anterior superior iliac spine. We're going to need that today. Um actually let's let's let's go to the posterior posteriorly first. Um there are glutil lines on the posterior surface of the illium. Um and they are difficult to see. Can just about feel ridges. Uh and whenever we see lumps bumped on bones, whenever we feel ridges, those have formed because the muscle and the tendon have interacted with the bone to cause that change in shape. That's the bony attachment site. We have a a posterior glutial line. We have an anterior glutial line. And we have an inferior glutial line. Three lines, three muscles. Um, go around anteriorly. Uh, if this is the pubis here, this is the body of the pubis. And there's a tubicle here, the pubic tubicle. There's a line up here, the peectinal line. Oh, we mentioned a pectinal muscle. And then this hole here is the opterator forman. Right? So if this is the pubis and this is the iskum or ishium, we have these two straight bits of bone linking the pubis and the iskum. So these each one is a ramis. So this would be an inferior pubic ramis and a superior pubic ramis. Or it could be the inferior isopsicio pubic ramis. All right. And we also have a pubic crest. All right. Like a like a crest. A pubic crest. Body I think those are the bony bits we need on the pelvis. Looking at the feur and the proximal feur. Well, here's the head and the neck. Don't really care about those today. But this lump here, this really big lump is the greater tracer. Really important attachment site for muscles. You can palpate this. This is another important bony landmark. The lesser tracant is on the other side. Don't think we're going to need that today directly. Um, and then on the posterior Posterior feur, we can see a line. Um, this is the linear aspa. And if we follow the linear aspa up to about here, we can feel a roughness, a little bit of a bump. That's the glutial tuberosity. So, glutial tuberosity, linear aspera. And then as we follow the linear aspera down it it kind of gives these two lines going to either side. So these are the knuckles of the knee the condiles. This line here is a supra condondiler line. This is medial. This is lateral. So this would be the medial supraondila line. This would be the lateral supraondila line. And then down here we've also got an extra knobbybly bit. the adductor tubicle. Oh, adductor tubicle. While we're here, there's that is tuberosity or isial tuberosity, your sitbones that the hamstrings attach to. Um, past the feur, we get to the leg and we have the tibia medially and the fibula laterally. We're going to be interested in the tibia. Again, you've got these tibial condiles. Um, yeah, that might be all our bony bits because most of the adductors kind of are in the same sort of place and go to the same sort of place. Your ankle's a bit loose, right? We got the muscles, we got the bony bits. Let's link the muscles up to the bony bits. You might get a few squeaks. Um, I'm not going to apologize for that. I like the squeaks. Okay, so here we go. the glutial region. Remember, I've taken glutius maximus off. Glutius maximus was last week, one of the extensors of the hip. Whereas glutius medius and minimus are different. They are more lateral a little bit. They're still posterior, but they're a bit more lateral. So, we can see glutius medius here. And glutius medius's origin. Oh, origins and insertions. Yes. So, the origin of a muscle is usually the bit that doesn't move when the muscle gets shorter. The insertion is the attachment side to the bone that usually does move when the muscle gets shorter. Um the origin is usually more proximal, more medial. The insertion is often more distal, more lateral. But these rules, like all rules were written to be broken maybe. Um so you'll find your mileage might vary. But anyway, the origin of glutius medius then is from the illium. So the posterior surface of the illium and between that posterior glutial line and the anterior glutial line. So we can kind of get a sense of that here. Right, those fibers then run across the hip joint and they're going to insert into the greater tracer. Um, so they're gonna kind of run across here, which means that um, glutius medius is going to do a great job of abduction of the hip joint, abduction of the feur at the hip, and it's also going to do a great job of when you take the other leg of the off the ground, contracting to keep your pelvis level. Um, I'm sure I've done plenty of videos about this before. Trendelenburgg sign, Trenelenberg gate. If um the superior if if the glutius medius and glutius minimus muscles aren't working properly, they're innovated by the superior glutial nerve. So maybe that has been damaged. If these muscles are weak, when you take the foot on the normal side, the healthy side off the ground, your pelvis, your hip will drop on that side. So, if the injury's on this side and I take this foot off the ground, your hip drops on that side on. Do you see what I mean? So, it doesn't drop on the weak side, it drops on the other side. Um, and if your hip drops when you're walking, you will drag your toes along the floor and you have to find a way of swinging your foot round so your toes don't drag on the floor when you when you walk. So glutius medius is good at hip abduction and because it's pulling on the greater tracer particularly when the hip is flexed it's it doesn't want to do it. It's good at medial rotation or internal rotation of the feur. Can you see if the muscle's running like that can pull on the greater tracer. It's inserting into the lateral surface of the greater tracer. So this is why it's it's important to be aware of these bony bits and how the muscle fibers run because you get a better understanding of how these muscles act particularly when the joint is in different positions. Right? Take off glutius medius and you'll find glutius minimus. Glutius minimus' origin is again the posterior surface of the illium between the um anterior and inferior glutil lines. Uh and it also runs out to the greater tracer and inserts into the the anterior surface of the greater tracer. Glutius med medius has the same actions as glutius minimus and they share the same innovation as well. or the superior glutial nerve. So we often talk about glutius medius and minimus together. Ticked. Good. Okay. Tensor fasci latte. What can we see? Okay. We can see it comes from the iliac crest. Uh kind of the lateral surface of the iliac crest and the anterior part of the iliac crest. And it's also coming from the anterior superior iliac spine. And it's sharing that origin with sartorius here. Right? Its insertion then is into the fascia into the ilotibial tract or the ilotibial band that runs to the lateral tibia. Little toes over this side. So it inserts into the lateral tibial condile. Um, it'll it's a weak abductor of the hip joint. It'll aid with flexion of the hip joint. Can you kind of see the angle that it's running at there? It'll help with rotation of the feur medially. It'll help with rotation of the tibia laterally. But really the job of the tensor fasciulata is to put tension and maintain tension in this ilotibial tract which stabilizes the hip and stabilizes the knee joints. Tensia fascia latte is also innovated by the superior glutial nerve kind of puts in that lateral compartment. Okay, that's those done. Spin around to the medial compartment, the adductor compartment, the adductors, the most superficial one we can see here. Now, what can we see this? So, this is graasilus. So, look, there's the pubis there. So, its origin is the body of the pubis. Um so the body of the pubis down here and also that inferior pubic ramis here right and then if we follow it down to its insertion u we are medial so it's inserting into the proximal tibia the medial tibia but this structure here we see three tendons coming together to insert into the medial tibia here and this is pez anserenus the goose's foot pez foot answer goose the goose's foot looks like a goose's foot um so that's the insertion of graasilus the other two tendons are sartorius and semmitendinosis the primary role of graasilus then is adduction of the feur at the hip joint because of the direction that the fi this is anterior this is posterior because of the direction of the fibers that uh graasilus uh are running in can you see how It would aid with flexion of the femur at the hip and also aid in um medial rotation of the leg. All right. So, let me take off sartorius. I'm not sure it helps much. Um but here is adductor longus. We got a lot of muscles packed together in here. Um, so even when we're dissecting it's um you kind of have to be there to free everything up and figure out what's what. But here's a ductor longness. Okay. So where's that coming from? Ah, it's coming from the pubis. So the pubic crest is up here. So the origin of a ductor longus is from the body of the pubis bone inferior to the pubic crest. And then it's going to run to the feur and it's going to insert into the linear aspa and the middle third of the linear aspa. So it's running it's running across like this. Right? That's a duct longus. It's very good at adduction. Can you see how because the muscle is running across and inserts into the medial side of the linear aspa if it was to pull it would pull the feur like that. So it would do lateral rotation of the feur. See these muscles imagine it really good at stabilizing the feur when your body is balancing over one leg. It is innovated by the opturator nerve. That's the long adductor. Add brevice. It's under there. Sorry. It's so it's it's it's in there. Add brevice. Its origin is also the pubis bone. So brevis is running at a sharper angle kind of like that. Brevis the origin of brevis then is the body of the pubis and the inferior pubic ramis here. And then again it runs across to the proximal part of the linear asper. So adductor brevvis very much uh same functions as adductor longus great adductor and the other bits and bobs and also innovated by the opbitrator nerve. So that's brevis and longus. Now we got let's do the big one. Um magnus um this muscle adductor magnus gives us a bit more work to do. So these are the hamstrings right? So adductor magnus has got a hamstring part. These are the adductor muscles, right? Adductor magnus has got an adductor part. So the adductor part's origin is the pubis bone again. So adductor magnus has origins from the pubis from this inferior pubic ramis and probably also extending across to the isal side as well. So the inferior part of the isk ramis. Um the origin of the hamstring part is from the isial tuberosity like the other hamstrings. Um and then actually let's keep you like this. Um the adductor part of adductor magnus is going to insert into the linear asper. It's going to insert into the glutal tuberosity. It's going to insert into this medial supraondila line. So this is a real biggie, right? It's it's go it's going all the way along here. Really really big adductor magnus muscle. The hamstring part of the adductor magnus muscle then will run from that issial tuberosity to the adductor tubicle down here. In doing so, this is where we're going to find the adductor hiatus that the blood vessels run through. So adductor magnus is is is breaking the rule and is crossing um from the adductor compartment to the posterior compartment. So the adductor part of adductor magnus is innovated by the opturator nerve. The hamstring part of the adductor magnus muscle is innovated by the tibial division of the sciatic nerve like most of the other hamstring muscles. Because then of this really broad set of origins, both anterior and posterior, not only is it an excellent adductor of the lower limb at the hip joint, but it can also help with flexion and extension of the femur at the hip joint. It can also help with medial rotation and lateral rotation of the feur at the hip joint. In short, it is an excellent muscle for stabilizing the pelvis, for balancing your upper body over when you are uh moving from leg to leg or even standing on one leg for a period if that's your thing. Uh peectinus. Um all right. So, we see Oh, that's what we forgot the pectin. There's two peecttonal lines. There's one on here and there's one on here. That's what we didn't do. Um if we follow the linear aspa up superiorly then it it where it runs towards the lesser tracer here there's a line that's the peectinal line and on the pubis up here so pubis superior pubic ramis there's there's a definite edge there there's a line that's also the pectinal lines. There are two peectinal lines. The reason we have two peectinal lines is that's where the pectinus muscle runs from and to. So this is the origin. This is the insertion from the pubis to the feur. Um this also makes it an adductor of the hip and also a flexor of the hip. We can see pectinus on the model. There it is there. So there's the inguinal ligament. So it's uh here is the pectinal line coming around here. So it's it's underneath that. So there's pectinus there. Um it's a muscle of the anterior compartment of the thigh. So it's innovated by the femoral nerve. Might get a little bit of opt nerve as well in some people but pectinus femoral nerve. That's that's us. Hopefully I did an adequate job of that. So there you have it. the origins and insertions of the adductors and abductors uh of the hip. Um as you can see, we're reusing a number of the lumpy bony bits that we looked at last time. So um like the more the more you look at this, it's not like it gets harder. Uh the repetition, the looking at uh bony attachment sites, they get reused. it kind of gets a bit easier and hopefully makes a bit more sense and we we get a better understanding of our three-dimensional anatomy and how things sit and lie and run uh relative to one another. All right, well done. Um see you next week.