 pulforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforforfor claimed gluteal individually, you might think of them as like the rotator cuff muscles in the shoulder, in that they are adding stability to the ball and socket joint of the hip joint, but the joint here is much more stable than the shoulder joint, excuse me, so they have slightly different roles to do, but they are lateral rotators. Let's go deep and look at all of these little deep muscles of the hip, and I think we've looked at them all, we'll look at their, we'll look at the muscles, we'll introduce them, we'll look at the bony bits they attach to, their origins and insertions, we'll talk about the movements, and then we'll see how they attach to the bones. Why is lateral rotation such a thing? Why have we got like so many little muscles? Is it six muscles for lateral rotation of the femur at the hip? Well, consider that we are precariously balanced on top of two legs most of the time, so we need a lot of muscles for stability, for balance, right? And we're very good at balance. But the other thing is, when you're walking next, look down at your feet, feet, and as you walk, look at which way your feet are pointing, and they'll usually keep pointing in the same direction. And then look at your hips, and as you walk, you'll see that your hips are rotating, your pelvis is rotating. That's what's bringing your leading leg forward. So you're, as you're, it is difficult to demonstrate on a, um, on a, on a skeleton that's pinned together and wired together, rather than having muscles and tendons. But, um, as you, as your pelvis rotates, to keep your foot pointing forwards, you need to laterally rotate your femur. And now the foot is pointing forwards. If you, if your femur stays in line with your pelvis, as you rotate your pelvis, your foot points with the rotation of the pelvis. So as you rotate your pelvis, you laterally rotate your femur, and your foot keeps pointing forwards. Best to figure out on yourself. Like I say, the next time you go for a walk, look down at your pelvis, look down at your feet, lateral rotation, medial rotation, lateral rotation, sorry. All right. So we're talking about the hip joint, the ball and socket joint here. Here are the bones of the pelvis, the, uh, uh, ilium pubis and ischium or ischium. Here's the femur, the femur, but here's the femur with its head, that characteristic ball shape, neck and what have you. We'll look at the details in a moment. So the movements then of the hip joint are abduction. If you take the femur away from the midline, adduction, if you bring the femur back to the midline, you have flexion of the femur at the hip. If you do that, you have, so there's flexion. You have extension of the femur at the hip. If you do that, and then, um, rotation is, think about the diaphysis of the femur, the shaft of the femur. You have rotation in those two different directions, right? So, uh, if the anterior surface of the femur is rotating inwards, that is internal rotation or medial rotation. If the anterior surface of the femur is rotating outwards, that is lateral rotation of the femur or external rotation of the femur at the hip joint. We're most interested in that lateral rotation of the femur. Let's introduce the muscles. Then we'll find the bony attachment sites. We'll define origins and insertions, but that's what we're really interested in is adding on the detail of the lumps and bumps that these muscles actually attach to. A little bit of nervous innervation and their actions, and we're done. Okay, so the muscles, we can see most of them here. This is the most famous one. This is piriformis, named because it's pear-shaped, shaped like the pear, the fruit. Oh, there's two. There's a pear joke in here. Hang on, wait for it. So, um, piriformis is here. Piriformis is famous because we see the sciatic nerve appearing inferiorly to it. In life, the sciatic nerve is three or four times the size of this little thing here. So here's piriformis. And then we see three muscles together here. Um, the one in the middle is, uh, obturator internus, um, which means there's going to be an obturator externus, but we can't see it. That's going to be on the other side. Obturator internus. And then these two muscles here are the gemelli muscles, which comes from the word gemini, meaning twins. These are the twinned muscles either side of the obturator muscle. So we have gemellus superior and gemellus inferior. And then we have this nice rectangular shaped muscle of the thigh. Thigh is femoral. So we have quadratus. Femeris here. Now obturator, uh, externus, I can't see it's in there, but I'll explain where it is when we look at the bony stuff and it'll make sense. But you can probably see how all of these muscles here are running from roughly the same sort of location converging across roughly on the same locations. You can imagine how they all have a similar action on the femur, right? Uh, on the bony bits, I'm sure you are aware of this great big hole here. This is the, uh, obturator foramen. It's a big foramen. Obturator. Okay. So that comes from the Latin word, is it obturator? It means a, like a closed up hole, a stopped up hole. And we'll see that it is stopped up. So when we just have the bony skeleton, we see a great big hole here. And like I say, this is the pubis. This is the ischium. This is the ileum. These are three separate bones of the pelvis, which fuse together, um, during childhood, um, to become a single bone on either side. So you can see how that's made by these, this ramus here and this ramus here, and they the edge of the acetabulum here. So obturator foramen. Now in life, the obturator foramen is covered by, uh, ligaments where it's filled with a ligament, the obturator membrane still leaves a little gap at the top here. So this becomes the obturator canal and through there past the obturator nerve, the obturator artery and the obturator vein. But look, this big hole is actually stopped up with ligament in life. And the reason for that is that the obturator internus and externus. So the externus is on the external surface, obturator internus is on the internal surface. Um, that that's where those muscles can, can attach. So we've got that and we've got the bone around the outside. So the obturator membrane filling most of the obturator canal. Uh, we can also see there's your sit bone. That's the ischial tuberosity, which the hamstrings are attached to among others. Um, and as we rotate posteriorly under there, actually, let's go, let's go back to you. Um, you can see there, so there's the ischial tuberosity that you're sat on maybe if you're sitting. Uh, and here is the ischial spine. So whenever we see lumps and bumps and shapes like this, this is because things attached to it, muscles, ligaments, tendons, because the soft tissues and the hard tissues all grow together, right? So ischial spine, ischial tuberosity or ischial if you prefer. And then we have the sacrum back here, uh, the coccyx, uh, that might be all the pelvic stuff that we need. And then when we look at the femur, so there's the head and the neck, this great big lump here is the greater trochanter. That is that palpable bony landmark you feel lateral to your hip. Look, there's the hip joint. So laterally out here, there's the greater trochanter. This little lump here is the lesser trochanter. Yeah. Uh, so for today's purposes, we will need to consider, um, posteriorly, we can see that greater trochanter, that lesser trochanter. So this bony ridge, very prominent bony ridge running between the two trochanters is the inter-trochanteric crest. It's forming a nice crest. There's an inter-trochanteric line on the anterior side, which you don't need today. So greater trochanter, inter-trochanteric crest. And if I roll my finger over the top and push it in there, oh, there's a lovely depression, a lovely fossa, which would be the trochanteric fossa. So that's way up there. Um, ooh, ligaments again. Um, we might need, this is posterior, there's the sacrum, there's the ischial tuberosity, and the ischial spine. This ligament here running between the ischial tuberosity and the sacrum is the sacro-tuberous ligament. This one here, uh, this ligament is running between the sacrum and the ischial spine. This is the sacro-spinous ligament. Um, this is the greater sciatic foramen where we see the sciatic nerve passing through and piriformis. Uh, and then this is the, um, lesser sciatic foramen down here made by, made by those ligaments. So some muscles will also probably attach to those ligaments. All right. Uh, let's put the muscles on the bony bits. All right. Let's start at the top with piriformis. So we're looking posteriorly. Remember, here's gluteus maximus that I've taken off here. And piriformis is origin. So origins and insertions are the attachment sites of muscles to bones. The origin tends to be the bit that doesn't move. The origin is often more proximal or more medial. The insertion is often where is the end of the muscle that does move. So the bone moves at this end. The insertion is often more distal or more lateral, which is what we see here. But those rules are some more variable, but they seem to be applying here. Okay. So piriformis is posterior. Here's the sacrum back here, but the origin of the, the origin of piriformis is actually, actually from the anterior surface of the sacrum between about the S2 and S4 levels. It's also going to probably have a bit of origin from that sacro tuberous ligament. And then it's going to run across and out to the greater trachanta and to the, uh, the superior part of the greater trachanta. So it's running across here. I've got it this way around to show you that the origin is on the anterior surface of the sacrum. So we're looking from the anterior aspect of the pelvis here, but here we're looking at the posterior surface. So there's that piriformis muscle running from the anterior surface of the, of the sacrum across. So this is the greater trachanta up here and it's inserting into the superior part of the greater trachanta. So its primary role is stability of the hip joint to stabilize that joint when the leg, when the joint is in different positions. It's also very good at lateral rotation. So can you see if the, if the muscle is running like this, if the muscle gets shorter, it does that, right? Does that make sense? When the hip is flexed, it's now in a reasonably good position to do to help with abduction, right? Can you see how the muscles running from the anterior sacrum to the superior part of the greater trachanta? If it gets shorter now, it can abduct the femur at the hip. So, oh, I've got my thumb caught in the knee joint. So its role can change depending upon the position of the hip joint. In here, you've got the sacral plexus. So the sacral plexus is sat right on top of these lateral rotators. So the innervation of the piriformis muscle is the nerve to piriformis, which is a little nerve coming directly from the sacral plexus. So there's piriformis. Down here is obturator internus. These muscles are actually going to come together pretty much as a combined tendon here. Here's obturator internus. It's very thin at this point, but it, it, it, it, it's making quite the angle change there. Can you see as it comes around? So obturator internus, its origin is from the deep surface, the deep surface of the obturator membrane and some of the, and some of the bone around the obturator. And then it runs around. So there we go. Um, can you imagine the obturator foramen is in there? So it's covering, it's a, it's attached to the obturator membrane. It's also attached to some of the bone around the obturator, um, foramen, and then it narrows as it runs across, takes quite an angle change, uh, and runs through to the greater trochanter. And what it's actually doing is it's inserting into, it's inserting into the greater trochanter up here. So into the trochanteric fossa. Um, obturator internus then is also, um, its main job is lateral rotation of the femur and stability of the hip joint and can aid in abduction when the hip is flexed. So obturator internus has its origin from the internal surface of the obturator membrane, the deep surface. So it's inside the pelvis, and then it will actually run out through that lesser sciatic foramen to get to, to its target, to get to the, the trochanteric fossa there. Um, again, uh, the sacral plexus is nearby. So there is a nerve to obturator internus that innovates the obturator internus. So piriformis obturator internus, we have the two gameli muscles, gamelus superior and gamelus inferior. I think you can already see where they're going, but pelvis wise. So look, here's the, um, ischial spine. Here's the ischial tuberosity. Here's the greater trochanter. So the gamelus superior and gamelus inferior muscles have their origins here. So gamelus is superior origin is from the posterior, of the ischial spine. Might take a bit of that ligament that's nearby as well. The gamelus inferior muscle, its origin is the posterior surface of the, uh, ischial tuberosity. And then they can both run very neatly straight across here and insert into the medial edge of, uh, the greater trochanter. And in doing so, they're going to, uh, have the same actions as the obturator internus muscle. That's running between them, um, and piriformis. Gamelus superior is innovated by the nerve to obturator internus. Gamelus inferior is innovated by the nerve to quadratus femoris. Okay. Last muscle out of this set. Posteriorly, we have the nice rectangular muscle, the quadrangular muscle, quadratus femoris. So quadratus femoris, that here's the hamstrings coming from the ischial tuberosity. The origin of quadratus femoris is the lateral border of the ischial tuberosity. Here's the ischial tuberosity here. So its origin is here. And like I say, it's that flat muscle and look between the two trochanters, we have this intertrochanteric crest. So that flat muscle of quadratus femoris runs straight across and inserts into that intertrochanteric crest. Talk about a tubercle. There's a bit of a tubercle there. Um, but, um, it's then also very good at stabilizing the hip joint. It's very good at lateral rotation. It's not very useful at that. See how when you put yourself, when you hit, when you flex the hip, it's now not very helpful at, um, doing abduction like the other muscles were. So it's a bit different. Quadratus femoris, excellent at lateral rotation of the femur and stabilization, stabilization of the hip joint. Quadratus femoris is innovated by the nerve to quadratus femoris. Again, we're very close to the sacral plexus here. Right. Final muscle obturator externus. So we go to the external surface of the obturator foramen. And that's where we would find it. Now see how deep that is. And then we look, when we look over here, so now we go to the anterior, um, thigh. Well, we're covered in all sorts of things. If I take off sartorius, um, we, you know, we looked at all these in previous weeks, it's deep to all that. So I can't show you, um, obturator externus. So remember that obturator membrane, we're now on the external surface, the anterior surface. Um, so the ext obturator externus muscle has its origin from the anterior surface of the obturator membrane, also a bit of the bony bits around the outside. And it actually will run across again to that trochanteric fossa. Look, my fingers disappeared because it's posterior. So, um, can you see how this is kind of, kind of in line? Look, there's the anterior surface of the obturator membrane. And then in there is the trochanteric fossa. Do you see how that runs across there? You look at this in 2D in textbooks. I don't know if it makes sense, but you can see where the obturator foramen is. And it's actually in line with the femur, right? Largely speaking. So obturator externus runs from the external surface of the obturator membrane to the trochanteric fossa on the posterior surface of the femur in the greater trochanter again there, which means it's also a lateral rotator of the hip. Um, but because it's taken this more direct route, it's actually quite good at adduction and abduction depending upon the, well, I say quite good. It's helpful in abduction and adduction of the femur at the hip joint depending upon the position that the joint is in. It's a good stabiliser of the hip. So it's a good get out clause that, isn't it? These muscles are good stabilisers of the hip. Um, because it's over here, because it's on the anterior surface of the obturator membrane. It's actually innovated by the obturator nerve. And that's it. I hope I didn't make too much of a mess of that. I mean, normally when we teach these muscles, we just say, these are the lateral rotators of the hip. That's great because you know what they do. They'll do the same thing and they're all kind of together there. Um, adding that detail of where they attach, particularly if you understand the three dimensional shapes of the pelvis and the femur here helps you better understand how these muscles act, but they're not, they're not supporting an unstable joint like the shoulder. They're supporting a very stable joint at the hip, but the difference is they are balancing your weight over one leg every now and then. Anyway, those are the origins and insertions of the deep muscles of the hip, the deep gluteal muscles. Right. Um, well, I'll see you next week or am I, I think I might be working away next week. I'll see you when I see you.