 RIMIMTE, brachii, triceps brachii as muscles that cross the shoulders. We looked at them last week when we were looking at the proximal humerus, the upper arm muscles, but because they're really important at the elbow. So we'll look at the muscles that are crossing the elbow joint and having an effect on the elbow joint, largely flexion and extension. Next week, we'll move into the forearm and talk more about pronation and supination. So origins and insertions, what do we mean? This is the detail by which we describe how muscles attach to the bones. The origins and insertions are the attachment sites, and those attachment sites often leave lumpy, bumpy bits which have names. So the origin of a muscle tends to be the bit that doesn't move when the muscle contracts. The insertion tends to be the bony bit that does move when the muscle contracts. The origin is often more proximal or more medial. The insertion is often more distal or more lateral, but you'll see that rule often gets broken. So the origins and insertions of the muscles of the elbow area-ish. What we will do is we will introduce the muscles first, and then we will look at the relevant bony lumpy bits, and then we will put the muscles on the bony lumpy bits. So the muscles we're going to look at are biceps brachii, brachialis, triceps brachii, anconius, that's a tricky one, and we're going to talk about brachioradialis. So we're clearly starting to get into the forearm, but there's so much in the forearm that you'll see. I mean, it's because of the function of brachioradialis, it crosses the elbow, it does elbow flexion. Whereas the muscles of the forearm are largely acting at the wrist. So today we're focusing on muscles that act at the elbow. Next week we'll look at, I don't know how I'm going to break it up, muscles that act at the wrist, muscles that act at the thing. That's a problem for future me, right? Here's biceps. I think we all know biceps. Biceps, bi meaning two, seps meaning heads, meaning he's got two heads. And biceps, we'll see, runs from the scapula across the shoulder joint and then across the elbow joint and into the forearm, into the radius and the fascia here. It's a very good elbow flexor. It's also a very powerful supinator of the forearm. Deep to biceps brachii is brachialis. Brachialis then is right up against the bone, against the humerus. Brachialis crosses the elbow joint. It's only job is elbow flexion, which means it's a really good elbow flexor. Triceps brachii, following the same rules as before then, is the three-headed muscle of the arm. This is the brachium, the arm between the shoulder and the elbow. The anti-brachium is the forearm between the elbow and the wrist, so the brachium, hence triceps brachii, three-headed muscle of the arm. Again, this has one head coming from the scapula. It then attaches to the humerus, so it crosses the shoulder joint, but then it crosses the elbow joint and it is the extensor of the elbow joint or extensor of the forearm. It inserts into the ulnar down here. Brachioradialis, if you're trying to find brachioradialis, in your anterior elbow, your cubital fossa here, you've got, well, right in the middle, we're in there, so the first muscle you get to over there is brachioradialis, and the other muscles are, they act at the wrist, let's say, for now. So brachioradialis, and you can see that brachioradialis is running from the humerus across into the forearm, but it does not get as far as the wrist, which is why I'm including it in this batch today. Okay, so our bones of interest, well, here's the scapula, here's the humerus, and then in the forearm, we have the radius and the ulnar, which is which? Well, your radial pulse is there, right? It's the pulse you feel is your radial pulse. Oh, that's on the thumb side, so the radius is on the same side as the thumb, so the radius is lateral. The radius is also the one that moves around the ulnar. The ulnar stays where it is, and the radius moves around the ulnar to pronate and supinate. So the ulnar, then, is the bone that's actually making a proper decent hinge joint at the elbow. So, up at the scapula, we have the ball and socket joint of the shoulder joint or the glenohumeral joint. The shallow socket here, which is part of the scapula, is the glenoid fossa. In life, there is a fibrocartilage labra, making that deeper than, making the socket deeper than it looks here. But here's the glenoid fossa. So there's a little tubercle superior to the glenoid fossa. That is the supraglenoid tubercle. And then inferior to the glenoid fossa, there's another lump. That is the infraglenoid tubercle. Tubercle being a popular word for a lump on a bone. And then here, this bit here, so here's the clavicle look. But this, this sticky-outy bit anteriorly, this is part of the scapula. This is the coracoid process of the scapula. Looks a bit like a beak poking forward. You can palpate this if you have a poke around here. So the coracoid process, and I think those are the bits of the scapula that we need. And then the humerus has to articulate with both the ulna and the radius. And a condyle is another word for a knuckle. A knuckle is a joint surface, right? So we've got two knuckles down here. They do actually have names, the trochlea and the capitulum. But these are the condyles here, these articulating surfaces, which means these sticky-outy bits of bone here are the epicondyles. They are upon the condyles, right? So these are the knuckles, the condyles. These are the epicondyles. So we have a medial epicondyle and a lateral epicondyle. The medial epicondyle is famous because when you bang it, you compress the ulna nerve, you get tingles running up your little finger, and you have banged your funny bone, humerus. There's, can you see this shape that's coming up here? So if that's your epicondyle, and there's a very ridgey shape proximal coming up from that epicondyle. So this would be a supracondyler ridge, and there's also one on the other side. And that gives this kind of, I don't know, rather classic looking shape of the humerus down here, these supracondyler ridges, a medial one and a lateral one. I feel this is going to get a bit trickier, but this is the ulna ulna. You see how the ulna goes around the humerus. So this is the trochlear notch made by the ulna making that shape. And then, so that's very much the hinge joint, right? Can you see this sticky-uppy bit? This sticky-uppy bit anterior to the trochlear notch. When you flex your elbow, I mean, that's what limits how far you can flex your elbow. That notch goes into that little socket-y bit, and bam, your bones can't go any further. That is a coronoid process. On the other side, so that trochlear notch comes around, this lump back here, that's the olecranon. That's your sticky-uppy bit of your elbow, your olecranon. So olecranon, coronoid process, and then just anterior to the coronoid process of the ulna. There's a little bit of a ridgy-lumpy bit. The tuberosity of the ulna. And next to it, on the radius, there's also a tuberosity. The radial tuberosity. By the way, this end of the radius is the head of the radius. This end of the radius just gets called the distal radius. Kind of important because commonly fractured over here. So if you say somebody's fractured their radius, say distal radius to get the right bit. And then we would be at the wrist. Not really important today, but that sticky-uppy bit there is the styloid process. We're not going to quite get that far, but we're going to almost get that far. See that styloid process? So wrist is here. Sticky-uppy bit of the radius. There's also a sticky-uppy bit of the ulna. Styloid process. And you can palpate this in your own wrist. Just so you know where we are, because we'll get almost down there. Okay. Biceps brachii. The two heads. The... I'm taking off the deltoid muscle there. Not trying to drop it like I did the other week. The short head of biceps attaches to the coracoid process of the scapula. The long head of biceps runs through the bicipital groove of the humerus over the top of the glenohumeral joint and attaches to the supraglenoid tubercle. These are the origins of the biceps brachii muscle. The insertion of biceps brachii is into the radius and is into this radial tuberosity. This means that biceps is... Well, okay. The other insertion of biceps brachii is into the fascia of the forearm. So the muscles of the forearm are covered in a fascia, an antibracial fascia. So biceps' tendon inserts into the radial tuberosity. And then there's this bicipital uponurosis. And uponurosis being a flattened tendon structure. And that bicipital uponurosis spreads out into the fascia. So when you're dissecting this region, it's kind of unclear of where the biceps goes because it blends with the fascia. But it's good because it protects deeper structures. This means that biceps brachii is an excellent flexor of the elbow joint or flexor of the forearm. But it's best at doing that job when you are supinated. When you are pronated, because now the radial tuberosity has been pulled around the other side, when you're pronated, biceps brachii is not as powerful at elbow flexion. But it is the most powerful supinator of the forearm. Biceps brachii, like all the muscles of the anterior compartment of the arm, is innervated by the musculocutaneous nerve. Okay, so take off biceps brachii. Deep to biceps brachii is brachialis. Off you come. Here's brachialis, the muscle of the arm of the brachium. Its origin is the anterior humerus. You can see just about where we are here. So the distal half of the anterior humerus. And it crosses the elbow joint and will insert into the ulna. Remember that the ulna's only job is to do the hinge joint thing. So brachialis will insert into the coronoid process of the ulna and into the tuberosity of the ulna just anteriorly. This means it doesn't matter whether you're pronated or supinated, the ulna is always in the same position. So brachialis' only job is flexion of the elbow. It has the same effectiveness, same power, same strength, no matter whether you're pronated or supinated. So it's generally considered that brachialis is the most powerful, the most effective, the most important elbow flexor. But it varies depending upon what position. So if you're supinated, biceps is also powerful. But I think it's generally considered that brachialis does at least 50% of elbow flexion. Anyways, yeah. Brachialis is also a muscle of the anterior compartment of the arm. So again, is innervated by the musculocutaneous nerve. In I think about 70 or 80% of people, the radial nerve also gives some innervation to brachialis, but we don't really tell people that. There's enough to learn already, right? But there is a bit of dual innervation there. So if I put biceps brachii back on and turn around, so now we are going to look at the posterior arm. See how we got the layers there? Biceps brachii, brachialis, and then triceps. So if we look at triceps, the three-headed muscle of the arm, it has three origins then. The origin of the long head is the infraglenoid tubercle of the scapula, and then the medial and lateral heads of triceps attach to the posterior humerus. And something I didn't mention is the spiral groove. It's a very shallow groove, a shallow feature on the posterior humerus, but the spiral groove or the radial groove separates the medial and lateral head origins of triceps as they attach to the posterior humerus. In that groove runs the radial nerve and the deep branch of the brachial artery or the profunda brachial artery, whatever you like, runs through there. The insertion of triceps is into the olecranon, the olecranon. Your sticky-outy elbow bit gives a leverage advantage to the strength and power of that muscle there. So it adds to that muscle function. So olecranon. And it also blends with the antebrachial fascia, the fascia of the forearm here as well. Again, making dissection a little confusing sometimes. So triceps crosses the shoulder joint, largely holding the humerus into the the scapula into the shoulder girdle. And then it is the most most important, well, it is the extensor of the elbow joint. And it is innovated by the radial nerve. So here we're looking at the posterior elbow joint. We've got a load of muscles of the forearm, but we got this little guy here. What the heck is this? It can't be supponator because supponator is really deep. Oh god, we'll see that next week. So many muscles. I've taken off triceps. So there's the olecranon. What on earth is this little muscle here? This is the muscle that confuses everybody. I say it confuses students, but it confuses everybody really. This is anconius. So anconius is a small, as you can see, that's the whole muscle there. A small muscle of the elbow joint. That's it there. Which textbooks will tell you aids in extending the elbow. But if you've got this whacking great big triceps muscle, what do you need anconius for? Anconius' origin is the humerus. So it crosses the elbow joint. So its origin is, look, the posterior surface of the, this is lateral. So the posterior surface of the lateral epicondyle here. And then it inserts into the lateral side of the olecranon and the posterior ulna. So it runs from the humerus to the ulna. So yeah, absolutely. That'll help with extension because we're extending the ulna. So what it's actually most useful at is that this is a complicated joint, the elbow joint. Not only have you got the hinge, but you've got the head of the radius rotating in there to give you pronation and supponation. So you've got this lovely synovial capsule. You've got loads of bursae and they've got loads of synovial structures. Anconius is probably most useful at pulling on the synovial capsule and pulling it out of the way as you extend your elbow so it doesn't get pinched between the bones. That's the general description of anconius. It's a stabilizer of the elbow. Maybe it helps abduct the ulna during pronation or supponation. But so when you're dissecting, it's also confusing because it kind of blends with the fascia and it blends with triceps. If I put triceps back up here and you, it's quite, it can be quite awkward to identify and separate from the other muscles, but you absolutely can do it. So triceps runs to the olecranon and anconius runs from the lateral epicondyle of the humerus across to the olecranon of the posterior ulna and assists in elbow extension probably by managing those synovial tissues and keeping them out of harm's way. Anconius. So look on the posterior elbow, the posterior elbow, fairly super, we are superficial to all the other muscles here and we are lateral. If you find a small triangular muscle, it's anconius. We're in the posterior compartments here so it's innervated by the radial nerve. One more muscle left and we're just going around a little way. We're going around to the beer drinking muscle. We're coming around to brachioradialis here. It's in the name brachioradialis. So this muscle is running from the brachium to the radial bone, the radius. So running from the humerus to the radius. Why is it called the beer drinker's muscle? Brachioradialis is a relatively weak flexor of the elbow, but it's strongest when you are mid pronated. So when you're holding a pint of beer, really heavy pint of beer, and you flex your elbow, brachioradialis pops up there. So sure, it is active in elbow flexion in all positions of supination and pronation, but it is most effective when you are mid pronation, when you're drinking pints of beer. So brachioradialis there. So it is an elbow flexor which is why I'm talking about it today. Now, its origin, see where we are here? So triceps, biceps, we're looking at the lateral humerus. Its origin is that supracondylar ridge. So here we are laterally, and the lateral supracondylar ridge is a lovely ridge, lovely sharp ridge. So this is where brachioradialis' origin is. And then it's going to run down to the lateral radius, and not quite as far as the styloid process. So it's going to run from here, and it's going to be inserted into the lateral radius all the way down here. So it's got quite a long tendon. Which means when you're trying to identify all the muscles of the forearm, it can get quite confusing trying to figure out. It adds to the confusion, let's say. But there it is there. So it is, like I say, if you've got your cubital fossa, it is that lateral margin there. I also, you know, if I'm trying to identify it, bam, you know, that, yeah. It's actually, actually a muscle of the posterior compartment of the forearm. So it's innovated by the radial nerve. Um, okay, it's quite good this, because we're learning bony features at the same time as we're learning muscles. And the bony features exist because the muscles attach their soft tissues and calcified tissues all develop together. And, you know, I don't know, it's quite a good way of learning these, these, these, these terms. And also by looking at where the muscles attach, we can then better imagine how bones are going to move or be affected if, um, that muscle contracts and gets shorter or whatever, you know, so don't want to drop it. Okay. So we've looked at the muscles that move the elbow joint. We've looked at biceps brachii, its origins and insertions. It crosses the shoulder and the elbow joint. We looked at brachialis, whose only job is to flex the elbow running from the humerus to the ulna. We've looked at the triceps brachii muscle again, crossing from the scapula all the way down to the olecranon of the ulna there and also attached into the humerus. So crossing those two joints being the main extensor of the elbow. And we've looked at, uh, brachial radialis. And now we all know, and we're clear as mud on what Anconius is and does and where it is, what it attaches to and what have you. Okay. Um, so next week I will be psyching myself up or at least figuring out how to do all the muscles of the forearm. Maybe I should do it in, um, the layers or do wrists and then fingers or something like that. I don't know, cause there's quite a lot there. Um, if you're brave, I will see you next week. Bye.