Right, let's find out if students have uh warmed me up or worn me out. I've been uh teaching in one form or another all day today. Uh in the last few weeks, we've been looking at the origins and insertions of the muscles of the body and we started up here. So, we've looked at the rotator cuff and we've looked at the muscles of the shoulder girdle. We're going to work our way down and look at the muscles of the upper arm, which is a bit awkward because some of these muscles also cross the elbow, but I want to save the elbow for next week. We will look at the origins and insertions of the muscles of the upper arm. This means where the muscles attach to the bones. The origin is often the bit that doesn't move when the muscle contracts and the insertion is often the bit that does move when the muscle contracts. The origin is often more medial or more proximal and the insertion is often more lateral or more distal. But you'll see that that rule often gets broken. So we'll look at the muscles. we're going to look at. Then we'll look at the key uh bony bits we need and then we'll put the muscles on the bones. [music] Okay. Muscles of the upper arm. Um this also gets called the brachium. By the way, the the arm which lay people might refer to as the upper arm is the brachium. This is the forearm or the antrachium. So the muscles up here um well excluding the rotator cuff that we've already looked at we are interested in the deltoid muscle uh pectoralis major which I've got on another model um biceps brachi coror brachiialis triceps brachi and latisimus dorsy the big muscle of the back which I've also got on another model what bony bits do we need to know about so um here's the clav clavicle. The clavicle is extending from the sternum to the scapula. The scapula is our flat bone out here. Um, and in terms of the parts of the scapula up here, uh, the highest part of the scapula, this is the acromian. So, the clavicle meets the acchromian at the acchromioclavicular joint. And we can see this sticky outy lumpy bit here. This is the corocoid process. It's like a bird's beak sticking through there. So, the corocoid process and that's part of the scapula. Spinning the scapula around to look posteriorly, we see the spine of the scapula. And see how the spine of the scapula continues uh to become the acromian. The scapula then also has the socket of the ball and socket joint of the shoulder joint. The socket is the gleoid fossa. So it's a shallow socket which is actually larger in life because there's a labreum a fibroartilage structure running around it to make it a little bit deeper. Um so the the head of the humorris articulates with the gleoid fossa of the scapula and if we look carefully at the gleoid fossa we can see that there is a little lumpy bit superiorly and there is a little lumpy bit inferiorly. So we have a supra gleenoid tubicle and an infraeninoid tubicle. Whenever we see lumpy bumpy bits on bones, it's usually because a muscle attaches there. The bones and the hard tissues and the soft tissues, they all form together and they affect each other. The humorous um sure we have a head, anatomical neck, surgical neck, the diaphosis and that sort of thing. What are we interested in today? Well, we can see a couple of tubacles, a lump here and a lump here, a greater tubicle and a lesser tubicle. And in between those tubicles there is a groove. This is the bicipital groove or the inter tuberccular sulcus. So a groove between the greater and lesser tubicles of the humorous. Um and the humorris itself has got some raised bits which we'll look at I guess when we look at the um the muscles. And I don't it's it's difficult to make out but there is a there is a spiral groove around here. So on the posterior humorous uh midway along there is um kind of a there's a bit of a ridge there and that ridge is making a spiral groove. I guess that we are going to get down to the elbow although I want to do like I say the elbow properly next week. Uh, and here, so we've got um the radius and the ulna. And the ulna has the electronon. That is the sticky outy bit of bone of your elbow. That's the electron there. The radius has a a lump quite close to its proximal end. Um, it's a tuberosity. It's on the radius. It's the radial tuberosity. And the radial tuberosity moves as the radius moves around the ulna in pronation and supination. That might be the lumpy bony bits that we need. Okay. Muscles. Okay. Here is the deltoid muscle. So the deltoid muscle is responsible for much of the rounded shape of the shoulder. The origins of the deltoid muscle are uh the lateral third of the clavicle, the acchromian of the scapula and the spine of the scapula. So that's the origin. So it's it's running from the shoulder girdle and it's going to insert into the humorus. is going to insert into um about halfway along the humorris. It's it's more of a there's a little bit of a there's a roughening there. There's a little bit of a a lump there. Um it's the deltoid muscle. It's a tuberosity. It's the deltoid tuberosity. So that's the insertion point for this muscle here. There's the deltoid muscle, clavicle, acromian, spine of the scapula, and then there's its insertion there into the the lateral humorous about midway along into the deltoid tuberosity. So the deltoid muscle then will do abduction of the upper limb, flexion [snorts] of the upper limb and extension of the upper limb at the shoulder joint because it's a big muscle running from the shoulder girdle to the humorris. It's also very important at holding the humorris into that glenoumeral joint into that shoulder joint keeping the upper limb attached to the shoulder girdle particularly when you're carrying something heavy. So deltoid the pectoralis major muscle um its origins are the medial half of the clavicle its anterior surface. Um the anterior sternum we can see manubrium and sternum here. Um the costal cartilagages of ribs one two three four five and six. Um those are its origins and we talk about oh also it does have some origins from um the external oblique muscle here one of the abdominal wall muscles um and we have um you can see almost you can see fairly clearly here two parts. So this gets called the clavvicular head because of its origin of the clavicle. This gets called the sternocostal head because of its origins of the sternum and the costal cartilagages. The pectoralis major muscle crosses to the humorous and actually inserts into the lateral lip of that bicipital groove or inter tuberccular sulcus. So it crosses all the way over here. This makes pectoralis major good at adduction of the upper limb, medial rotation of the humorris and then depending upon the position of the humorris um it can also aid in uh flexion right flexion think about bench press push-ups uh flexion of the humorus at the shoulder joint and then also uh extension of the humorous at the shoulder joint. joint pectoralis major. Um, it's innovated by the medial and lateral pectoral nerves. While we're here, note also between pectoralis major and the deltoid muscle, there is this gap here, this opening, this clav pectoral or deltoectoral triangle. Um, so this is how the syphalic vein goes from the upper limb through here to drain into deeper veins. For example, clavic pectoral triangle. Next, corco brachiialis. It's all in the name. Coriccoor brachiialis. Its origin is the corocoid process of the scapula here. Coriccoor brachiialis then crosses the shoulder joint to the humorris. Hence the brachiialis bit, the brachium and inserts into um the medial humorous um partway along here. So the origin of the coroco brachiialis muscle is the corocoid process of the scapula. Its insertion is into uh a spot on the medial third of the humorris. This makes corore brachiialis able to adduct the upper limb and flex the upper limb at the shoulder joint. It is a muscle of the anterior compartment of the brachium of the arm. So it is innovated by the muscularcutaneous nerve. Uh here is biceps. Biceps brachi. Biceps.ps means heads. Bice means two. The two headed muscle of the brachium of the arm. And these are the two heads we can see here. um biceps brachi crosses the shoulder joint and the elbow joint. So it's it's reaching into next week. Um the short head the origin of the short head is also the corocoid process and you can see that it's a little lateral to the origin of the coriccoor brachiialis muscle. The long head of biceps brachi that is what's running in the intertuberccular sulcus in the bicipital groove. It's running in that groove and then it's inserting it goes over the humorus and it inserts into that supra gleenoid tubacle. So the long head of biceps is running through this groove over the top and into the supraenoid tubicle here. So it's two origins are both are both both from the scapula. So it crosses the glenoumeral joint. Um and then the insertion of the tendon of biceps brachi is into this lump here. This lump is on the radius. This is the radius. You know your radial pulses on the thumb side, right? So radius bone, ulna bone. Here's a lump on the proximal part of the radius. It's a tuberosity. It's the radial tuberosity. So biceps brachi inserts into the radial tuberosity uh and gives elbow flexion uh across the elbow joint also when you pronate the upper limb and you pronate by rolling the radius over the ulna. biceps brachi then is is the most powerful senator because it pulls on that um radial tuberosity to pull the radius back round into a seenated position. But that's not the whole story. the um the fascia that covers the forearm. Um much of biceps actually inserts into the fascia of the forearm. And you can you can feel that if you there's um so you've got the tendon that goes to the radius, but then biceps also um sends a lot of its fibers in there. If you've you know if you got a good biceps you can you can feel that in there. So the insertion of biceps brachi is into the radial tuberosity and it also into the fascia of the forearm the antibrachial fascia. Um the biceps then not only is it good at flexing the elbow, it crosses the shoulder joints. So it's another one of those muscles that is also helping hold the humorris into the the shoulder girdle the pectoral girdle. Biceps brachi is a muscle of the anterior compartment of the arm. So it is innovated by the muscularcutaneous nerve. Um this big muscle of the back, this huge superficial muscle of the back inserts into the humorris. So this is one of our upper arm muscles. This is latisimus dorsy. It's a huge muscle. Um and we'll see why in a moment. Um the origins of latisimus dorsy are from the spinus processes of T6 and continuing inferiorly. So T60 70 80 90 10 11 T12 and so on. But what we can see here this is the thoracol lumbar fascia. So the thorasol lumbar fascia is a tough connective tissue structure that lots of structures also attach to. So the origins of latisimus dorsy are from the T6 spinus processes and inferiorly that may be considered as far as S5 from the thoracolo lumbar fascia from the iliac crest and under here also ribs 8 9 10 11 12 or certainly 9 10 11 and 12 latisimus dorsy then runs to the anterior humorus So it's running and it actually inserts into the floor of the inter tubercular sulcus. That means that the tendon of the long head of biceps is anterior to it. And pectoralis major is anterior to that. Um latisimus dorsy I can't do it with you is um it's your pull-up muscle. It's your climber's muscle. So, it's very good at adduction of the upper limb and also going from um a flexed position to an extent it it's very good at extension of the upper limb at the shoulder joint particularly from a flexed position. This is what this is what a pull-up is right. So, latisimus dorsai is so large because you can lift your entire body weight with it. You can climb, you can hang from things, right? Um, latisimus dorsai is innovated by the thoraso dorsal nerve. Oh, also because latisimus dorsai runs to the anterior humorous, that makes it a very powerful medial rotator of the humorris. And that is how you win arm wrestling. You don't arm wrestle with your pecs. You engage latisimus dorsy. You arm wrestle with latisimus dorsy because it's inserting into the anterior humorris that floor of the bicipital groove and you can use it to measily rotate your humorris. Okay, final muscle. Here's brachiialis. I'm going to leave that until next week because I wanted to focus on the elbow next week. I've talked about brachiialis. I've got to talk about anonius. I'm trying to limit myself to the upper arm. So, we will talk about triceps brachi, the threeheaded muscle of the arm, the brachium. Um, there we go. Um the three heads of triceps brachi uh one head comes from the infra gleenoid um tubicle of the scapula. So that's that tubicle just inferior to the gleenoid fossa. The other two heads uh the medial and lateral heads come directly from the do I want to take this off? Probably not. directly from Oh, it's off. um directly from the posterior humorris. Now that radial groove, we can kind of see that there. Um the radial groove um is a bit of bone between where those two muscles attach. So the origins are infraric uh posterior humoris superior to the radial groove, posterior humoris inferior to the radial groove. Um, the radial groove is also known as the spiral groove. So, if you imagine that we've got those attachments to the bone there, that's why we see the radial nerve and the deep brachial artery running in that spiral groove or radial groove because they're running between those heads of triceps brachi. It then inserts into the electronon, your sticky outy bony bit of your elbow and it inserts into some of that antibrachial fascia as well. Um so triceps crosses the shoulder joint and the elbow joint. Triceps is its main job is extension of the elbow joint. Um but it it will also extend the shoulder joint and again it's helping hold the humorris into the into the scapula into the uh pectoral girdle. Um we've already described the nerve that innovates it. The triceps muscle is in the posterior compartment of the arm. It's innovated by the radial nerve. See that's quite a lot. This is why I'm trying to break this up into smaller chunks. So the muscles of the upper arm, the upper humorris, we've looked at the deltoid muscle, pectoralis major, latisimus dorsy, corcoiialis, uh biceps brachi, triceps brachi. We've looked at how they run from parts of the scapula, the clavicle, the sternum across to the humorris, often involving that bicipital groove. um but also other bits and bobs and we now we understand where the muscle runs from and where it runs to we can better figure out its actions particularly if we're moving heavy things in the gym and if we remember the compartments they lie in we can easily remember their innovation okay so those are the origins and insertions of the muscles of the upper upper upper arm the upper brachium I hope that [music] was useful uh see you next Take