 arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm arm pull on the bones and move the bones. And the thumb is special because it's a little awkward to describe. We've got eight muscles that move the thumb that we've got to look at. So we should probably go steady, right? All right, what do we need? We need words. The thumb is the polex. Muscles that move the thumb are polycus or polysis muscles. The pronunciation guide says polysis. It's from Latin. But you'll find most people say polycus. I'm going to switch between the two because I use both in teaching all the time and talking to different people. So polysis muscles or polycus muscles. We need to consider what the movements of the thumb are because then the names of the muscles that move the thumb make sense. We need to introduce the muscles that move the thumb. Then we need to look at all the bony bits that those muscles are going to attach to. And then we'll put the muscles on the bones and describe the origins and insertions of the muscles that move the thumb. I hope your afternoon is freed up. Okay, first of all, then the movements of the thumb. The thumb is considered to be on a plane at right angles to the fingers, right? Because the fingers are easy. I think flexion of the fingers, extension of the fingers, abduction of the fingers, adduction of the fingers, right? Same with the thumb, but at 90 degrees. That means that this is flexion of the thumb, right? So that's flexion of the thumb. So the opposite movement is extension of the thumb. You see where my thumb is? It's kind of still on that plane there. So flexion and extension, flexion and extension of the thumb. So abduction is different. Abduction is pulling my... You can imagine it as pulling my thumb as far away from the hand as I can. So it's going in that direction. And what I'm seeing is I'm seeing this web space is getting properly stretched out. The muscle in there is adductor polycus. That is the muscle that is going to adduct the thumb. So if I know that this web space is stretched out, then I know that I have abducted my thumb. So there's abduction of the thumb, adduction of the thumb. Abduction, adduction, right? Abduction, adduction, reflection, extension. It's a good start, isn't it? Nice and confusing. But we need that because the muscles are named for the main action that they do. Okay, muscles, movements of the thumb done. Muscles. I know I should get a shorter trolley. But what we'll do is we'll start in the hand. So the intrinsic muscles of the hand versus the extrinsic muscles of the hand in the forearm. We'll start up here and then we'll do these. Both like when we're introducing them and working our way through them properly. So up here, this bulge is the thenar eminence, this muscle mass here. These are muscles that move the thumb. And we have this muscle out here. So it's a short muscle. It's a brevis. It's a muscle of the thumb. So it's a palicus or a palisis. And this muscle is actually, it's going to pull the thumb away from the hand. So it's going to abduct the thumb. So this is abductor polysis brevis. Now this muscle here, right next to it, this is a separate muscle. It's a bit more medial. It's a bit more to the midline of the hand. This muscle is going to pull the thumb across the hand. So this is going to flex the thumb. And it's a short muscle. This is flexor polysis brevis, the short flexor of the thumb. All right. So we've got those two there. Now those we'd have to take off. Actually, I've got another model. So here, let's take that off and hope everything doesn't fall down. So there's the thumb. These two muscles here, again, are the two brevis muscles we just looked at. Abductor polysis brevis and flexor polysis brevis. Now you have to take at least one of these off. And now you see a muscle deep to that that's kind of wrapping around. And this is opponent's polysis. This is the movement we didn't talk about. This is opposition. So you can oppose your thumb to your little finger. And what we have here is we have a little bit of rotation of the bones here. And a little bit of flexion and a little bit of magic. And you can oppose your thumb to your little finger. Opposition. So it's very much this muscle here which is doing a lot of that movement. Opponent's polysis. Oh, so that's three. Number four is this one here. And I already mentioned this one. This one is the one in the web space there. This is the muscle that brings the thumb back to the hand. It adducts the thumb. This is adductor polysis. That's it. There's no brevis because there isn't a long version. If you look hard you'll see that rule gets broken elsewhere. But I didn't make the rules. Just adductor polysis. Whereas these brevis versions, they've got longest versions in the forearm. Okay. So the other thing about adductor polysis is it's not one of the thenar muscles. It's that bulge there that's the thenar eminence. It's not in that bulge. So it's not a muscle of the thenar eminence. It's another intrinsic muscle of the thumb in the hand. Okay. So those are the four intrinsic muscles of the hand. What about the extrinsic ones? Let me put this back on before I lose it. So there is a long flexor of the thumb which has a rock climber I'm a big fan of. And I've got a lot of tendons, a lot of muscles here. But we can see a tendon on this side running all the way up the thumb. So that's going to be a flexor of the thumb. But what is it down here? Well we can see a bit of muscle in there. But really what I need to do is I need to take off all of these muscles. We need to go really really deep. And now we can see this muscle here. So up against flexor digitorum profundus, the deep flexor of the fingers, we've got another muscle here. And it's sending its tendon to the thumb. So this muscle, very very deep, this is flexor pollicis longus. The long flexor of the thumb. Okay. That's it for that side. Now it gets worse on the other side. Do you see all these tendons running up to the thumb here? Yeah, we've got to figure those out. These are some of the anatomical structures in the body that I really struggle to remember reliably. Let's try and fix that. This is the anatomical snuff box, by the way. If you do that with your thumb, you'll see these tendons lift up. It's the anatomical snuff box. We'll talk more about that when we get here, looking at this in detail. But, okay, so that is extension. Ah, that is extension of the thumb. And I can see both of those tendons are working to extend the thumb. These must both be extensor pollicis muscles. One of them is going to be a long one. And one of them is going to be a short one. That tendon there, this is extensor pollicis longus. I'm going to remember it's long because it's up against the long fingers. This tendon here is extensor pollicis brevis. I'm going to remember it's short because it's up against the short thumb. We'll see if that means that I remember it properly in the future. Honestly, I really struggle with these. So, but that's my first bit is, okay, to make the tendons appear, what do I do? I extend my thumb. Okay, they must be extensor pollicis muscles. They're going to be extensor pollicis longus and brevis. How do I remember which is which? Longus is there. Brevis is there. They're forming the boundaries of the anatomical snuff box. And there's actually another tendon here as well. And that is going to abduct the thumb. So this is the long abductor of the thumb because we already saw a short one in here. This is abductor pollicis longus. And these are very, very deep in here. We can see the muscles here, but then they're deep to extensor digitorum. This is the model I've chosen to show these because I think I can describe how they attach to the bones. But we need to see the tendons, where the tendons run to to see the insertions. The other models I've got aren't quite, there's no model that's entirely complete, but this is the best one, I think. So that's it. Flexor pollicis longus, extensor pollicis longus, extensor pollicis brevis, abductor pollicis longus. Those are the four extrinsic muscles of the thumb. Oh! I think you can see we have our work cut out for us. Right. Not interested in the humerus today. We are interested in the radius and the ulna. The carpal bones, some of them in particular, and, well, the bones of the thumb and some other bits and bobs. All right. Shall we start up here? Yeah. So the ulna is the bone that forms the hinge joint with the humerus. The radius is the one that spins and rotates in pronation and supination. But, look, it's the radius that articulates directly with the bones of the wrist. The ulna is off to the side there. So the forces from the hand go through the radius bones. We're interested in the radius. We're interested in the ulna. In between the two, in our plastic skeleton, we see a gap between the two bones. In life, there is a membrane, a sheet of connective tissue tying the two bones together here. This is the interosseous membrane, literally the membrane between the bones. And we'll see that muscles attach this. That helps separate the forearm into compartments, anterior and posterior. But it also provides an attachment site for muscles. So that's the forearm. Now, in the wrist, the bones of the wrist are known as the carpal bones. Here's the thumb side over here, which is the side that the radius is on, the thumb and the radius. We are interested in some of these carpal bones in particular. So the scaphoid bone is here. It's on the thumb side adjacent to the radius. And the trapezium is under the thumb. So this is the trapezium here between the metacarpal bone of the thumb and the scaphoid bone. And we'll see muscles are attaching to those. The big central bone of the carpals is the capitate. It's a bit like a big head. I always think of it like an Easter Island head. So the capitate bone in there. And we've also got trapezoid, which is in between those bones there, which some muscle, there is a muscle that might attach there. So the carpal bones, notably scaphoid, trapezium, capitate. Yeah. And then when we get into the hand, the bones that are making up the bulk of the hand, these are the metacarpal bones. We number them from the thumb. So the metacarpal bone of the thumb is metacarpal 1. And then we have 2, 3, 4 and 5. So we're obviously most interested in metacarpal 1 today. The other interesting thing about the thumb is these are the phalanges, the phalanx bones. And the thumb has only got 2, whereas the fingers have got 3. So we would term this the proximal phalanx and the distal phalanx. There is an anterior retinaculum here. There's actually a posterior one as well. We can see up here this connective tissue. This flexor retinaculum is tying down the tendons that are going into the hand. And that flexor retinaculum itself is a sheet of connective tissue tied down to some of the carpal bones here, forming a tunnel deep to it. But the flexor retinaculum itself is an attachment site, as we can see, for some of these muscles. That's got to be pretty much everything, I think. OK. Back up into the hand to where we started from then. So when we talk about origins and insertions of muscles, the origin of the muscle is usually the attachment to the bone that doesn't move when the muscle gets shorter. The insertion is often the end of the muscle that does move when the bone gets shorter. The origin is often more proximal or more medial. The insertion is often more distal or more lateral. Them's the rules. They kind of work most of the time. So those are the origins and insertions. And what we're seeing when we look at the bones, the reason they've got these lumps and bumps and shapes and what have you is because the muscles attach there. The muscles, the tendons, the bones, they all work together. They all grow together. They all change together. So as your muscles get stronger, your bones will get stronger and vice versa. If your muscles atrophy, there will be signs on the bone for that as well. So those are the origins and insertions. So let's start with our first muscle, this little muscle here. This is abductor pollicis brevis. Its origin then, or origins, are, there's the thumb side, the scaphoid and the trapezium. But they've got a couple of little tubercles, little lumps on them. Well, little lumps because the muscle attaches there. That's why there's little lumps. Now, so on your hand, on the thumb side, try not to twist myself too much. Okay, so you know your radial pulse is there. So the radius bone is there. If you work your way up the radius, you can feel the styloid process of the radius laterally. And as you move the wrist bones, it's not moving. So it's part of the radius, not the other bones. Now, if you work your way up towards the thumb, you can feel a bony lump. That's the scaphoid tubercle. It might be closer to your wrist crease than you think it is. And as I move my wrist, it moves around. So it's the scaphoid. So the scaphoid tubercle is there. And if you work your way up a little bit further towards the thumb, you can feel the tubercle of the trapezium. And that is the origin of abductor pollicis brevis and the flexor retinaculum, what we're seeing there. So those are the origins. Tubicul of the scaphoid. Tubicul of the trapezium. Flexor retinaculum. And then we can see this muscle extends. Then it's extending across the carpometacarpal joint. It's extending across the metacarpophalangeal joint. And it's inserting here into the proximal phalanx, into the base of the proximal phalanx and on its lateral side. And that's how it's able to pull the thumb that away and abduct the thumb. So this is lateral when you're in the anatomical position. But when you wave your arms around, you kind of have to figure out where's the anatomical position. This is the side that the radius bone is on. So this is also called the radial side, which can make it much less confusing. So the insertion is into the radial side of the proximal phalanx base. This muscle is innervated by the median nerve. Okay, so if we go a little bit towards the midline of the hand, this is the other muscle. This is flexor pollicis brevis. The origins of flexor pollicis brevis are also the tubercle of the trapezium. So flexor pollicis brevis will have an origin from the tubercle of the trapezium. And it's got a superficial head and a deep head. So that superficial head has an origin there and also from the flexor retinaculum. The deep head, if there is one, is probably going to have an origin on the capitate bone, maybe from the trapezoid bone, maybe from ligaments and connected tissues around here. So the superficial head and the deep head. Not sure anybody needs to know that. And then the insertion is again into the proximal phalanx of the thumb on that radial side, on that lateral side. So the same place as the other muscle. The difference is because this muscle is more towards the midline of the hand, when it pulls, it's going to pull the thumb across the hand, not away from the hand. Hence the flexion of the thumb. Here, look, you can see the origin from the flexor retinaculum as well. Now, you may not have a deep head. So flexor pollicis brevis has an origin from the tubercle of the trapezium. The flexor retinaculum, possibly the capitate, runs across like this, inserts into the lateral side of the proximal phalanx of the thumb. So when this contracts, it's causing flexion at the carpometacarpal joint and the metacarpophalangeal joint. It's giving that flexion. It's also doing a little bit of rotation and helping with opposition here as well. OK, so that's those two. Of course, we've got to take those off to see a ponens pollicis. Its origin is, again, the tubercle of the trapezium, the flexor retinaculum. But the insertion is quite different. This muscle is pretty much wrapping around the first metacarpal. It's going to insert into the first metacarpal along its lateral border here, on its radial border. That means when it contracts, it's going to rotate the metacarpal bone, the first metacarpal bone, about that carpometacarpal joint. Actually, what a ponens pollicis is going to do is going to do some medial rotation. It's going to do some flexion. And it's going to do some adduction. And we lump all that together and call it opposition. You can see, actually, that movement of opposition needs the other muscles to cooperate as well for it to happen. But a ponens pollicis, rotation, adduction, and flexion to give opposition. A ponens pollicis is innervated by the median nerve. In most people. In some people, it's innervated by the ulnar nerve. Which is a fun bit of evidence about how embryology works and stuff. But anyway, the muscles of the thenar remnants, we tend to say, all these muscles are innervated by the median nerve. So a ponens pollicis is typically innervated by the median nerve. But in some cases, it's not. Yeah, we're zipping along now. And then deep to that, well, not deep to that, but deep to these guys I'm taking off here, there is adductor pollicis, that muscle in the web space that's doing adduction of the thumb. And this has also got two heads. And we can see where it's coming from. We can see its origin here from the metacarpal bone. So you can see how it's not this bit that's moving. It's the thumb that's moving. So the origin is here and the insertion is in the thumb. Now, what we're seeing here are the oblique head and the transverse head. The oblique head's origins are the anterior surfaces of metacarpals 2 and 3. And the capitate bone down there as well, again. And maybe some other bones nearby, but we'll put capitate in our list. Whereas the transverse head, look, we can see it up here. Its origin is just the anterior surface of metacarpal bone number 3. So whereas the oblique head is quite low down, the transverse head is from up here. Now, these will run across to the proximal phalanx of the thumb again, but the insertion is into the medial side. And there's usually a sesamoid bone in there as well. So it's a very powerful adductor of the thumb. And being a very powerful adductor of the thumb, you kind of test it like that. But it's actually really important in many forms of grip between the thumb and the fingers. It's working. Sure, we've got lots of muscles doing work here, but it is doing work when you are making all sorts of grips between your thumb and your fingers like this. So adductor palicus. The trick here is whereas these muscles of the thenar eminence are innervated by the median nerve, this muscle here is innervated by the ulnar nerve like most of the other small muscles of the hand as the ulnar nerve comes around like this. Okay, good. All right, that's the intrinsic muscles of the thumb done. Hey, that means we're halfway. Okay, so the extrinsic muscles of the thumb. This one first, this is flexor pollicis longus, so the long flexor of the thumb, giving a whole load of extra power to thumb flexion. We can see that it's lying on the radial side, it's lying lateral to flexor digitorum profundus. So, the origin of, here's the thumb side, here's the radius, the origin of flexor pollicis longus is the radius. And the anterior surface of the radius, almost like just distal to where the radial tuberosity is, all the way along to where we find pronator quadratus. So, the origin is the anterior surface of the radius along much of its length and the anterior surface of the interosseous membrane. The tendon then, of flexor pollicis longus, then goes through the carpal tunnel and runs all the way out to insert into the distal phalanx of the thumb. That means it can flex, it can flex the wrist, but we'll ignore that. It can flex the thumb at the carpometacarpal joint, at the metacarpophalangeal joint, and at the interphalangeal joint. So, this is the muscle that does full flexion of the thumb all the way to the tip. I love this as a climber because if you're on a route and you're mostly using your fingers and your fingers, your muscles in your forearm that you're using to climb with are getting tired and you're starting to get a pump, if you find a pinch and you get to pinch on something, you get to use flexor pollicis longus. This is a muscle, it's fresh, you've hardly used it and you get a nice pinch and you get to use some of the energy stored in that and it just feels great as your other muscles are getting tired. So, flexor pollicis longus, it's a very powerful pinch thing. Picking up a brick, flexor pollicis longus. And look, you can see, look, there's the tendon there. See how it's running all the way up there. Flexor pollicis longus, okay, and then we've just got to do the other side. We've only got to do the anatomical snuff box. So, as we move to the other side, if most of the muscles in the anterior form are innervated by the median nerve, that means the flexor pollicis longus was also innervated by the median nerve. As we run around to the muscles that we're going to look at on the posterior surface, this posterior compartment, these muscles were innervated by the radial nerve, the posterior interosseous branch off. Right, so in terms of the anatomical snuff box, let's work our way from this way to that way. And like I say, what we do to remember, okay, see if I can remember what I said at the beginning. What we do to remember is we extend the thumb, ah, and we see both of these tendons have appeared, so these are extensor pollicis muscles. We remember that the longus is over here because the finger's long. The brevis is over this side because the thumb's short. I don't know, it works for me. So this is the tendon of extensor pollicis longus. This is the tendon of extensor pollicis brevis. And these guys are really, really deep. They're right up against the bone, so they're deep to extensor digitorum. And I can't take extensor digitorum off here, but look, we can see them there. So there's the tendon. The reason we talk about the anatomical snuff box is the scaphoid bone is in there, so you can poke in there if somebody's got a scaphoid fracture and see if it hurts. And also we've got the radial artery running through there. Anywho, so here's that muscle there of extensor pollicis longus. What is its origin? We can disappear in here. So, there's the thumb. There's the dorsal surface, the posterior surface of the forearm. The origin of extensor pollicis longus is the ulna and the middle section of the ulna, the dorsal surface, the posterior surface of the middle section of the ulna. So like I say, it's deep. It's right up, slammed against the bone. And also the interosseous membrane here. And now that tendon is going to, that muscle in the tendon is going to run across to the other side. It's going to run across all of these joints, and it's going to go all the way to the distal phalanx of the thumb because it's extensor pollicis longus. The long one goes to the very last digit. So this can fully extend your thumb. Oh, look, we can see Lister's tubercle. There's a little lump here, right? So why doesn't it, like, cut the corner and just go straight across? Well, Lister's tubercle here is a little ridge that keeps the tendon of extensor pollicis longus in place. So it has to go around there. And in going around there, that's how it pulls the thumb in the right direction to give extension. The other thing about this muscle is you put your hand flat on the table and you lift your thumb up off the table. You'll see that tendon working. This movement gets called retropulsion. So put your hand flat on the table, lift your thumb up, and you'll see extensor pollicis longus lifting the thumb up off the table there. Look, and there we can see. We can see the tendon. We can see how it's coming from the other side of the arm. So from the ulna and running across. Long tendon goes all the way to the dorsal surface of the base of the distal phalanx of the thumb. So that's that border of the anatomical snuff box. So the tendon on the other border, oh no, there's a spoiler. We can see it doesn't go quite as far. But this is also, it's on the thumb side. Its origin is the radius. If extensor pollicis longus comes from the ulna on the other side, extensor pollicis brevis comes from the radius on the thumb side because it's shorter so it doesn't have to go as far, right? So there's the thumb. This is the dorsal or posterior forearm. Here's the radius. So the origin of extensor pollicis brevis is the posterior surface of the radius and the interosseous membrane here. Oh, I've lost the thumb. There it is. And then it runs across to the thumb and it inserts into the dorsal surface of the base of the proximal phalanx of the thumb, which means it can cause extension at the carpometacarpal joint and the metacarpophalangeal joint. So it doesn't extend all the way to the tip. It pulls the proximal phalanx of the thumb into the extended position. Also innervated by the radial nerve, that posterior interosseous branch of. So extensor pollicis longus extensor pollicis brevis and next to it is the muscle that pulls the thumb, not into extension but into abduction. So we have abductor pollicis longus, the long one. And we can see the other muscle here. We can see it doesn't go as far as extensor pollicis brevis. It only goes this far, the tendon. But it's very, very close to it and it wraps around as well. Now this muscle actually has origins more proximal again. So this is abductor pollicis longus. And it, again, here's the dorsal surface of the forearm. Its origins are the posterior surface of the radius and the posterior surface of the ulna and the posterior surface of the interosseous membrane, proximally, all the way back here. And then it runs across the wrist and it inserts into the metacarpal of the thumb. Because we're doing abduction, it's moving the metacarpal, not the phalanges. So it inserts into the first metacarpal. So look, there it goes. It appears from its deep to extensor digitorum. It appears, it runs around. And look, it's inserting into the base of the first metacarpal of the thumb on this kind of, this lateral side. It needs to be in that position to abduct the thumb. It's also probably going to insert into trapezium. It might insert into some other connective tissues and bits and bobs nearby. So its action then is going to be abduction of the thumb at the carpometacarpal joint. And it's also going to do a little bit of extension. And this is a really important muscle because you need it to drop things, right? When you drop things, that's what you're doing. Also, if you want to pick up something really big, you need to abduct your thumb so you can get your thumb over it and get a grip on it. So it's a surprisingly important movement. These movements that we talk about, when patients lose them, when people lose these little movements, you really notice it. You don't really think about it when everything's working fine. So, abductor pollicis longus. And of course, abductor pollicis brevis was right there. And that's where we started, right? Being where it is, it can also help with radial deviation. On my work, that's it. We've done the muscles of the thumb. But not only have we done the muscles of the thumb, we have looked at the origins and insertions of all of the muscles of the upper limb. I think we started up here and we've done it stepwise and worked our way down. And as a result, I, don't know about you, but I've got a better understanding of where these muscles lie and what they attach to and how they move things and the names of lumpy bony bits. And my detailed anatomy has got a little bit better as a result. So, if you're still here, well done. If you're not, fair enough. Excellent. Okay, that's it. The insertions and origins of the muscles of the thumb. See you next time. выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб выб