It can be a hard life being a [music] plastic skeleton in an anatomy lab. How are you doing? You're a bit bit twisted. Um, today we are looking at the elbow. So, we want to look at the origins and insertions of the muscles of the elbow joint, which means we're going to go back to some of the things we looked at last week as we're going to talk about biceps brachi, triceps brachi as muscles that cross the shoulders. We looked at them last week when we were looking at the proximal humorris, the upper arm muscles. Uh but because they they're really important at the elbow. So we'll we'll look at the muscles that are crossing the elbow joint and having an effect on the elbow joint largely flexion and extension. Next week we'll move into the forearm and talk talk more about pronation and suppation. So origins and insertions what do we mean? This is the detail uh by which we describe how muscles attach to the bones. The origins in insertions are the attachment sites and those attachment sites often leave lumpy bumpy bits which have names. So the origin of a muscle tends to be the bit that doesn't move when the muscle contracts. The insertion tends to be the bone the bony bit that does move when the muscle contracts. The origin is often more proximal or more medial. The insertion is often more distal or more lateral, but you'll see that rule often gets broken. So, the origins and insertions of the muscles of the elbow areaish. What we will do is we will introduce the muscles first um and then we will look at the relevant bony lumpy bits and then we will put the muscles on the bony lumpy bits. Um, so the muscles we're going to look at are biceps brachi, brachiialis, triceps brachi, anconius. That's that's a tricky one. And we're going to talk about brachioraiialis. So we're clearly starting to get into the forearm, but there's so much in the forearm that you'll see. I mean, it's because of the function of brachio radiialis. It crosses the elbow. it does elbow flexion. Um whereas the muscles of the forearm are largely acting at the wrist. So today we're focusing on muscles that act at the elbow. Next week we'll look at I don't know how I'm going to break it up. Muscles that act at the wrist, muscles that act at the thing. That's a problem for future me. Right? Here's biceps. I think we all know biceps. Um biceps by meaning two meaning heads meaning he's got two heads. And biceps we'll see runs from the scapula across the shoulder joint and then across the elbow joint and into the forearm into the into the radius and the fascia here. Um it's a very good elbow flexor. It's also a very powerful sinator of the forearm. Um deep to biceps brachi is brachiialis. Brachiialis then is right up against the bone against the humorus. brachiialis crosses the elbow joint. Its only job is elbow flexion which means it's a really good elbow flexor. Um triceps brachi following the same rules as before then is the three-headed muscle of the arm. This is the brachium the arm between the shoulder and the elbow. The antrachium is the forearm between the elbow and the wrist. So the brachium, hence triceps brachi, three-headed muscle of the arm. Um, again this has one head coming from the scapula. It then attaches to the humorus. So it crosses the shoulder joint, but then it crosses the elbow joint and it's a it is the extensor of the elbow joint or extensor of the forearm. It inserts into the ulna down here. Um, brachioraiialis. If you're trying to find brachio radiialis um in in your anterior elbow, your cubital fossa here, you've got well right in the middle we're in there. So the first muscle you get to over there is brachioraiialis and the other muscles are um they act at the wrist let's say for now. So brachioraiialis and you can see that brachioraiialis is running from the humorris across into the forearm but it does not get as far as the wrist which is why I'm including it in this batch today. Okay. So our bones of interest well here's the scapula. Here's the humorous. And then in the forearm we have the radius and the ulna. Which is which? Well, your radial pulse is there, right? Is the pulse you feel is your radial pulse. Oh, that's on the thumb side. So, the radius is on the same side as the thumb. So, the radius is lateral. The radius is also the one that moves around the ulna. The ulna stays where it is and the radius moves around the ulna to um pronate and supenate. Uh so the el the ulna then is the is the bone that's actually making a a proper decent hinge joint at the elbow. Um so up at the scapula um we have the the ball and socket joint of the shoulder joint or the glenoumeral joint. The shallow socket here which is part of the scapula is the genoid fossa. In life there is a a fibroartilage labor making that deeper than making the socket deeper than it looks here. But here's the gleenoid fossa. So there's a little tubicle superior to the gleenoid fossa that is the supra gleenoid tubicle. And then inferior to the gleenoid fossa there's another lump that is the infraenoid tubicle. Tubicle being a popular word for a lump on a bone. And then here this bit here. So here's the clavicle. Look, but this this sticky outy bit anteriorly. This is part of the scapula. This is the corocoid process of the scapula. Looks a bit like a beak poking forward. You can palpate this if you have a poke around here. So the corocoid process and I think those are the bits of the scapula that we need. And then [snorts] the humorous has to articulate with both the ulna and the radius. And uh a condile is another word for a knuckle. A knuckle is a joint surface, right? So we've got two knuckles down here. They do actually have names, the troleia and the capitulum. Um but these are the condiles here. These articulating surfaces, which means these sticky outy bit bits of bone here are the epicondiles. They are upon the condiles. Right? So these are the knuckles, the condiles. These are the epicondiles. So we have a medial epicondile and a lateral epicondile. Uh the medial epicondile is famous because when you bang it, you compress the old nerve, you get tingles running up your little finger and you have banged your funny bone humorous. There's can you see this shape that's coming up here? So if that's your epicondile and there's a very ridgy shape um proximal coming up from that epicondra epicondile. So this would be a supra condyla ridge and there's also one on the other side and that gives this kind of I don't know rather classic looking shape of the humorus down here these super gondila ridges a medial one and a lateral one. I feel this is going to get a bit trickier, but this is the ulna. You see how the ulna goes around the humorris? So this is the tleia notch made by the ulna making that shape. Um and then so that's very much the hinge joint, right? Can you see this sticky upy bit? this sticky upy bit anterior to the troleia notch when you flex your elbow. I mean that that's what limits how far you can flex your elbow. That notch goes into that little sockety bit and bam, your bones can't go any further. That is a coronoid process um on the other side. So that tier notch comes around this lump back here. That's the electronon. That's your sticky bony bit of your elbow, your electronon. So electronon coronoid process. And then just anterior to the coronoid process of the ulna, there's a little bit of a ridgy lumpy bit, the tuberosity of the ulna. And next to it on the radius there's also a tuberosity the uh radial tuberosity. By the way this end of the radius is the head of the radius. This end of the radius just gets called the distal radius. Kind of important because commonly fractured over here. So if you say somebody's fractured their radius say distal radius to get the right bit. And then we would be at the wrist. Um, not really important today, but that sticky 80y bit there is the styloid process. We're not going to quite get that far, but we're going to almost get that far. See that styloid process? So, wrist is here. Sticky outy bit of the radius. There's also a sticky 80 bit of the na styloid process. And you can you can palpate this in your own wrist. Just so you know where we are because we'll we'll we'll get almost down there. Okay. Biceps brachi. the two heads, the I'm taking off the deltoid muscle there. Not trying not to drop it like I did the other week. Um, the short head of biceps attaches to the corocoid process of the scapula. The long head of biceps runs through the bicipital groove of the humorris over the top of the glenoumeral joint and attaches to the supereninoid tubicle. These are the origins of the biceps brachi muscle. The insertion of biceps brachi is into the radius and is into that this radial tuberosity. This means that biceps is well okay the other insertion of biceps brachi is into the fascia of the forearm. So the muscles of the forearm are covered in a fascia an antibrachial fascia. So biceps's tendon inserts into the radial tuberosity and then there's this bicipital aonurosis and a poniois being a flattened tendon structure and that bicipital aonurosis spreads out into the fascia. So when you're dissecting this region it's kind of unclear where the biceps goes because it blends with the fascia. But it's good because it protects deeper structures. This means that biceps brachi is an excellent flexor of the elbow joint or flexor of the forearm. Um, but it's it's best at doing that job when you are supenated. When you are pronated, because now the radial tuberosity is being pulled around the other side when you're pronated, biceps brachi is not as powerful at elbow flexion, but it is the most powerful sinator of the forearm. uh biceps brachi like all the muscles of the anterior compartment of the arm is innovated by the muscularcutaneous nerve. Okay. So take off biceps brachi deep to biceps brachi is brachiialis off you come wh here's brachiialis the muscle of the arm of the brachium. Its origin is the anterior humorus. So you can see just about where we are here. So the distal half of the anterior humorris and it crosses the elbow joint and will insert into the ulna. Remember that the ulna's only job is to do the hinge joint thing. So brachiialis will insert into the coronoid process of the ulna and into the tubrosity of the ulna just anteriorly. This means it doesn't matter whether you're pronated or seenated. The ulner is always in the same position. So bicep sorry. So brachiialis's only job is flexion of the elbow. Um it has the same um effectiveness, same power, same strength no matter whether you're pronated or supenated. Um so it's generally considered that brachiialis is uh the most powerful, the most effective, the most important elbow flexor, but it varies depending upon what position you know. So if you're suppated, biceps is also uh powerful. Um but it's I think it's generally considered that brachiialis does at least 50% of elbow flexion. Anyways, when yeah um brachiialis is also a muscle of the anterior compartment of the arm. So again is innovated by the muscularcutaneous nerve in I think about 70 or 80% of people. The radial nerve also gives some innovation to uh brachiialis but we don't usually tell people that there's enough to learn already right um but there is a bit of dual innovation there so if I put biceps brachi back on and turn around so now we are going to look at the posterior arm see how we got the layers there biceps brachi brachiialis and then triceps so if we look at triceps um the three headed muscle of the arm. It has three origins then. Um the origin of the long head is the infrainoid tubicle of the scapula and then the medial and lateral heads of triceps attached to the posterior humorris. And something I didn't mention is the spiral groove. It's a very shallow groove, a shallow feature on the posterior humus. But but the spiral groove or the radial groove um separates the medial and lateral head origins of triceps as they attach to the posterior humorris. In that groove runs the radial nerve and the deep art the deep brachial artery or the deep branch of the brachial artery or the profund brachi artery whatever you like runs through there. Um the insertion of triceps is into the electronon. The electronon um your sticky outy elbow bit gives um a leverage advantage to the strength and power of that muscle there. So it adds to that muscle function. So um electronon and it also blends with the antibrachial fascia the fascia of the forearm here as well again making dissection a little confusing sometimes. Um so triceps crosses the shoulder joint largely holding the humorris into the the scapula into the shoulder girdle and then it is the most most important well it is the extensor of the elbow joint and it is innovated by the radial nerve. So here we're looking at the posterior elbow joint. We got a load of muscles of the forearm but we got this little guy here. What the heck is this? It can't be sepenator because sepenator is really deep. Oh god, we'll see that next week. So many muscles. Um, I've taken off triceps. So there's the electronon. What on earth is this little muscle here? This is the muscle that confuses everybody. I say confuses students, but it confuses everybody really. This is anius. Um, so anonius is a small, as you can see, that's the whole muscle there. small muscle of the elbow joint. That That's it there. Um which textbooks will tell you aids in extending the elbow. But if you've got this whacking great big triceps muscle, what do you need anconius for? Um anonius's origin is the humorous. So it crosses the elbow joint. So its origin is look the posterior surface of the this is this is lateral. So the posterior surface of the lateral epicondile here and then it inserts into the lateral side of the electronon and the posterior ulna. So it runs from the humorous to the ulna. So yeah, absolutely that'll help with extension because we're extending the ulna. Um so what it's actually most useful at is that this is a complicated joint, the elbow joint. Not only have you got the hinge, but you've got the head of the radius rotating in there to give you pronation and suppination. So you got this lovely synovial capsule. You got loads of berscy in there. Got loads of synovial structures. Anonius is probably most useful at um pulling on the synenovial capsule and pulling it out of the way as you extend your elbow so it doesn't get pinched between the bones. That's the general description of anius. It's a stabilizer of the elbow. Maybe it helps abduct the ulna during uh pronation or supination. But um so when you're dissecting it's also confusing because it kind of blends with the fascia and it blends with triceps. But if I put triceps back up here um and you it's quite it can be quite awkward toident to identify and separate from the other muscles but you absolutely can do it. So triceps runs to the electronon and anonius runs from the lateral epicondile of the humorris across to the electronon of the posterior ulna and assists in elbow extension probably by managing those synenovial tissues and keeping them out of harm's way and conius. So look on the posterior elbow fairly sup but we are superficial to all the other muscles here and we are lateral. If you find a small triangular muscle it's anius. We're in the posterior compartments here. So it's innovated by the radial nerve. One more muscle left and we're just going around a little way. We're going around to the beerrinking muscle. We're coming around to brachior radiialis here. It's in the name brachioraiialis. So this muscle is running from the brachium to the radial bone, the the radius. Um so running from the humorous to the radius. Uh why is it called the beer drinkers muscle? Brachior radiialis is a a relatively weak flexor of the elbow, but it's strongest when you are mid pronated. So when you're holding a pint of beer, really heavy pint of beer, and you flex your elbow, uh, brachio radiialis pops up there. So sure, it it it is active in elbow flexion in all positions of subnation and pronation, but it is um most effective when you are mid mid pronation, when you're drinking pints of beer. So brachio radiialis there. So it is an elbow flex, which is why I'm talking about it today. Now um its origin see where we are here. So triceps biceps we're looking at the lateral humorris its origin is that supraondila ridge. So here we are laterally and it the lateral supercondila ridge is a lovely ridge lovely sharp ridge. So this is where brachioraiialis's origin is and then it's going to run down to the lateral radius uh and not quite as far as the styloid process. So it's going to run from here and it's going to insert into the lateral radius all the way down here. So, it's got quite a long tendon, which means when you're trying to identify all the muscles of the forearm, it can get quite confusing trying to figure out. It adds to the confusion, let's say. But there it is there. Um, so it is, like I say, if you've got your cubital fossa, it is that lateral margin there. And like I also, you know, if I'm trying to identify it, bam. You know that. Yeah. It's actually actually a muscle of the posterior compartment of the forearm. So, it's innovated by the radial nerve. Um, okay. It's quite good this because we're learning bony features at the same time as we're learning muscles. And the bony features exist because the muscles attach there. Soft tissues and calcified tissues all develop together. And you know, I don't know, it's quite a good way of learning these these these these terms. And also by looking at where the muscles attach, we can then better imagine how bones are going to move or be affected if um that muscle contracts and gets shorter or whatever, you know. So, don't want to drop it. Okay. So, we've looked at the muscles that move the elbow joint. We've looked at biceps brachi, its origins and insertions. It crosses the shoulder and the elbow joint. We looked at brachiialis whose only job is to flex the elbow running from the humorous to the ulna. We've looked at the triceps brachi muscle again crossing from the scapula all the way down to the electronon of the ulna there and also attaching to the humorus. So crossing those two joints being the main extensor of the elbow. And we've looked at uh brachio radiialis. And now we all know and we're clear as mud on what Ankconius is and does and where it is, what it attaches to and what have you. Okay. Um so next week I will be psying myself up or at least figuring out how to do all the muscles of the forearm. Maybe I should do it in um layers or do wrists and then fingers or something like that. I don't know cuz there's quite a lot there. Um if you're brave, I will see you next week.