My job is really weird. Um, occasionally people ask me how to get my job. Yeah, we talk about degrees and PhDs and experience in teaching and CVs and universities and stuff like that, but we we never talk about the the weirdest part of it. Um, I guess it's I guess it's kind of a given if you're an anatomy lecturer, you do this part of your job. It's part of your job. You've seen maybe that we teach anatomy using anatomy plastic models. We also use computerenerated models and radioraphs and you know all sorts of uh normal teaching methods. But of course if you're going to teach anatomy, we also use bodies. Bodies that have been incredibly kindly and bravely donated to us to examine after people's deaths. Can you imagine that? donating your body um to a university to be studied by medical students and other health care profession students and anatomy students. I mean, something I'm going to have to do when I die. And really, that's the weirdest part of the job is is about when I die. When you're young, like most university students are, you are invincible. You have your entire life ahead of you. Um, and we know how adolescents and to certain extent young people to a certain extent me uh take part in risky behaviors, right? Because you're invincible, you're pushing your boundaries, you want to feel a lot, you know, all that sort of stuff, right? That that riskreward relationship shift when you're young. But then if you're studying medicine or a health profession course where you're lucky enough to be able to study bodies in anatomy class, um your perception shifts a little bit because this is the first time that the reality of death and your own mortality is put very clearly in front of you every week for a year or two. It it it changes how you think, right? And I've basically got a day of writing ahead of me, which is why I'm making a vlog cuz I'm procrastinating. So, I'm on my way into work. It's a beautiful, sunny, warm Friday morning by the sea. There it is. In South Wales, cuz it's always sunny in South Wales. And oh, the boys are up for the is it the triathlon this Oh no, it's the uh air show this weekend. But don't worry, I'm not going to show you any bodies in this this vlog. Um for the same reason I don't show you any bodies in my anatomy videos. So this This is the the main anatomy lab that you might have seen before if you've watched some of the anatomy videos. This is our lab of plastic models and teaching and computers and all sorts of things. Right? You might have seen we've got lab coats on the wall. So, we've got another lab where we store bodies that we use for anatomical examination for for teaching. And there are a number of clear reasons why we do this and a number of kind of reasons in what we call a hidden curriculum uh for doing this. We've just put 300 students through a physical anatomy spotter exams where we have models and put pins in them and ask them questions and they go around they have a minute at each one. Anyway, so clearly if you want to properly understand the anatomy of the human body, if you have the opportunity to actually study human bodies and look inside them, you get so much more. You see the real sizes, the real shapes, the real arrangement of the bodies. Wow, that nerve is actually that big. You see that while textbooks say that there's a single vein, there's often a couple of vein. You just see well you see reality. All of this stuff is it's simplified and tidied up and made pretty. But when you actually look inside the body, you see the real anatomy. And if you're a health care professional, you can then imagine all of that when you're working with your patient, they've got their skin on or you're looking at their radioraphs. Um, but the other thing is by looking at lots of different bodies, you see another truth, and that is that we are all roughly the same. and we're kind of kind of similar, but if you look at five different people inside, they're all a little bit different. We're all a little bit special. We're all a little bit individual, and we're all a little bit the same. And that's really, really important. Instead of expecting everybody to be laid out like the textbook, you better understand reality. And some aspects of anatomy, you can't see at all unless you look at a real body. I'm thinking about things like fascia. Um, in fact, lots of connected tissue. So, my mind boggles with the number of things you can't see on plastic models, but you can only see on real bodies. But clearly, the strangest thing about all of this is that um we're not just examining a body. We're not just examining examining anatomy. We're examining a person. A person that has died. A person whose time on this earth has ended. And that's incredibly personal. I think I'm thinking about this because it's it's week one. It's week 45 next week. I still got three weeks left of teaching. Then I get a little bit of time off for the summer and then we have our new intake in the first week of September. So I'm always thinking about these new students when they come in, how they're going to feel about all this and how I'm going to prepare them. So that's where my mind is. So this is a very very strange experience. the first time you experience um time with um a body after they've died. And we never forget that. Um I am the designated individual um here at this university, which means I have a legal responsibility for caring for the bodies here. And that's how we think of it. We care for the bodies. Um students will often um be told that this is the first patient, right? We never forget that the body in front of us is the body of a person that has donated their body for us to examine. So we don't treat the body as a number. We don't treat the body as a piece of anatomy. We treat the body as a person. And we're incredibly careful and respectful and uh grateful. And just just imagine how big and important that is to a health care professional to be able to have this experience in a safe environment like the anatomy department rather than having it for the first time in a clinical environment where you are expected to behave in a certain way and handle it. We give students the opportunity to go through those emotional processes and those difficulties um over the two years that they study anatomy with us. So then I I don't know that anatomist ever talk about this with each other but imagine how that affects us. So me as a teacher I've been working with bodies to study anatomy for uh well 32 years which is quite a long time and getting used to it is the wrong you never get used to it you never take it for granted it's always special but you have a constant reminder in front of you every week that this is going to be you one today. Not necessarily right here, but it it really drives home your own mortality, which hopefully makes us think in a different way, but you know, we're all different, so I don't know that it does. So then, if you know what I do for a hobby, being a rock climber and a mountaineer and that sort of thing, you must wonder, blimey, how on earth can you do all the things that you do knowing, I don't know. Um, you got to feel alive when you're alive, right? It definitely affects um how I think, how I behave, what I do in life. Probably a very subconscious level. Seagulls are having a lovely time as usual. Um but probably in a good way. I think it's all all of these experiences are positive. um the ability to study and learn and understand and and and see truth, actual truth um physical physically and then for it to have an effect on your own life, how you think, how you behave towards other people because not not to be not to be too morbid is a pretty morbid topic. Um when you look inside people, you see that everybody's the same. I think when you travel the world as well and you talk to lots of people in in lots of parts of the world, you realize that we're all pretty much the same and most people are very nice and helpful. So, it's one of those things I don't think I've talked about before. It's very strange. It's very unusual. It's very normalized to me and other people that work in my profession. And there are other professions that work in death as well because death is a very normal and very large part of life. and the human life cycle. We all go through this. We all have people around us that die. It's a very normal process and it's viewed in different ways around the world. And of course, I'm in South Wales. I'm in the UK, so we have a certain viewpoint and lots of other people will view this completely differently, which is interesting. Anyway, my job is weird um in a good way.