Okay. So, I was going to record this on nice big digital SLR camera, but the battery is dead. So, doing this on my phone, stacked up on a pile of boxes, got the models. Let's do this in 10 minutes or less. And the lighting is a bit crap. So, let's talk about the paritinium and a paritinal cavity. Got two models cuz I'm not entirely sure which one's going to be best yet. I haven't entirely thought this through, but I've got a rubber hose pipe and a bit of cling film. Um, and that's the important stuff. So paritinium this is about the connective tissues within the abdomen holding the GI tract in place and forming some of the spaces the sacks that the organs within the GI tract are within which we don't see on this model. They've been taken away. It's important because it means the abdomen is a self-contained space. The peritinal cavity is a cavity within a bag. That's what keeps it separate from the pelvis. Can you hear the kids screaming? There's a crash right there. I think it's playtime. So, obviously the thorax is separated from the abdomen by the diaphragm, but the abdomen kind of extends down into the pelvis. So, what keeps the stuff in the pelvis separate from the abdomen? Per cavity, right? Okay. So if we start with the basics here is our gut tube right? So think of the embryo and in the embryo we have a simple gut tube running the length within the early abdominal thoracic cavity the cling film. So if if we have this this this space within the abdomen within the embryo and the the tube of the early GI tract is running through it and it's within a space within a space there's space around it but it's anchored to the posterior abdominal wall the the dorsal part of the embryo by a sheet of connective tissue. And when when that tube, so when that tube lifts from the posterior abdominal wall and is imagined floating around within the cavity, it it pulls that connective tissue away from the wall. And we have that connective tissue still lining the cavity but now the the tube of the GI tract is anchored to the dorsal wall to the posterior abdominal wall by two layers of this sheet of connective tissue. Now this is a misentry. So this is the the dorsal misantry holding the GI tract in place. And what happens is that as the GI tract the this simple tube becomes longer more complicated and folds and bulges out to form the stomach and yada yada yada the mason tree gets taken with it. So what we see here uh behind there is is the misentry is holding that in the adult. Then we have a complicated GI tract but the misentry anchors all of it to the posterior abdominal wall um on a little section diagonally. This means that if anything wants to get to the GI tract, blood vessels, nerves or from the GI tract, blood vessels, nerves, then it must pass within the misentry. So the misentry is very important. And the misentry allows the GI tract to move around. So when you're eating foods and it's it's all the smooth muscles all squeezing food along with peristelis, it's free to move around. All of this is mobile within the abdomen. So that's what forms a misantry. That's what a misenter is. So just like when we looked inside the thorax and we see the thoracic cage is lined with parietal plura and the lungs are covered with visceral plura and those two things work together. When we look inside the abdomen, the abdominal cavity is lined with parietal paritinium. And then that paritinium where it's covering viscera, we call it visceral paritinium. And these sheets here would be misentry. Okay. So that's paritinium. Parietal paritinium. Visceral paritinium. Now moving on. Well, let's carefully disembowel this guy. guy, lady, whatever. H. So, this one's a bit more complete, but this one's less likely to fall apart. So, I put the diaphragm back on. Okay. So, in here, this is the abdominal cavity. Right? Now, there's the pelvic stuff in there. Now, if this is the paritinium, this is the parietal paritinium lining the peritineal cavity. So, it goes in here like this. It's covering all of these things. Something like that. So what you can see here is that the kidneys, the inferior vennea, the uh abdominal aorta, the renal vessels, the uriters, the common iliac arteries, all these muscles of the posterior abdominal wall are posterior to the paritinium. So we say that they are retroparitinal. and the GI tract. The GI tract is inside the paritinium, right? The stuff in the pelvis then is covered by paritonyium. So the parietal paritinium is separating the abdomen from the pelvis. It's like um it's kind of like um the top of a pie, right? The pastry on top of the pie is laid over. In this case, we've got a bladder. There's the rectum and stuff in there. That's so so the pipal paritinium separates the stuff in the pelvis, the pelvic viscera from the abdominal stuff. Now, if we put this stuff back and we cover this up, Can you see how all of our stuff is within the bag of cling film? So if the cling film there is the parietal paritinium, everything inside this bag of cling film is the in the par is in the peritineal cavity. I could pull this bag out and we'd have a whole load of things in there. Now this is not an entirely accurate model. Um the ascending colon and the descending colon are parts of the GI tract that we call uh secondarily retroparitinal. that is um they were originally free floating around bits of GI tract tube but then they become they move to one side and the other side of the abdomen and they become fixed in place and they become overlay with peritinium so they're also now for all intents and purposes retroparitinal but they've become secondarily retroparitinal so bear that in mind I can't take them apart so I can't change me cling film rolling But all of this stuff is inside the paritinal cavity. Now the peritineal cavity is further broken down into a greater sac and a lesser sack. Those are the two spaces. You can imagine the greater sack is the bigger space and the lesser sack is a smaller space. Now most of what we can see here is in the greater sac. So the small bowel um the transverse colon which has a miso that has a misantry as well by the way. the transverse misocolon, the stomach and the liver. These are all within the greater sack. Um, so now we need to consider something else. Um, I need more cling film. If I take a liver and a stomach, the stomach is part of the GI tract. So that's within the misantry, right? that forms within the misentry. So that would be like this. We've got the misentry there and here's the posterior abdominal wall. However, the liver at this level in the embryo there is when these two things are forming the stomach forms here and then a mass of cells forms the liver in a vententral misentry. So a misentry between the GI tract and the anterior abdominal wall. That's what the liver is going to become. See the pancreas forming in there and the gallbladder and other bits and bobs. So what that means is is the the liver is also covered in misre. I never have enough cling film with this bit. So the liver is also it's like this right. Oh blime me. So in the embryo if you've got the posterior abdominal wall back here. This is the dorsal part. Here's vententral. We've got the stomach. We've got So, we got Don't fall out. We've got misentry, posterior abdominal wall. We've got stomach. We've got more misentry. We've got liver. And truth be told, we've got a bit more measentry. And then we've got the anterior abdominal wall. Think falsif ligament, stuff like that. What that means is that there's a misentry between the stomach and the liver. Now when everything moves around and rotates in the embryo and in the adult the liver is brought to the to lie over the stomach, right? As we see here, it means that between the stomach and the liver. Okay, the stomach's actually upside down so as to confuse you all just a little bit less. Is that Yeah. All right. So if you pull the stomach and the liver apart you see a misentry that misentry between the stomach and the liver is the lesser momentum. It's important because in its free edge you find the pole the paw vein a few other bits and bobs but also it means that in here or rather in here if you pull apart the liver and the stomach then behind that connective tissue and you can you can get your fingers through a gap called the epiploic fammen in the space behind that lesserum is the lesser sack. So it's a small space kind of a potential space again but the lesser momentum between the liver and the stomach posterior to that is the lesser sack. So all of this stuff out here is in the greater sac. The lesser sack is is back there. And the lesser sack and the greater sack together are within the peritineal cavity. If there's a lesser momentum there must be a greater momentum. It's not on this model, but this one here's the greater momentum. Uh, it only shows half on this model, but it covers the whole the whole sides here. Now, the the greater momentum actually grows from the greater curvature of the stomach. So if the lesser curvature of the stomach connects to the liver, so this is the anterior vententral misentry, then the dorsal misentry would connect the greater curvature of the stomach back to the posterior abdominal wall. Right? And it does. But before it does that, it grows and it grows to form another double sheet. Right? So again, this is this is two layers. You see, I got two layers there. This is two layers of paritonyium folding down. So it it starts from the stomach, folds down, and then folds back up again and goes to the posterior abdominal wall behind it. And that's the greater momentum. So the greater momentum here is it's fatty, it's paritinium, it's it's it allows everything to move around underneath it, but it's known as the policeman of the abdomen. If part of the small bowel becomes inflamed, typically that part of the small bowel moves a bit less. It becomes a little bit less motile, whereas the rest of the bowel keeps moving. That paristalsis keeps happening, pushing stuff through it. And what seems to happen is that the greater momentum then wraps itself around that inflamed area because everything else pushes it into place and it helps limit the spread of that inflammation through the small bowel in the abdomen. So that's the greater momentum. Greater momentum here, lesser momentum between the stomach and the liver. Okay. So we've covered paritinium, prial paritinium, visceral paritinium, misentries, greater momentum, lesser momentum, greater sack, lesser sack. How's that? Right, I'm going to try not break anything while I pull this back.