the anatomy of the pineal gland. Um why? Well, um a couple of months ago I talked about how light affects our circadium rhythm uh and how then light can affect our sleep uh through the pineal gland and that piqu my anatomical interest. I wanted to look at it in more detail which I have done and I will do now. For most medical students, it is a sentence, maybe two sentences in a textbook you need to know about. But there's quite a lot of interesting stuff here. Well, I found it interesting anyway. Even if nobody watches this video, it has already been useful to me. Here it is. Um or I can also pop pop yours out. This this it's a little bit more 3D this one. And that's the pineal gland there. Um pineal because it's a pine cone shaped. Uh it's a single structure in the midline. It is a gland. It produces hormones. So it's an endocrine organ and it produces hormones that will pass into the blood and probably into the cerebral spinal fluid as well and act on uh tissues and structures at a distance. Um that mentioned uh you know about the blood brain barrier. So the blood brain barrier if you take an animal sorry if back in the day you took an animal and you injected its blood with dye that dye would then pass to all the tissues of the body but not the brain. So the small molecule of the dye will pass through the leaky capillaries the fenistrated capillaries capillaries that we see in most of the tissues of the body and dye the tissues of the body but not so the brain and that is because of the bloodb brain barrier. The bloodb brain barrier is a microscopic structure. The endothelial cells lining the blood vessels the capillaries inside the brain are tightly stuck together by tight junctions and wrapped around with podocytes. Um, so they are sealed, they are not leaky, they are not fenistrated, which means that only very small molecules can diffuse across or molecules have to be actively transported across from the blood to the brain. This is why it's difficult to get drugs to the brain. You have to kind of mimic some of those other molecules. Anyway, the bloodb brain barrier pineal gland doesn't have one. Um, and that is uh well, it's pretty important if you're an endocrine organ because you want to be able to put your hormones into the blood. Now, the hormone that we know about uh melatonin and you might take melatonin if you have jet lag or you expect to have jet lag to help you sleep when you move to a different time zone where the day and light cycle is different to the day and night cycle in the place that you left. Anyway, we'll come back to that. Melatonin is the hormone that we know about which affects the circadium clock. But the pineal gland also seems to have an effect on the pituitary gland which in turn has an effect on other organs of the body and some of this is not entirely understood. Um the pineal gland is also called the epiphosis cerebri which I don't really like. Epiphysis you also have an epiphosis in your in your long bones. Epiphys cerebri. It also gets called the pineal body. Okay. So pineal gland. Yes it is a gland. pineal body is fine and it is part of something called the epialamus. The ep so the phalamus is this bulge here. There is a left and right phalamus. So we're between the two phalomi here. The phalamus is a collection of nuclei, a whole load of neurons that well acts as a sensory relay for all the sensory information coming into your body except smell. And it has a whole bunch of other roles as well. So um the you know we're we're talking about the the physical location here. Epthalamus means upon the phalamus. So there are a bunch of structures here upon the phalamus. The pineal gland gets lumped into that that group of structures there. Um epialamus, pineal body, pineal gland, epiphosis cerebri. And we can add more detail. So here is the midbrain. Um if the pineal gland is a single midline structure and there's a left and right phalamus then the pineal gland is sitting between the two phalomi um at its posterior end there. In the midbrain we have a couple of bumps back here. These are the caliculi the superior caliculus and the inferior caliculus. We have left and right ones of those as well. You add them all together you got the corpora quadrogeminina. So you might hear that term banded around here. But the pineal body is sat just on top of the superior caliculi and kind of like just just in between them. It's sat nestled into the middle of the two per two superior caliculi. And there is a space between the two phalomi which is filled with cerebrros spinal fluid in life CSF. That space is the third ventricle. So the pineal gland is at the posterior end of the third ventricle. Uh the pineal gland has a pineal stalk. Uh we we we can see it but the pineal stalk is it's split like that. So the the the Vshape like the recess it makes is called the pineal recess. That's the shape that the pineal stalk kind of the two legs of the pineal stalk is making in the uh in the posterior end of the third ventricle. Now that that pineal stalk is where we start to get into the weeds. Um so the lower part of the pineal stalk is the posterior commissur. Um you know how the pupilary light reflex. If you shine light into one eye both pupils constrict. So the light is it's the posterior commissure that's linking both sides of the body there to cause both pupils to respond to light just going into one side. Posterior commissure it's the commissure is a white matter tract linking both sides of the brain here. And then the superior leg of the stalk is the um habenular commissure. The habenula the habenular nuclei are just anterior as the pineal gland. The habenular nuclei are involved well they're involved they're part of the liyic systems. They're involved in emotion and memory and learning um in probably um reward processes um and that's you know lybic system stuff right and this pink thing up here this pink bit which in retrospect I've been wondering what the heck that is for years and so have the students that is bringing information to the habenular nuclei. Uh this is the forex. This is the corpus colossum. That's the septum palucidum. Uh so like when students ask me what these things are, oh then we can us we can usually see um the coroid plexus of the third ventricle in there which we can't on that one but on this um this model here. Um there's the pineal gland. There's the um pineal stalk. So that superior leg, the first part of that is the habenula uh commissur and as it curls over the top there over around the um the phalamus that is the stria medalis and that is the white matter tract bringing information to the habenula nuclei that are anterior to the pineal gland. Habenula means rains. Can you imagine how if you got two of these they look like rains and the of a horse and the thing and imagination come on. Um so if that's the stream medalis that's the coroid plexus that's the fornix that's the septum palucidum that's [snorts] the uh corpus colosuma. Um so what we've got in the pineal gland is we've got pinealytes which are modified neurons that produce and release those hormones. We have gleal cells in there. I think we have aststerytes in there so support cells. Um but the pineal gland is innovated. It receives sympathetic innovation and parasympathetic innovation and the trigeminal nerve seems to send some fibers in there. Not entirely sure why. So parasympathetic neurons from the otic ganglen and the terragoopathine ganglen go to the pineal gland. Um but sympathetic neurons from the superior cervical ganglen enter here. And if you think about that pathway that's kind of a bit weird. You have the hypothalamus. You have a descending tract in the spinal cord. Pre gangionic sympathetic neurons coming out the spinal cord going up to the superior cervical ganglion post. Anyway, you get the idea, right? Running all the way back up here. My point is sympathetic innovation is required for the pineal gland to release melatonin. If the sympathetic nervous system is injured, the pineal gland does not function normally. Isn't that interesting? So, it's it's it's it's like a modulator. It receives action potentials. It receives nervous in innovation impulses. Uh so, neuron inputs can be converted into endocrine outputs. the release of hormones that act at a distance and act on cells that have a receptor for melatonin blood supply. Well, um we're here. So, if you know your circle of Willis, um the uh posterior cerebral arteries are coming around here and the posterior cerebral arteries will give off posterior coroidal arteries and supply blood to those capillary networks of the pineal gland, those ones without that bloodb brain barrier. Venus drainage. Um, well, the great cerebral vein is running nearby. Uh, that's the vein of Galen. So, the great cerebral vein will drain blood from the pineal gland and take that back to the the straight sinus and and so on. I have read uh I guess in animal studies that so melatonin is the hormone that's being released, right? I have read that not only is that hormone released into the blood blood, but it also does get into the cerebral spinal fluid of the third ventricle. Um so melatonin then melatonin is released by the pineal gland and the amount that's released is related to the levels of light and how those change during the day. Um so that as it gets darker melatonin levels increase secreted by the pineal gland and you get sleepy and you fall asleep and in the middle of the night when you're in a deep sleep that's when your melatonin levels are at their highest and then they start to drop off again. And when melatonin levels drop down, you wake up and then they they're low during the day when there's a lot of light. Um, this then also means that animals can adapt to the changing length of the day which can be can be important for reproduction and feeding and all sorts of other functions in humans uh less so and also we've mucked that up with indoor lights and stuff anyway, right? Um, so that's the melatonin which is the most well-known function for the pineal gland. Um, and um, I talked about how light affects secretion in that other video, but essentially you have a specific uh, intrinsically photosensitive retinal ganglion cells in the retina that capture that light um, send it to a super chismatic nucleus in the hypothalamus. The hypothalamus then sends those impulses through the sympathetic nervous system to the uh, the pineal gland. The pineal gland does seem to have effects on other organs like the pituitary which we're missing from here um and the gonads. Um there are quite a few papers from the 60s and the 70s where for example if you take the pineal gland out of um rats, mice, hamsters um then the the the amount of follicle stimulating hormone and luteinizing hormone in the pituitary gland increases this and this is linked this has led to links between um the pineal gland and managing the onset of puberty to the right time things like that. Um but the other interesting fact that medics love about the pineal gland is that over time um most people's pineal glands become calcified. Uh so not in children as a rule but as you get older by the age of 30 I think 70% of people's pineal glands have got calcified deposits in them. This gets called brain sand. Now, the reason medics love it is because when you're then looking at this region with X-rays, it lights up beautifully, just like bone lights up beautifully. I've got one to show you. Look at this. Um, you can see the level we're at here. Um, so this brain sand also gets corpora corpora aronia, something like that. Something really awkward to say. Um, but it mean makes it a good landmark because if you see something lighting up in the middle of um a transverse section of the brain, you've found the pineal gland. And if you know the pineal gland is at the posterior end of the third ventricle and look you can just about see parts of the lateral ventricles which we also talked about the other week you can you can see where you are right. Um so this production of calcium and phosphate and possibly hydroxy hydroxy appetite as a result this seems to be a result of the cells producing melatonin for a long period of time. Um does it cause problems? Maybe. Um, is there much we can do about it? Maybe, maybe not. Um, but like I say, medics love it because you look at a CT. Bam. [laughter] So, look. Likewise, if I grab my big head slice model, and we slice our way down. There's the lateral ventricles. Lateral ventricles. There's the phalamus there. basil ganglia, but we can't quite see the third ventricle yet. So, we're not low enough. Oh, slice down say another centimeters. That's quite a big thick slice. Bam. There we are. Look at that. There's a midline single central structure there at the posterior end of the third ventricle. I wonder what that is. It's the pineal gland. Um, soalamusalamus and um we can see bits of the lateral ventricles there. The brain is tricky because it's hard, isn't it, to uh figure out where everything is when you can't just peel it apart and look at different layers like you can the rest of the body. The brain's too soft for that. There we go. A deep dive into the anatomy of the pineal gland just cuz I do that sometimes because I'm really interested and I want to know everything. Um, and that is more than uh say most medical students and health care professionals will need to know. But if you are working in this area, if you have a particular interest in this area, I hope that was useful. And if you don't, I hope it was um interesting. All right. Uh see you next week.