We are on the aisle of Portland. Um, see the island of Portland. Is this an island or a peninsula? It It's famous for Portland stone. There's loads of quaries here. It's on the south coast of the UK. It's in Dorset. It's connected to the mainland at Weimouth by a by like a a causeway. So, it's a bit of a peninsula now. It's famous for Portland bill stripy red and white lighthouse, but it's famous for climbers for about a thousand sport routes all the way around its perimeter. It's about 5 miles around. We've walked around it this weekend and we're really, really tired. We've been climbing for 3 days. We're going to do something easy. Isn't very easy anymore. Um, we've been climbing up there which are strenuous 25 m routes. We've been climbing on the other side of the island where everything's shorter and all the roots are really, really good and really, really interesting. We thought today we come down a bit quieter down to the sea level, but there's a whole lot of students climbing with us as well cuz this is an easy crack. If we're lucky, we'll see some seals landing over there. This is actually a two two pitch route. What are we doing? Um, this is this is a boulder that has fallen off the cliff at the top god knows how many thousands of years ago and ended up down here. Crazy. It's huge. Now, it's got some really easy boots on the slab, which we'll do later. We can find a space. Right, let's get gear together. Busy day today. It is very busy. Very busy. This is what we get for coming to an easy crag. Really glad I got my Oh, this is five. This is a five. Oh, yeah. Glad I got my lipstick. This is a classic one of those ideas that look good on paper and then when you're at the bottom there, you think that that doesn't seem like a good idea. Perhaps it wasn't such a good idea. No. Yeah, let's do something. This feels like a bad idea. And then I'm going up there somewhere, am I? Yeah. Oh no. bridging. Maybe not. Okay, getting a bit of height. All right, getting there. Sundays are always so busy for climbing. So, a busy place. It's really busy. While there might be a thousand roots on Portland, most people want to climb the easier grades because that's what they're more comfortable with. Oh, this rock's cold. Um, so that means everybody kind of gets compressed. There are a lot of good sevens here. There's a lot of also very sensibly graded stuff. Very sensible level stuff. There we go. Okay. Are you good? Yeah. Yeah. So, the uh the chains are just there. All right. So, I'll set up a belay and I'll should be able to see you. So, now we're getting to the easy bit. Um, so this is my 999th video, apparently according to YouTube. Uh, so I guess my thousandth video will just be a short that I do on Tuesday, which won't be terribly interesting. Um, well, as in I'm not going to shout out that it's my thousandth video because that would be weird for a short, wouldn't it? Um, but even after making a thousand videos, I think one of the key ideas is that I'm not changing what I do. I um I'm just kind of with vlogs, I'm just living my life and I'm not chasing the algorithm or trying to get clicks or anything. This is just what I do. Good up here, isn't it? Not used to climbing somewhere quite soy. There we go. She started One of the problems with seagly cliff climbing and multi-page climbing is you often can't hear each other and can't see each other. So you have to kind of work stuff out in advance or be very well practiced together um to make sure you don't make any safety errors. Also shout loudly and make sure you get a response. But we've been doing this so often, you kind of know what's going on the other end of the rope by the calls and there are often pauses while you figure things out or get your shoes on or whatever. Hanging belays are uncomfortable, but they tend to have excellent views. There's climbers everywhere. Hello kind of follow up where I thought you were going. Yeah, you kind of get your feet into it a bit, but was really hard. Yeah, get couldn't get going out to climb all the way down to climb up again. I was wondering whether you going out and then I got onto my um I got onto the um ley bit where we roped in because there's such a tight bit of rope across. Can you uncip it? What you mean for the belay? Yeah. Yeah. I was wondering whether you could reach that. Really awkward. Okay. Now, do you want to lead through the last pitch is supposed to be like 5A goes over there. See to the B? No, I don't really. Okay. So, you want to I don't think I'm confident enough. Now, after we just done that, I didn't enjoy it at all. All right. So, we're going to attach it to this then. Okay. Okay. See? All right, now we got to sort the gear out. Let me not drop anything. Get this over there neatly. Tada. Clip a chain on my way out. Cold. Yeah, it's chilly here, isn't it? And I got a really runny nose and a bit scared. Well, bit scared. It's good. I'm less scared because we got bolts instead of trad stuff. So, it's like got so put off that was just really awkward start and I was just like I don't like I don't like this. It was a very awkward start. I think I think vlogs are more fun when you just see what people are doing and how they're living, right? I think the risk is when you start making videos and you chase clicks and views and subscribers and stuff is you change what you're doing to make interesting videos. Then they don't become interesting anymore. Well, they are interesting. It's just they're just less real. This is this is really just what we do. Yeah, we don't do this. This is just what we've already done. No, right onwards and upwards. And then we'll see how many billion there's there's like B there's like A-50 Birmingham students on the other side there. There's only med students. Yeah, you might not have enjoyed this bit on leave. Oh yeah, that's awesome. Oh yeah, that's fantastic. Flaky flaky flaky. A centimeter more. Oh, no. This is me over here, isn't it? Yeah, this is me here. Kim's going to be shivering on that cold belay. So, we got to bear that in mind. Get a shift on. Put a knot in this one. Look, there's thousands of them. Sorry. Get your feet up. You'll get it. No bother. There we go. It's really good. Nice. Nice. Nice. Into the sun. I didn't enjoy that. You didn't enjoy that? Yeah. Well, that second off was quite a nice bit of route that first off was rubbish. Yeah, nice adventure. So, we're back to piss and about mode now. Yeah, that route. I could probably reach the uh I could probably reach the lower off. I probably reach the lower off from here. That's a quiet spot. We're in the sun here. Oh my god. Wow. Oh, look at that. It's a It's a big one. That's amazing. Oh my goodness. Well, technically it is a boulder. It is a boulder. It's a very big boulder. Yeah. This is cool. Yeah, look at that. It just looks like a a little boulder that somebody's bolted. I enjoyed that more than the uh the multi pitch. That was good fun. Little uh little ripples and stuff to hold on to. And you think there's not going to be a hold in there. Very pleasing. So, I looked in the guide book and I screwed up the line of that first route. Whatever. I mean, it was supposed to be to the left of the erect, which I did, and I didn't see there was anything much further left, but the top bit, I did what was the tricky bit, and then you're at a belay. So, I went straight to that belay, but the line is actually to continue up the slab to the back, but whatever. This much to be fair. I'm going to get you down. So, if you have watched a lot of my videos and you've seen us climbing over the years, this is a big part of it is I'm sure I love hanging off cliffs and the physical nature of it and doing cool moves. Like a lot of the roots here have they've given you those moves that are really unexpected. you think, "Oh, what's the Oh, oh, and it feels great when you succeed." Not like I I haven't fallen off anything. I wasn't really climbing semi- great. Um, but a big part of climbing is getting to places like this. You love being in places like this. I've only climbed for a few hours a day and I'm exhausted anyway. So, after 999 videos, this being the 999, what have I learned? Well, um, I mean, if you look at the YouTube metrics, they would all say that this has been a success, but that's just YouTube. And it's nice having that measure of success. My measure of success is that I'm still doing it, and I still enjoy doing it. Um, when I started doing this, I I don't know, there are a number of reasons for doing it. Um, and then it it was a challenge, you know, just to keep doing this for as long as you could, and I'm still doing it now. It's such a habit, I don't think I could stop doing it. Um, when other people ask me about starting making videos, um, they asked me for tips and stuff. And the thing that takes time is finding finding your voice. My god, look at all these kids climbing. On one hand, I really I really feel like a dad cuz they're all university students, right? So they're like you know 18 19 20 of course I'm a teacher at university so I feel that responsibility as well and also feel the the older climate responsibility as well and that's what I used to be like that's what I used to do. Um so if someone tells you to find to find your voice what does that mean? Yeah. Um, so for me it means finding a format that I like cuz you kind of have a bit of a format, a bit of a style, bit of a thing, you know, things you like doing, but it's also what you like talking about, what you're comfortable talking about, kind of what your your story is, what you're sharing. So, you know, my vlogs have become talking about, you know, teaching and learning tips and tricks and cuz that's my job. That's a lot of my audience cuz my anatomy videos are a big part of what I do. Um, but the teaching and learning expands just, you know, outside of university and into the real world. You know, we make mistakes, we learn, we teach, we look after each other. That for me, but your voice will be different if you want to do this. Is that another? That's another. Yeah. All right. Well, it's um 20 past 1. Like I say, it's our third day. It's Sunday. I got to go to work tomorrow. It's about 4 about 3 and a half hour drive back. So, we'll take four four and a half hours cuz we'll have a stop for coffee and stuff and the traffic might be crap. So, we should ask these guys up here if we can sneak in and do one of those lines. And then we'll climb back up the hill, walk back to the van, and um drive home and then spend the week recovering kind of and do it all again next weekend if the weather's good. Gross. Nasty. with the chump that.