So, I'm reaching the end of my base training phase. Uh, fatigue level high. Um, and racing this weekend as well, which is just a test race early season to see how things go. But um I've just been swimming in the pool again at lunchtime, my usual daily swim, and thinking more about the shoulder. So we looked at the big muscles of the shoulder last week. And of course, I think about the big muscles a lot when I'm swimming and how I'm going to use those muscles to get maximum power and get a nice long stroke and move myself and that sort of thing. But something that's also really important to swimmers and other people who use their shoulders a lot is um not just the wide range of mobility that we have, but how is the hummeral head secured and held within that joint because it's it's quite an open face. Um which is great. It means you've got a wide range of movement, but you need to hold that humorous securely. There are six scapulmeral muscles. We talked about a couple last week, right? We talked about deltoid and we talked about terrace major. But the other four which come up all the time are the rotator cuff muscles. So the rotator cuff muscles, their main job is to um support the hummeral head within that genoid fossa and to keep that shoulder together. And those muscles are reasonably big, but they have to pass across a small space and they get rather small in tenderness. And a number of people will have problems with their rotator cuff muscles because they're small and they've got quite a big job to do and they suffer from overuse injuries and that sort of thing. So, let's go to the lab. I'll take a break from marking exam papers. Let's go to the lab and talk about the rotator cuff muscles of the shoulder briefly. All right, let's go. All right, then. Uh, we can use this guy. No photography unless you me. I can do that. No food and drink. I can't do food and drink either. Um, we'll use you. But I've also got a very nice upper limb model. Whoa. So, I really like this model. Um, this is another one of Rudy's models. These are beautifully made. And this is uh kind of kind of a rubberized plastic. Some bits are harder than others. I would love more models like this. I'd love a lower limb model like this as well. Um, just to show muscular sceal stuff. Um, but it'd be nice if the muscles were nice and stretchy. And this one, it seems like maybe it's got a little bit harder over time, but it is prone to falling apart when you touch it, which I think puts students off a little bit. And it is a bit of a pain putting back together, but then that's all part of the learning process, right? which is why we have a bit left over here. Um, so we were looking on the uh the model last week of the of the large muscles of the shoulder region that tend to act on the upper limb and move the humorus and what have you. And we looked at deltoid and here's the deltoid muscle. So I say there are there are six uh scapulo hummeral muscles. So that mean that is to say six muscles passing between the scapula and the humorus. And we looked at the deltoid. talks about how the deltoid holds the humorris into the joint into the into the glenoumeral joints when you're carrying something heavy. Um the the weight is carried from the atriial skeleton through trapezius and other muscles through the scapula and then from the scapula and the clavicle down to the humorus and everything's held together right um and that's one of the roles of the deltoid muscle. Now I mentioned uh suppinatus. So suppinatus I said starts off the abduction of the upper limb and then the deltoid muscle can take over and then trapezius takes over to rotate the scapula. Do you remember? Um and I mentioned that the deltoid muscle can also do flexion and extension of the humorris at the glenoumeral joint. What I probably didn't mention is about um rotation, right? We also have medial rotation and lateral rotation. So if you think about it, this is the humorus that's rotating here at the glenoumeral joint, right? Yeah. So the humorous is is is rotating like this. So So this is what we've got. So this is medial rotation and this is lateral rotation. And you can see how the the humorus is rotating here. So it's rotating inwards and outwards. Now most of that is occurring up here and these multi-enate fibers of the deltoid muscle can contribute to this. You can imagine how the anterior muscles can pull this way. So they can add they can contribute to medial rotation and how these posterior fibers here can pull the other way and contribute to lateral rotation. But there are some deeper muscles when we take off the deltoid muscle. Then we'll see the rotator cuff muscles and suppinatus is one of them. U so we take off deltoid. The other it's heavy. The other muscle that we talked about was terraas major here. So terraas major we said runs from the scapula to the humorris. And can you see how this is a a right upper limb. So there's the thumb. So this is this is a right upper limb. And can you see how here's terraas major here. And I said the terraas major is forming uh the posterior border of the axilla right under here. But do you see how it's running from the scapula but then it's running to the anterior part of the humorous. Let me take off biceps so you can see a little bit more easily. You see how it's running to the the anterior part of humorus. That means that if this muscle contracts, it's going to pull the humorris this way, isn't it? So terraas major then is also a medial rotator of the humorris. So deltoid and terraas major are muscles linking the scapula and the humorris, but they're not rotator cuff muscles. The rotator cuff muscles are deeper or closer to the glenoumeral joint and they uh they have another function and there are four of those. So we see one here, two up here and then three and there's a fourth here. But it's actually difficult to separate these two muscles. So here is supraspinatus. Now this is the scapula and this is the spine of the scapula here. Turn you around so that matches. So here's his right arm. Here's the scapula. Here's the spine of the scapula here. So this this fossa this groove here is filled with suppinatus but look there's a hole through here. So suppinatus is attached to the scapula superior to this this spine here but then the tendon passes through this gap. This is the acchromian right the highest part the acchromian necropolis the highest part of the scapula the bit you can the bony bit you can feel up here it passes underneath there and inserts into the humorris. Uh and this is this can this muscle then is able to pull on the humorris up here and that starts off abduction of the humorus right which is why I say suprapinatus then deltoid then trapezius um because this because of overuse injuries with the shoulder if this tendon gets inflamed it's passing through a fair fairly small gap so that it inflames, it swells, it gets even more annoyed and we tend to have a bit of a problem here and some people get tendinitis of that tendon. So if that's suppranatus up here and this is the spine then what's this muscle here? Infraspanatus. Very good. Well done. So yeah, this is infraspanatus inferior to the spine of the scapula. And you can see again how this is passing out also to the head of the humorris here. Right now as we are posterior um if you if you shorten this muscle then what's going to happen to the humorris? All right. So the muscle's running across here to the humorris here it's going to cause lateral rotation. Yeah. So if the if infraspinatus contracts, it's going to pull the humorus around this way and is going to cause lateral rotation. Now the muscle down here, if this is terraas major, this muscle here is terraas minor. It is difficult to tell the two apart. When you're dissecting, you can separate the two muscles. They are distinct muscles, but to start with, they look like one single muscle. But this is terraas minor here. So this is also running from the scapula to the humorris around here. So terraas minor then if you contract that muscle is also going to give lateral rotation. So terraas minor will give lateral rotation. The terraas major here because it passes to the other side will do the opposite will do medial rotation. Tricky huh? Um and the other thing about these two muscles is they have different innovation. Supraspanatus and infraspanatus are both innovated by the suprascapular nerve. Uh but terraas minor is innovated by the auxiliary nerve. The same nerve that innovates the deltoid muscle. Confusingly terra major is innovated by the subscapular nerve. I'm making it worse. Am I? Probably. Sorry. So these two muscles are innovated by the supcapular nerve whereas this muscle is innovated by the uh auxiliary nerve which shows that these two muscles are separate things where they're two muscles they have separate connective tissue surrounding them and they have different innovation. Um all of those nerves by the way come from the brachial plexus which of course is very nearby because it's running through the axilla. So there's suppinatus, infraspanatus and teras minor. The fourth and final muscle of the rotator cuff group is This muscle here, this is subscapularis. So if I turn the skeleton around as well, um, we're now looking at this scapula here, right? So this muscle is is underneath here, right? So that muscle's underneath there, which is tricky, isn't it? So it's it's between the ribs and the scapula, right? So this is subscapularis. It's deep to the scapula. You can see how it's running from the deep surface of the scapula again to the humorris. Uh and it's inserting here. Now I took the biceps brachi muscle off. But you can see you can see how where that attaches there. If I take Yeah. So we take biceps off and you can see this is deep to the biceps. Uh there's the long head, there's the short head. That means that the long head is running through this groove here. This means that these fibers are inserting into the lesser tubicle up here and this medial edge of the bicipital groove here. So um if the fibers are running this way and they pull on the humorris, what's going to happen? It's going to give medial rotation. So subscapularis anteriorly will give medial rotation and the other guys posteriorly will give lateral rotation and suppinatus will give abduction. So here's triceps. So we're looking at the posterior arms. Here's the spine of the scapula. Here's the clavicle up here. Here's supprpanatus running through there. There's the acchromian of the scapula there. So suppinatus is running inferiorly to that and inserting to the humorus up here. Here is infraspinatus and here is terraas minor here and there is terraas major. These tendons are all inserting into different facets of the greater tubacle of the humorris up here. So here's the head of the humorris here. Here's that bicipital groove. There's subscapularis inserting here. Here's suppinatus. There's infraspinatus. And there's terraas minor. All right. Okay. So um those are the muscles, those are their attachments and those are the movements that they can perform. Um, but their most important function is that they're holding the humorris in place. They're holding the humorous into the glenoumeral joint and into the scapula. And the the fibers of the tendons actually merge and blend and support the connective tissues of the glenoumeral joint of the synenovial capsule and what have you. So they're forming the structure of the joint. um their tone keeps the head of the humorris into the So if one of these muscles is damaged then that's going to reduce the strength and the function and the effectiveness of this joint. Um also because these fibers are inserting so high up into the humorris they're not involved in adduction of the humorus. So if if we talk about abduction like this, these um rotator cuff muscles are not going to bring the humorus back to the body because they're they're pulling on the head. If they pull on the head, they're just pulling the humorris back into the glenoumeral joint, right? For adduction for you're using, you know, latisimus dorsy and all these other guys, right, that we talked about in the last video. So the rotator cuff muscles can rotate the humorris and more importantly they're holding this whole joint together. So it's important that you have strong rotator cuff muscles particularly if you're using your shoulders a lot and it's important to you know keep your shoulders in a good position so that you're using your rotator cuff muscles effectively. If your shoulders, you know, start to get pulled forward and you you're performing strong movements, then you're likely to damage the joint and damage the muscles. You um you can strengthen your rotator cuff muscles very simply. Um you don't tend to need to use a lot of weight. You tend to use elastic bands, right? So would you hold on to this? And then you do you keep your arm nice and straight and square and against the the force you do medial rotations. You're just rotating the humorris. And then yeah, you can feel a nice little burn anteriorly. So you get uh so we're getting subscapularis here, aren't we? With medial rotation. If you put the hand the other way and then you're pulling in the other direction. So you see how the humorous there is rotating. So then with lateral rotation exercises, we're hitting the posterior muscles. I can really feel that there. We're using infraspanatus and terraas minor. And that's how you keep your rotator cuff strong. Something like that. Anyway, okay. So, there are six muscles linking the scapula and the humorris. Um, four muscles are form the rotator cuff. The muscles of the rotator cuff insert high into the head of the humorris. So, they can rotate the humorris. Um but their most important function is holding the head of the humorris into the gleenoid fossa into the gleenoid cavity and hold that glenoumeral joint together. Um subscapularis is innovated by the upper and lower subscapular nerves. Supraspanatus and infraspanatus are innovated by the supracapular nerve. Terra's minor is innovated by the auxiliary nerve as is the deltoid muscle. Terra's major is also innovated by the lower subscapular nerve. Um, and those are all branches of the brachial plexus unsurprisingly because it's running through the axilla. Okay, so that's the that's the rotator cuff and those are the deep muscles of the shoulder. Make sure you can identify them. Make sure you remember how they insert into the hummeral head and then you'll hopefully remember which way they rotate the humorus. All right. I wonder what we'll do next week. There's plenty of stuff to do in the shoulder. Maybe I'll still be enthusiastic about the shoulder. We'll find something else to talk about in the shoulder. Um, okay. Thank you very much. See you next time.