The sun's getting lower every morning. We're having some chilly mornings. It was so wet when we got back from the southwest coast path for the last couple of weeks. Uh and this week we seem to be having a sunny week, which is much nicer for cycling. Uh talking of work, we're we're in a little bit of trouble. And by we, I mean UK universities as a whole. And this is uh this isn't new news. Um but it's not getting any better. I don't understand how I've got so busy so quickly. I've only been back at work a few weeks and I am so busy. So, anybody trying to email me or call me, yeah, good luck. Um, we'll talk about uh State of UK universities in a bit and what that means for me and us at Swansea. But, uh, it's good to be back. We got fresh, shiny new students. They're loving it. This is no great secret in the UK, but people around the world might not know about this yet, but there have been a number of changes over the years that are causing UK universities and higher education as a whole to have some serious financial troubles. And Swansea University's actually been working on this for a number of years now. Um some universities are just waking up to it and it's hitting them hard. So, but I think it's across the whole sector. um students, if you want to go and study at university in the UK, in Scotland it's free. The government pays for it, but in England and Wales, you pay about £9,000 a year to study on a three-year course, for example. Um but that student fee was set, I think, in 2012, and it hasn't gone up, but it's gone up a little bit, and it just went up recently by another £250, which is a lot for students, but doesn't make a big difference to universities as a whole. Um so with inflation so this hasn't kept up with inflation and then we've had massive uh increases in costs. Costs of living affect universities as well. These places are heated and lit and you know we we all have salaries. Um so the student fee is now essentially really good value. Um we have had declining student numbers. Fewer people want to come to universities. Um Brexit didn't help the whole international grant thing. So there's less research money around. Um but the big one has been changes to um to um immigration rules. So students that want to come and study in the UK um are less likely to want to come and study in the UK now because it's harder, it's more difficult, it's anyway. So one of our major exports in the UK is higher education. people want to come and study in the UK and get a UK degree. that has changed significantly and UK universities charge international students a lot more money to study here and of course when those students are here they're spending money in the local community so it brings a lot of money into the UK much of that has gone so we've got multiple whamies um so universities have got to cut costs guess the main way of cutting costs that's right look at this 66% of um all course fee income for England and Northern Ireland um probably Wales as well. It's just not included in these statistics, but 66% of all course fee income is from international students was forecast to be for 2026 and 2027. And I think the um the bottom has fallen out of that. 40% of universities are operating at a deficit. 52% of higher education provider income came from tuition fees in 2022 to 2023. Teaching. So what I do, teaching is hugely important to universities because it brings in more than half of the money. Um 14% came from research grants, 12% from direct government funding. Teachers are really important. Well, I mean to society as well as paying uh keeping universities afloat, but that's the point of higher education, right? It's in the name, higher education. Um at Swans University, we've had we've had rounds of voluntary redundancy for years now. We had three rounds maybe, maybe more. So, we've lost a lot of staff. So, that's um you know, choosing to leave. I wonder how long before we move to mand mandatory redundancies. Um another example um so UK inflation is running at about 3.8% at the moment. So the cost of living the cost you know prices are going up by about 3.8%. So it's costing me 3.8% more to live now than it did a year ago. Um the unions agreed with universities a pay rise of 1.4% which obviously doesn't match inflation. So my pay, my income has been going down steadily for years relative to um real costs. Um and universities agreed that but then took on the option of we're not going to pay you that pay rise now. we're going to need to leave it until I think April next year or something like that because they can't afford to pay even that small a pay rise which means my pay is going down by almost 4% in terms of uh real real costs right it's good job my summer holidays consist of me uh carrying a tent and walking around the coast of England isn't it anyway I really do have to um this morning I've got um I got a meeting this morning with some guys in Lisbon who want me to go and talk over there next year. So, see what they want. Um, and then I've got some personal tutor meetings cuz I'm catching up with those guys and I got to get all the teaching ready for for Monday. So, let me get on with that. Um, unplug stuff in and of course read my email. So, I wrote half an exam paper, had two meetings. The guys in Lisbon seem cool. They only want me to give a 20-minute talk. Sounds like a fun conference, though. And there's some other Q&A bits after that. So, Lisbon next year in April, maybe. Oh, had an interesting email from a TV production company as well about um teaching someone some anatomy. We'll see if anything comes of that. Um, interesting times. Yeah, sorry it's a bit bit of a downer early, but this is where we are. Um, I mean there aren't very many anatomists in the world. Anatomy is an old subject. It's a foundation for many really core and key courses like medicine, right? So in terms of academia and teaching jobs in university and higher education logically I should be in as safe a position as I could be but it doesn't feel like that all the time and you worry about the other people you work with as well. Um so it's kind of you know it's just one of those worries you got in the back of your head but there's not really much I can do about it. So there's not a lot of money at the university either. So there's, you know, we've built our collection over 20 years and they will last well and they're well used and the 3D printing is very useful. So we invested in those ages ago. Basically Chris and I are buying the filament now and you know we can use 3D printing which is a very cheap method of creating teaching aids, solving problems. It doesn't need a lot of expensive input. But yeah, I do get lots of interesting um communications from people who have this product and that product and they look really cool, but it's like we got no money. There's there's there's there's no money, so there's no point me triing it. Sorry. Um we've got a lot of less admin stuff, which I guess is what's putting a fair bit more work on us, on us academics. Maybe that's one of the reasons I'm busy. But I am extremely well organized. We are extremely well organized. So touch plastic, touch laminated wood. Um should should be fine. Five years time, I'm sure this will all blow over. But this is um this is reality. This is a concern. This is life. This is uh this is what's going on. This is what vlogs are about, right? talking about what's going on. These are real concerns and not just for me but in the UK as a whole. I don't think when I started this job I intended to well definitely didn't intend to be here this long but I didn't intend to be here that long because I think you're used in research to having kind of short-term contracts and I expected to move on but I didn't because it's good because I like it because I enjoy it because the students because everything's good because it's fun because it's challenging and interesting and uh I got it just how I like it now I'm very cheap. I'm very efficient. H well, I'm going to try really hard not to worry about things that I can't do anything about. Unless by worrying about it, I come up with some really good ideas and some solutions and things that I could do. In which case, great. I'll write them down and chase those things. But I'm not going to over worry about it. I'm going to go home, have some tea with the family, play games with friends online this evening. drink some beer, share, talk about it, go climbing this weekend, burn off some energy, and then worry about my teaching on Monday morning, which is going to be trying to convince students that the lymphatic system exists and what the immune system is and where it is. Always, always a good bit of anatomy. See, it's going to be fun. Okay. Uh, focus on the things that you can do something about. Easy said and done, isn't it? Distract yourself. Right, home time.