Hello. Welcome back to the anatomy lab. Um, the last couple of videos have been talking about the shoulder and we've been getting deeper and deeper. So today, let's get straight into the deepest part, the bones of the shoulder and the pectoral girdle. Um, we've been talking about the movements, we've been talking about the muscles. Let's have a look in a little bit more detail at uh what's involved, what's being moved. So, you can see that this is the petrol girdle here, and we have three bones involved. The three bones we've been talking about, the clavicle, the scapula, and the humorris. So we should have a look at the shapes of those bones, how they connect together and some of the lumpy bumpy bits. And you can see from this model there are quite a lot of ligaments involved. Okay. So if you look at our skeleton we can see that here's the clavicle, here's the humorus and spinning round here's the scapula. Right. There are a couple of interesting things about the petrol girdle. Have you noticed any of them? For one thing, the this whole upper limb is only connected to the rest of the skeleton directly at one point at this point here. Right here's the clavicle coming from the manubrium. The scapula is completely free floating. We talked about how that rotates and the humorus is hanging off those two. So all of this stuff is pretty much just hanging off this one point here. So many of the joints are sensibly named and many of the ligaments are sensibly named as well. If this is the clavicle and this is the manubri sternum but for all intents and purposes the sternum then this is the sternocclavicular joint. Right? Uh and the sternocclavicular joint is a senovial joint. The cartilage covering the articular surfaces is typically described as a fibro cartilage and there's a thin wedge of an articular disc in between the two articulating surfaces but it's all held together very tightly by a whole load of ligaments. Now this joint is actually pretty mobile which is why it's a synenovial joint right? So you can you've got this and this is all moving from this point and you've got all this right got all of these movements of protraction and retraction and elevation and depression and they're all occurring at this uh sternocclavicular joint here. That's why it's a synenovial joint. It's it's it's it's um so it's got a senovial capsule. It's lined by senovial membrane. The synenovial capsule is filled with synenovial fluid. It's very synenovial. It's a proper synovial joint. Lots and lots of uh uh it's easy for movement to occur here. And the the ligaments that are supporting it reinforce that synenovial capsule. Now we've got two sternoclavicular ligaments anterior and posterior. We've got interclavicular ligaments actually linking these two clavicles and tying down to the manubrium as well. And do you see where the first rib is here? The first rib, the costal cartilage of the first rib is here as well. And it's often described as articulating with that. So we have a ligament between uh the the clavicle and the costal cartilage. So the costtoclavicular ligament here. And so there are a lot of ligaments holding this joint together. And this is why when somebody falls with an outstretched arm and they send that load of the fall through the outstretched arm up through the the glenoumeral joint and into the clavicle or maybe if they just land on the shoulder directly. This is why the clavicle tends to fracture instead of dislocate. It very rarely dislocates. It much more commonly breaks. So uh clavvicular fractures are quite common. Uh, so that's the sternocclavicular joint. Now look at the scapula, right? So here's the scapula. We talked about the scapula being this very mobile thing. It rotates on this skeleton. Never really thought about that before. That's cool. Now the scapula has got a few features on it like the spine. We saw suppinatus was up here and infraspinatus was down here and so on. Um, but do you see this this bony prominence up here? This is the acromian uh the acromian acro on top um like the acropolis the Greek acropolis being the highest point. So this is essentially the highest point of the scapula the the acchromian and this here is the corocoid process. This is this is running anteriorly. Do you see there's the acromian up high and there's the corocoid process. So the corocoid process passes through here. So anything that attaches to the coriccoid process is coro something or other. Uh and stuff that attaches to the acromian is uh acro something or other. And then this in here is the gleenoid fossa or the gleenoid cavity. It's that very shallow depression that the the head of the humorous then sits in and articulates with. That gleoid fossor is is very shallow but it's supported by the gleenoid labum like this uh rubber ring of connective tissue uh making the gleenoid fossa a little bit deeper and doing a fairly good job of holding on to the head of the humorus. So that shallow glenoid fossa means that we get this wide range of of movements that we like in the shoulder. Um but it means that it's fairly weak and of course the rotator cuff muscles are holding all of this together. They're holding the head of the humorris uh into the genoid fossa and that genoid labum hold helps hold it all together as well. So this then if the clavicle is coming in here and this is the acromian this then is the acchromioclavicular joint. Um and the acchromioclavicular joint again has a whole bunch of ligaments supporting it. The acchromioclavicular joint is also a synenovial joint. Again, the cartilage covering the articular surfaces tends to be described as a fibro cartilage rather than a highline cartilage or an articular cartilage. There's another articular disc in between the two surfaces and there's a there's a senovial membrane and a senovial capsule and all this is held together by uh the ligaments and what have you supporting the capsule here which is great. So again, this is another very very strong ligament here because of course we've got the whole upper limb hanging from it and then we tend to lift heavy things and do things with it. Right? So here's the humorris and the head of the humorous then articulate with the gleoid fossa. This is the gleno hummeral joint and this is a high quality senovial joint. We've got articular cartilage here covering the articular surfaces. We've got that synenovial capsule. Um the tendons of the rotator cuff blend with the synenovial capsule to support it. Uh ligaments around here do as well. But we also have a number of bersci. Now there's a well-known bersa under here. The subacchromial bersa chromium. This subocchromial bersa runs between the bone and the suppinatus tendon as it passes through there. So, what's a bersa? Well, a bersa is um it's a sack, very thin sack with a little bit of synenovial fluid within it. Uh and you tend to find it between bones and tendons and ligaments and that sort of thing to allow these things to run smoothly and freely over one another. Right? If you've seen my recent videos, you'll have seen that I I cracked my uh bersa here with a bike crash which inflamed it and caused it to make loads of fluid and it it swelled up like an egg. It was great. Um and that bura there is is between the skin and the bone. Right. This is the subocchromial burser here. But the other thing in the shoulder is that around here because you've got all of these muscles and all these layers and this is a highly mobile joint. There are other bersci around this joint and they're a little bit variable and these bersie are often folds of the senovial membrane of the glenoumeral joint itself. So you have to be a little bit careful because if you puncture one of those berscie you may be puncturing the synovial capsule of the joint as a whole which tends to be a bad thing particularly if infection gets in there. You don't want to do that. The subacchromial burster tends to be a separate burster to those things though. Um okay so also around this joint we have quite a lot of muscles interacting with the shoulder here that we've seen. One interesting thing is that here is the the intertuberccular groove here. We've got the greater and lesser tubicles on either side. And this is where the long head of the biceps brachi muscles tendon passes and passes up here to insert. And this actually runs into come here. And that actually runs into the joint capsule. So it's surrounded by bersc. This is a left humorous. you can see running between the lesser tubicle which is medial and the greater tubicle which is lateral and bigger the bicipital groove also known as the intertuberccular groove anteriorly. So in here then we've got we've got uh as you might expect a ligament between the corocoid process and the clavicle. That's a coroclavicular ligament. Um, that's actually made up of of two ligaments, conoid and trapezoid, I think, something like that. Um, and then you have the ligaments connecting the clavicle to the acromian. The chromio acchromioclavicular ligaments here. But what you might not expect and is a bit weird is there's a ligament between the corocoid process and the acchromian. So why would you have a ligament between two parts of the same bone? What's that going to do? Well, that's the coroco acchromial ligament. What it's actually doing is it's reinforcing the joint capsule here between the clavicle uh and the acchromian of the scapula. Okay. So, we've gone deeper into the shoulder. We've looked at the bones of the pectoral girdle. That is the clavicle, the scapula, and the humorris. We've only looked at the proximal part of the humorus, the head of the humorris, and some of those bony bits that the muscles we've been talking about attached to. Um, we've talked about the uh sternocclavicular joints, the acchromioclavicular joints, and the corocoid process. We've talked about the parts of the scapula and how all this stuff links together. All right, so I hope your knowledge of the shoulder is pretty good right now. If you haven't seen the other muscular videos, go back and have a look at those. Um, thank you very much.