anatomy of subacoid systems. Um, please excuse me. I have a very mild cold, which is an occupational hazard when you when you work at a university with 20,000 students and it's the autumn. It's uh it's it's it's kind of a guaranteed thing. Anyway, right, let's warm my brain up again after teaching all day. Oh, brain. Um, subacoid systems. What are they? Well, um, we have three layers of meningis, right? connective tissues covering the brain. You have the delicate pom mater covering the surface of the brain and tightly stuck to it. Then you have a space and you have the arachnoid mater. The arachnoid mater is stuck to the deep surface of the jurometer. The tough covering that lines the bones inside the brain and really supports this very soft structure. The arachnoid ma really is like I say stuck to the deep surface of the guruma. So that space between the pator and the arachnoid mater is the subacoid space. A arachnoid because if we look in there we often find fibers criss-crossing that space. So it looks like a spider's web. In that subacoid space we find cerebrros spinal fluid. The fluid that the brain floats in to make it almost neutally buoyant so that it doesn't squash itself because it's it really is really really soft. and also so it doesn't squash the nerves and arteries and veins underneath the brain. Um in there in that subacoid space we also have arteries and veins and cranial nerves getting in and out. And the the subacoid systems then are shapes and spaces in that subacoid space that you know we love anatomy, we love naming things, we give them names. So let's work our way around the subaractid systems, name them and try to understand why they are named that way so that we can remember their names first of all. So here's a midsagittal section of the head. Let's just label all the ones that we can see on here uh as a little aid memoir. And if that's all you need, then you're done. You can leave. Um, but the the system, so a system is a it's like a big chamber or is it it's a chamber filled with fluid, right? I'm thinking of a toilet system. Is that just is that just a British thing? The toilet system or do they get called that around the world? Yeah, that's the thing that stores the water water and then you pull the handle and it goes flushes the toilet. Anyway, so the systems are uh these fluid fil spaces and they're often named by the bits of the brain that they are next to which is very helpful and much of the time that helps us remember their names. So also looking at the um these systems helps us better understand the structures of the brain in three dimensions which is kind of difficult to get to grips with. All right, so you've seen those labels. Uh there are more that aren't in the midsagittal uh section. So hang around for those. All right, let's uh let's do the big one first. So the big space down here is the magna, but we've got the medela here and the cerebellum. This also might get called the cerebellum medelery system. And in fact, this bit might get called the posterior cerebellum medelery system. You got to imagine this space continues in three dimensions around the medulla magna. Now the reason this one's so important is because of course the cerebra spinal fluid is flowing through the ventricular system inside the brain to the fourth ventricle and then that CSF can leave the fourth ventricle through two lateral apertures and a median aperture and that CSF flows to the magna. Um so it's the first place to collect a lot of that that CSF. So through here we've got things like cranial nerves 9, 10, and 11 running through here to to leave the cranial cavity. Here's the ponds. So around here, we can see some spaces. So this is the this is the pontine system. Sometimes called the pre- pontine system because if you were considering moving in this direction, you get to it before the ponds. Um so in the prepontine system, then we've got the baslar artery running up on this side, haven't we? uh sending uh branches out to the ponds and whatnot. So cerebellum medulla if you imagine this threedimensional shape and a space running around here that sometimes gets called the cerebelloo medullery system. You can imagine that the space lateral to the ponds here uh gets called the cerebelloo ponty system. So we're saying that there's a space around the ponds and around the medulla and that's not too surprising. You can see there's there's an angle there, right? And there's a bit of so there's sistns there as well. Cerebelloo pontine cerebellum medallery. As we move superiorly here we have the interpoduncular system. So this is the level of the midbrain and um here. So we're in we're in there and the midbrain is sending podunks up to the cerebrum. So this space between the two temporal loes anterior to the midbrain as it's passing through that temporal notch. Um so anterior to the podunks that's the interpoduncular system. Um, in here we're seeing the ocular motor nerve, cranial nerve three. We're seeing the basel artery becoming the two posterior cerebral arteries. We're also seeing the superior cerebella artery in there. And then if on the other side, so if that's the interpoduncular system there, over here we have the quadriinal system. So on the posterior midbrain we have these caliculi little hills the four caliculi uh and they get called the um the corpora quadrogea the four twinned bodies right and you can see there's a space there that's another system the quadrogeinal system this is then inferior to the splenium of the corpus colosum it's superior to the cerebellum posterior to the midbrain it actually imagine it again curves around continues around here in three dimensions although actually the lateral part often gets called the um ambient system. So in there we've got the great cerebral vein of Galen. We've got the pineal gland. We've got the triclear nerve in there. We're also going to find those superior cerebellar arteries again and posterior cerebral arteries, aren't they? Aren't we? As they come around here and run around um nearby. So the pituitary gland is in the celotica. This here is the optic kayazm. There's the phalamus. Here uh the optic kayazm is in a subacoid system. This is the kaismatic system or the supraellar system superior to the cellotica. So this is a space in here. So there's the frontal lobe. This is a space between the hypothalamus and the bone um in there. You can maybe see the spaces a little bit better there. So there's the the optic cayazm pituitary gland will be sitting there and you can now see there's a space there inferior to that lobe that the optic kayazm is in. So that is another system the kaismatic system in there. There's another one up in there. We How are we going to get in there? All right. So, if this is the third ventricle, [clears throat] can you see the anterior wall in the midline of the third ventricle is like really thin. This is the lamina terminalis. [clears throat] Just anterior to the lamina terminalis. Oh, we can see the blood vessel. Just anterior to the lamina terminalis is a subaractid system. It is called the sistern of the lamina terminalis. Um so it's in that midline space right there's a space between the left and right loes. Um and we can see there there is the anterior cerebral artery. So the anterior cerebral arteries are in there and also the anterior communicating artery linking the two anterior cerebral arteries is usually in there. So the the sistern of the lamina termininalis it's up in there. Uh yeah it's it's up so it's between the two. Oh that doesn't that doesn't actually come apart. It's up in there anyway. Oh as we're in this really finicky region. Um so here are the internal corroted arteries which will become the middle cerebral arteries and give off the anterior cerebral arteries. So the the the internal corroted arteries are actually going through the cavernous sinus right but when they leave the cavernous sinus and run superiorly they are in their own um corroted system for a little way. So there's a corroted system on either side. So would be in here somewhere. Oh, we've also got the uh the cural system. So, these are the temporal loes. We we said this was the interpoduncular system. If you go in there and around, you can um pull that apart in there. The optic tract runs around the midbrain and those podunkles, those cerebral cura, the sistern running around the midbrain in there is the cural system but that of course is going to become the ambient system or the lateral part of the quadrogeminal system but you get the gist. So that space that space in in there running around the midbrain brains are tricky. Oh well yeah okay so if that's the uh the longitudinal fissure in the midline and this is the lateral fish or the lateral sulcus frontal lobe temporal lobe if you pull the frontal lobe and temporal lobe apart in there you see the insular lobe or the insula some more gray matter right there's a um there's a subacoid system in there as well so the subacoid system in hair gets called the the sylvian system because of the this gets called the sylvian fissure as well as being called the lateral fissure or sylvvian sulcus or it gets called the insula system because of the insula lobe that's in there. Oh no wait wait wait I just remember of course I got this guy haven't I? Um all right we should be able to see uh the sylvian system on this and oh that's nice. There we go. So there's the uh the sylvian system or the insula system up against the insular lobe. In there we find the uh middle cerebral artery. [snorts] Cool. Oh, there's another one in the place. So okay. So where is the subatenoid system that's not in the head? uh the spinal cord of course continues to be surrounded by pator and have a subacoid space and then arachnoid mater and duramator. The lumbar system is a subacoid system between well from inferior to where the spinal cord ends at about the L1 L2 vertebral level. So the lumbar system is where we find the corderina. This is where we find the spinal nerves descending before leaving uh before leaving. Um so the lumbar system. So again we've got cerebral spinal fluid in here. This is of course the preferred location for sampling cerebral spinal fluid whatever you might be looking for. So the lumbar system is in the vertebral column between L1 and L2 to about S2. All right. That's the anatomy of the subacoid systems. Largest spaces in the subacoid space. Useful to know about because they are um landmarks when you're looking at radiology. Uh and if you know what's in those [music] spaces, that helps you know where you are in the brain and what should be there and what shouldn't be there. I guess if you're a neurosurgeon, these are access corridors to get to things without having to poke holes through things. If you're a neur neurosurgeon, you should be making this video, not me. Right. Uh, okay. Speak to you next week.