We've come to the National Botanical Gardens of Wales today and in true Welsh style, it's absolutely hammering down the brain. Um, we've come to see Merats, haven't we? I'm getting geocaching. Merats and a geocache. So, we we got last week's souvenir in the geocaching Captain Mary hide do what thingy maji. So, we've got two souvenirs now. We'll get the second piece of the map on Wednesday, I think. So, the third, they don't tell us what we're going to do until we get into the week. So, this week, we've actually got quite a busy week. We've got to get 35 gold coins. Um, and you get five gold coins for a cash. The theme this week is on multicashes. Yeah, where you have to walk to a whole bunch of different places. You either pick up a clue or you find a clue and you there's a code and you put all the numbers in and you get a new latitude, longitude, you walk to that and hopefully find the cash. Um, does take quite a bit of time. So maybe we'll do one of those in the weekend. We'll see how we go. But we thought we'd get a sneaky geocache cuz there's a massive dome here, right? Massive greenhouse dome made by Who did the Girkin? Norman Foster. Sir Norman Foster did the Girkin in London, right? He also did the big glass dome here. And it um you know, it's like a Mediterranean or an African climate or something in there. There's loads of funky plants. All very cool. But there's a geocache in there, believe it or not. If it stops raining. Pretty sure this lake wasn't there when I parked here. Sure it wasn't here. Jump, jump, jump, jump, jump, jump, jump. The cash was open. And it's been chucking down with rain, but that's a really dry spot that it's hidden in. So, the cash has stayed dry. That was lucky. Anything else? Anything else? That's the round toast there. Should we open those? Is that it there? That was cool. The next cast is in the dome. Let's see if we can find it. Well, he's on. I got two. 30 m that way. No, it smells awesome. We should have taken heat. So, it's up there. I think it's higher up. Of course, it's quite busy today. This is going to be tricky, isn't it? I need a drink. Um somewhere. Nope. Yeah, very guess it's a bit wonky. It's a bit further along. Excuse me. Kim spotted it. Says another 12 m on that wasn't it? Yeah. Oh, wow. It's getting quiet, which is good. Aboriginal painting. So, we can look at the plants and read the signs. And while we're looking at the plants, look for what we're looking for. Got a lot of paths crossing over and under one another. So, it could be on either level cuz the GPS stores. Could be in a matter of work. Pretty pretty color. So, we've resorted to the hint, which was confusing, but Jack's used a bit of his knowledge to make sense of it. So now what we think the clue is pointing at. There's a gardener working. So we'll have a cup of coffee, something to eat, and then we'll come back. Going to find this one. Want this one. There's a lot of muggles here. Found it. So, we found it eventually. Um, there are otter here down by the ponds, which nobody ever sees. I fancy going have a look anyway. Still trying to find an otter. So, we're going to sit down by the pond. There's another cash down by there. See if we can find an down there. Down by there. Um, and then uh back to the van and home time. That was a good cash to find, wasn't it? Nice little bonus. Yeah. All right. I have to go and find some more this weekend. That's a look at that one. Actually, we found it. That's pretty cool. We did. We saw one or two otterters. Certainly at least one. And you see a flash of silver as we caught a fish. He was swimming. And that's the first time I've seen an otter. Ever. Ever. in the wild. First time here. I've been wanting to do that for ages, but haven't got any binoculars. I could see forgot the head torch last week. Right. So, we come back with binoculars. But that was very cool. I enjoyed that. Right. Look at the crocodiles now. And that I think is our 350th cash. Big one too. 350. I got 350. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.