This is a tricky one because what I want to do because I've been marking hundreds of exam papers and I see how some students are struggling with this. What I want to do is describe the loss of motor function that occurs when major nerves of the upper limb are injured. But there is so much dexterity, so much complexity here that I want to simplify it, but often you get pulled into that complexity. Um, and it just makes it harder to remember and learn. Okay, so middle of the road. I'm going to simplify a little bit, but I'm not going to oversimplify. But we're going to look at the major nerves of the upper limb from proximal to distal and we'll talk about injuries at classical sites and the loss of motor function as a result. See, I'm already I'm already skipping the sensory bits to make it a little bit simpler. exam questions often have a little bit of a clinical vignette, a clinical leadin. So, nerves can be injured by penetrating trauma that cuts the nerve, by uh compression, by um crushing. They can be injured by a joint dislocating and then stretching a nerve because nerves are not stretchy. If you stretch it, you damage the nerve. They can be injured by a bony fracture by the sharp pointy bits of the fracture itself or by the surgical repair of that fracture or by bony growths as a result of that fracture repair process. Um so there are a number of ways in which nerves can be injured and then um in real life we're not doing real life today we're doing hypotheticals but in real life nerves can be injured to a different degree. You know a nerve is a collection of thousands or tens of thousands or hundreds of thousands of individual neurons. So how much of the nerve has been injured and which part of the nerve has been injured which is going to innovate which muscles which can give you slightly different signs and symptoms. But we're going to we're going to distill it down. Um oh dear, this already isn't starting well. Um because if we're going to start proximally, well, we've got the brachial plexus. Okay, number one. Um so the brachial plexus, I'm not going to describe the anatomy of the brachial plexus. Don't do that, Sam. That's in another video. Um but in terms of injuries to the brachial plexus um of the most common injuries are an injury to the upper trunk and the lower trunk back here. Now the upper trunk will injure nerves formed from the C5 and C6 spinal nerve roots. If you're going to damage the upper trunk of the brachio plexus, the shoulder gets pulled away from the head. Somebody lands on their head and it pushes it away from the shoulder. So you you stretch these nerves. Like I say, nerves don't do stretching. So you tear um nerves associated with the upper trunk either before the upper trunk or during the upper trunk. Now those nerves are going to form the suprcapular nerve, the auxiliary nerve and the muscularcutaneous nerve. There's the auxiliary nerve. There's the musculutaneous nerve. We haven't got a supracapular nerve, but you can guess where it goes, right? Supracapular. So the supracapular nerve is going to innovate suppinatus and infraspinanatus. So two muscles of the rotator cuff. Um uh one of them up here we um that means that if the supcapular nerve has been injured you will struggle to start abduction of the upper limb at the shoulder and there will be weakness of lateral rotation of the humorris at the shoulder. If the auxiliary nerve has been damaged, well, that innovates the deltoid muscle. So likewise, the deltoid muscle is also involved in abduction. Okay? So we've lost abduction. Um, and if the muscular cutaneous nerve is injured, that goes to the muscles of the anterior arm, the anterior brachium, and these muscles flex the elbow. The thing to remember here is that biceps brachi also is a powerful sinator. Um don't worry I'm going to sum summarize this in a moment. So a sinator. So herbs pausy, upper brachial plexus, upper trunk brachio plexus injury. We've lost suprcapular nerve, auxiliary nerve and muscularcutaneous nerve function. And if you can't abduct, the arm will be hanging to the side. It will be adducted. The arm will be medially rotated because the medial rotators will be working and the lateral rotators won't be working. The elbow will be extended because the elbow flexors have been paralyzed. And because biceps brachi is a powerful supenator, that means the pronators will win and the forearm will be pronated. So with an upper trunk or superior trunk brachio plexus nerve injury, the arm will be at the side, the elbow will be extended and the forearm will be pronated. Herbs pulsey. One more brachio plexus one. A clumpkey's pausy describes an injury to the lower trunk way in there of the brachial plexus. Now this is involving uh the roots C8 and T1 and this will go on and contribute to the uh ulna nerve and the median nerve. M and this one's particularly awkward depending upon how affected everything is. So a clum keys pulsey is caused in the opposite direction. So the arm being pulled up like that, it's an obstetric injury during birth. Well, it isn't anymore because everybody knows their anatomy and nobody does this. Um but if you stretch the brachial plexus through the axilla, again, nerves don't stretch. That damages the lower trunk that gives a clumps pulsey. Now we'll talk about these nerves more but the ulna nerve is responsible for innovating almost all of the small muscles of the hand the intrinsic muscles of the hand. Um the median nerve is responsible for innovating u most of the muscles of the anterior forearm but the ulna nerve um innovates the ulna side of plexodum profundus the deep flexor of the fingers and also um flexor karpy ulnaris the flexor of the wrist on the ulna side. So in clumpies Pauly the most common sign is a form of claw hand. Um often digits four and five are hyperextended at the metacarpoalleneal joint and flexed at the interfallengeal joints like this. Um and this is ascribed to the lumbricals. The lumbercles are some fun muscles that hardly any students ever understand. But the lumbercles are important in properly extending and controlling extension of the fingers uh extension of the um interfallenal joints particularly because they pull on uh a dorsal hood. You see how I get sucked into this and it ends up being too complicated. Okay. Clumkeyy's pausy, lower brachial plexus injury. Look at the hand. Look at digits four and five. Look at that hyper extension of the metacarpoaleneeal joint and flexion of the interfallengeal joints giving that claw position because the lumbercles on this side of the hand innovated by the ulna nerve are paralyzed whereas many other muscles are kind of working. Now if the if the median nerve has also been affected then you'll see that across the hand. Um you the reason I'm doing that is that you may well see extension of the wrist if that flexor of the wrist has um been paralyzed but because there's quite a bit of overlap often the wrist is in an okay position. It's that bit it's that position of the fingers that you're concerned about. Clumpkey's py that's all we'll say about it. I've done another video about it properly. Okay, we can move on to the simpler stuff. The auxiliary nerve which we can see here runs around the humorris. So the auxiliary nerve can be damaged by dislocation of the shoulder. It can be injured by a fracture at the neck of the humorris and subse subsequent repair and what have you. The auxiliary nerve innovates the deltoid muscle. The deltoid muscle is responsible for abduction as well as um flexion and extension of the humorous at the glenoumeral joint of the shoulder. Um but if the auxiliary nerve is injured, deltoid is paralyzed. Um the thing you will notice is um a loss of abduction of the upper limb. Supraspinatus will still be intact. So you can start off abduction but you need deltoid to get the arm up here. So auxiliary nerve injury up at the proximal humorous, loss of abduction, loss of deltoid. The muscularcutaneous nerve here running on the anterior humorous. The muscularcutaneous nerve is the nerve running to the muscles of the anterior compartment of the arm. So biceps, brachi and brachiialis and what have you. These muscles are flexors of the elbow. So if the musculutaneous nerve is injured up here, you lose flexion of the elbow. The other nerve that's up here in the axilla is the radial nerve. And see where it is there. So the radial nerve gets injured in something called Saturday night pausy which is um somebody drinks a lot of alcohol become very inebriated and they put their arm over the back of the chair and they fall asleep for a long period of time very very heavy sleep and they don't move and because of where that nerve is that means the nerve gets compressed. This is why we don't when somebody's got a a lower limb fracture and they're using a um a crutch. This is why crutches don't go up into your armpits anymore because they crush the radial nerve. So if the radial nerve is injured at this level up at the axilla, well the radial nerve innovates the muscles of the posterior compartment of the arm and the posterior compartment of the forearm. So you will lose uh innovation of triceps, you'll lose innovation of all of these guys, which means that if you injure the radial nerve at the axilla, you lose elbow extension and you lose wrist extension and you lose finger extension. Okay, another fun exam question. Um it was in one of my exams actually and students were very good at it. um the radial nerve winds around the humorris. So a mid humorous fracture is likely to damage the radial nerve at this point. And likewise uh orthopedic repair at this point needs to be careful not to damage the radial nerve. And then of course bony growths as a result of that fracture can also damage the radial nerve. If you damage the radial nerve at this point, um, elbow flexion may still be functioning because you've innovated some of the triceps, but hey, elbow flexion is probably not going to be happening if this bone's fractured anyway. So, if if the radial nerve is injured at this point, you'll certainly lose um wrist extension and finger extension. So you'll get, you know, wrist drop same as before, but we got to think about the nerve traveling down the arm. If it's injured at different points along the arm, if it's already innovated stuff, that stuff's still going to work. It's the stuff it hasn't got to yet that's going to lose its innovation, lose its motor function, and be paralyzed. So radial nerve mid humorris uh median nerve we see the median nerve at the elbow anterior to the elbow. So this can be damaged so it's right up against the bone here. So this can be damaged by a supraondila hummeral fracture. It can be damaged by a penetrating injury. It could be damaged by elbow fracture, elbow dislocation. The media nerve is going to innovate the muscles of the anterior forearm and the muscles of the thear eminence and the lumbricals on this side. So if the media nerve is injured here, you will lose finger flexion, wrist flexion. Um you'll lose the thumb's complicated. You'll lose opposition of the thumb. You'll lose flexion of the thumb. Abduction of the thumb. Careful with the thumb. There's a lot going on with the thumb. Median nerve injured at the elbow. You lose opposition of the thumb. That's a good one. Opposition because it's weird. Um, and the media nerve also innovates the um pronator muscle. So, you lose pronation. So, if the media nerve is injured at the elbow, you lose pronation, you lose wrist flexion, you lose finger flexion. At least that's part of the story. Remember how I said the ulna nerve also innovates the ulna part of flexor digtorum profundus the deep flexor muscle of the fingers and it also innovates um flexor cararpi naris the wrist flexor on this side. So that complicates things. So because of that overlap of medial nerve doing most of the work in the forearm nerve doing a little bit on the ner side. If a patient has a medial nerve injury at the elbow and you ask them to make a fist, um they won't be able to flex their fingers normally, but the bit of the flex digtorum profundus muscle that's innovated by the ulna nerve and still works will flex the little fingers. So you might get that sort of position. So flexodum superficialis in innovates will flex all the fingers that's gone. Flex digtor and profundus. The median nerve bit will innovate those fi will flex those fingers. Flex digtor and profundus will flex those fingers. Dab is gone. Dab it still works. You see how I so quickly go off topic. Somebody has a median nerve injury at the elbow. You ask them to flex their fingers. Fingers four and five will flex. The others won't because the muscles in the forearm innovated by the median nerve are now paralyzed. And that gives the hand of benediction. The hand of benediction only occurs because you have asked the patient to make a fist and they're unable to. That's as good as they can do. Moving on, the media nerve then runs down the forearm, innovates almost all of these muscles, and then it's going to run through the carpal tunnel here to get into the hand. when it gets into the hand, it's going to innovate the muscles of the thear eminence at the base of the thumb and it's going to innovate a couple of lumbles here. So if the if the median nerve is injured at the wrist, which could occur with a fracture of the distal radius, a collie fracture, it could occur with carpal tunnel syndrome. It could occur with a fracture of the wrist. It could occur with a a penetrating injury to the wrist. If the median nerve is injured at the wrist, well, these muscles have already been innovated. So, they work fine. But these nerves distal to the injury point in the base of the thumb, they don't work. So, if a median nerve at the wrist, a median nerve injury at the wrist has occurred, opposition will be weak or impossible and and flexion and abduction. But opposition, stick with opposition. That's the the one you can remember. Stop there. Okay. Well, you know, stop with the median nerve. We'll move on to the NA nerve. Final nerve for today. Uh the ulna nerve. Now, you know, the era nerve runs around uh the medial epicondile of the humorus. It's your funny bone. That's where that's where you always bang it, right? So the ulna nerve can be damaged by elbow fracture, elbow dislocation, elbow injury. Um and the key thing here that we said is that the ulna nerve is going to innovate almost all of the intrinsic muscles of the hand. So if the ulna nerve is injured at the elbow in the hand, you will lose abduction and adduction of the fingers. That's what you're looking for because those intrinsic muscles, the interosius muscles that are innovated by the on the nerve are paralyzed. So abduction and adduction of the fingers are lost. Also um this muscle in here adductor pelicus will also be um paralyzed because that's innovated by the ulna nerve. So adduction of the thumb will also be lost. Um yes, the ulna nerve also innovates flex digital and profundus or part of it and flex carpial narus which means there might be some changes to wrist flexion and changes to finger flexion but really nerve injury at the elbow. look to the hand and test those intrinsic muscles of the hand by testing for abduction and adduction of the fingers. Let's summarize. Okay, so you got to remember all this. Um let's go back to the top. So brachial plexus upper trunk if the upper trunk is injured which occurs when the head is pushed away from the shoulder. The presentation is that the the arm is hanging by the side. Um the the whole upper limb is medially rotated. The elbow is extended. The forearm is pronated and that's herbs pulsey. Whereas clumsy's pulsey is that side of the brachial plexus is stretched. So the lower trunk has been injured and with clumpkey's pulsey go to the hand and we're thinking about the ulna nerve largely but we're thinking about the position of these fingers hyperextension of the metacarpal joints and flexion of the interfallengeal joints. Um auxiliary nerve to deltoid. So if the auxiliary nerve is injured, you lose deltoid, can't do abduction. If the musccutaneous nerve is injured, that means you can't do elbow flexion. If the median nerve is injured at the forearm, you can't do wrist flexion, finger flexion, opposition of the thumb. If the radial nerve is injured at the axilla, you can't do extension of the elbow, extension of the wrist, extension of the fingers. If the media nerve is injured at the wrist, you can't do opposition, but everything else is okay. If the owner nerve is injured at the elbow, you go to the hand and you test the intrinsic muscles of the hand for abduction and adduction. That's the stuff you got to know to pass my exams. That's the stuff you got to know. All right, those I mean, if you want to find out more about the nerves and the movements and all that sort of stuff, just search YouTube for my name and whatever it is you're interested in anatomy wise, and if I've done it, it'll pop up. But that's a summary of the major injuries at the major joints, which is where they often occur, to major nerves, and loss of motor function. Oh, I hope that helps you remember. I'm sorry. Is it just is complicated. There is more detail to this, but you can grow from that and add the detail with experience if you need it. Otherwise, that might be all you need. Stop talking, Sam. Okay, let's go home. Um, see you next week.