I love climbing hills. I think it's something about the progression, not just in gaining distance, but gaining height, achieving something briefly before you drop back down again. I don't know. Just feels nice running up hills. I think there's an ultramarathon. Probably a combined marathon, long distance walk, multi-day thing cuz there's markers everywhere. So, we must be going around the G. Look at that slow ultra run pace. I got to say, I am a fan. It's so much nicer than running fast like I used to. Um, I keep saying I'm trying to apply it to my working life as well. I'm not sure I'm getting there yet. So this is week 46. Next week is week 47. So we start teaching on week one. I teach anatomy Swans University which means we're teaching every week on the graduate entry medicine program. Um much of that time to physician associates and a couple of other courses. So we get a couple of weeks where we don't teach at Christmas, but otherwise we're pretty much teaching every week for those 46 weeks. So this week was the last anatomy session. Tomorrow I'm giving my last teaching session of the academic year, embryology of the cardiovascular system, heart and stuff. And then I got two weeks to look after students that will be sitting there supplementary exams in 3 weeks time. And then I can take two weeks off and then we start all over again with week one in the induction week. I should go back and watch those vlogs I did of those ultra runs. I think the last couple were in 2018. That was ages ago. Been doing a lot of rock climbing since the mountaineering. Um, so I talked in previous weeks, I think, about recognizing my enthusiasm and high points and low points. Again, something I relate to running, but I get that in my annual work cycle. So, after the last anatomy session, I grab all of our learning outcomes and all the curriculum information that I've got cuz everything moves around a little bit every week. So, I look at how the weeks have moved around and I move all the anatomy to to match and move all the learning outcomes around and all that sort of stuff. So, it's a big two-day job, but it's one of those jobs where I look at it and what I'm doing is I'm looking at all the work that's coming up over the next year. And when you look at a whole year's worth of work that you got to do again, you know, consider I'm only just getting to the end of this year's worth, you think, oh god, that's so much work. But I get paid. So I have a couple of days of, "Oh my word, can I really do all this again?" I was going to I was looking at the weather forecast and looking out the window and thinking it's not going to rain today. It's forecast to shower and rain. It's like nah, it'd be fine. We'll go climbing. We'll go down third sister or something. And then I chucked it down with rain and everything's soaking now. See, sunset again now. It's uh it's going to be a lovely day. Or is it? This path is made of bricks. You see them poking through occasionally. It's made of bricks because this used to be a brick works. All of these hills down here in South Wales were full of mines and workings and what have you. And uh they've all gone back to nature now. That pond over there is the water source for the brick works. And it goes underneath this path. There's all sorts of weird shapes and paths and drop offs and stuff because it's all old industry. Oh, ferns are going to be wet. And after I've rejig the timet and looked at all that work we're doing next year, of course, I go to the first week. go to week one which is the induction week for the new intake of first years and I look at what I have to do and when I have to do it and I give some induction talks I'm talking about health and safety with anatomy and your first time with the body that sort of thing and immediately I start thinking oh there'll be 150 or 160 new faces people I can talk to about anatomy people who are going to have all these new discoveries again for the first time, which is always so much fun. Then the second week, we're doing an introduction to the abdominal cavity, also lots of fun. Week after that, we're looking at lungs and respiratory system. And immediately, I remember how much fun the first parts of the autumn term are. And I start looking forward to it. It's going to be good. Look at this. Starting to get berries on the holly bushes already. It's not even August yet. We're starting to see the mrica and all sorts of changes. Um, and again, that reminds me how much I enjoy autumn. Autumn is my favorite time of year. Cools down a little bit. The temperature, the temperature is actually better for climbing. The weather's still good. September, October. We're going to try and sneak away and do another reasonable sized walk at the end of September, beginning of October. Uh in the the autumn, I get back to mountain biking on all the trails around here, which I really, really enjoy. Uh you know, there are lots of good parts to my annual cycle that I really enjoy, which is why I've been doing it for so long and why I still enjoy it. I just need to kind of look forward a bit and remember all that and then I I feel good again. Like I say, I always bring it back to sports and running is a big one of mine. You have these dips and then you you know you're going to come out of these dips cuz that's why you do it. All right, got to try not to fall over here again. See that mind working is uh eating away the path a little bit. The ferns will die down all on their own and go brown. The hillsides will change color and become all these lovely autominal hues. So I can enjoy my my fern showers while I still get them. All right. Watch out for bees. What is the weather going to do today? There's gray sky, there's blue sky, there's not much breeze. The weather forecast has been rubbish recently. Rubbish in terms of just not being reliable or accurate. So, do we chance it? You know, if I go outside, it'll probably rain. If I don't go outside, it'll probably be lovely. Um, I'll figure it all out while I'm running, just like how I figure everything else out.