We're often quite bad at talking about the anatomy of the veins. Uh we're very good at talking about arteries and often not so good talking about veins. We assume veins follow the same roots as arteries. We're going to have a look at the veins of the small bowel very very briefly. And they don't follow the same route. They're similar but they're different. And this is important because veins also get blocked. So what would happen if the veins draining the small bowel were to become oluded? Um, so we'll have a quick run through the parts of the small bowel and then we'll talk about the veins, the arrangement of veins that are draining the parts of the small bowel and where they go to and then the problems that might arise. Okay, this is a little tricky because well, it's difficult to see the blood vessels that supply blood to the small bowel because it's so folded. So, we can see some of it on here, but we're going to have to do a bit of imagining. And it's the same with textbooks. Text textbooks have got nice illustrations of the arterial supply of the small bowel and typically not much of the uh the venus drainage. But why this is special is because um you eat your food, goes to the stomach, then then it goes into the small bowel next. The main function of the small bowel is then uh digestion, breaking down those nutrients to the smallest components, absorbing them into the blood. That's where you get your your energy and your nutrients from. And then once it's in the blood of the small bowel, all of that blood is going to pass to the liver. So the hypathocytes get first dibs on that blood um because of the roles of the liver getting rid of toxins and meta metabolism looking after glucose lipids proteins that sort of thing and then the blood has to pass through the liver to get to the inferior vennea in there. So that's the general flow through what then are the parts of the small bowel. Um right take the liver out. That's what I mean about the inferior vennea in there. Here's the stomach. Take the stomach out. So, the stomach is sending its contents into the first part of the small intestine. We'll take the transverse colon out. And what we see here is we see the geodinum curving around the pancreas and then the geodinum will feed into the rest of the small bowel uh ginum eventually becoming over in this quadrant somewhere. So we have to consider the geodinum the jedinum and the ium. So let's start down at the end the distal most part because the iium is going to um pass its consents into the seeum. So the first part of the ascending colon. So let's work our way backwards and we can already see a lot of vessels here. So the main vein we're interested in is the superior misenteric vein. We talk about for gut, midgut, and hind gut embryologically and that's useful for adult anatomy because the for gut is supplied with blood by the celiac trunk, the branch of the aorta up here. The mid gut is supplied with blood by the superior misenteric artery, the second anterior branch. Where's the we missing a um and the the hind gut is supplied with blood by uh the inferior misenteric artery, a branch down here. Um so we are looking at the small bowel. The small bowel is part of the mid gut. So it receives blood from the superior misenteric artery. So it's going to drain blood back to the superior misenteric vein, the venus equivalent. But it's a bit different because so this is a very very long tube and along the length of that tube there are very short straight veins. So imagine you've got capillaries in the wall of the tissue there and the the venus side of the capillaries those tiny venules are getting bigger and bigger and bigger and they they form small veins. So we have straight veins draining blood from the wall of the small intestine along the length and then those straight veins will drain into um many other smaller veins. Um and what we can see in here uh so if I turn this around we can see the misentry of the small bowel. The purpose of the misentry in the small of the small bowel is to let the bowel move around but also to carry arteries, veins, lymphatics, nerves and what have you to the small bowel from the posterior abdominal wall. So in here we're seeing the cut edges of multiple arteries and multiple veins. So there are multiple jed uh there are multiple ial veins at this end multiple jaginal veins at that end and each of those veins will drain individually into the superior misenteric vein. So the color here is a little bit muted. We got a little bit of a pink, a little bit of a purple and I think the color here is muted to show that these blood vessels are within the misantry. So they're covered by a layer of paritinium. They're between two layers of paritinium. Um, and the quality of the blood is a little bit different because what we're talking about here is we're talking about veins that are passing from one organ to another organ, which means this is a portal venus system. These aren't veins that are going back to the heart. These are veins that are going from one organ to another organ, then back to the heart. So, these are portal veins. The different. the oxygen has been used up um but the blood is full of nutrients and there's a fairly high CO2 content because they've already been through the capillary beds of one tissue. Right? So from the we have lots of straight veins coming together draining into ial veins which are draining into the superior misenteric vein. the jedinum. Again, we have lots of straight veins coming together, draining into jagedinal veins and those drain individually into the superior uh misenteric vein and that means there are lots of links between all of these veins. There are lots of anastmosis. There are lots of roots of potential collateral circulation which is a good thing. So if these small veins in here did get accluded, the blood could probably go around that occlusion and still get back to the superior vennea. Okay. So how do I know that this is superior vennea superior misenteric vein? Sorry. How do I know that this is the superior misenteric vein and that this is the superior misenteric artery? Well, if I take this out and turn it around, uh, here we see the superior misenteric artery branching from the aorta. So, next to it running with it will be the superior misenteric vein. But like I said, this doesn't go straight back to the inferior vennea. Um, so that is where the superior mentic vein runs and all those branches then drain into it. Got to try and imagine all that in 3D. Lots of we can kind of see the arcade shape that we imagine here and the straight art arteries and veins. These are the veins and arteries of the of the large bell, the ascending colon and the descending colon. Okay, that's the judgum taken care of. What about the geodinum then? Well, I said that the geodinum curls around the pancreas. The other thing about the geodinum is that the geodenum is where the for gut meets the mid gut. Um so there's an overlapping blood supply here which means that um the veins of the distal half of the geodinum will drain back to the superior misenteric vein. But the veins of the proximal part of the geodinum are a little bit different. The arteries would come from the celiac trunk and from the superior misenteric arteries. What we've got here, we find arcades. We find pancreaticoal arteries and veins. So pancreatic geodinal veins are running in the curve around here. And there is a pancreaticoal vein anteriorly and there's a pancreatic geodinal vein posteriorly. And because it's an arcade, so a C-shape running around the C-shape and the blood is actually running in the veins in those two directions rather than being one continuous vein. We then call these veins the the superior anterior pancreatic artery and the inferior anterior artery. And then you got posterior versions that of that as well. Also a posterior superior pancreaticoal artery on the posterior side and a posterior inferior pancreatic geodinal on the posterior side. Fun, huh? I've got another model. Look, here's a model of the pancreas here and we can see the curve of the artery around here, the pancreaticoal artery. Um, so remember there's a vein or imagine that there's a vein running with it as well. So this would be the inferior anterior pancreatic giodinal artery and vein. This would be the superior uh anterior pancreatic judinal artery and vein. Nothing on the other side. What does this mean then? Well, to add another bit to the flow, the superior misenteric vein that we see here will meet the splenic vein here. Do you see how there's the spleen, splenic artery and splenic vein are over here. So, if I turn that around, there's the splenic vein there. So, here's the splenic vein meeting with the superior misenteric vein. um and they come together to form the hpatic portal vein and the hpatic portal vein is the vein then that's going to carry all that blood to the liver um which we see so it runs in the lesser momentum uh the connective tissue between the stomach and the liver and we see it here um if I lift the liver up like that there's the hpatic portal vein vein entering the hilum of the liver. Um, and you can see it running with an artery there, the hippatic artery proper that's supplying arterial blood to the liver. So, the hippatic portal vein is going to divide into two branches and enter the liver and then the blood is going to pass through microscopic channels between rows of hippatices. So, hpatocytes have got direct access to the blood because that's what they need to do the work that they need to do. So this blood will pass through all those microscopic channels and then collect in hypatic veins and because the liver surrounds the inferior vennea those hippatic veins will drain directly into the inferior vennea which will then take the blood back to the heart back to the right atrium. Now to complete all this this then means that there's the superior misenteric vein ilial veins andal veins drain into the superior misenteric vein. The inferior pancreatic ojiodinal veins will drain into the superior misenteric vein. But the superior pancreatic giodinal veins will drain into the hippatic portal vein because that's what's up at this end of the geodinum. There's the geodinum. There's the hippatic portal vein. So the superior pancreatic geodinal veins will drain into the hippatic portal vein. But all of that blood will make its way into the hippatic portal vein and then into the liver. Okay. What might the problems be of all of this? Well, um, arteries supply blood to the small bowel. Blood passes through the capillaries in the wall of the small bowel. Blood leaves the capillaries of the small bowel into the veins that we've just described. If the vein or one of the veins uh particularly a major vein if a vein after those anastmosis if the superior misenteric vein itself was to become oluded by a clot a blood clot a thrombus or maybe a septic embolis you know from an infection what have you. If blood couldn't pass through the superior misenteric vein then the arterial blood can still pass into the bowel. So you'd see maybe edema, uh congestion, um maybe even um because of course the blood can pass into the bowel but would struggle to leave the bowel, you might get dilation of the veins there and bleeding uh within the tissue. Um but also you're going to then have a problem of passing blood into the small bowel through the small bowel and out of the small bowel. So it is going to restrict blood flow which will lead to eskeeia which could then lead to you know uh infaction and necrosis and damage to the bowel and sepsis and what have you. So limiting blood flow from the small bowel will have an effect on blood flow to the small bowel. Um it's a little bit I think it it's um it's less common because of all of those anastmoses because you've got lots and lots of um straight veins linking to multiple ilial veins and general veins and those all link up. You got lots of anastmoses in the misantry. So the later that clot forms, the more of that venus network is blocked, the greater the risk of uh causing a a problem. Right? And then the other thing we consider when we understand all of this anatomy um is um a portoymic anastmosis. So I've talked about that elsewhere. Do a little search for that if you haven't seen it already. But um all of the blood from the gastrointestinal tract has to pass through the liver plus blood from the pancreas and the spleen. And as I said that blood is passing through microscopic channels in the liver. With liver disease the liver can become fibrosed. more fibrous tissue is in the liver than there should be. So those microscopic channels start to get blocked. It gets much harder to pass all of this blood through the liver and yet there are lots of veins linking to the superior vennea through alternate roots and those are the portocyic anastmosis. Those are roots by which the blood from the bowel instead of passing through the liver can take other roots will take other roots because the resistance to flow will be lower and then pass back to the superior vennea and uh continue um circulating around the body. Um but those veins in those anastmoses uh will likely be taking more blood than normal. Veins are not as strong as arteries. veins are quite easily oluded uh quite easily compressed rather um which means that if you pass more blood through those veins those veins will become dilated. So there is a risk again of of um of hemorrhage talking of veins being easily um compressed actually. So yeah, with the the veins of the small bowel, not only might they be blocked by a thrombus, but they could also be compressed by a mass such as a tumor in the abdomen. Sorry, just popped into my head that one. Okay, that's it. We've talked about the venus drainage of the small bowel. It's pretty straightforward. We start with the straight veins. Then we talk about the veins named after the part of the small intestine they're draining. uh pretty much all of them drain to the superior misenteric vein which will meet with the splenic vein to form the hippatic portal vein. The geodinum the proximal half of the geodinum being part of the for gut will send its superior pancreaticoal veins up to the hippatic portal vein but the principle is the same. All right, I hope that was useful. See you next week.