 We've climbed here a lot these are kind of nice steep slightly wet because the tide's only just gone out so the bottoms are still wet and I've forgotten my clipstick and the bolts are quite high over you know it'll be fine no we'll make it a bit more exciting we can we can clip the lowest bolts when we lower off each one and move our way along the wall These roots are the ones on the right supposed to be five but the bottoms are tricky enough I reckon they're probably about six eight and the others go to about six eight because they're looking improbable but actually there are really big holes on them and then maybe there's six B's and C's on the other side so I'm probably climbing about I did climb seven A last year I'm probably about seven A um seven B if I really made an effort I guess but Kim's climbing about six B's six B which means if we if this is kind of a warm-up type thing tomorrow we'll go and do some routes that are about six B's six C kind of a bit challenging interesting without being impossible and injury producing um as locals like I know this is a sun trap as well so I know that today's a sunny day tomorrow's a cloudy day so if you want to get as much of the sun as possible this is what he came here um so we went to we went to visit family last week as well as do some work up in Scotland um and kind of got me thinking so you have family you have kids you've got that close-knit family unit and as a parent you want the best for your kids right our kids are going to university so this is another reason why it's in the forefront of my mind um so you want the people that you live with to be healthy and happy and content and independent and all that right and you have the same thing for your wider family as well don't you sure you don't see him as often I haven't seen Martin and Helen for well very occasionally for some years uh nor Ryan and Claire and you want the same thing you uh you go and see your wider family you want exactly the same things you want to see that they're content and happy and growing and um you know this this goes for like your grandparents and grandchildren your aunties your uncles your nieces your nephews your cousins your second cousins like that so there's a bigger community isn't it we we don't live with we don't see so often maybe some some we do some we don't but you want the same for them as you want for your really close family your kids right and then working at university um well now my students are around the same age as my kids not all of them but some older ones but you feel the same you've got this this bigger community of young people that are starting off in their lives and they feel like an even broader family and they come through and they go off and you want the same thing you realize you want the same things for them you want to support them so that they can follow the paths they want to follow they can become independent they can become content and happy and do well right um so your family is is growing um and these will these guys will go off and they'll become health care professionals like doctors they'll become engineers and you know build bits of the code they'll become scientists um they'll become captains of industry they'll become creatives you know these are so when they move on from university they're going to move into other communities communities so that community gets even bigger again and they're going to contribute and make those communities better for other people right this is linking back to my example last week about um tastewise university um one of their graduates going off to essentially form grand theft auto and rockstar games uh i can see some drippy bits avoid the drippy bits use lots of chalk um it's always a bit drippy because you know it's been dry for a few days um so i work with a lot of people a lot of students a lot of colleagues and at university you have a huge range of different people we're maybe similar maybe just some some people are like me and some people are not like me and yet we all get along we all argue come to solutions work together and uh help people along their paths they're helping me along my path as well and uh try to make the world a better place anything else there's a bolt there huh there's a bolt there that one yeah that's my first bolt oh right i thought you were talking about that one over there no that's the second loop oh dear well if i get this bolt we can essentially click the other one and come down so this is the only dodgy one over there ready okay right let me see your knot yeah your knot's good you lay's good i'm just going to get to that right oh my word good job i'm good at this isn't it super strong it's so wet yeah there we go you're good well you are now there we go how was that? did you? oh right there's a much more falling and not falling too little water oh it's so wet oh yeah it's always wet because of the sea there we go yeah the bit of your shoulders on is that bit at the start yeah yeah that's what it's with something quite like a a clip in there or a clip stitch at least oh beautiful that's so good this root these roots always make me nervous so it's hard as they look oh it wasn't as bad as i thought it was going to be so it's wet but it's covered in barnacles so it's really grippy and actually the holes are really really big you just have to find them a little bit a handful of chalk adds a little confidence it's fine um yeah what about those other people? what about those other people? the people because the planet is full of them what about our wider communities? like in Wales in Britain and then beyond Britain to Europe and the Middle East and Asia and Africa and North America and South America what about those wider communities those people we never see? um i find with travelling i think everything back to anatomy i find with travelling that um the more i travel the more i find that people are similar everybody's a little bit different but everybody's largely similar similar needs and desires and wants but maybe different beliefs uh same with anatomy whenever i look inside people we're all we're all a little bit different inside but we're all we're all generally the same but we don't see we don't see all those people do we easily? um the news tends to just report on things of interest which are often particularly bad or particularly good not just your average boring person like me it looks boring yeah you know the rope's gonna end up in the water at some point it always does but i've probably got my triple dry feet in the roots Sehr Sehr this year you spent plenty of time hanging there and looking at it I think that was really good come on get with the program it's gonna come this is not gonna happen right I'm just protecting the water I think it's gonna come swinging down past behind you I think you should be going back there there come in well I'm stood just now right that yeah whoopsies all right let's do a nice long tail because it's a soggy rope now come on that no not slipping out having a nice long like that super long tail one two i've got a triple i want to start in there oh this isn't as good as I thought it's going to be I think I'm starting up yeah that curve's no good um well there is a pocket there yeah that's what you were saying i think i want to go oh it's so wet it's going so wet oh huge hmm salty so of course yeah of course all these people are out there in the world and we we don't see them we don't think about them because we haven't met them and they're all essentially very similar to us but we think they're different i'm going wrong way left um and that's why i like vlogs before vlogs i used to like blogs written written blogs that's kind of the early internet i used to really enjoy that and just seeing how normal people live their lives because it's you know you don't know all these things until you see people do these things and they're normal and you think oh that's interesting that's cool where are we where am i going why am i grunting if it's a five um and that's why i like vlogs and so some people have been making vlogs and of course become famous which has changed who they are and what they do so i very much like the vlogs of people people that are doing normal things normal people i like that okay oh oh that was good that is a bit stiff for a five that one yeah i think they're six a's yeah i've got a bit of a pump it's quite steep the holes are big very good though right in the rock pool oh oh no there we go i tell i tell uh well so i have students i also have prospective students right i have kids from school coming to university because they're interested in university we want to show them what university is maybe it's right for them maybe it's not but i tell these kids i also tell my students particularly the ones that are doing medicine is that there are lots of paths there are lots of right answers lots of correct paths you could take but there are so many out there that you don't know about so in medicine medicine is a huge field there's so much that you could do that you could specialize in right and only as you go through the medicine program do you see all these specialties and students start to think oh i didn't know that was a thing i want to do that or i want to do that or i did want to do that and then when you've actually seen more about it you will as you don't want to do it and it's the same with vlogs and blogs you can find out so much about what there is to do in the world and the people in the world and what they do and what they take for granted you've never heard of you think i want to do that i'm not talking about like exciting adventure travel around the world type things i'm talking about normal things normal day-to-day things i know this this is not a good example of this is a normal day day-to-day thing for us but you know normal boring things i do like but it could become a normal day-to-day thing for someone if they're interested in climbing yeah they can join their local group and yeah i have students that have vlogs caris you need to make some more vlogs you haven't made a vlog in ages and they've seen how students live their lives um i watch vlogs and live video people who are truck drivers people working 7-elevens sure people who are sailing around the world um people who are um working as scientists people who have lost their job and looking for another job people who are making their own indie games in their bedrooms just all those things and is it what's the word boy boy what the boy when you're kind of watching somebody boy or isn't boy yes it's not it's not a voyeurism thing because these people are making something and choosing to share it for the sake of sharing it and that's the point is the sake of sharing it not numbers or anything like that it's just let's share our lives with each other you know within limits right sorry i don't think i've seen the sea this calm since last year and the tide's coming in and it's just going to creep up on us yeah because it's so flat we do get cut off here it's a 10 meter tide today 10 meters so uh Would you like video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video video Would you like that? Would you like that? Would you like that? Would you like that? Would you like that Would like that Would like that Would like that I'm going to go there. What are you looking for? Oh, again, I think it's just until I get there. Oh, I've scraped my arm on. The rock. Yeah, look. Nice. Nice. You're not good enough. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, good thing. Oh, good thing. Oh. Tough, isn't it? Oh, my days. I've got a bit of skin missing on my wrist. Cool. You got a little bit of a pump there? Yeah, a bit. Did you see? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, real stretch for me. I've just got it. I'm just like, right, just quickly get my other hand on quick. And it's steep to your pump. The idea of warm up was not like your normal warm up for exercise, but a mental warm up and get used to the rock warm ups. You might be too tired to climb anything higher tomorrow. That's all good. I'll put it away. Thank you. Oh, that's not much of a hole. That's not much of a hole. That's not much of a hole. That right, there's a clogging tool right. Oh, that's not much of a hole. Ooh, that's OK. Not really a big jug, isn't that? Bit of a hole. Can we have a jug, please? There we go. Ooh, that's sharp. oh oh my god if we all if we all see each other if we all better understand that we're all similar want similar things but also a little bit different when our families expand, when our communities expand could humanity actually become a whole thing for the first time ever just imagine what just imagine what humanity could do if we all worked together instead of what human psychology makes us makes us do we see others as the other, as the threat as the unknown when we meet each other, when we see each other we realise we got a lot in common anyway so that's what I like about vlogging I like vlogging for the sake of vlogging it's not about numbers, it's about people it's about all of us maybe video internet is the first opportunity humanity will have to actually see ourselves again that's why we have a triple dry treated look because we live there I thought we had a clip on their lips yeah whipsies anyway yeah vlogging is about people right right right Thank you.