 oooohhhhhh oooohhh oooohhh Do you think you have what it takes to be a farmer? Well, that's what I'm going to find out for myself today, stepping out of the gym and on to the farm. I'm not only going to be performing physical labor, I'm going to talk to generations of farmers to find out what it really takes, including the financial hardships and the unpredictability of one of humanity's oldest jobs. So it's time to head to the farm and put in that day's worth of work. Meet the Vines. They are four generations of farmer who have been at the profession for over 100 years, and today they've graciously let me work on their property in order to learn how to do it myself. And I'm going to begin by learning under their young son Andrew as he teaches me something every farmer should know, and that is how to run a tractor. Welcome to my house. Wow, there's a sweet pad you got here, Andrew. All we need here is 12 hours of work. It's so comfy. It's a whole time with two people. We're playing weed. Right? So this is a GPS. So this is peak farm simulator. Okay, there we go. Push the button until it walks in. Can't touch the wheel. Gotcha. And then you'll drop the green trailer. That's it. Wow. So this is what you do for 12 hours a day. Nice. Sit down. What do you do all day? Not much. Just sing it literally. Listen to music. Your dad actually, a couple years ago, was on GPS. He was on a stone lookup and went to a fence. My dad? He cut his slide, got out, fixed the fence for anyone noticed. With Andrew describing how to get it done, it was time for me to give it a go. And I was really surprised by just how automated modern day tractor driving is. In fact, once you have it locked in, the GPS pretty much does all the rest. And it made me curious, how was farming back in the old days? I wanted the question answered. So after I wrapped up, I went to visit Louis Fine, the eldest of the Fine family, and the one who got his start farming along with his brother, Buzz, over 50 years ago. So when your dad passed away in 62, how old were you? I was born in 41, so I've been about 21. So you took on all those responsibilities? Yeah. And you farmed ever since? Yeah. Now what was farming like back when you were in your 20s? It was a lot different than now. The tractors these days got GPS and all that, cabs, air conditioning. We didn't have that in those days. When was the time that you could no longer farm? I think I hung it up about when I was 78. What were some of the physical hardships of farming back when you were young? Well, trying to make ends meet. If there was another profession you could have done, would it be something else or would it just be farming? I don't know. I never really thought about doing anything else. Brought up farming and just kept farming. Was it satisfying work? Most of it. Yeah. Some things I like to do like plowing with a bottom plow, turning that soil over and smelling that new dirt. I kind of like that. Speaking with Louis really helped me realize that back then you couldn't simply drop a job in order to pick a new one. And even the simple things like freshly plowed soil could make a lifelong impression. And so could the reward of a hard day's work. And that's exactly what they had me do next. Removing weeds and rocks, two never-ending threats to a farm field and something still done the old-fashioned way using manual labor. Thankfully, I had some help, including Louis, who some of you may remember from when we trained him as a teenager in the gym. But now it was his turn to teach me how to farm. Louis, last time we saw each other was eight years ago. Is this where you imagine yourself in eight years? I did not. And hopefully by this time next year we won't still be here. And as you can see, Louis developed into a very handsome 26-year-old man, single by the way, ladies. So get off of farmers only and just hit him up in the comments. What is your female audience? It's about 1%. So you're not doing too hot, but we have 3 million subscribers to do the math. That's a pretty fair amount. I'm not sure you can do math, so I can't do the math on that button. It's high. It's in the thousands. And it's a lot better than your options out here, as you can see as well. You got your brother, but I don't think you guys are that backwards. I don't think so. Having wrapped up the manual labor, we had all worked up an appetite, and I had to see what a farmer's diet consisted of. My impression was a big country breakfast. Eggs, bacon, toast, you name it. But it turns out it was something very different. In fact, Andrew let me know that about 75% of their diet was made up of fast food. Why? Convenience. They may be feeding the nation some of the world's best food, but that doesn't necessarily mean they're eating it themselves. And once we were finished with the fast food, it was off to have something just a little bit better. I got some very special dad. Comes courtesy of David. There, who sponsored this video, it is their protein bar. It's 28 grams of protein, 150 calories, zero grams sugar, and two grams of fat. Wow. This is going to taste a hell of a lot better than that fast food, David. I could have given it to the other guys, but I wanted to save all of it for us. They'll never know until they watch the video. Ooh, tasty. David, grab yours today. Link in description. With the afternoon well underway, we had to hustle in order to get the day's job done, especially as we prepared for the winter season. And it was a great opportunity to talk to Phil, the head of the Fine Household, who told me what it takes to be a farmer and some of the hard realities of performing such a job. Now, do you think farming is better now than it was then? No. The expense side has gotten so out of hand. For someone getting into farming, there's probably going to be a lot of anxiety and stress involved. There's an old adage that you can either buy land or equipment. You can't buy both. And now with both land, but especially equipment, so expensive, you, to get your foot in the door, you would have to have an in almost. Either born to it or marry into it. Kind of hard just off the bat, just to get into it. And speaking of bankroll, what are we looking at? Like, let's say, you know, your combine breaks down and you just got to buy a new one. What's the price there? So a new one would be around $750,000. Wow. For a combine. And you're going to need more than just a combine. Yeah, you need several tractors and you need to implement. The neighbor just bought a sprayer that is robotically controlled. It sprays target weeds and you can go through and it'll just spot spray. And they say that it cuts your chemical costs by 70, 80%. How long do you think you're going to be able to continue farming? Oh, I, you'll find me on a ditch bank with a shovel in my hand. And I can always tell my wife just throw a little dirt on me so the pros don't get me and I'll be good. Do you think it was hard for your dad to give up farming? Oh yeah, still is. If there, if there was one parting word of advice you could give to a new farmer, would it be? I think the biggest thing would be get good at finances because I'm horrible at paperwork. Luckily my wife's not very good either, but I think there's so much we do that is basically like gambling. You know, we're betting on the market like right now to get better. There's a lot of farmers planting crops this year. You talk to them, I don't know why I'm planting it, but I got to plant something. With Phil helping to enlighten me on the realities of modern day farming, it was time for me to face another reality. Could I run a backhoe in order to load a full rig up with hay and finalize all the tasks before the winter season set in? It was a tough task, but thankfully I had the help of DIY Duke, my dad and an employee on Phil's farm. Was I up to the task? We were about to find out. First thing we're going to do is crank this old caterpillar up. There she goes. So we'll go ahead and move forward. It's kind of like a giant claw machine. Yeah, it is. And the prize is bluegrass hay bales. And you have a backup alarm just to alert those people there's a new driver. Very new. This takes all the labor out of it. A lot of people complain about, oh man, I got to load hay, but really it's nothing like it used to be. So all you're doing is a steering wheel and a few controls. It's kind of like Terminator, the machines have taken over. And right now you're still an operator, but I don't think we're that far out where they're going to be AI driven. Which is a wild thought. So we better keep these machines happy. With plenty of help courtesy of my dad, I was able to load the trailer up. And I quickly learned that here on the farm, there is a lot of different tasks to do. And there is a new challenge each and every day. This is the true reality of farming. Basically everything is broke down and you spend about half the day just trying to get things working. And this is why every farm needs a DIY do. Hey, come up and I'll try just for that right now. I always get a little blow up. Whoa, whoa, whoa. He's scared. He falls for it every time. Hey, look, I'm scared. Working on the farm not only gave me an opportunity to work alongside the fines, but also some of their farm hands as well. Including Gabriel, where farming was much more than just a job, it was a dream come true. Gabriel, how long have you been farming? 17 years. Do you still enjoy farming? Oh yeah, I love that every day. What's your favorite part of farming? Combine is one of the best things. So what brought you up here? Living a better life. Trying to help my mom, my dad in Mexico. It's one reason I come here. Do you see yourself continuing to farm? Yes, till I can't. I love here. I like it. What is probably the most physically hard part of farming? Irrigation and work out early in the morning every day. Working Monday to Sunday. So it's seven days a week? Seven days a week, every day. As Gabriel let me know, sometimes in farming, there is no days off. And with that in mind, we went and tackled some more weeds. Doing as much as we could in preparation for the end of the year. Farmer Olympics. He has longer legs. On your mark. Get set. Go. That's how they determine who gets the tractor and who gets to burn weeds. As the wind began to kick in, I realized we had wrapped up at the perfect time. And it made me realize that weather can be a farmer's best friend or worst enemy. And that wrapped up my day on the farm. So what was a buff dude's take on the profession? Well, having a chance to look at some of my relatives' old photos of life on the farm, it reminded me how much easier we have it in the modern day. But even though we may have it easier from a physical perspective, with the rise of technology and costs, it brings about a whole new set of potential problems to worry about. But as the sun began to set, I was able to turn around, take a moment, and be reminded of what Lou had said earlier in the day. That sometimes it's the simple things that make it all worth it. And that was my biggest takeaway while spending a day helping out on the farm.