Back again, dudes. Weeks seven through nine. And it's getting serious now because if you printed out the 12-week plan, we're on to the two pages. We are back to our 6 day split. And we are going to get it started. And we're going to make an effort not to sound like we're zombies at the beginning of these videos because the last couple ones we sounded pretty bad off. It's 5:00 a.m. We're a little tired, but we're going to try to keep those energy levels high to make it through these workouts because they're getting harder and harder. Yeah. In this phase, 7 through 9, you you'll notice that uh the legs is twice a week, but now also the upper body, like chest and back, is going to be twice as weak as well. The first day, chest and back together. Uh it's a big day. Um so have a lot of energy, hit it hard, make sure you're properly um rested and you have nutrition in. Uh, and then as the week progresses, it's going to be back and biceps and chest and triceps, and that's how it's paired up as well. So, you're going to be hitting the back again and the chest again, but with different body groups. So, it's going to switch it up a little bit, and you're going to get um a nice pump in those gyms with the arms as well. Basically, what he's saying is now you are getting the full buff dude experience. You ready, dudes? Let's start. We've had a lot of comments regarding range of motion and why sometimes we don't do the complete range of motion. So, a lot of times on uh pull-ups, the range of motion is slightly limited because obviously one the motion is actually getting difficult for the muscle because the muscle is starting to fatigue. So, we limit the range of motion, trying to keep the contraction in the lats rather than the biceps cuz what happens is as the lats start to burn out, the biceps want to take over. So, we limit that range of motion because at that bottom position, a lot of times you're going to want to pull with just the biceps. So, we keep the lats contracted, limit the range of motion. That way, we can try to isolate the lats a little bit extra. And then a lot of times on any kind of pressing motion, bench press, either be flat or incline, we limit that range of motion, going about three quarters of the way up, making sure we come all the way down to get the nice stretch in the chest pushing up. Don't go to lock out in the heavier motions because it's going to contain that tension in the chest and then actually be or the phrase is time under tension. So that way we've fatigued that muscle and try to isolate the chest a little bit more rather than involving too much of the tricep and that front delt. crossbench dumbbell pullovers. The arms going to be slightly bent. So bending at the elbows, but then keep those elbows stationary and so you're not extending the arm through the motion and working too much tricep. So you're utilizing the shoulder joint. So the shoulder joints pivoting back, getting a nice stretch in those lats. Get a nice deep breath as you lower that dumbbell back behind you. And then exhale as you bring it to the top, contracting the lats, seratus a little bit in the core, keeping the hips low. And then that's what's going to help isolate those lats. Get a nice upper body pump. Land mine press. This exercise is great for building that upper chest. We already worked the incline press. Hitting the clavvicular portion of that chest and now we're doing land mine press. The difference between the two is regular incline press is a little bit wider grip. Focusing nice on that outside peex so you can get that nice stretch coming all the way down. The landmine press here, your hands are actually together. So your elbows are running tighter to your body. It's involving a little bit more triceps from the initial push, but then you're getting that nice squeeze hitting those inner fibers of that chest as well. So, you get a nice overall look in the upper chest. Buckle up for safety. RDL's Romanian deadlifts right after squats helping isolate the hamstrings. After this, we're going to move on to walking lunges. First set of squats, excuse me, first exercise of squats, five sets. First set, more of a warmout, feel out. Next, working sets. And then Romanian deadlifts, four sets, 12, 10, 8, 8. Then four sets of walking lunges, 10 sets each way. So that means basically works out to 10 repetitions on each leg. Heat. Heat. bent over reverse flies with the dumbbells. So, what you want to do is get your upper body about parallel to the floor. Don't worry too much about keeping the back too straight. So, this is not much weight and that you're pulling upwards is not going to put too much pressure on that back. And what you want to do is lift with the elbows. You want to keep the elbows really wide. Try not to lift backwards but away from your body. So this way it gives basically what the name explains is a reverse fly. So instead of coming in like a lot of people explain how a fly is like hugging a tree. This is going to be the exact opposite motion hitting those posterior delts. Reverse upright rows. As you can tell this is an upright row but now put behind your back. Hence the name reverse. And you're going to get about a shoulder width grip on it. You're going to be shrugging and pulling up through the elbows. getting a nice squeeze in the traps and also the posterior delts. This is a perfect exercise to build the upper back thickness and also those pushed up posterior delts and traps all at the same time. So, it's a good pairing with those reverse bend over dumbbell flies that we just finished. Now, we're doing the reverse upright rows. Four sets, 10 reps. Heat. Heat. on the seated. did cable rows was really going to hit the midback thickness. We just got done with deadlifts. We didn't set any deadlifting records, but that's okay cuz what we're gearing for is a little bit higher intensity. Starting with 12 reps, then 10, then 8, 6, and then down to two repetitions with a little bit of the heavier weight with very short rest times. Now, onto the seated cable rows. Again, short rest times. Reps are going to be 12, 10, 8, 8. Going a little bit heavier on the last two sets. underhand pull downs. This exercise is great for the back, but also the biceps, too, cuz your palms are actually supernated. So, it's requiring a little bit more bicep work throughout the movement. Heat. Hey, Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Heat. Here we go. Back on that six day split. Ending it right with legs. We're feeling good. We're back into the routine. We got five weeks to go. We're going to be hitting it hard. Keep going, dudes. Step-ups, 10 reps each leg. Not quite a walk in the park, but it sure as hell beats walking lunges, which we're taking a break from for today anyways, but they'll be back waiting for us Monday morning. Tuesday. Tuesday morning. Step-ups. What you want to do with these is the leading leg wants to do all the work. So, you're going to use the glute, the quad, a little bit stretch in the hamstrings, and there's going to be some stability uh instability in the ankle. So, you really got to stabilize that movement. And the leg that you're actually bringing down um to the floor, you're actually trying not to push off with it and help out too much cuz you really want the leading leg and the one stepping up to do all the work. And this is a unilateral exercise. Really working on any kind of asymmetrical problems in the body. Really trying to focus on that good squeeze at the top too with that glute. Oh, and as you notice, the sun's out. So, it's Saturday morning, a little later in the day cuz the gym opens later. So, it's kind of nice to get this natural light in. Feel like we live in a dungeon every morning at 5:00 a.m. Dumbbell Romanian deadlifts. I'll tell you what, this is a nice switch up from the single leg Romanian deadlifts. kind of feel like a circus performer when you're doing those cuz there's so much stability involved. But this feels good, you know, going from barbell, single leg, dumbbell, switching up a little bit. You're, you know, it just keeps it fresh really for us. It's nice. It you get kind of sick of doing the same thing day in and day out. So, you switch it up just a little bit and it's just refreshing enough where it feels like you're doing something new and exciting. Shout out to number eight, Joe. See if I get this last name pronounced right. Wori, thank you for uh subscribing. Thank you for your support. I love the pick of you and your buff dudes t-shirt. Looks awesome. Trying to get this leg workout. It's guys like you should say dudes like you that help support us, keep us motivated. All right, dudes. We're finished with weeks 7 through 9. We're on our 6 day split now, and that's what we're going to continue with through weeks 10 through 12. We're getting close, so we got to stick with it. You may be wondering, where am I? Well, I'm on location because we're going to be shooting a whole bunch of new videos and we got a whole bunch of guest stars. One of them is this guy right here, Captain America reporting for duty and this guy. Buff dudes, we need to lift. It's going to get pretty wild, so hang on tight, dudes.