Phase two, dudes. Here we go. It's a big leagues now. Five days a week. Starting with legs. Getting the toughest out of the way first. We may not want to, but I got to. Uh, last the end of the last phase, uh, phase one, I tweaked my back a little bit. So, I'm going to be going a little bit lighter weights in the beginning just to kind of feel it out. I kind of took a week off of any kind of heavy movements like um bent over rows or deadlifts or squats or anything like that just to kind of give the back a rest. Uh whenever you're dealing with any kind of injury um if it's not too serious, what you want to do is try to work through it depending on what it is. Um as much as you can as far as just staying away from the lifts that cause you any pain, doing the lifts that you can actually perform properly with good form. bump the wheat down so you go really light so you can kind of contract the muscles um you want to and isolate the muscle you want to without incorporating any kind of other uh joint or muscle in so especially the one that's injured. So I've been taking a little bit lighter uh today I'll be taking it lighter just to kind of feel it out and hopefully uh get better pretty soon. That's the thing. We may be buff dudes and you may be buff dudes, but even buff dudes can get injuries and you you just got to be careful, you know? I mean, you don't want to push through the pain. There's a big difference of being sore and actually experiencing pain and discomfort. So, if you are, sometimes the only option is rest, lightweights, and slowly get back into it. Last year, I was having, you know, pretty bad tennis elbow. I had to lay off a lot of arms exercises for a while. It wasn't exactly the most fun, but hey, I didn't push myself too hard. I didn't reinjure myself or make it worse. And now I'm good to go again. And that's what Brandon's going to be doing as well. So, having said that, we're going to get in the gym. This is phase 2, weeks four through six. We're going to hit it hard. I hope you guys are, too. Remember those progress pictures. Let's do it. Five sets of squats starting at 20 reps on the first set. Uh this is used as a warmup/ feel out warm up getting blood in the specific area that you're trying to use. In this case, more legs, lower back. What you want to do is slowly increase the range of motion on each rep. Trying to get a little bit of the stretch in there, too. So that way when you go heavier, you're not cold. You can actually get for the range of motion without feeling discomfort or tightness. Um, squats, one of the best compound movements. That's why we're starting it here. And then it's going to be pyramiding up in weight and down in reps. So the next set 12, then 10, then eight, then six reps. So increasing the weight, RDL's or Romanian deadlifts. Trying to isolate those hamstrings right after we do squats. It's going to be four sets. 12 10 8 with these. I'm not a huge fan of straight leg deadlifts. I feel like it puts a little bit too much pressure on that lower back. So with this, your knees are slightly bent, relieving a little bit of the tension on that lower back and gliding it right along the legs as you lower the weight, keeping those shoulders nice and tight. So that way you're not reaching too much to the floor. If you reach to the floor, deontracting those uh those shoulders back together, what we're going to do is cause roundness in the back and then promote injury in the lift. So this one, you want to keep those shoulder blades nice and tight together. You want to push those hips back and then slightly bent the knees but stationary. Slowly lower it down. Get a nice stretch in the hamstrings and then power it up to the top position. Extending those hips. We're thinking to ourselves right now, why the hell did we schedule four sets of walking lunges? But this is where visualization comes in. I can't even say that word. Two- winded. Visualization. You got to imagine, man, you're walking through hell. You're trying to get through this thing. But you got to shake the pillars of heaven and get it done. That triple threat of squats, Romanian deadlifts, and walking lunges. These last three exercises should feel in a walk. Feel like a walk in the park. Unfortunately, feels like my legs have been hit by about 1,000 socks full of bars of soap. So, we're just trying to get through this. We had some questions regarding the standing leg curl as well. what the alternatives to that are. If you don't have a standing leg curl machine, just do either the lying leg curl or the seated. You just want to go ahead and um make sure that you're doing it unilaterally or one leg at a time. On the seated calf raise, time to build those calves. Uh in this case though, we're actually going to do the donkey calf raise machine. The seated calf raise machines here a little funky. They put a lot of pressure on those quads. So we end up feeling more burn in the quads, due, the pressure of the weight rather than the calves. So what we do is just do the donkey calf raise machine. You know, it's about the same exercise all in all. It's just a calf isolation. Um the only problem with the standing or donkey calf raise in this case compared to the seated is the legs can be involved somewhat. So you really try to take them out of the equation. Sometimes it's easy to bounce with the knees to try to help the weight up. What you really want to do is either have a slight bend in the knees and just keep them stationary or lock the knees out. Although I prefer doing knees slightly bent stationary. So you get a nice stretch all the way down. Get a full contraction on the way up. Slight hold, nice slow on the way down. Trust me, you'll feel these just as much as the seated calf raise. Yesterday was leg day. Today is chest and back. Starting the workout with deadlifts. After a heavy leg workout, deadlifts are going to be a little bit more difficult. Going to really try to keep the weight in the back a little less in the legs. You're going to definitely feel in the hamstrings, but if you do it right, it's going to feel good. Next on is going to be the incline press. It's going be 15, 12, 10, 8. Increasing the weight as you decrease the repetitions. Really try to keep that nice upper chest. We're going to move on to them. Some pull-ups. One of our favorite back exercises. We're going to hit them hard. Straight arm pull downs isolation for the back. Doing four sets, 12 reps each set. In this program, you'll notice that any major compound movement is usually pyramiding up in weight and down in reps. That way, we can put as much stress on the muscle group as possible, but also the major compounds involve a lot of secondary muscle groups, too. So, you can afford to go that heavy on isolation exercises such as the straight arm pull downs. We're just going to keep it on an even rep range, slightly high reps. That way, we're really not only getting the hypertrophy in the muscle, but also the endurance, too. So, that way when you're doing those pull-ups or deadlifts, your back can hold up to that much loading. It's good. incline dumbbell fly right into close incline press. So, we're pairing up the isolation exercise, the fly, getting a nice wide stretch, and then bring that dumbbells all the way in, touching, and we're going to push the dumbbells together, contracting the chest, keeping those shoulders nice and tight back together, bringing down to the chest, and press them straight up. Get a nice squeeze in that inner chest. So, it's pairing up two great exercises all in one. It's really going to exhaust that upper chest. Starting shoulders off with Bradford press. We're warming them up, getting that nice shoulder mobility. As you can see, the range of motion isn't a complete press on this one. You're mainly just pushing it over the head and rotating backwards behind the head and continuing that motion to the front as well. That way you get that shoulder joint warmed up and ready for some heavier presses. lateral raise on the cables. We're going to do single arm, which is a unilateral exercise, and be slightly leaning outward away from the cable. That way, you get a little bit more stretch in that delt. And you're coming from behind the back. So that way, actually, the posterior delt is going to start helping with the movement. And then the lateral head of the deltoid takes over from there. You get a nice squeeze. Again, you want to raise with the elbow, keeping the elbow and hand about the same height. That way you get a little bit more involvement with the lateral head rather than raising with the hand where your hand raises above the elbow and then you get more anterior delt in that one. So really trying to focus on that lateral head. Get a nice pump. Bad lateral barbell front raise. This exercise is great for those anterior delts, the front part of that delt. You're going to start in the bottom position. You're going to raise straight up with the hands just about parallel to the floor and you come right back down. It's pretty simple movement. Isolation is good. With barbell curls, what you want to do is keep your elbows stationary. You want them to remain at your sides. What you want to think about is your arm is like a hook and you're pulling it. So when you do the barbell curls, you're just pulling it up and then taking it down. Nothing in the elbows and nothing in the shoulders. You want both of those shoulders especially out of the equation. You don't want to use any momentum in order to get the bar up. You want to use your bicep rope extensions on the cable. What you want to do with this one is much like the barbell curl, you want to try to take the shoulder out of the equation. So, what you're going to do is step forward toward the cable. So, that way you get a nice vertical push downwards rather than away from you. Because a lot of times that cable's going to pull your shoulders up and away from you. So, you get closer to the cable and get a straight down vertical push. Get a nice squeeze in the triceps. The good thing about the rope too is you're going to be pulling apart laterally. So, that way you hit that lateral head of the tricep a little bit extra on those. tricep dips. Now, there's chest dips and there's tricep dips. And the difference being in tricep dips, your body is more upright. Your elbows are running a little bit close to your body and you're not focusing on the stretch, meaning you're not coming all the way down. What you're going to do for tricep dips is you're actually going to be locking out your elbows and squeezing the triceps. Top position. You don't want to come all the way down because that's actually going to put too much stress and stretch on those shoulders. So, you're limiting your range of motion. Um, and you're gonna come all the way up again. Get a nice squeeze in those triceps and slowly lower yourself down to the bottom position. Concentration curls. This is a great exercise to really isolate those biceps. What you can do is put the back of your arm against the pad and you're just going to curl straight up getting a nice squeeze. What we like to do is really as you pull up, pull that pinky towards that shoulder. You need even more rotation and supernation into that bicep. So that way it really works on the peak and burns like crazy. So that's what we really try to do on these ones. You want to get a nice stretch to the bottom and then pull it straight up. It's a pretty simple exercise, but it works. Leg press. We're going up to 10 plates on each side on this one. It's a good example of pure leg strength cuz what happens is your hips aren't involved in this lift like squats are. So all your pushes come in just from the legs. So the heavier you go in this, the stronger your legs are. But never neglect the power in the hips. for things like squats, deadlifts, etc. Like Brandon said, leg press is great because it isolates your legs, but you don't want to forget those hips. Well, that's exactly what we're doing. We're moving on to hip extension/ glute bridges. It's going to help build the power in those hips and you're really going to feel it in your glutes. with this exercise is pretty self-explanatory, but if you need some more help, you can be sure and check out our exercise video we shot on it, the tutorial on our channel, which we're going to try to do for all the other exercises featured in the 12week plan. Warren leads Jerry Frasier. We're coming for you guys, man. We see all your videos, your pictures you post. We really appreciate it. It keeps us motivated. I wish we could shout out all 150,000 subscribers, but then this would turn into the 500w week guide to getting in shape. But we really appreciate all your comments. We read them. We try to design our videos around your suggestions, your comments, and it keeps us going. Thanks again, Buds. Single leg RDL's with dumbbell in this case. Uh what these do is going to focus on the hamstrings. It's an isolation exercise cuz what you're doing, you're really just trying to involve the hip joint and bending right the hips, flexing the hip, and then coming down, getting a nice stretch in the hamstrings, and then pulling it up from that position. Again, contracting the hamstrings to pull you up to the top position. This one's going to focus a lot on balance cuz you're going to try to balance on one foot with weight in the hand. So, it makes it even harder. So, you got to use a lot of those stability muscles to help stabilize you. So, this is an excellent exercise for those hamstrings, but also the ankle stability as well for the balance. All right, dudes. There we go. Weeks four through six is done. Added that fifth day, and we can definitely feel it, but we feel good. This phase is actually going to concentrate a little bit more on legs because we're hitting them up on Monday. Usually, you're the most rested, so you have the most strength and the most focus. So, really concentrating on hitting hard legs Monday, and then we're hitting them again on Friday. Um, as the program progresses, we're going to keep the two leg day a week, but then we're going to actually start incorporating uh two days for chest and back as well, splitting those up on opposite days of the week. So, this phase is starting to get used to kind of a little bit more volume and load on the muscles because now it's 5 days a week compared to four. And as you progress, it's going to turn into six days a week. Again, increasing it as much stress on the body paired up with that proper nutrition and that's how you're going to get buff. And a lot of people have asked questions about cardio, what kind of cardio what we're doing, and also what kind of ab stuff we're doing. With cardio, for the first 3 weeks, I was hitting cardio pretty hard. I was doing 30 to 45 minutes, low intensity, about 3 and 1 half miles hour, 10 elevation every single day after we worked out. The rule of thumb we like to do is we walk just at fast enough where we can carry on a conversation without running out of breath. Now that it's up to five days, the thing is we're usually burning a lot of calories in the gym, so I'm not doing quite as much cardio. I'm still trying to do about three days a week. For abs, we usually try to do abs two to three times a week after our workout for about 10 to 20 minutes. We don't focus on abs quite as much as the other body parts. A lot of our core is utilized in a lot of the workouts, so we feel that works for us. It's also depending on what your goals are, depends on how much cardio you're going to do or how much abs you're going to do and so on. So for me, for instance, I'm already somewhat lean at this point and I'm also more of an ectoso so I can lose weight pretty quickly. So, I'm actually decreasing the amount of cardio that I do and focusing more on the lifting and burning the calories in that way, taking the proper nutrition so I keep lean, but at the same time, I'm not losing too much weight. Uh, as I did in the past when I was doing more cardio and, uh, I can drop weight pretty quickly. So, it depends on, let's say, if you want to lose a lot of weight, you do want to try to get that cardio in almost every day. Um, and if you're already pretty lean or you're trying to focus more on gaining weight, just hit about cardio maybe three times a week. Um, depending on which day it is. and usually in the morning or afternoon, whatever really works for your schedule. And that's, you know, the good thing about this 12-week plan. You can switch it up depending on your body type. For instance, you know, we had some comments on our home dumbbell workouts that Brandon had lost some weight. Well, he had actually because his truck had broke down for a while and he was walking to work every single day. That was a lot of cardio. 20 miles to work. That was pretty both uphill in the snow in Southern California. Um, but it so he was he was lo losing weight. You know, he wasn't eating as much. He was doing a whole bunch of cardio. Me on the other hand, I was sitting like 10 hours a day. I was gaining weight. So, the thing is through this program, I'm trying to actually lose some weight. Brandon's actually trying to put some weight on. And that's what we're going to try to show throughout this video series. We haven't done the food videos yet, but we definitely will to show what I'm eating in order to hit my goals and what Brandon's doing in order to hit his. So, we'll see you next time on weeks 7 through 9. And then be on the lookout for those food videos. Keep it up, dudes and girls. Take those progress pictures. They're really going to motivate you on the days you're unmotivated to see all the progress you're making. And we will see you soon. Take it easy.