 SL-gastososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososososos Invent flying cars and then we get our ass to Mars! Ha ha ha! Perfect future. Uh, well it's kinda like that. Save for the flying cars and you becoming president and getting your ass to Mars. Ah, that's bullshit! Huh, you wanna know what's really bullshit? Check out the top action stars. They're all named Chris. Chris? God, I hate that name. I know, in the 80s your name had to be unpronounceable. Shaggy Chan. Zan Dan. Dolph Lundgren. Heh, I've been in a movie with him and I still can't pronounce his name. And God, what is with them making cartoons for movies now? Marvel? What is that? It's so unoriginal. Oh, this is coming from the guy that makes 17 Rambos? Hey, 17's still in pre-production. Muscular man. They're all so big. Yeah, they almost make me and you look tiny, huh big guy? Yeah. Well, you for sure. What are you, 5'6", 5'7"? Oh, yeah? And how tall are you? I'm 6'2". Heh, yeah. In 12 inch lifts. That's not true. It's 6 inch lifts. Yeah. Eugh. I confuse you. Why is everyone bald in the future? Yeah, no, it's like they're all homo geniuses. You mean homogenous? Hey, watch your mouth. Huh? At least they don't have a bullet. Oh, okay. Because your 1950s flat top is so stylish. It's not for style, it's for function. I believe in the purity of the hair. Okay, calm down there, Mr. Ostrian Oak. Let's move on. Well, they're all so pretty. Yeah, it's all like little girly men. Yeah, we're the warts. The mulls. The mullets. Well, they're wearing masks. Maybe they're ashamed. Ashamed? Of what? They're low kill count. I mean, what is this Mickey Mouse bullshit? I mean, we would've killed 100 people by the first act. And even when they do kill someone, they come back in the sequel. I mean, if I was in this movie, I would punch Vision in the stomach and pull out his goddamn spine. Oh, Vision, I think he's the good guy. Ah, who cares? Remember Total Recall? I just grabbed that bystander and used him as a meat shield and everyone loved it. No one wants to see PG-13. They want to see T2. Oh, yeah. You know what? You're right, big guy. They want to see the Total Recall, the Terminators, the cliffhanger. A cliffhanger. Wow, Sly, you're so funny. I was being serious. Why does everything look so fake? It's CGI. What? What's that? Advanced graphical illustration composed by a series of learning computers. Computers? That means they're all nerds. No, it's not funny. It's computers. All of it. Even the scripts are composed by a series of algorithms. Oh, that means... Well, of course. It means that... What's that mean? You idiot. It means Skynet 1. What? What's that? I think he's reloading. Reloading? A pistol? Come on. Everybody knows pistols have unlimited rounds. I know. And look at him. He's even aiming it. Idiot. Back in the 80s, we just pulled the trigger and the bullet always found his top. I'm telling you, it's a bunch of choir boys compared to us. The choir boys. Eugh. Are you kidding me? Is that the weird science kid? Yeah. And now he's the top grossing action star in the world. I want to go back to the 80s. Me too, big guy. Me too. Me too. I got an idea. Once we get back to the 80s, how about we find this little Robert Downey Jr. kid and give him a wet. Yeah. You give him a wedgie. And I'll push his head in the toilet. And he's a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He'll flush it and then he'll punch him in the stomach and rip out his goddamn spine. He he he. Uh, how about we just keep it PG, okay? Ah, I don't like PG. That's why I want to go back to the 80s. Well, we can. All we gotta do is watch Time Cat. Smart kid. You read my mind. With your English, he doesn't have much choice. Ah, what a bad movie. Did you ever stop to think that maybe every decade has bad movies and our nostalgia is just simply clouding our judgement? That's my secret. What? I don't think. What? I don't think. big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big big video thank you for making our job absolutely it was a pleasure to become you guys for at least one video if you want to see more of the transformation stay tuned because we have a little bit the outtakes and before and after on what it looked like hope you enjoy it and until next time stay buff oh wow so this is the future yeah i invented time travel you did it's surprisingly easy ah let me guess you watch terminator no time cop backwards backwards i knew it i know how the future plays out after a successful campaign i become president of the united states of america i invent flying cars and then we get our ass to mars a perfect future uh well it's kind of like that save for the flying cars and you becoming president and getting your ass to mars well at least they don't have a mullet oh okay because your 1950s flat top is so stylish it's not for style it's for function i believe in the purity of the hair okay come down there mr australian let's move on they want to see the total recalls the terminators the cliffhanger wow sly you're so funny i was being serious ah let me guess you watch terminator no i watch time cop i never knew anyone who i like the name by cruise oh well i got some bad news for you what uh moving on yes like they're all homogenuses you mean homogenous hey watch your mouth you mean homogenous hey watch your mouth you mean homogenous hey watch your mouth you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homogenous you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you mean homos you You