All right, buff dudes. You're going to have to step aside for a sec because this episode is going to be geared towards buff girls. Now, we're going to be going over our top five favorite exercises that are dumbbell base cuz we heard your suggestions and we wanted to go with it. The last episode we did was just on squats, really hitting that compound movement that we love, but this one's going to go over the complete body. So, hopefully you're ready because we're going to be going over how to build that complete body that is Buff Dudes approved. You ready to get started? I'm ready. McKenna's ready. I hope you are, too. Let's get started. All right, buff girls. Our first exercise of the day is going to be the reverse lunge. It's going to work your legs, but it's primarily going to work your glutes so you can get that nice sexy ass. That's right. And how to perform this exercise, what you want to do is stand about shoulder width apart in the feet. You're going to hands are going to be at your side, gripping the dumbbells nice and tight. You're going to step a nice big step backwards and you're going to be bending at both knees, touching the back knee down to the bottom of the ground and be pushing through the glute and stepping back forward so that way your feet are together about shoulder width apart ending the exercise. And what you're going to be doing is performing about 10 to 15 reps each side. You're going be squeezing that glute the top position each time. And I guarantee this is going to build that perfect ass. And that's definitely Buff Dudes approved. Our second exercise is going to be the push-up plank row. It's going to work your biceps, triceps, shoulders, core, back. Okay. Yeah. Pretty much your entire upper body. Yeah. And the way to do this exercise, what you want to do is get in a push-up position. Palms tightly gripping the dumbbells about shoulder width apart. Feet are going to be together. And you're going to do a standard push-up, then down. Nice and slow. Get a good squeeze. And you're going to be rowing that dumbbell up to the side and alternating right to the next side. Nice and slow. Just like that. And you're going to repeat the process about 10 to 15 times. If you're still working up to buff girl status, what you can do is perform this exercise on the knees. Makes it a little bit easier and that way you can complete the whole exercise. Nice good form. Right. Right. Just like that, guys. Looking for metal. We're looking for muscle. Our third exercise is called the curl to press. It's going to work your biceps, your shoulders, and your triceps as a secondary. This exercise should be called the arm blaster. That's right. And what you want to do to perform this exercise is go ahead and grip those dumbbells nice and tight in a supernated position, palms facing outward. Be doing a standard curl right up to the front deltoid. As soon as you reach that position, what you want to do is push straight up through that shoulder. As you're pushing up about halfway, you're going to be rotating up to the top position, palms facing outward, and then you're going to be lowering it down to the bottom position to the front delt. And be nice and low down to the sides of your body. So you're going to be going up to the shoulder, press into the shoulder. So, you be hitting the biceps, triceps, and like McKenna said here, a little bit, and the tricep as a secondary muscle group. So, if you want to hit those arms and hit them right, try these arm blasters, and I guarantee you'll feel it. Arm blasters. Damn right. Now, we're moving on to the single leg glute bridge. It's going to work your glutius maximus, your quadriceps, and your lower back. And it's going to get that booty burning. That's right. I made her say it. You made me say that. All right. How to do this exercise? What you want to do is lay flat on the floor facing upward. So your back is supported. You're going to be bending at the knees, but in this one, since it's a single leg glute bridge, you're going to be raising one leg off the floor. So you're going to be pushing through the heel with the leg on the floor all the way up. So your body is almost in a plank position or in a bridge position. And you're going to be squeezing the glutes nice and tight at the top position to slowly let it down to the bottom. And what you want to do is about 15 reps each side. So you're not going to alternate with this. You're going to concentrate on one side and then move on to the next, completing about three sets. Our last exercise is going to be the side plank. It's going to work your core muscles, your shoulders, and primarily target those love handles. It's all in the hips. It's all in. So, what you're going to do to perform this exercise is actually get on your side. You're going to be supporting yourself through your form or primarily your elbow. Your shoulders going to be nice and tight and be the sides of your feet. Your feet are going to be together. And what you want to do is get as straight as you can so that way you're nice and vertical to the ground. slightly push the hips backwards so that way it tightens the core up just a little bit much. And then what you want to do is go ahead and hold this position for about 30 to even 60 seconds depending on your core strength. If you want to make this exercise a little bit harder, you're going to be actually dipping your hips down, touching the floor, and raising them back up to the top position, contracting a little bit more in those obliques or love handles or muffin tops just to really get rid of them and target that position. So, go ahead and perform this and I guarantee they're going to look damn good in those bikinis on the beach. All right, Buff Girls, you've just completed our top five favorite exercises to help you get buff. Feel free to include these five exercises in one workout with the sets and reps we provided to get a great full body routine. And remember, this is just the tip of the iceberg. These five exercises that we just went over are just the beginning. There's a lot more workouts and routines out there that we're going to be showing you how to do. So stay tuned for that. All right, McKenna. Those about to get buff with single arm salucha.