 stiguiguiguiguiguigu stiguiguiguiguiguiguiguigu We're going to be watching some of our older videos. Boom. Videos that are eight years old now. Taste or hammer. They've been fermenting for quite some time. You know, some things ferment and it makes them better, like whiskey or cheese. Other things like Buff Dude's videos, we're not so sure of. So we're going to open the bottle and take a big whiff. And you're going to take a whiff along with us. See if it's still good or not. Yeah. I hope it's a good whiff. Oh, yeah. We're going to be getting started with our very first video we ever did. It was just called Buff Dude's Teaser. And it's pretty aptly named because it was a teaser of the things that are to come. So let's get it started and see what we're looking at here. The alarm clock. This is how I wake up every morning, actually. I smash the alarm clock and put my shades on. It's still a thing. Okay. So that is the Buff Dude's. As you can see the title. Went for a little change. We hadn't finished our logo yet. Buff, of course, stands for Better Understanding of Food and Fitness. And that was an idea we had. Me and Brandon were literally on two different treadmills in the gyms. We both worked at the same gym at the time. We're on our break. And I looked at Brandon. Brandon looked at me. And we're like, we were a little unmotivated at the time. Because we were working a couple different jobs apiece. And we thought, let's do something that we want to do. So Brandon is the one that thought of the name Buff Dudes. And I wasn't quite sold on it yet until he thought of the acronym Better Understanding of Food and Fitness. I'm like, you got it, man. Because we always want to have the entertainment and the education. And it was naturally born in a gym. I feel like that was a perfect place to think of an idea like that. We conceived and birthed our Buff Dude babies. Exactly. In the gym. Okay, Brandon's walking. It's starring. It is starring. Yeah. Brandon White. And everyone who ever has seen this was like, who the fuck is on Brandon White? Who is this guy? And it's funny because it's the Buff Dudes teaser. It's only like 40 seconds long. And I remember we shot a ton of footage. And it was me explaining like, oh, what cardio is for and what you should be doing. And then we went into like the fitness part of it. Like what kind of workouts. And also the food too. And then I edited it. And I went, nah. Yeah. It was all on the cutting room floor. And I saw it. I was like, oh. I was like, let's show stock footage of Los Angeles. That's way better. Another reason, unfortunately, I ended up cutting a lot of that footage is because all through the thing, I didn't really realize how to be a cameraman yet. So as Brandon was talking, I was on the other end of the camera going. Because we were walking up a hill. It was called Runyon Canyon in LA. And I was obviously needed to work on my cardio a little bit. So a lot of learning about Dude's advice. And cardio. Exactly. That's why it only says starring Brandon White. Because Brandon was like, you're not a buff dude. Hudson was still working on his buff dude status at that point. Exactly. I was just a dude. There's that beautiful LA stock footage. There we go. It looks pretty cool, though. Yeah. And as you can see, this was shot. I'm potato. This is before we had anything else to shoot on. I think those three pixels are Brandon. Sure. Is that a bicep? I don't know. There's the very electronic voice. That was before any kind of voiceover work. Yeah. So now we're moving on. Boom. As you can see, upgrade. Look at that. Big time. Big time. Big time. Got the logo. Got the animation. Very video game. It's what we wanted to really try to stick with. And we say that's very important for anyone starting a channel is find your design and your feel. And that's what we try to do. We had like one subscriber. I think it was our mom. I'm so proud of my boys. Exactly. The logo, Buff Dudes, was I had originally kind of sketched it very rough, very crude. Brandon is the one that did the finished version you can see here. And Brandon also did the little Buff Dude guys. You're an artist. Thank you. I am. I am an artist of the body and also of little pixels. Oh, nice. Fitness biceps. Fitness biceps. I'm not sure. Explosions come in. Yes. So, there he is. Brandon. They're starring Brandon White. And we shot this in a park because it's really the only place we could shoot it. Thankfully, public property. You can kind of get away with things. Especially in LA. Yeah. Usually they'll see a camera and they're like, ah, you know, it's pretty normal. So, we got away with a lot. And it helped that, you know, the scenery is kind of cool and everything. So, that's a nice thing when you have a very low budget. Now, it's not stock footage of the LA Skyline. Now, it's the real thing. Hell, yeah. We're already moving up in the world, baby. Yeah. Of course, it starts with a flex. Thick. Solid. Solid. Tight. Tight. And that was a big meme at the time. It was very tongue-in-cheek. I mean, that's what we really want to do. And we kind of wanted to make fun of the whole kind of fitness thing as well as ourselves. But also still have some valuable information too. Man, Brandon just said everything. My mind was computing and he was just like, do-do-do-do-do. Yeah. Yeah, that's, yeah. I agree with you completely. Thank you. Cool. All right. What's the best? I got the shades on. Got to have the shades. I'm very LA in this video. You are. You are. It's, uh... I'm sorry. I'm writing. Delete. Very Jamie Lannister. Parvel Curl. Straight up. Okay. And now we got to pause this again. We got to explain what this is. There's going to be a lot of pauses. There will be. We're in the rake dungeon. And before you, yeah, before you click out of this video because of that comment, uh, it's a reason why you're saying that actually, because we had a lot of comments about this specific gym. We kept getting that comment. I mean, to us, this was pretty normal. This is just our friend's basement who we had to use in order to shoot the footage. But everyone who saw, I was like, why did you shoot in black and white? Why is it full of cobwebs? And is there someone you have tied up in the corner? It looks like Hannibal Lecter is some lurking around there somewhere. The answer is no, we had none of those things. It was very innocent. It just looks really creepy. Because that's all the biceps going to do. Flexion. Bringing that joint, the elbow joint, up. And that's going to help build that bulk. But it's also... It was pretty rudimentary kind of information at this time. You know, you're still getting used to being in front of the camera. That's a hard thing when, uh, this isn't really, you know, we were, this is the second video now. Yeah. Because it's the straight bar. What is supination? The Pixel Dudes. This was another big part of our look we were really proud of. We just wanted some fun. We didn't want anyone who's maybe getting into the gym to be scared or afraid or intimidated. So we're like, let's just make it fun, engaging, entertaining. So no one ever feels like, ah, man, I don't know. I feel scared when I go to the gym. That was a big thing we were trying to do is like break that down. Well, because we felt like that when we were younger. We went to the gym. Like, ah, it's intimidating. We don't know what we're doing. So it'd be like, let's make something that is engaging, informational, but also entertaining too. So it's like, yeah, I do want to work out. This looks cool. This looks fun. Yeah. Next time you're in the gym, think hammer time. Do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, do, hammer time. Why are these good? Brandon's dancing skills have remained just about the same. But they're still damn good. Sometimes it's the simplicity that makes it, you know, engaging. I love you. So we're going to go ahead and move on to the next video, which is going to be our very first food video entitled easy protein pancakes, recipe, hyphen buff dudes. Here we go. Very eloquent. Very. We have the title again, branding. Very important. Thank you. For those of you who are doing it, you want to be out. Food protein pancakes. Here we go. Right to the point. Got the food. All right. Wow. Wow. Here's my kitchen. Where do we start? We have an ironed on buff dude shirt. Oh yeah. A little fading going on. We have a maroon colored blanket. Uh, blanket. Yeah. It was actually a blanket that we put on the window because it was so backlit that you couldn't even see me. So we're like, we got to fix this. Like we didn't even, you know, we, we added a little life with the fake plastic trees and the coffee maker, which is oddly on top of the refrigerator. I didn't have a lot of counter space in that kitchen. It wasn't very big. In LA, we had a tiny little space for quite a bit of money. That actually was Brandon's apartment. Just at that angle. Yeah. Because if you turn the other way, it's just the door. Yeah. And, uh, he actually turned that little, um, thing he's using for the window into a cot at night and just slept on it. That was a hundred percent true. Breakfast. The most important meal of the day. These animations are awesome. I remember when I first saw all this stuff, you know, cause shooting it and then, uh, Hudson edited and showed it to me. He's like, Oh, check it out. You know, I was like, Oh wow. This is like really good. Cause you know, when you're in front of the camera, you're just like talking, whatever. It just seems so blah. You know what I mean? You're just talking, whatever. But then all of a sudden the editing comes in, the graphics, the music, the cuts, all that. It's all action packed. It's quick. It definitely, I was like, okay, wow, this is, I feel better about this. And I, it kind of motivates you to want to do more for sure. And I think that's part of the reason that me and Brandon kept going is because even though it was these small things, it was just so much fun for us. We didn't have much of an audience. We had a routine that we set into action, which was every single week we had to have a new video. That's what we told ourselves when starting buff dudes. So every Saturday when we'd have a day off, we shot footage all day. And then every Sunday I would edit all the footage. So every single week we got one done. Sometimes they're really low budget. I mean, all of them are really low budget, but it, it made us feel good because we kept that consistency up. So again, everything in life, we really equate to, you just keep going because you're learning a tiny bit more every single day. Eggs and protein powder. Aren't those a little bland and boring? They are. Yes, they are. Actually, this recipe is very bland and boring. It tastes like cardboard. It does. And this is what I had to survive on though back then. That is true. I was a poor bachelor. I mean, I basically could only afford those two things. But together, they're dynamite. Very simple. Only a few steps. We thought we were still cutting edge at the time. And now you see a 12 year old kid on YouTube and he's like deep faking people on his face and like flying through. Yeah. This was the beginning. This was cool. I remember it kind of like, this kind of set the style though. Even though it wasn't really like budget. We're not going to start with the budget, but we didn't really know what we were doing, but we were setting the style of what kind of looks cool. For us at least. Yeah. That's the thing. You just got to realize the constraints that you have and then you just try to maximize it. So if it's corny, just lean into the cornyness. I mean, embrace it. You know, if you try to be cool, but people can kind of like smell it on you that you're like corny, then it's just, it's never going to work. We lean into our cornyness. Yeah. We always do. Damn. We're going to save this agave to top it off. Now we're going to mix this together. We were agave fiends back in the day. We love agave. That and Ezekiel bread. That was like half my paycheck though, that agave. Okay. We've got to be, we've got to love to carry on people. That's all. I'm so cool. You probably wish you would like me. Don't you? But you will be. Once you have my protein pancakes. The applause. Thank you for having that applause. I needed that actually for my own validation. Yeah, definitely. That was Brandon's failed American Idol. Very failed. Now we're going to move on to the final video in our old school react series. It's going to be a good one. Okay. Because it's the introduction of me. Oh, Hudson finally puts it on the big screen, baby. Does it say starring Hudson? It better. Ooh, got a new graphic. We did. Wow. Oh, and we have guest stars. We do. We do have a guest star. I demand usage of this bench. A little teaser of Hudson there. Hey, hippie. Can't show me yet. No. Taste the word hammer. There he is. And he just brained. Our friend was actually. Our boss. Yeah. I actually murdered our boss. Yeah. So he's a guy knew. We knew at the gym. He worked the same gym. And yeah, we're like, hey, do you want to be in this video? He kind of loved the idea. He already knew about what we kind of were trying to do. And he was kind of like a big fan as far as like, wow, this is really creative. This is really cool what you guys are doing. So we're like, well, you want to be in a video? Yeah. And it had a little bit of ulterior motives too. It did. Because we were actually using him for his gym, which we used in the video. Sorry, Adam. Shout out. You're awesome, but. You too. For the Thor workout. Thor workout. Now, there's a reason why this is, why we did this video. A couple of reasons actually. One was that. Because we stole it from Adam. Yeah. That's number one. That is number one actually. True. Yeah. Because he was making superhero workouts with his friends, but they were, again, sorry, Adam, they were really bad. I mean, ours is actually really bad watching it again now, but we leaned into the cheesiness where they were dead serious. So I feel that it's like people that watched it were like, what is this? There was no real characters or introduction. They just showed the workouts, which, you know, was cool if people were interested about what those people did to get in shape. But we're like, we want to have skits. We want to have a little bit more kind of, you know. We want to have plastic hammers. Exactly. Blood and explosions and stuff. Thor, the movie, had just came out. So Chris Hemsworth was Thor, and you were stopped on the street wherever you went and said, there's Thor! And crowds of people would surround him thinking that he was Thor. And I think the thing was, in the first Thor, Chris Hemsworth had like those unnaturally weird bleached eyebrows and hair, which made him look more like me. And then they learned their lesson in the next ones. We don't want to make him that weird looking anymore. So that was the first and last time I got compared to Chris Hemsworth when he was in his awkward albino stage. People still call you Thor. Sometimes. And I'm very unnaturally sweaty here. You are. Yeah. Is that from working out? No. Let's get started. Dang. Got that flex. Yeah. Nice hammer. Thank you. Got to go with the hammer curls. Of course. I'm not so sure about the semi-see-through tank top I'm wearing. Sex appeal. Y'all got to see the corners. That's pretty true. But I like those transitions with, you know. Oh, see? Again, shot at the park. Yep. Wilking your deltoids in your chest so you can slay your enemies. How was your experience being in front of the camera by the other person? It looks like I may be relieving myself in this. It does look like you're on the toilet. And it says don't drop the weights, which could be drop something. I dropped something. Yeah. I look a little too serious. Like 10 levels too serious right now. I needed to remind myself that I'm going to Thor workout video for Blastic Hammer. That's part of the common taking of the series. That is true. Oh, man. I remember when I first saw that effect, I was blown away. When you did that whole me coming out of smoke in Sparks. You know what I love about Brandon? He's really easily impressed. I definitely am. When I was like, this is awesome. We've made it. This is like Hollywood production. Wow. We are going to be huge. The wig. I mean, come on. That spider head wig thing. That is true. Brandon just actually ran through his old apartment and collected all the spider webs he could. And then he's like, I'm ready. I'm ready for the scene. This is great. There was a lot of investment that we got. That actually was a pretty good investment for us. Yeah, it was. And I'm just getting sweatier. Good job. Speaking of nipples. There we go. Quick shout out to Scooby. He inspired us. He taught us a lot of camera angles. You got to look through the nipples to see the face. It's called the blowjob angle. Okay. Father, when I request that you put on some mortal clothes such as I. What is the meaning of this? Why? Because your nipple sweat is dropping on my face. Oh, now we got taken over. He is. He's like, you know, I've been in three videos before you, so get the hell out of my way. I'm going to instruct the kids for a second. I already had Nigo. After doing my back. It's true. We really had to rain back Brandon back a little bit. Oftentimes I find myself on the battlefield battling thousands of enemies. I really like that. Yeah. I think that's kind of, it's cheesy, but it's actually funny. I like that part. Yeah. We shot it at the park. I was wearing like one of those extra, extra small compression shirts, which I'm like, I don't know. This kind of looks like chain mail and it looked nothing like chain mail at all. The cape. You got the cape. The red cape. I did. Which is actually the same. The blanket. It's the same red band. That we used to cover the window. Yeah. We utilize every bit of our budget because we had no budget at the time. Yeah. And then we shot at the park. We kind of shot up so that blue sky could act as a background that I like chroma keyed out later to add those clouds. And Brandon played like all 30 guys I'm attacking. And he would just keep running at me. I'm hitting that hammer. Brandon again. I was so impressed seeing that stuff. I was like, damn, we're moving out. And that is kind of funny. And that's the great thing about kind of like looking back on where you came from because you can go, we've made some progress. I mean, we're still cheesy and what we do is like very tongue in cheek, but it's just those small little upgrades you do as time goes on. So then I may stay a god. You're paying for battle. Not for the playground. Odin laying down the law. He was. It's a heavy smack top right there. Brandon Izzoden makes for a really bad training park. It's very abusive. And we're ending the video now because as you can see, my tank top could not get any more see-through if I tried. It is now at its most see-through moment. You have to go. You have to go. There we go. There we go. That's the Thor video. And that was our look at our old school videos. Wow. That was quite an experience. Hopefully you guys had as much fun as we did. Did you? And if you survived this long, thank you. If you'd like to see more of us reacting to some of our craziest videos or maybe the ones that went wrong or went right, let us know because we'll make some more. Oh yeah. And as always, stay buff!