Hey, you look like you need to know a secret. A secret of eating an eight pack. And with one weird tip, I can show you how. Oh, yeah. And just 12 pins for $99.95. But that's no problem. Grab your credit card and let's get started. Most people want to build abs for that super mutant physique, but what are all the muscles of the abdominals and the functions behind them? In this episode, we're going to be covering the top five exercises to help build those adantium abs. What are we waiting for? Let's do it. Pull out the credit cards and let me start taking your money. Come join us now for a look into functional strength with buff dudes from a time long ago. Although used to aid in core stability, abs can also be used as a tool to attract a female mate. Caution must be advised as jealousy amongst tribesmen can arise. There are seen and unseen muscles which make up the abdomen. Let's cover the ones which are seen first. Rectus abdominis is the muscle group everyone knows as the six-pack. But what are its major functions in the body? Originating at the pubic bone and inserting at the sternum. The main function of the abs is to flex the spine. This muscle also compresses the abdomen. This is what you do when you brace for a punch to the stomach. External obliques originating at the ribs and inserting at the hip. The obliques, similar to the abs, will pull the chest downwards to compress the abdominal cavity. Also rotates the trunk and laterally flexes the spine. There are also the unseen muscles such as transverse abdominis and internal obliques. But who gives a [\h__\h] about them? You can't even see them. You're still here. Fine, fine. I'll tell you what they do. Internal obliques originating at the ribs and inserting at the hip. There are two main functions. Firstly, external obliques will be used as an accessory muscle of respiration by acting as an antagonist to the diaphragm. Secondly, it will rotate and sidebend the trunk. Transverse abdominis, also known as the corset muscle, providing thoracic and pelvic stability. This muscle is essential to core strength. Remember, there's more to the abs than just the surface layer. I will now show you the inner workings. Ah, yes, the abs. From the Latin word musculus rectus abdominis, built in the gymnasium and shown in the Grecian mess. Now, let's get to building those abs. X dudes, it's time to roll out with this exercise, the barbell ab roll out. What's great about this is it's not only working those adamantium abs, but it's also working that lower back, too, for that complete core activation. Go ahead and start on your knees just about hipwidth apart. You're going to be grabbing that barbell overhand grip just about shoulder width. And then you're going to be pushing your body out, keeping that trunk nice and rigid. The upper body is going to be right in line with the lower body. Once you reach that parallel position, getting that nice stretch in the ab, then you're going to lift it to the top position. And there's one rep. Make sure you keep that core tight throughout this full motion. The next exercise on our list is going to be planks. An excellent core stability exercise for all you doing here. What the fudge? Professor said I could do an explanation, Logan. Well, Professor X isn't here, so [\h__\h] off. Professor said I could do an exercise, too. I said [\h__\h] off. Stop. All right. And now that that little punk's out of here, we can explain the planks. What you want to do is get in the push-up position, but instead of supporting yourself with your palms, you're actually supporting yourself with your forearms. Feet are going to be together, and you want to make sure your upper and lower body are exactly parallel to the floor, keeping that core nice and tight. The good thing about these is it's not only working that adamantium abs, but also the lower back, just like the barbell abs roll out. Next up is going to be the Russian twists. I remember these ones. learned them in Russia when I was hunting down Omega Red. What you want to do is get in a seated position. Lift your feet up off the floor. Flex the spine to engage the core. You're gonna be twisting from one side to the next. Really getting that transverse abdominis while you're working the rectus abdominis, too. One of my favorites. Fourth on the list is going to be mountain climbers. I use these to stay in shape in the wilds of Canada. What you want to do is get down in the push-up position. Your hands are going to be about shoulder width apart and your feet are about hipwidth apart. What you want to do is bring one knee up in a fast motion, crunching in, and then kick it back down at the same time you bring the other knee up in the crunch position. And you're going to be alternating one to the next, like you're running in place, but you're going to be in the push-up position. This is really going to be working on that core stability, strength, and really building those abs. It's crunching time, bub. Get down in the subine position. Raise your knees up so your feet are flat on the floor. You're going to be starting by flexing your spine and engaging your abdominal muscles. It's a short range of motion, but what you want to avoid is pulling on the back of the head to put a lot of stress on the neck. Really crunching those abs to build them nice and tight. All right, X dudes and girls, that wraps up the Adamant Antim workout. Remember, don't be like the blob doing five sets of eating too much [\h__\h] being a badass. In the meantime, I got a date with Jean Gray. Don't tell Scott. You know, Morph recommended this Creed band for my workout mix, but I don't know. I don't normally listen to heavy metal. Yeah, I'll give it a shot. Can you take me higher to a place? This is pretty good [\h__\h] Logan.