Hey dudes, just finished a chest and back workout. So, now it's on to some abs. So, I spent about 10 to 15 minutes uh strictly on abs. Help isolate them. Obviously, the core is worked when you do any kind of major compound movement. If you do any kind of back, chest, legs, you know, so on. So, the core is already kind of warmed up. So, now it's trying to isolate it. Um work those muscles. try to get some uh you know a good pump in them, some good blood. You know, obviously the core is good in a lot of ways to help strengthen uh different lifts and uh inside the gym and also just the various movements outside the gym as well, but you also want it to look good. So, this is the time you spend on isolating the abs and helping them make uh make them look as good as possible. So, usually um I do abs every other day. I really try to work them as hard as I can and usually they're a little bit sore afterwards. So, I give them about a day to rest and then hit them again after, you know, uh, my workouts. So, chest and back today. Now, on to abs. And I'm just going to pretty much stick with my three favorites, which is the line crunches. With this, I'm going to add a little bit of weight to it. So, we're going to go four sets each exercise, and we're going to keep it within the 20 to 25 rep range. Whenever I add some weight to it, like I'm going to do with the body weightight crunches, I'm going to probably put around a 25 pound plate on my chest and maybe go up to a 45 pound plate. I'm going to drop the rep down slightly to kind of help build a little to help concentrate a little bit of hypertrophy in the abdominal area to help the abs pop a little bit. So, that's my routine as far as abs go. Every other day, hit abs. Four sets. Still high volume, still high intensity like we like so much. Get as much blood in there as possible. So, you're not only focusing on a little bit more definition in the abs, help with the cuts with the high repetitions, working a lot of the muscle fibers, but you're also adding a little bit of weight to it, helping work a little more of the bulk fibers to get a little bit of pop in there, too.