 so the surgery was a success. They attached the pec back to the humerus and the recovery begins. It's going to be six weeks in the setup you see here and then three months with little to no weight bearing on my left arm and about the six month mark, I should be able to get some workouts and so it's going to be a long road, but I do have to say really quick, thank you so much for the kind words. I got a chance to read them over and I just really appreciate all the kindness, all the really great tips, all the stories that you yourself have went through dealing with various injuries. I'm going to really take that to heart. I'm going to take the recovery slow based upon a lot of your recommendations. So just really truly thank you all. And the title of this video is, are we still going to continue? Well, I am going to meet up with Brandon. We're going to get in a little workout, lower body and very light, but it's going to be a good chance for us to discuss that. So I'm going to get up, get ready and then get that workout in with Brandon. Welcome to the set of Grumpy Old Men, the remake. Get off my lawn. Brandon's back. He threw it out. So we're going to try to get that workout in. You know, we're not taking light of the situation, but I think we've always found humor the best way of kind of dealing with hardship. So we're going to get through this and we're going to see how we can do because I don't know. You ready to try it out? Yeah, I mean, I'm fine because I've been working out. So, you know, I think we're fine now, but don't get injured. I've been taking it easy still. And this is another workout I'll be taking easy with. But, you know, I think it's more fresh for Hudson, of course. So, but it's good to finally work out. We haven't worked out for a long time. No, we haven't together. Yeah. So we're going to be booting the buff up. That's what we're going to be tracking this in. That's what I'm going to be using rigorously through my rehab process. Check it out if you haven't had a chance. Love to have you in it. And let's get going. My setup is a little different now that I'm out of bed. The Darth Vader machinery I had on earlier was actually a very cool ice pack, which keeps the water flowing. But this is what I'm normally going to look like here. Probably getting this off pretty soon, actually. That's about the length of the cut they did. The doctor said the surgery went well, which I was very happy to hear. My bicep had kind of fallen out of the groove as well. So they put that back into place. Originally, it was thought that it was the clavicular head that had torn, but it actually ended up being the sternocostal. So they pulled the sternocostal back. They went ahead and they put some buttons in the bone. So it kind of went through the bone and then the button pops out to keep it a little bit more secure. There are some really strengthened cables. So the most important thing now is that I do not move this for the next couple weeks, next couple months. Because the problem is, is the cables are actually stronger than the tendons. So before the tendons can kind of like marry the muscle and the bone again and kind of all like get that really good reconnection. The tendons can actually kind of tear through it, which they described as a little bit like a cheese grater. So I did not want that to happen. So there's not going to be a lot of action here, but I'm still trying to keep the rest of my body as active as possible safely. Just so that I don't have an even longer road to recovery once this is finally all good to go in about nine, six to nine months or so. And I have this very cool little mobility ball attached onto my brace. So I can get a little bit of work in this arm. It's a little bit like a dog toy. It's kind of a buff dude, a little buff dude setup going on right here, which is nice. So whenever I need that exercise, I just grab that thing. My goal is to have a massive lower body and a tiny shriveled little upper body when this is all set and done. Welcome to the buff dudes lair. This is where all the magic happens. This is probably where we spend about 90% of our time doing buff dudes content. Yeah. Unlike a lot of people online now for the past 14 years, I mean, the writing, the shooting, the being in front of the camera, the editing. It's all been me and Brandon and it's never changed. It's Brandon helped alleviate a lot of pressure off me because probably about what six or seven years ago you started the editing as well. So we've got we've got a nice little teamwork thing going on here. I felt a little guilty because I mean Hudson was doing so much work doing all the shooting and the editing. Editing was just a lot. It's a huge workload. So I finally stepped up, which some people may ask, Hey, why don't you hire other people out to do it? And I think the answer is other than like our really big videos where we've had to, we just truly enjoy the process. It's time consuming, but when you love what you do, it's not that big of an issue. And really the days of the more DIY, the challenges, it's a young man's game. And we were kind of some of the first online to begin doing that content. A lot of people kind of took the ball and ran with it. And I guess probably what we would say to that is you can have the ball. We're done with it. We found a new ball. We moved on to a much bigger, better ball. We're working on the next I Tried Living. It's really Brandon's project. I got to give you the credit. I've been very happy just watching them. So we're going to keep going with this and we're very excited. We hope you enjoy it and look for it soon. So now that me and Brandon have had a chance to work out, we kind of took you through our workflow. The question is the video title are the buff dudes quitting? Well, I just want to say again, I really appreciate all the support in the last video, the kind words, the great messages on how you yourself have recovered meant a lot to me. I know with all the positive there came a little negative. Some people are saying, well, there's a lot of people out there in the world that have a lot worse than this, which, you know, I completely agree with the point of the prior video wasn't really to say how bad I had it. It was just to be transparent on what's happening and what's happening next. So I think in the face of adversity, no matter if you're going through this or maybe had a bad day at work, it's the real strength is just pushing forward, not quitting. So having said that, I don't want to quit. I want to recover. I want to get strong, hopefully stronger than I was prior because it's really again that mental mindset that can really be the champion sometimes when you're down or you're facing a setback. So thank you all again. We will be closing a chapter, but now it's time to start a new one. So look for Brandon's 2000s video soon. I'm going to start the rehab recovery series and thank you all for watching. Thank you all again. So until the next video, stay buff.