Why'd they send me into this rap battle? Because some damn fool accused you of being the best. Stallone! You son of a bitch! Gibberish Look, it's "Rambo" a vietnam war vet with an italian hobbit body and a face stung by hornets. This is where the Commandos play, not the junior set. Now take your toy knife, back to the carpet! I don't deal with psychos, I put 'em away. Mess with me and I'll give you a war you wouldn't believe, O.K.? You're a womanizing chump. Nothing but a hog. I'm a writer, director, people love me I'm the underdog! Underdog? Ha! Just a Stallion from the pound. Wanna be the last action hero? Stick around. I'm Conan, the Terminator, even killed a Predator. Ask Bridget Nielson, I'm Arnold Schwarzenegger. Maybe twenty years ago, you Austrian oaf. Here, have another serving of bratwurst and meat loaf. Yo Colonel! Give this has been some history: He can take on ten men, survive a nuke, hell, he can eat food which would make a billy goat puke! That's a good one Troutman, haha, quiet! My mere appearance can cause a bodybuilding riot! You're a funny guy Sly, that's why I'll kill you last, cuz when this battle's over you'll need to kiss my muscled ass. I'll snap your neck like a chicken, I'm numero uno. Your rhymes are shittier than Willis' Return of Bruno! Look at you, always whining in your movies life isn't fair, while I'm on Mars fighting Cohaaggen, "Give the people air!" What are you doing? C'mon, kill me! I'm right here, do it! What are you waiting for?! I came here tonight, I didn't know what to expect. During this fight, I've seen a lot of changing, the way yous feel about me, and in the way I feels about you. I guess what I'm trying to say, is that if I can change, and you can change, everybody can change! Sly, that's ideas fantastic. We can only move forward if we team up together. If not, we're...The Expendables. Aye yo, I agree. I'll see you in the sequel, big guy. Ya, ok Sly But you forgot one thing, I'm a born politician, I'm paid to fake cry. Remember when I said I'd kill you last? I lied.