Welcome to the Buff Dude 3-day weekly workout split. Day one, back and biceps. Pull-ups are one of the best exercises that work the entire back. Start in the stretched position and pull your shoulders down and back as you bend the elbows. Get a nice squeeze at the top and slowly let your body down into the start position. If you can't complete pull-ups, then change the exercise to pull downs. Underhand bendover rows. This exercise is meant to build thickness in the mid and upper back. With the underhand grip, the palms will be supenated and will put more stress on the biceps throughout the motion. Lawnmowers, or as we call them, chainsaw starters. This movement will focus on the lats. Focus on the stretch in the starting position, pulling the shoulder back while bending at the elbow to get the complete contraction of the lats. Back extensions helping focus on the lower back erector spiny muscles as well as the lower lat fibers. Keep the core tight while performing this exercise and as you contract and extend the lower back to pull your body to the straight position. Try keeping the tempo slow and controlled. Incline bench curls. The starting position will be focusing on the stretch and your biceps will have to work harder to contract through the motion due to the angle of the joints. Try to bend only in the elbow joint and keep the shoulders in a neutral position while you complete this motion. Preacher bench curls, helping totally isolate the biceps by making it nearly impossible to use the shoulders to help with the movement. This exercise puts a massive amount of stress on the biceps and will build those guns. Bring the bar low to feel the stretch in the biceps and contract those biceps to bring the bar up. Get a nice squeeze and slowly let the bar back down. Also, keep the hips back while completing the motion so you can't get any help with the hips or legs. Hammer rope curls. Working on not only the biceps but also the extensors of the forearms. This exercise is a great mass builder for those guns. Start in the stretch position and drag the hands right along the body by flexing the biceps and bending the elbows. Cables are a great way to keep constant tension throughout the full range of motion. There you go, dudes. Day one is finished of our 3-day split. We've got chest and triceps and legs and shoulders on the way.