All right, dudes and girls. We got a lot of requests on our last two videos to do a back workout video. So, that's exactly what we're doing. Putting out a few workout videos like this one as we're in the middle of our brand new series. We're going to be covering each specific muscle group. Biceps, triceps, back, chest, legs, you name it, we're going to do it. We got all new animations, lots of humor, lots of explanations on what muscle group do what, and by popular request, lots of explosions. So, look for that video series coming really soon. All right, we're on to the first exercise, and this is going to be deadlifts. We have a couple tutorials on deadlifts. So, if you want to know more on the proper form, uh what to do, and also what not to do, we have a couple videos on that. So, if you're unsure about form and you want to learn a little bit more, be sure and check those out. As you can see, once we start getting a little bit heavier in the weight, we start doing an overunder grip. And this is really just to help with bar roll. And I actually tried to perform the deadlift with a two overhand grip on the 405 and the bar was just rolling too much. So, I had to switch into an over and under grip. And that's probably the best way to know how or when you should do an overunder grip is when the bar starts rolling out of your your hands. That's when you want to switch up to the overunder grip. We're also putting some wrist wraps on so that way we don't have to concentrate on the grip too much. We actually can just concentrate on the lift itself and the good pull. If you're getting really heavy in weight and your grip's starting to fail, that's the best way you know when to introduce those straps. So try not to use them throughout the whole duration of the exercise just because you still do want to stress that grip to make sure you're constantly progressive in your grip strength. But once it becomes a little bit too heavy for that grip, just throw those straps on and bust them out. You can see too that I'm taking my shoes off once it starts getting a little bit heavier. And this is mainly just to make sure your feet are perfectly flat on the floor and you get that full connection to the floor and you get a little bit more pull and a better activation throughout all the muscles. Now that we have deadlifts out of the way, we're moving on to pull-ups. A great tip to do proper pull-ups is scapula depression. So, when you're hanging at a dead hang, you want to do the opposite of a shrug. So, instead of shrugging and elevating your scapula upwards, pulling your shoulders to your ears, you want to do the exact opposite movement. You want to depress the scapula downwards. And as you do that, you want to then flex with the biceps and pull through to the top position. So, your chin raises above the bar. Now, this is a really key movement and a great tip because this is really going to help you out with those pull-ups, activating the the whole lats and also the traps to stabilize the shoulder joint, but also give you the proper movement. So, that way you are not just doing arm pull-ups and having all the strength come from your arms, you're actually activating the traps and also the lats properly, helping you pull up to the top position and get a good contraction throughout the movement. And if pull-ups are proving too much of a problem for you, you can always go ahead and switch them out for either lat pull downs or inverted rows. Those are two excellent exercises which will not only hit the back, but it will also build up for you to be able to do your first proper pull-up. We love pull-ups. We recommend that you do them, too. Even if you can't, try those other exercises and make it a goal to build up to doing pull-ups. Now, we're moving on to the single arm dumbbell rows. As you can see, we're using a bench to just put our knee on top of it. We push our other leg out to the side and we have our trunk about parallel to the floor. What you want to do is get the full stretch in the lat and you want to pull up through the elbow as high as you can and get the full contraction in the lat at the top position and then bring it down to the bottom position to get the full stretch. Now, this exercise is perfect because it's a unilateral exercise. So, it's help targeting each lat separately. So, what you want to do is keep that elbow close to the body and that's what's going to target that lat. And you want to get that nice contraction all the way to the top and release it down to the bottom position. So, we're moving on to the straight arm pull down. And as you can tell, this is not a standard straight arm pull down. We're actually utilizing an incline bench and we're going to put it so where you're facing away from the cable. You're going to grab the bar. So, this is actually increasing the range of motion throughout the exercise. So, it's kind of like a pullover straight arm pull down hybrid. It's going to help isolate those lats, but it's also going to increase the stretch in the lats from the top position and contracting all the way to the downward position when you reach your lower abdominals. So, take a nice deep breath as you bring it up to the top position, filling your lungs with as much oxygen you can and exhale as you bring it down to the bottom position. This is going to get help get the full contraction throughout the range of motion. How's it feel to do the whole stack? Feels pretty damn good. Achievement unlocked. Full stack. Yeah. So, we have some back extensions here and what we're doing is adding a little bit weight to it. So, we're just putting some dumbbells down at the floor, grabbing them, and extending the back upwards to get a contraction in the erector spin. The rectus spin got a lot of work in deadlifts already. And that's the thing, you really want to strengthen them up. So, if you're doing heavy squats, heavy deadlifts, you really have those muscles to help support the spine throughout the range of motion. So this exercise we're doing here is really going to help strengthen those erector span to help stabilize that spine through any kind of motion you do and really make sure it's ready for those heavy lifts in the future. Buff dudes. Hell yeah. All right, that wraps up our back workout. Not too bad for a Sunday morning workout. Getting that pump on. And as we said earlier, we're finishing up our new series. We're throwing everything and the kitchen sink into this thing. We think you are all going to like it. We're very proud of how it's coming out so far. So, look for that within the next couple of weeks. Hit this back workout. Tell us what you think in the comments. And until next time, stay buff.