Warning. Use professional supervision when creating equipment. This project has been rated easy. Hey buff dudes, buff girls. We're going to try and locate some battle ropes, which are hard to find around here. So, we decided to try and call the local fire department to see if we could get some battle hose instead. So, if you're looking for something like that, try your local fire station cuz a lot of times apparently they get rid of that old hose. He said they had a 100 ft of inch and a half hose, single wall that has some holes in it and there really no use for it. So, they're going to go ahead and give it to us for free. Let's go get it. Okay, check this stuff out. There's 100 ft of that inch and a half. That'll be good. There it is. 100 ft of inch and 1/2 in fire hose, which is in half. So, we have 50 ft, two 50 ft lengths. What we're going to do is cut that end off here cuz it still has the nozzle, make it like the other one. Then I'm going to tie this off. And I'm going to get back on the other end, put the hose together, and just start wrapping. So, we're going to make a weave, sort of a weave. So it kind of starts turning into a rope looking thing. Then we'll duct tape it. Duct tape the ends. Put a little knot on it. So it's just like a rope. Cool thing is it's free and we can make them ourselves. So let's get started. So go ahead and cut this with the utility knife. There we go. Two equal ends of 50 50 ft a piece. So now I'm going to tie this off on one end and we'll start turning it. Okay, got this tied to the toolbox. So, I'm going to go on the other end. Then I'm going to get something that I can turn just a handle. Start twisting this rope so it starts looking like that. I should say hose that will start looking somewhat like rope. Found an old hay hook. I'm going to just slip in the center of this thing and then put some tension on it so we get it even. And then I'm going to start turning it like this. Look at the rope. Fire hose is all wrapped up in a nice tight spiral. There's 50 ft of it. Remember, we doubled it. So now the next step is we're going to hold it together with this duct tape. This is about 105 ft of duct tape. About 12 bucks. It's actually that Gorilla tape. It's a little thicker. So, what we're going to do is come over here. See, the twist goes this way. We're going to go the opposite way like this. In fact, we could start at the other end. But since it's going to be easier for me to go this way cuz I'm right-handed on the end, I'm going to take it and bend it over. And then just wrap this really well with the duct tape. And that's going to kind of create a little knot and a handhold at the end. We can really wrap several layers. As you can see, we have a lot of duct tape left there. So, we're going to be able to grab that and it won't slip out of our hands. You can make that knot even bigger if you like. Battle ropes are fairly expensive. I looked on Amazon, like a 16footer was like $60. We have 50 feet here. Actually, we have gotten 100 feet for free thanks to the local fire department. So, check those guys out. They might be able to help you out. And there it is, the complete battle rope. We got 50 ft total length here, 25 ft on each side. We've wrapped it with the duct tape as we've seen in the last few scenes, and we ended up with about an inch and a half, inch and 3/4 in diameter. That's a good size battle rope. So, we're wrapped around the tree here. Let's give it a try. Oh, yeah. This is going to be good. A really good workout. I can feel my arms getting tired already. You can put other movements in there. And remember, for the full workout with this battle rope, check out Buff Dudes battle rope workout. DIY duke here. Bye.