 ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus Now there's usually two types of people. One you wake up motivated and ready to go in the new year. The other one might feel a little hungover from the night before, but no matter what person you might be, we're making this starter guide video to help you kick your year off right. So in this video we'll be covering the most important aspects of getting in shape. And in order to get the most out of your workouts, you want to download the Buff App. It's actually an app me and my brother Hudson have been developing for the last two years. The Buff App provides a way to track your progress through detailed stats, has a wide selection of programs from beginner to pro, including our most recent release, the New Year's Revolution Plan, and an easy way to stay motivated through our unique RPG style leveling up system. You'll also have extra support from an amazing Buff community that keeps growing. Make sure you download it today. It's available on Google Play or the Apple App Store. But before we get to the workouts, we're going to prep some food. So we're going to run to the store real quick and grab some ingredients. Okay so while they're out getting some food, I wanted to take this time to go over a little bit of the basics of nutrition. Now I think before starting anything, it's a good idea to understand your specific goal. Do you want to lose weight? Do you want to gain weight? Once you kind of understand that, it's a lot easier moving forward. Micaela is currently lost right now. So we have a pretty short list. We're not going to be here long, but it's just the bare essentials, you know. And that's what you got to do. You got to go to the grocery store and have a goal. We have a very specific goal. And we're going to be accomplishing that goal. We have three recipes that we're going to be cooking. And so we're just getting all the ingredients for those so we know exactly what we're doing and we're fully prepared. Now nutrition can be as simple as you want it to be or as complex as you want it to be. I would say the most simple way to look at it is if you want to lose weight, you eat less. And if you want to gain weight, well, you eat more. This looks cool. I want this. Okay, no, no, we got to stick with the list. And of course, there can be a lot more that goes into it. For instance, you can get more into your BMR, your basic metabolic rate, and then go into your TDE. And then you can go into more of like macro splits, how much protein carbs and fats you need. Right at number three here. And I quickly want to go over what your BMR is, what TDE is and what macro splits are. Now BMR is your basal metabolic rate, which is basically how many calories your body requires at complete rest. So if you laid around all day, how many calories would it take to keep you alive? Now the TDE takes your BMR and adds activity levels on top of that, which is your total daily energy expenditure. And macro splits are basically taking your complete calories that you're having throughout the day and splitting them up into where they're coming from. 40% of those calories are coming from protein, 40% coming from carbs and 20% coming from fat. Hopefully that cleared things up a little bit. But these are all very adjustable and different from person to person. So if you want to get a little bit more deep dive into nutrition, that's pretty much a good place to start. All right, Mikhail, I just had a question real quick. What has really changed in your eating habits over the years? I would say the main things are protein is always a priority in my meals. It's something that I used to never think about when I was planning my meals. I would more just think about what was yummy or filling. So now protein is always a priority. I think that's what's made the biggest difference in my 15th. Once you kind of have a little bit more of a baseline of not only your goal, but maybe how many calories and macros you need, really moving forward, it's going to be pretty much the same for everyone. And I would say the next step would be preparation. Once you have a good idea of the amount of food you're going to be having every day, that's a good idea to start prepping your food. So that way it's going to be available to you because consistency is king. If you don't stay consistent with anything, you're really never going to get any results. So preparing your food can be extremely important. And now that we made it back from the grocery store, that's exactly what we're about to do. It's food prep time. And we're going to keep this very simple. We're only doing a few recipes. And I think that's one thing that we would recommend for a lot of people just starting out. Don't overwhelm yourself and try to prep every single meal. Maybe just start with a couple meals like we're doing today. And we're going to take a few of the recipes from our very own Buff Dudes Cookbook. Now the first one we're doing is Buff Ends. And it's not really a meal, but more of a snack. But I think that makes life a lot easier when you have a lot of food that you can grab on the go. I'm a pretty big snack person. So having a healthy snack, I feel like is very important. And I love this recipe because it is just so simple. I mean, you throw a bunch of ingredients in a blender, you blend it up, throw it in the oven. So very quick, very easy. And that's what we're all about. All about. She's my DJ, baby. All about. She's cutting the onions in here. It's okay sweetheart. It's just an onion. There we go. The chicken in tuna salad is done. Now this recipe called for chicken alone, but we didn't have enough. So we ended up adding some tuna in there as well. And the nice thing is cooking is totally customizable to your desires. So we also just threw in some bacon bits and olives and some peppers too. It turned out really good. I did turn out good. Now there's a couple more things we would highly recommend having to make this whole process a lot easier. And number one is going to be a food scale. Food scales were a game changer for me when I really started taking my nutrition seriously. You need to know exactly how much food you're eating if you're trying to gain weight or lose weight at a certain rate. In conjunction with food tracking apps, I was able to reach my goals a lot faster with this. And along with those, having food containers can be very important as well because if you're cooking all this food, of course you need a place to store them. We use glass. They're a lot more durable. And so it's an excellent investment. So only with those couple things, you can really make your life a lot easier. And for some people who say, I don't want to track all my food. That's very tedious. Well, you only really have to do it for about a week or a month to at least get a good idea of what food portion sizes look like and really how much you're having throughout the week. So we wrapped up with all of our food prep and that feels pretty damn good to be done with that one. But that's only part of the equation. The next part is going to be fitness. So we're on our way to the gym now and we're going to be going over some of the things to keep in mind when you're first starting out or maybe you're coming back from an extended break. All right, Mikaela. So what are some of your first memories when stepping inside the gym? Well, some of my first memories involved just wandering around, wondering what all these machines are and trying to figure out how they work. But I have to say, I was extremely intimidated my first few times in the gym, but I'm really glad I was diligent because I think I laid a really good foundation by using machines. As opposed to Mikaela, I did not start out on machines. I think she definitely did it the right way. I kind of jumped right into barbell work, dumbbell work, and I was that typical teenager that was seen flailing like a fish out of the water trying to get his balance and very uncoordinated. And that really goes to show you that when you first start out, you want to kind of think of it as movement patterns rather than just like, how much weight can I lift and how jack can I get. That'll come later. But in the beginning, just basically it's your central nervous system trying to adapt to what you're putting it through. And that's why machines can be a little bit more beneficial because they're in a fixed position, they're fixed movement. You have to get that feeling of the movement and start to build that strength and movement pattern, learn that movement pattern before moving on to something that's a bit more difficult like barbell work, dumbbell work, and the New Year's Revolution plan is really programmed around that. It's starting with machine work and it's allowing you to adapt to these specific movements before then really evolving into a better version, not only yourself, but also your abilities in the gym. You want to get that functional movement. You want to get those movement patterns, but also you want to get a pump. And I think that's very important when it comes to starting out in the gym and kind of finding that motivation, finding the reason why you're there. Because a lot of times if you don't enjoy it, you're not going to come back. You're not going to build that consistency. You do have to have that balance of you're there for a reason, you're there to better yourself, but it's also what gets you coming back to the gym time and time again. When you look in the mirror after months and months of getting to the gym and being consistent with it and you see the differences when you first started out and what you look like after months of hard work, that's going to be a hell of a lot of motivation because you're going to see some major results. All right. So that wraps up the starter guide video. We get to kick back and relax and have full confidence. We'll be able to wake up tomorrow morning with everything ready to go and prepared. Now, although this might be the end of the video, it could be the beginning of your fitness journey. So hopefully you enjoyed this video. And if you get a chance to definitely check out the Buff app, hopefully we'll see you on it. So until next time, stay buff.