My name is Hudson. I'm 42, 6'1, and I've just hit an all-time new low weight of 197 lbs. I am preparing for my very first natural bodybuilding competition. I've got my food and my workouts locked in, better than they've been in my entire life, but I'm still missing one piece of the puzzle. Supplements. It's time to go shopping. I'm going to need some caffeine in order to deal with this song, which is perfect because we're at our first stop getting arguably the most important supplement of all. Caffeine, baby. Take care. Bye. Thank you. I'm going black coffee because I have about 24 days left and I don't trust going out anymore. You get a coffee, you ask for sugarfree, you go to the theater, you ask for a diet coke. What if they hit the wrong button, man? What if they give you that sugar and you get off your macros? These are the things I'm thinking about, honey. These are the things that keep me up at night. Oh yeah, I love this song. Flesh and steel. This is the new release by Buff Dudes. The caffeine's kicking in, baby. Ah, yes. the supplement store where there's a million different options and you only know the names of about half the things that are there. What works? What doesn't? Well, thankfully at my age, I've had plenty of time to experiment and I'm going to be picking up the ones that have proven to be beneficial for me and maybe grabbing an unnecessary one along the way because I just couldn't help myself. Wow. 45 minutes of being upsold later. I made it see. I don't know when I'm gonna go back there again, man. Um, but we did get what we wanted. So, I am happy with that. Now, we're going to run away before we're upsold anymore. I'm home. I got my AG1 refill, which is perfect timing. And I want to say huge thanks to AG1 for sponsoring this video. This is what I take when I wake up every single morning and it is a perfect way for my body to start the day. It's really easy to mix. It tastes great and it's so much more than greens. It's a daily drinkable scoop of vitamins, minerals, probiotics, and whole food source ingredients in one and nutrients to help support a healthy mood. And my mood needs all the help it could get because right now I'm a little moody. And if you want to grab some AG1 for less than $3 a day, which costs less than the cup of coffee I just got, you can head to drinkagg.com/buffdudes or scan the QR code on the screen. Also, the link is in description. So, huge thanks again to AG1 for sponsoring this video. It's my morning ritual. It's the first thing that I drink in the morning and it helps me to cover my commonly under consumed micronutrients. Yeah. So, what else do I take as a natural lifter? Thankfully, it's really easy. There's just six more. And the next one is another all-time favorite. It has worked amazing for me, and that is creatine. I love creatine because it has helped with my strength and performance in the gym. And most importantly, it gives my muscles that pumped full appearance. And I got to be honest, as a buff dude, there's nothing better than a pumped full appearance. Micronized creatine monohydrate is my favorite. And I basically take it year round now. I have for the past year and a half or so and I've seen a lot of great progressive overload with it. It's one of the most studied supplements. It is a supplement that is proven to work and it sure as hell works for me. So, it gets one of my highest marks and it is one that I truly believe in. BCAAs is another one of my favorites. I really like drinking this one during a workout. It really helps with muscle soreness, fatigue, recovery, and when you're doing what I'm doing right now, as I'm sure some of you know, any little bit of flavor can help. So, I get some flavored BCAAsand it really helps push me through my day when I'm craving something. As much as I love water, when I need something just a little bit more than that, that's where the BCAAs come in. And that's why really sometimes just that little bit of taste is one of the biggest benefits. A question we get asked a lot is how do you fit enough protein into your day? Of course, protein is the building blocks of maintaining and creating muscle. And when you're working out really hard, you need a decent amount of protein. And sometimes it's hard to get that just from dairy, meat, or from other sources. So, that's why whey protein is one of my all-time favorite go-to supplements. Again, it's very available. It works really well. And for me, again, there's nothing better than going through that workout and waiting for that protein shake. The anabolic window has basically been debunked, but for me, it's really a reward system thing. I'm pushing myself as hard as I can, cuz a lot of times I know I'm going to be getting that post-workout protein, and that's what drives me to finish the workout, which a lot of times for me is this it's that psychological edge. It's not even so much the physicality of doing the workout. It's keeping your mind strong. And when I know there's a reward at the end of that hard, rigorous workout tunnel and the light is a beautiful protein shake. Well, that's what inspires me to get that killer workout finished. Next up is omega-3 or specifically EPA. It's great for joint health and reducing inflammation, but one thing that I found that I really enjoy it for is my mood levels. I mean, it's not like a magic pill, but I've noticed when reducing my calories, when performing these intense workouts, taking some omega-3s really kind of helps to stabilize me a little bit. I'm not so much on edge, and it's just that helpful little boost that I need to make it through my day. So, I'm a big fan of omega-3s, and I make sure it's part of my daily diet. Now I want to move on to a couple of the supplements which I'm not sure if they've helped me but I'm kind of using the mentality of like well if they do that's great and if not then no harm done. One of those is carnitine. That one the claimed benefits is it helps transport fat for energy and also preserving muscle glycogen during intense workouts and additionally reducing muscle fatigue. Are all those claims true? With some of the other supplements like whey protein, creatine, caffeine, I can very easily tell physically and with the case of the omega-3 with the EPA, I can see and feel a difference with those. Carnitine, not so much. But at the same time, I'm just taking it because I'm like, well, if it works, then that's amazing. So, and a lot of people may find that with certain supplements is I mean, every supplement has a claim. Is it working exactly the way it should for you? I don't know. But I do like the claims that carnitine makes and that is why I take it. Glutamine is next on the list which aids in muscle recovery. Again, it's one of those that I couldn't tell you 100% that every time I take glutamine, I'm like, "Wow, my muscles feel so recovered." But it's one that I still like to utilize because it's very readily available. It's affordable. And it's kind of one of those things where why not take it? because if it is aiding in muscle recovery, then this would be the perfect time for it to help me out as I'm going through this rigorous training. And that brings us to our final supplement, one so infamous I had to keep it away from the others, and one that got me and my brother Brandon through hundreds of workouts in our 20s. It's finally time to revisit this bad boy. Two scoops. Two scoops. Get the screen You should see him on three scoops in your DNA. Believe the muscles and hide away. Wait until I get to the end of this thing.