We're back with some more forgotten exercises, and this time we're going to be focusing on legs, as voted by you in our last episode. So, are you ready to throw those legs for a loop? Well, let's get started on those five forgotten exercises. First up on the list is going to be the squat. And this one is an excellent alternative to the leg extension machine. So, if you don't have one available, go ahead and give this exercise a shot. It's an excellent way to isolate the quadriceps. In order to perform this exercise, what you're going to want to go ahead and do is grab onto something stable, lean back, come up on your toes, and keep your body straight with your legs. For those of you who experience knee issues, you're probably going to want to stay away from this exercise. But for those of you with healthy, stable knees, you're going to be good to go. And once again, awesome isolation for those quads. Next up on the list is going to be the manual hamstring curls or the glute ham raise or the Nordic ham raise or the Russian hamstring curls, whatever you want to call it. This isolation exercise for the hamstrings is one of the best, if not the best, for isolating those hams. And it's pretty damn easy to perform as well. You can either do it with a glute ham raise machine with a partner holding your legs or with a barbell if you don't have anyone to help assist you. In order to perform this exercise, what you're going to want to go ahead and do is put your feet underneath the bar of the barbell if you're performing this alone or anything that can support your feet for that matter. And go ahead and slowly bring yourself towards the ground face first. When your hamstrings can't support you any farther, go ahead and get up into a push-up position and push yourself back into the starting position. Keep your body rigid while performing this exercise and really focus on the negative portion of the rep. Concentrate on not pushing your hips back too far as that's really going to relieve a lot of the tension in those hamstrings. Next up is going to be the barbell hack squat. Go into any commercial gym and you're more than likely to find a hack squat machine. In fact, they're so prevalent we get a lot of questions when people don't have access to them. What do I replace with a hack squat? Well, that's easy. You replace it with the barbell hack squat. A forgotten leg exercise, but it hasn't lost any of its luster. So, how to perform the barbell hack squat? Think of this one a little bit like a reverse deadlift. So, the bar is going to be behind you and starting from the ground level. Go ahead and get into position. Keep your body as vertical as possible and rep it out. This one is really going to be focusing on those quads. So, get ready to feel that burn. Moving on to the circus squat. Unique name, definitely a unique looking exercise. You're going to be holding the barbell within the crook of your elbow. Think of it like you're cradling a little baby. Baby gains. You're going to be taking those legs and turning them from twigs into tree trunks. And the zer squat is going to be the one to help get you there. Oh yeah. Performing this exercise is a lot like your traditional squat except for the fact that it's going to be front loed. And again, it's going to be rested in the crook of those elbows. So, you're going to want to remember to keep the weight light as it could provide discomfort. This is a great exercise for those of you with lower back pain as you're going to be keeping your body vertical throughout the duration of this exercise and for the fact that it's front-loaded. When talking about those legs, we couldn't forget calves. So, coming last on the list is going to be the donkey calf raises. Definitely a forgotten exercise, but a staple of the golden era of bodybuilding. Look through any magazine from back in the day and most likely you're going to see Arnold or Franco performing this together. They had the ultimate gym bromance, and no gym bromance would be complete without the donkey calf raise. Performing this exercise is easy. You're going to want to lean forward at a 90° angle, grab something sturdy to hold on to, put a block underneath your feet, have a partner to straddle you, and begin repping it out. Don't have a bromance of your own? Well, no problem. Just grab a weight belt, and you can perform the exact same motion with the weight, not the sweaty gym rat on top of you. What separates the dudes from the buff dudes? Leg day. So, don't forget to have a leg day every week. And when doing leg day, try putting some of these forgotten exercises into your routine. We think you'll enjoy them. So, until next time, vote on the next five forgotten exercises you'd like to see. And as always, stay buff. Performing this exercise is easy. You're going to want to go ahead and bend over at a 90° angle, hold on to something sturdy, and put a block underneath your feet. Now, here's where it gets fun. You're going to want a partner to go ahead and straddle you through the duration of this exercise. And hey, we're buff dudes. We can have any number of beautiful women at the gym help us with this exercise. In fact, I could snap my finger and a beautiful woman will show up right now in order to aid me in performing this exercise. Any women I want, anytime. Well, it looks like I'm the only one here. Okay, fine. You can help me out with the exercise. Just don't get weird or anything. All right. Okay. Now bend over. Let's get biblical.