getting day one started, which is going to be chest and back with the 100 pull-up challenge. 10 sets of 10 reps. We haven't really showed this in any of our videos in the past, but this is one of me and Brandon's favorites. We haven't done it for a while, but we used to start off every chest and back workout with 10 sets of 10 reps of pull-ups. It'll kick your ass right from the very beginning. Might take a little while to warm up to that many reps. So, if you can't do it, don't worry. But if you can, hell yeah. Buff Dudes approved. You still with us? You survived that 10 sets of 10? Well, if you are, then we're moving on to single arm dumbbell rows. Four sets, 12 reps each side. Some of you may be wondering, do I do all these three days in a row? Do I do these every other day? Do I do this on Monday through Wednesday? You know, that's really up for you to decide because this split is really for those who don't have a lot of free time. So, as long as you can try your best to get this done some point within the 7 day days of the week, then you'll be good to go. As you can see, we only have A-50 lb dumbbell. Really, that's the heaviest dumbbells we have. We're still utilizing them. If you find yourself with weight that doesn't really tend to stress the muscle like you want it to, it's not as heavy as you want it to, just slow down the tempo. Tempo control can be a very important thing to make a weight seem a lot heavier than it actually is. And you really focus on the eccentric contraction, too. So, really the negative portion of the lift and that's really going to kind of help those micro tears in the muscle itself to promote more growth. So, just slow it down a little bit, concentrate on that perfect form. and the light weight becomes quite a bit heavier than it really should be. Typically, we do face pulls with a cable. We don't have cables here, so we're doing it with a barbell. As you can see, this is a variation of a face pull. Barbell face pulls. Works excellent for the upper back muscles. Yes, it'll hit rear deltosis and the traps quite a bit, but uh those are part of the upper back. So, it gives you that nice thick look to your back. And we're doing four sets of 12 repetitions. Make you thick, solid, tight. like us. It's rush hour. It's 5:00. You can see it's getting a little darker due to uh the time change time falling back. But that's one of the great things about having your own home gym. As you can see, not much of a rush hour around here. Other than some of the flies and mosquitoes, bastard wants some of that palm. They can smell the palm. What we do is cross bench allows your hips to dip lower. Creates a lot more stretch in your lats. So, keep those hips low. Reach all the way back. Take a deep breath inside your thorax and kind of expand your chest. Get a nice deep stretch. And then exhale as you bring it to the top position. And that's our favorite style of pullover, the cross bench pullover. And we're doing three sets of 15 reps. As you can see, Hudson's performing the alternating dumbbell press. And you're not starting the dumbbells at the bottom position. You're actually starting um at the top position. And this is really going to work on some isometric hold as you bring one side down and the eccentric contraction and then concentric contraction to bring up back up to the top position. And you're going to hold it there as you perform the next side. So you get the alternation in there, but you also get some isometric hold as well as the eccentric and concentric. So a lot going on in this exercise. Um, take it nice and slow tempo and uh, always practice that good form. Incline dumbbell press, wide to close, 10 reps. That's going to be 10 reps on each variation. So, close, wide, one, close, wide, two, so on and so forth until you get to 10. It's getting a little dark out. It's getting a little scary. You've seen our Evil Dead Brownies episode. You know how we get when darkness falls. So, we're performing the underhand press. This is really going to be focusing on the clvicular portion of the chest, which is part of the clavicle connects in there. It's the upper chest. And it's also going to hit the triceps and front delts like most pressing does. And we're going to be super setting with some underhand flies, which is an isolation exercise, which also focuses on the clavvicular portion of the chest, upper chest. Where's dumbbells? I got a super set going on here. Okay. We got to find that lighting. Damn it. Yeah. Where's the light? So, we're going to be doing No, we're doing mean three sets of 12 reps each. And uh again, super set. So, you go from one right into the other without any rest whatsoever. And then you have about 60 to 90 seconds of rest in between the supersets. And it all depends on how long your workout burner takes. Thankfully, we're pretty quick. Hudson's a he's a he's a fast fast presser. I'm AI'm a 12 pump chump. Oh, yeah. I shouldn't be admitting that, but I am workoutwise. Anyways, ladies. All right, that wraps up day number one. We're going to be out of town these next two days. We're actually traveling to Boulder, Colorado. We're going to be part of a YouTube event. We're going to be talking to other creators, doing a little bit of emotional uh emotional, it does get a little emotional, but motivational speaking in order to, you know, help other creators out, kind of like give back a little, maybe offer them some tips, something that may they may not have heard before. And hey, hopefully in the process, we learn some things as well. We always do. So, that's going to be a lot of fun, but we're still going to be getting these workouts in. So, see you for day two and three. Do it. Do it now. Yeah, we're starting this workout off with the goblet squats. Obviously, we don't have a squat rack here, so goblet squats a perfect alternative. Uh just grab a dumbbell, hold it right under the chin, and uh do some nice deep squats. Perfect exercise for either warm-up mobility, but in this case, it's a great exercise to start off the workout. And after the goblet squats, we are moving on to the split squats. So, another compound movement, but this is more unilateral. So, one leg is going to be doing most of the work. the leading leg. Uh you're just doing a split squat. So it's not like a walking lunge. It's static. You're just going up and down, pushing through one leg. And the other one that's located behind you is going to be more the stability leg. Although you'll still feel or could feel a little stretch in the quad in the leg that's leading behind you. So it's just going to be 10 reps on each leg on that one. Uh the first goblet squat is going to be five sets of 15. You know, the dumbbell here only goes up to 50 lbs. So we're keeping a little bit lighter. We're increasing the repetitions on this one, but feel free to go heavier and lighter in the reps if you'd like. Uh we're doing five sets though on the first exercise, which is the goblet squats. Next one, the split squats. We're going to be four sets of 10 reps each leg. And then we're going to be moving on to the isolation exercise, which is going to be the cable Romanian deadlift. If you don't have a cable, you can always um alternate uh or do a different exercise with just the dumbbell. So, you can use the dumbbell instead of the cable. Very easy switch out for that one. Uh keeping it somewhat light. It's going to depend on a lot of balance in this one. It is a unilateral exercise, so really concentrate on one leg um independent from the next. Really focus on the stretch and keep that core nice and tight to help stabilize you. The ankle is going to be using a lot of stability as well, so you won't fall over. So, kind of start light, get the feel for the form, and then progress up from there. And that's going to be four sets of 12 reps superseted with the squat, which this one is an isolation exercise for the quad. So, we're in this hotel gym. we don't have an extension m machine which we usually do for isolating the quadriceps. So in this case we're going to be doing squats and that's going to be four sets of 12 reps as well. Once we're done with that we're going to be doing the dumbbell swings or kettle bell swings. Of course in this gym there's no kettle bells so we're just substituting it with a dumbbell. And uh this one is really going to be working on the hip strength. So you're really thrusting forward. It's not really don't think of it like you're doing a a shoulder raise. As you can tell we're swinging the dumbbell upwards. The anterior delts will be worked a little bit, but it's mainly causing a lot of force through the hips to create that momentum to get the dumbbell up to the top position. And then you're decelerating the weight as you bring it down right into the crotch area. Just be careful so you don't knock yourself out in that case. But uh really bending the hips, flexing the hips to get in position and really thrust it forward to create that momentum in the dumbbell and then decelerate the weight as you come back down right in the beginning position. Again, great exercise for really powering the hips and the glutes. And that is going to be four sets of 15 reps. And yeah, if uh if you're listening to us talk and we're out of breath and painting, it's because we're in Boulder, Colorado, a mile a mile higher than we're normally used to. So uh oxygen's a little bit thinner here, so it's kind of hard to catch your breath, but we really want to make sure we're being careful on those dumbbell swings as well. Like Brandon said, you got to protect those family jewels, you know, the buff babies and all that. Future buff babies. Exactly. You smash those things and there will be no buff babies. you're in a world of hurt. And I have this nice fancy gym towel as well to keep the sweat off me. As Brandon was saying, we're a mile high elevation. Get a little bit more winded than we usually do. Again, switching up a little bit. Don't have a calf raise machine. As you can see, we're just using the uh cable machine. If you don't have a cable machine available, just go ahead and use some dumbbells. Can't forget those calves. So, the cable calf raises here. It's a unilateral exercise, meaning we're just concentrating on one side and then the next. And it's also really just con concentrating on the plantar flexion more the top position since we don't have a board to stand on or anything to elevate our our feet so the heel can come down further than just parallel for more of the dorsif flexion. Really just focusing on more of the upper half of the exercise. Getting a nice squeeze and full contraction the top position before letting it down to the bottom position on the floor level. And we're going to be doing four sets of 12 reps. In addition to this being a three-day weekly workout split, as you can see, we're not in our typical gym location. We've been working out from home for the past couple weeks, but we're actually in a hotel. So, this is also great if you find yourself in similar circumstances. If you're at a hotel, you know, if you're at like a smaller community college, college, uh you know, anywhere where there's not a big variety of weights. As you can see, we're switching up a little bit. Today, we're doing like switching it up like this. You know, it's not really muscle confusion as some people say, but what is good about this and what me and Brandon do like doing is we like switching it up simply to keep it fresh. Doing the same exercises over and over and over again can get a little boring. You can feel like maybe you're stuck in a rut. It's just very new. And me and Brandon find ourselves being pushed. Even though today we're not using a lot of weights, it's still kicking our ass just because these are exercises we don't do all the time. And you'll find yourself in the same position. If you're not used to doing an exercise, you're going to feel like it pushes you much harder than it normally might. Hey, All right, that wraps up the 3-day weekly workout split. Hope you dudes and girls enjoyed it. We've done cardio and abs the prior two days. This one we're ending it with a nice jump in the pool. Hell yeah. Till next time, stay buff. is good.