All right, welcome to the 12week plan phase three, day one in the gym. We're starting this workout off with squats. It's always a good rule of thumb to start off any kind of workout with the biggest compound movement. You have the most energy and you want to expel that energy correctly with this big movement. Like squats can involve a lot of muscle and you want to make sure you're pushing correctly through those heels and involving the hips throughout the motion. And it's also being superseted with twisting split squats or lunges. This is a great exercise as well. And this phase is full of super sets. It's been our favorite phase so far and it's going to push you to your limits. So if you're not quite ready for this phase, stick with phase two if need be. Going onto the single leg press is involving the legs in unilateral motion. Really working those quads, glutes, a little bit, the hamstrings. And you want to just make sure you push through that heel, making sure your foot is about midway on the platform of the leg press. You're not going to be pressing that much weight just because it is a single leg exercise, but it is good to try to isolate each leg separately. Going to the single leg hip extension. Again, it's a single leg exercise. Really working on the hips, the glutes. We're uh on top of a bench here, so we get further the range of motion. You can really dip the hips down and pushing straight up through the heel. Get a nice squeeze at the top and then lift down to bottom position before pushing up through the glutes again. And this is again superseted with the goblet squats. This is excellent exercise to involve a lot of quad work because this exercise is front-loaded and it's pretty comfortable for anyone that's uncomfortable with squats. Uh if you're not very comfortable with squats, the goblet squat is actually a great variation to do to kind of help your form. Next up with the single leg calf raise. Pretty easy exercise here. Just really want to remember those smaller muscle groups like calves. Don't want to leave those out. Maybe not the most fun exercises to do, but essential stability ball roll out. This is really going to engage uh the isometric, but also the contraction as well. So, you're holding a plank position, but you're also pushing the arms out and then bringing them back in to really involve the core, the lower back, and also the abs, too. And you may notice we switched this up instead of using the app roller wheel. That's because one wasn't available at the gym. So, we went ahead and just substitute it for that one. And the Otus up, too. Here we go. It's going to make it a lot more difficult by not putting your feet under anything. So, if you just flat footed on the floor, it's going to be pretty difficult, which is a good thing. So, you're just going to have to involve that core even more. We're holding just a 45 lb plate. Moving right along to day two. Starting it out with the Commando row. This is going to be in the plank position. You want to widen your stance to stabilize you and you're going to be slowly rowing up to the top position and bring it down to the bottom before rowing the next side. It's really going to hit the lats, but it's also going to hit the core at the same time. So, it's pretty involved movement for a lot of muscles. Super setting that with pull-ups. These are really going to push you to your limit. the commando rows. Well, that's an excellent name for that exercise because you really feel it and you do with pull-ups as well. You can also substitute pull-ups with lat pull downs on the machine if you're not quite ready to perform pull-ups. We're doing a pre-exhaustion here. So, we're starting off this uh exercise with flies and going immediately into the barbell bench press. with uh pre-exhaustion. If you're not really feeling your chest too much in a bench press, your front delts or your triceps start burning out, it's sometimes a good idea to use an isolation exercise to pre-exhaust the chest so it's actually working harder through a bigger motion like a compound bench press. And with the T- bar row, you can switch it up a little bit if you want. You can see I'm using a 45. We had forgotten to bring a towel. Um, as we do, we wrap that around the bar. You can also use smaller weights in order to get a fuller range of motion if need be. And we're moving right into pullovers. This day right here, chest and back really just destroyed the two of us in a good way. We had a lot of fun. Probably the most fun we've had doing this plan so far, and we hope you do, too. Here's the exercise with the smaller plates. Getting a farther range of motion, getting a nice squeeze, bringing the elbows up a little bit farther, and engaging the lats a little bit more. Going onto the incline dumbbell wide to close press. So you're just getting a wider press to begin with, getting a little bit more stretch on the outside of the chest and then bringing it inward and getting a little bit more activation in the inside of the chest with with this double motion here. And again, a superset. We're super setting with underhand dumbbell fly. So this is the isolation here. Just trying to concentrate more on the upper chest as well. So the clivicular portion of the chest is small. It doesn't have as many muscle fibers as the lower portion of the chest. So you just got to make sure you concentrate on that, especially if it's a weak point of yours, which it is for us. So we really try to hit that hard. Moving on to day three with the seated dumbbell press. Seated dumbbell press, you're not going to be involving as much of the core because you're going to be stabilized through the motion, but it is very difficult because you can't get any bounce in the legs. This is going to be the alternating standing Arnold press. So, here we go. Is the standing position, but it's alternating. So, it's one side and then the other. Make sure the legs are locked out. You're not getting too much bounce in the legs. And we're super seting right in with cable reverse fly for those posterior delts. And what you don't want to do is extend through the elbow. You want to just make sure you're using the shoulder joint throughout the motion and keeping that elbow joint stable and not move too much. This is a great exercise because the posterior delts can be left out. So, you also, just like calves, want to remember to include those as well. Moving right on to the single arm lateral raise. We're just grabbing on slightly leaning to one side. Um, and then just bringing straight up to get a nice activation of the lateral head of the deltoid. Face pulls. hitting that rear delt once again. Not leaving that small muscle group out and moving on to dumbbell shrugs. This is a really tough one because we're super setting it with farmer walks. So, you're going to want to hit that rep range on the shrugs and then you're just going to go straight onto the farmer walk until failure. So, just walk as long and as far as you can until you can't do it anymore, then you're good to go. Here's the reverse crunches. So you just got to think about a standard crunch where you're crunching your upper body up. This is the exact opposite. So that's why they call it the reverse crunch. You're crunching your lower body upward. So you keep your upper back into the floor and you just raise your hips up. Crunching inward. Moving right on to windmill. So what you want to do is keep your legs straight and you're going to push your hip outward and your shoulder joint is going to articulate to make sure it's held straight above and you're just reaching down with the opposite arm. And this is really going to get engaged in the obliques um a little bit in the lower back as well. All right, here we go. We're doing some more supersets. This we're starting off with a compound movement for the arms. So, we're doing an underhand row. It's going to involve the biceps um as well as obviously the lats and then we're moving right on to reverse grip bench press which is going to involve a little bit more the triceps because of the underhand grip. So, these are two compound movements we wanted to start off the the workout with. And then we're moving right on to barbell skull crushers, which is isolating the triceps throughout the motion. Big movement for those triceps. And with these exercises, if need be, keep that lower weight because with the reverse bench and the skull crushers, you know, it's really going to be pushing your body to the limit and it your body can actually begin to give out a little bit. And you really don't want it to give out with an exercise such as one with the name skull crusher. So, just be careful at all times. Hitting this uh tricep dip here, cross bench, putting a little bit weight in the lap. So, if you feel like you need a little extra weight, if you're a little bit more advanced, you can always add weight to an exercise as long as you keep that proper form. All right, hammer curls. Hell yeah, it's hammer time. He's doing the hammer dancer now. We couldn't, so we expect you to please. Moving right on to the standing behind the back finger curls. This is just isolating the forearms here. Uh behind the back, it's just getting a little bit farther range of motion to roll those fingers all the way across and then bring it up. I mean, you can do it from the front, but since the grip is pronated, you're going to get a better range of motion with the wrist roller. We didn't have our wrist roller machine. You may have watched our DIY video. We're going ahead and just substituting it now with the cable. It works very well. So, go ahead and do that if you don't have your own wrist roller with you. Final day of phase three. Starting off with air humpers. Oh, I mean weighted glute bridges. Yeah. So, this one's going to be the double leg on this one. Yeah, it's not the most uh visually appealing. You know, that woman may have been a little um turned on. Yeah, I was going to say awkward. At least we felt awkward shooting that scene. but and then the lying hamstring curls. Visually, these aren't the greatest looking exercises, but hey, come on. You can't forget those hamstrings. It's a great exercise for that. So, going into the Romanian deadlift, um, this one's pretty straightforward. I mean, it's it's just trying to isolate the hamstrings as much you can. The good thing about this is you go really heavy with it. It's also precursor to the deadlift. So, if you're practicing your form in deadlift and trying to kind of get your hamstring strength up as well as your upper back, Romania deadlift is a good one to kind of incorporate. And then we have the unilateral Romania deadlift. This one is going to be working more on balance and stability rather than a lot of weight. I mean, eventually you can work up to weight, but since it's the single leg, as you can tell here, it looks kind of like almost like a ballet movement in a sense where there's going to be a lot of like ankle uh support and mobility going on. So, you want to make sure you're kind of warmed up and ready for it. Keep that back straight in that arm. Don't reach down to the floor too much. Try to keep that shoulder joint pretty tight. And as Brandon said, there is a lot of balance and stability. So, don't think you can just throw on a ton of weight right away. Really get that form down first because it is kind of a tricky exercise. Oh, yeah. Here's an exciting exercise right here. Oh, hell yeah. Look at that. Are you excited? Oh, man. Boom. Barely contain ourselves right now. Yeah, calves. Definitely want to never forget calves, but it's not the most exciting. Um, the good thing is though, you don't have to work them too much to get a massive pump because you're isolating them so much. Make sure you get the fuller range of motion, get a stretch all the way down and really pull those heels all the way up to get a good squeeze. And as you can see, what Brandon was doing in those calves is he was doing 10 reps wide and then 10 reps close. So, he was just switching up a little bit there as far as the um positioning was concerned. And then we're super seting these two, the mountain climbers, right into planks. Really just engaging that core as much as you can. It's also building strength, too. So any kind of isolation movement here like in planks that Hudson's doing, you're going to building the strength in that lower back. And that wraps up phase three. Hell yeah. See you for phase four.