Warning. Use professional supervision when creating equipment. This project has been rated easy. DIY Duke here. You know what I've heard? One of the favorite ab exercises for the buff dudes is the ab roller wheel. But where are we going to find one of those? That gives me an idea. to the junk pile. Hey, look at that. An old lawn mower. I think we can make an ab roller reel with that thing. And there it is, dudes. Ab roller wheel reel ready to be made. All we got to do is pull that bolt out, get a steel rod, and it's done. If you don't have an old lawn mower, go to the hardware store, buy one of those for like six bucks. Piece of steel rod for, I don't know, a couple bucks. And there you go. Ab roller wheel. Buck dude style. Let's build this thing. Okay, perfect. Nice. All we need is a piece of steel rod that size. There's a nice bearing in there that'll make this roll really well. So, let's find a piece of steel that will fit in there. Okay. So, I got a piece of all thread, which is 1/2 in. That's going to slip inside there. Now I've got a nut I'm going to screw to there and another nut to there that's going to hold the thing in place. And again inside is a bearing in there and that's going to turn. It's a really nice roller bearing. So and then since that's all thread there just going to wrap some tape around that. Duct tape, electrical tape, whatever. That's going to be easier on your hands. 5 and 38. 5 and 38. Okay, now we're going to tighten these with a ninja wrench. We're going to wrap this. We're going to have an ad roll. Okay, I'm just using some electrical tape on here cuz that's super cheap. Had some extra. Anyway, I'm just wrapping the threads, that's all. So, they don't kind of dig into your hands. You can put a couple wraps on there. That's just going to be really more comfortable for when you do the ab roller. Okay, all done. Time to try it out. Well, here you go, Brenda. Your own AB roller wheel built by do-it-yourself Duke. It looks nice. How much this cost? Well, I built it for practically nothing because I had the spur of parts, but if you had to build it yourself, be 12, 14 bucks. Oh, so I could have pretty much just bought a brand new one for even cheaper. Well, Brandon, do it yourself people wake up with a hot cup of coffee and a dream. I dream that we can build our own exercise equipment. We can conquer the Okay, just cut the All right, let me just do this. Okay. All right, dude. So, what you want to do with this thing is go ahead and get on your knees. The knees are going to be placed about shoulder width apart. Be firmly placing the wheel, the roller ab wheel on the floor. And you're going to be extending your hips and shoulders out in front of you. So, you get a deep stretch and flatten the body out, getting a stretch in the abdominal. And also you're going to be engaging the lower back as well. So this is a great all over core exercise. It's not just for the abs because the rectus benise are going to have to stabilize the spine through the motion. What you don't want to do is keep the hips up in the air and just extend with the arms cuz what's that doing is there's no real pressure on the abs or anything. It's really just pulling your arms out and back in. So, what you want to do is extend the hips, straighten the whole body out much like uh plank, and then pull them back in, engaging the core and contracting the abs to make sure pull that ab wheel back to the starting position. And there you have it. You get a total core exercise for really cheap thanks to do-it-yourself Duke in the Buff Dudes. Perfect.