We have a little treat today. Instead of movie vers reality, it's anime verse reality. It's too tense. There's muscles bulking. There's exercise being. So, we're going to see if he can do it. Can we do it? He looks ready. He's in the One Piece anime. They simply threw a rope over some limbs. But there's a lot of friction in that that rope going over a limb. So we made it a little simpler, a little more fluid by putting a chain across two trees, getting a couple hardware pulleys. They hold about 1,400 lb a piece, so we knew they were strong enough. Had some 1/4in cable and put some cut some pipe to make handles. Put the cable together and then put them through our old concrete weights with a couple hooks. And we had some bailing twine that we used to go around the the weights and then it was good to go. Man, it's pretty it's a pulley system. A very simple pulley system, but it gives you that resistance that you need. And there's a lot for each system. I got this, man. Yeah, in one piece. Uh, he was holding this in his mouth. That's what Hudson was that was duplicating. But, you know, looks a little slobbery now. So, maybe I'll I'll probably put this put this out. Got to get these into position. The hardest part. Working the chest, the delts, the triceps, your core, your legs. A lot of stabilization involved and also your stratus anterior, that punching muscle that kind of runs along your ribs there. And you really try to punch as fast as you can. But with this kind of weight, it feels like you're in mud. Just slowly pushing that weight. But damn, one hell of an exercise. That is intense. It is so crazy how a lot of these simple DIY setups give you just such an amazing workout. My chest is feeling super pumped right now. I give this one a big thumbs up. I got to tell you, I was a huge fan of Speed Racer. That was my favorite cartoon of all time. I didn't even know it was anime. I didn't even know it was Japanese. And later on, a Speed Racer's dad, his name was Pops. He was a DIY guy, former wrestler. I was a former wrestler in high school. So, it was like I became Pops, which made the Speed Racer thing so awesome to me. Yeah. 100 push-ups, 100 sit-ups, 100 squats. This is the one punch man workout. Is everybody ready? Yeah, I'll do it. Where you at? Me? I'm at 40. to 80 people. What do you I don't know. I lost track. This is what happens when you do workouts during the week and then you try to do challenges on the weekend. 90. That was rough. Woo. And we're only a quarter of the way there. I know. Where you at, Dad? Okay. I don't really trust anything he says. I think I'm still going. Oh, no. Wait a second. We're cramped right there. The buff dudes are losing out to cramps. I think I got to call quits on the on the uh sit-ups. Abs are cramping. Just can't do it. Ready? Yep. Go. What are we at? 50. All right. Halfway there. We're already doing much better than sit-ups. Oh, 25 more reps. Yep. What's after after squats is the six mile run. Nice. Well, we did it. Yep. Now, who's going to be running the six miles? I ain't. Not me. No. Well, I think the one punch man has got us beat up here. The hard part. Trick is just not to fall in the hole. Yeah. There we go. There you go. What in the hell? You got it. It was a deep squat and uh failure is not an option on this one. How's it feel? Well, after doing that one punch man 100 squats, the glutes are burning a little bit more than they normally do. Feeling a lot of glutes. Feeling a lot of adductors. Is definitely like a sumo squat. Woo. Feeling that stretch. This is tough. Definitely a leg workout. It's funny seeing these animes. All the guys are living these massive boulders with these dumbbells as big as a house. You know, we can't really do that. The exercises still feel like they're doing their job. There it is. Now, you really want to trust your training partner that they're racking it right doing this one. Okay. These actually feel kind of dangerous. The hell are we doing these for? Nobody lives forever. I was wondering why he took out life insurance for us a little bit ago. I wonder if he's up to something. I'm just trying to find my way out of here. It's like a hay bale maze. God, I don't know about you guys, but that was a hell of a lot harder than I thought it was going to be. Yeah, these guys make it look easy. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Maybe next time we can just do Speed Racer and get a car and drive around. That's a great Let's just do that. Let's just screw this exercise gym. Put the pedal to the metal and do some speed racing. Speed racer. And now in the spirit of anime, we're going to end with a musical montage. Well, hello there. I'm going to give you a little behind thescenes thing of how's this buff dude's videos works with some of these videos. So, I'm painting the house, right? And Buff Mom goes, "Hey, did you know they're coming over and doing an anime video?" And I go, "What anime tomorrow?" They go, "Yeah, tomorrow." So, they come to me and they go, "We got to set up all this stuff like this, this, and these pulleys and blah blah blah." I go, "Okay, well, uh, and then the one man punch thing. I'm not ready to do 100 push-ups, 100 squats, and so I did my best. But dudes, give me some notice here. I mean, you did good, Pops. You did good. Yeah. Just like He just wants you to know everyone out there how amazing he is. No, no. No, we agree with you. No. Get Iger.