 wires-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end-end excited. I have the energy and the motivation to get you guys in the kind of shape that you're going to be able to take out any heavyweight in the county. Yeah! Now the first thing that started the Creed workout montage is the sledgehammer ground hit. We're going to be doing it for as long as we can and I have a feeling it's going to be pretty tough. This isn't like hitting a tire. There's no bounce back. It's just solid ground. Go! Whoa! You're going to pace yourself now. Pace yourself. You've got a long way to go. Once again just like the Batman workout it's insane how good these exercises make you feel. I almost feel like I'm about to explode. All I needed was the maul, some dirt. This exercise is developing a lot of power. You use your hips, you use your arms and you use the momentum of the maul to really bring down all that weight and as you can tell it's making a hole in this hard dirt and you really feel like every hit is making it that much more stronger. Right now. Whoa! I was trying to go for the pull through the man's. I don't think I could. I felt like every hit I was slowly digging my own grave. 210. There we go. And there's 215 right there. 215 versus 203. Good job. Now I know how John Henry felt. John Henry was a steel driving mate. It's funny when you see those fights, mixed martial arts, boxing, and the guys look so slow and sluggish and you're saying, do something. Yeah. And then you do this about two minutes in and you can't do anything. That's when you gas how fast. If you go in punching like that, man, you've got to pace yourself. Yeah. Yeah. Brandon did a little shorter time, but his holes deeper. Yeah. So I'm not sure. I don't know if that makes it a tire or not. Those are the Diaz brothers' mall hits. And that's the Crow Cop from Mall Hits. We're moving on to the Tower of Tires. And in the movie, Michael B. Jordan hit that thing as it was hanging off of a chain, but we're going to be mixing it up a little bit. What are we going to be doing, Dookie? Sting like a butterfly and float like a baby. Yeah. This man is a poet with his words. You're going to be hitting it and trying to prevent the tires from falling over. That's right. So if you deliver a jab here, bam, you're going to have to move over, boom, and keep it on. First guy to have the tires fall over. Right. It's crazy, man. It's crazy. I'm pumped. Yeah. Go. Go. Good company. Keep those company. What's right. What's the matter? Oh, God. Come. Good job. Good job. Come. And tire. Come around. Put your down. Get that out. Take your tire. Oh. It's fine. You better put it on the down. Get that out. Get that out. Get that out. Get that out. Get that out. Get it. Get it. Watch his head down. Bring it down. Oh. Oh, there he goes. There he goes. Woo. Yeah. He's going to be caught. And take it now. Get it. Get it. Get it. Oh, ho, ho, ho, ho. Oh. Woo. He did it. That was a knockout. That was an awesome fight. I can't even believe I was here to witness that fight. Those tires are all over the place. Your opponent was going nuts on you. You kept it going. You kept your feet moving. And that's a trick. That's the son of a good fighter. You keep those feet moving. And while you've got the guard up, you need to put you the hell out of the out. Do you keep out, boy? Get it. I've got to say, have you worn my corner? I've never made it. Get away. Yeah. On to the two-tire sled pull. And you'll notice there's a lot of similarities in a lot of these workout montages. This is down and dirty. This is functional strength that if you develop it, you're going to be able to climb mountains. Do anything. Hehehe. Ready, set, go. Here we go. Here we go. Hold up. Come on. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Back in the air. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Watch that rope. Watch that rope. Go, go, go, go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Stop. Seventeen. I mean five. Ooh. Set, go. Go, go, go, go. Get your knees, go. Watch your feet. Watch your feet. Get your rope going. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go, go. Oh! Get in there. Fourteen points. God. That's a squirrely little thing. Tough because the rope's kind of weaving and wobbling and you're trying to get hold of it. So it's not very heavy, but it does take that hand-eye coordination. I think that's probably one of the training tools that this can be very useful for. We're moving on to the one that's making me the most nervous. In the movie, they both put a foot into the tire and they sparred at close range. This one's going to be a little different because me and Brandon are actually going to be unarmed and we're going to have to survive against Duki for one minute. He's going to be delivering us body shots and we're going to have to be surviving. He looks ready. Are you ready? Yep. Are you ready to go down? Yeah. So- So- Wow these gloves are really inhibitive you know those are our dad's child safe gloves part of the tire flip this is another excellent exercise that really builds a lot of leg strengths and power in the hips and the upper body strength to be able to push the beginning of the tire flip is much like a deadlift you really have to get low you have to use a lot of the leg and also lots to lift it up and then once you get to that top position you have to get that knee up and then bring it and push it's gonna be timed we're gonna see how fast we can push it from one end to the next okay are you ready set go 11.11 every time I went down it kind of splashed in my face what have you been doing in there I've been doing a dookie dookie Wayne's toilet here we go okay are you ready yep set go it's about how hard you can get hit and keep moving forward yeah stop yeah 14.38 a little rough on that butt okay now the final thing this is the easiest part of the workout I think it's an ice bath oh thank god about I need one sorry sorry I meant ice bath ice bath there you go well at the end of a long workout an ice bath is used for muscle inflammation help with recovery and that's exactly how they used it in Creed 2 and that's how we're gonna be using it and this is I feel like it's gonna be a little painful this looks very cold oh I might like to add we're in this shop and it's not exactly that warm in here so the therapy is gonna be fantastic oh wow how's it feel how's that feel cool damn and we should have timed that I don't think it was more than 15 seconds I think my peepee disappeared there is 100 pounds of ice in this yeah ah sorry the hot water spigot is broke oh ah there we go there it is come on all the way now that's therapy that's therapy oh that was good enough right there whoa you know those slurpee freezes I'm feeling a full body slurpee freeze right now round two I gotta dunk my head too oh yeah oh yeah yeah whoo now I'm feeling numb yeah now I can't actually feel my extremities yeah now he's got an innie peepee so we couldn't do this without getting dookie involved we're taking him in the ice bath get in there dookie dookie it's one of those things where you just oh my god you just gotta do it oh oh oh oh oh Jesus oh oh give me my dowel oh oh oh got it ow got it got it