Welcome back to the Buff Dudes 3-day workout split. Day two, chest and triceps. We're going to begin with cable iron crosses. This exercise is starting off the workout, helping pre-exhaust the chest. Stand upright in line with the cables and move your arms to the front of the body. squeezing the chest together. This is an isolation exercise, so make sure to keep your arms straight and use only the shoulder joint as the lever to perform the movement. Now that the chest is pre-exhausted, move on to the most well-known and best exercise for the chest. This is a major compound movement and will help build the overall chest development. pyramid up in weight as you decrease the repetitions in this exercise. Pairing up an isolation exercise with a compound close grip press, this superset will blast those upper fibers of the chest and will help build those fully developed pecs. Start with the fly only bending from the shoulder joint and bring the dumbbells all the way together until they touch and immediately go into the close press squeezing the chest throughout the motion. This unilateral exercise will not only help with any isometrical problems in the chest, but will also utilize the core because of the added stabilization needed throughout the motion. Bring the dumbbell slightly inward, squeezing at the top position for added stress in the inner fibers. With these three exercises done back to back to back, you will totally blast the three tricep heads into oblivion. Working on the lateral, long, and medial heads completely. Don't worry if you have to slightly decrease the weight on any of the exercises to complete the full giant set for the full amount of reps. If you're able to pull this one off, you are a buff, dude. Let's finish off this workout with one of the best compound movements for the triceps. Add an alternating movement into the exercise and you get a little help with those asymmetrical issues in those triceps. Imagine an upside down V and follow the lines throughout the motion starting from either the right or the left side. If you want some added weight to the exercise, drop a plate or dumbbell in your lap. There we go, dudes. Day two is finished. Are you still with us? Then stay tuned for episode three. Legs, shoulders, and abs.