 oof. Okay, so this is a little bit of a different video in one that I was contemplating whether I want to do or not. I think everyone has a certain amount of pride in... I have pride in my health, my strength, and so this is a little difficult to do, I guess, in some ways because you have to basically admit your weakness. So to give a little context, I'm dealing with some pretty serious back pains and it all started when I went to the gym and I was performing a leg day, I was doing some front squats and just doing a warm-up set of 135 pounds, so I didn't think it was that big of a deal. So my first set, I felt this shock or electricity run through my back there. So it was a little scary, but I listened to my body and I said, okay, I'm not going to do this exercise, maybe I just performed it, put my back in a little bit of a weird position. So I went on with the rest of my workout, did hack squats, walking lunges, leg extensions, and it felt pretty good. But the next day, I could barely get out of bed. I was experiencing some extreme sharp pain in my back, specifically in my spine, which was very concerning and I had moments where I would walk around and my back would just freeze and I would drop to my knees and I couldn't move. So with my girlfriend basically kind of in a way forcing me to go to the urgent care, saying, hey, this is serious because I think with some people maybe you guys could relate to this, you're like, I'll just let it heal on its own. But it was pretty concerning and I have had back issues in the past. So more muscular. So this was, it definitely felt different. So I went to the urgent care just for peace of mind and he did a few tests. He said, you know, you're not having any sciatic pain, but this is pretty concerning as far as the pain level goes. So I went ahead and ordered an MRI to get a little bit more of an in depth look at what was going on in there. And so I am basically waiting for the results at this point. Still taking it pretty easy, taking time off the gym, obviously. And yeah, this is going to be very interesting. I just got my MRI results in and I am looking them over now. And on first impressions, I have to be honest, it's not looking too good. I don't pretend to be a doctor. So I don't know exactly how much I should read into these, but essentially my lower spine has some problems. So L2L3 minor disbolge with left subarticular annular fissure L3L4 broad based disbolge with left subarticular annular fissure L4L5 broad based disbolge with right subarticular annular fissure and L5S1 underlying broad based disbolge and small central dispertusion with central annular fissure. So all of my lower back has bulging discs with annular fissures and protrusion. Again I don't know how bad that is. It sounds pretty bad. But I guess at this point I'm glad to know what it is and that it is in fact in my spine rather than just a pulled muscle. So I was correct in that sense. My next step is to try to see if I can cure it essentially or what I need to do to make it better. So I think I'm going to be reaching out to a physical therapist to get more clarification on this diagnosis and see what I need to do for the next steps so I can get this taken care of or see how long it's going to take to get back to 100%. After reading my MRI results I couldn't help but think of worst case scenarios but I tried to tell myself not to worry. To ease my mind I quickly called a physical therapist that was highly recommended by my girlfriend that she had used in the past with great results. So I booked his first available session. Currently on my way to my physical therapy session my back's been kind of acting up a little bit throughout the week. It seems a bit more aggravated so I'm pretty eager to get this session and to find out what's going on and just kind of take one step in the right direction. I sat down with Tim Evans. He has a doctorate in physical therapy, a master of science in physical therapy and kinesiology and is professionally trained in a variety of manual therapies, spinal manipulation, dry needling and sports science. So I definitely felt like I was in good hands. After I showed him my MRI results he quickly broke it down in simple terms and had some very interesting studies to show me. He informed me that around 50% of men my age can have bulging discs with no symptoms and although it might sound scary it's actually somewhat normal. What I am dealing with is slight tears in the disc which through certain movements can become more aggravated or become worse. Now Tim knows what I do for a living so he understands I am a very physical person and that is part of my job so he wanted to do a quick test of putting me on an elliptical to see how I would do. And once he had a better idea he had some troubling news for me. After seeing Tim for the first time I have a better understanding of the severity of the injury I am dealing with and I was told it wasn't from the workout or the exercise front squats alone. It was an accumulation of many things over the years. I mean I have been working out for over 20 years now and what we do on our channel can be very physically demanding not only from the workouts but other videos. For instance I am currently in the process of making an 1880's man for a week and we were out building a cabin, lifting a lot of logs, cutting a lot of trees and that could have been a part of it. It's just that wear and tear over the years so it's hard to hear and the troubling news he had for me was that this injury could take anywhere from 6 months to 12 months to completely heal and for me to be back to 100% and that's hard to hear. What we do on our channel it's workouts or some type of challenge that's always going to be physical and we just released a fitness app called Buff and at this point I can't use it. I can't be on it. I have a community on there and I want to let everyone know that is on the app and has not seen me upload any workouts or be that active on it and this is the reason why. The good news is there is steps I can take moving forward doing light stretches in the morning and also he can say I can start implementing some very light cardio with the elliptical machine. So that's exactly what I'm going to be doing because now I have a very specific goal and that's to get better as fast as I can. So per Tim the physical therapist orders I am on my way to the gym right now to perform some light cardio on the elliptical machine for around 20 minutes. I mean the real goal here is to be active without really hurting yourself without aggravating my back so I'm going to try to avoid a lot of the twisting motion and really try to stay as stable as I can not be too tense while I'm performing it and just get my heart rate up and try to break a sweat. I mean it's been a while now since I've been to the gym so this is going to be good to be back. So guys how you doing? Nice. Alright so I got about 15 minutes of elliptical in I got to say I was going to try to make it to 20 but there's just some spots that were acting up a little bit so I'm going to call it good there. I think it feels good to move again, feels good to sweat and man I got to say it's a little difficult there because I'm just looking at all those weights out there in the gym and that's calling my name like sirens singing a sweet song to the sailors but little do you know it's basically death so I got to take a break from the weights but I will be back. So that is where things are at right now. I really wanted to make this video as an update and also just to let people know what's going on because I will not be working out for a while but I have a very specific goal now and that is to get better and to recover and I think the mental aspect is very important so I'm just trying to stay as positive as I can and I draw a lot of inspiration from my brother Hudson because I saw him go through his injuries ankle injury and it was a very severe break and he never once was negative and he got through it and he's better than ever and buffer than ever as well so I'm keeping that in my mind and you know I know this isn't the worst injury in the world and I think that's kind of what I'm telling myself knowing that I'm just going to come back bigger better and buffer than ever so you know there we go. And for everyone out there stay safe and as always stay buff.