Ah, there it is. Where have you been all my life? Coffee wakes you up in the morning. Smells delicious. Tastes great. Add a little bit of the fat-free milk in there. Add a little bit of protein. Tastes a little better. Now, this is a natural thermogenic. It's going to help your heart rate go up a little bit more. have a cup or two before your morning exercise or even your afternoon exercise, making sure you don't stay up too late. Now, this is going to help burn more calories. So, include this and I guarantee you'll get cut, you'll get buff, and you'll look damn good doing it. Now, if you're not a big fan of coffee or you're caffeine sensitive, I would recommend green tea. It's a little lower in caffeine. It does have that nice natural thermogenic. Also has a lot of good antioxidants. You put it in the gallon of water, you drink it throughout the day, you have that nice long extended energy, and it's all natural. Oldfashioned oats built the muscle back in the day, still is building muscle. Now, include this in your eating habit, and I guarantee you'll find more energy, more muscle, and it tastes good, too. Do you have a sweet tooth? I know I do. Now with stevia, it's going to be all natural great replacement of sugar. You can put in the coffee. You can put in any kind of ingredient as far as making protein brownies, protein pancakes. The list goes on and on. Include this. So that way you don't have any kind of craving for that sugar, spiking the blood sugar levels, the insulin, and storing the fat. With stevia, that will be no more. Oh yes, tuna. This is full of nice lean proteins. It's damn cheap. you can make a shitload of it. Thing you got to be careful of is the sodium content can sometimes be kind of high. What I re recommend is getting this nice huge can of tuna. That way you can make it all at once. Get this huge bowl, mix it up, and for my personal favorite, make tuna patties. Now, I would normally recommend getting things fresh and not frozen, but since we're on a budget, we're going to get frozen broccoli. Now, broccoli is amazing. High in fiber, tastes good. Include it with all of your meals. Either be breakfast steamed with the eggs or at night, steam it, cook it, whatever you want to do with it, but definitely include it in your eating plan. Non-stick cooking spray. This is essential to what you're going to be using because we're going to be using the pan a lot. And in order not to stick, this is what you need. So, if you don't have this, you're in a world of hurt. You know what I'm saying? All this food right here was just around $100. Now, when you factor in not being prepared, buying things on the go, either be fast food or just little snacks at the convenience store, you're going to easily surpass that per month. Now, this is going to cover me for about a month with all this food. Chicken, a lot of this stuff can be frozen as well, which is nice. Pre-make it for the week. That way, you have something available at all times and you have no excuse to run to that convenience store to get a snack to help save off that hunger pains that you get every once in a while. People spend a lot of time on their workouts and what they don't spend time on is their healthy eating habits. They make excuses like it takes too long to prepare meals, you know, or the meals aren't available for when I need them. That's the key thing. Take a Sunday, take it off, make all your meals for the next week. So that way you have those meals prepared for you. When I talk to people, they're always saying, "How do you get big? How do you get muscles?" And they always want to know how to work out. Well, the most important thing is how to eat. Now, people spend 1 hour a day in the gym. What they don't think about is how they spend those 23 hours outside the gym. either be eating right or resting. That's two key things you always have to remember. And with the proper eating habits that we just showed you, we're going to bring you one step closer to being a buff dude. Don't forget it. Extra lean ground turkey. Super high in protein. You can do a lot of different things with this. There's some vitamins. You can be stuff in a protein shake right after the workout. Gold.