 Welcome to fitness news. For those of you who don't have 47 minutes to watch this week's reaction video, but still crave the petty, meaningless, knitting circle bullshit, in international news, transplant surgery is booming in Turkey. Turkey's new slogan, if you want your hair perky, head to Turkey. Other countries are quick to follow their lead, with one saying, wanna restore your tiny steroid-destroyed sack? Head to beautiful Iraq. That's a good one. And now, a quick word from our sponsor, BuffDude's PhD. Wanna act like a smug, know-it-all prick, without actually knowing anything? Grab the BuffDude's Exercise Sense PhD. You don't need to study for it. Hell, you don't even need to spell. Just make sure no one ever, ever, ever gets a hold of it. I don't know how to read, write, or spell, but now I'm an exercise scientist too. Go online, spend five minutes, and grab yours today. I feel smarter already. Let me do them on my third PhD. Wow. And now, thumbnail trend of the week. Tiny man surrounded by large, intimidating group of other men. What are they implying here? They're not implying anything. It's only fitness. Oh, oh, oh. And now, whatever happened to, where we explore whatever happened to your favorite fitness trend of yesteryear, whatever happened to the paleo diet, it went extinct. Again. Moving on. And now we're back with Wrapping Fart Wobblies. Let's check out what's happening in a local gym near you. Man decides to get in shape. Immediately accuses himself of not being natty. In breaking news, man in a commercial gym spotted rewracking his weight. Authorities are investigating. Man buys $300 worth of supplements, but then forgets to train. Man on carnivore diet hasn't pooped in 19 days. He says he feels incredible. But we say he's full of shit. Breaking. Gym Wi-Fi down. 14 influencers confirmed missing. Oh, those poor influencers. No one cares. And now a word from our real sponsors, David Protein. In art, there is elegance. There is profound meaning. But sometimes there is even more. 28 grams of protein. 150 calories. Zero grams sugar. It's a masterpiece. David. Unwrap greatness. David Protein. Hmm. Delicious. And now it's time for Fit and Slang of 2025. Hyper trophy. It's the award you win for watching the newest Jeff Nippard video in which he shows you the real way to build your biceps, backed by new, new, new, new, new, new scientific research. Because clearly these guys had no idea what they were doing. None at all. No biceps. Street interview. We ask people, who do you trust for fitness advice? The man who's calm and collected? Or the guy who's just screaming obnoxiously into the camera? Survey says, car screen guy. Because the loudest, most obnoxious one in the room is always right. It's true. Scientists have discovered a new gene linked to natural muscle growth. It's called having good genetics. Now let's go to the buff dudes who are currently filming their new video, I Lived Like the Rock, for 24 hours. What is up everyone? I am on my new press tour and I'm going to be doing a surprise visit to some of my most die hard fans here at the assisted living home. Look, here's one of my fans now. Who are you? That's right. I'm almost unrecognizable in my new movie, White Adam, where I play a drug addicted albino that's haunted by the death of a pet parrot and goes on a drug-induced murder spree. It's out in theaters now and it's fun for the whole family. Dying to try my new energy drink, Zoentonol. With over 500 milligrams of caffeine, this will rev up your physical and mental capabilities to their maximum potential. Great for the whole family. Thirsty for my new tequila, Terrogave. I handpicked these agave plants to handcraft the perfect tequila recipe. Great for the whole family. You'll feel your best in my new workout shoes. They're better than the rest. They are absolutely the best. I think she's sleepy now. Check out my products. Buy my stuff. My fans, they faint when they see me. Well, that wraps up the inaugural fitness news. Got any breaking news updates? Drop it in the comments. And if it's good, we'll use it. And if it's bad, we'll still use it. So good luck and until next time, go fuck yourself.