Hey dudes, here in the kitchen ready to make way good granola. Sometimes when you're ready to snack, it's hard to find the proper food to do it with. But with way good granola, snacking is going to taste way good. Now for the ingredients, I'm going to start out by doing the coconut oil in here. So, it's going to make that start melting down just like so. I'm going to grab the peanut butter. I'm going to just use the spoon to scoop that out there. Right in here. That's going to be warming up. Now, the agave. I'm gonna take it in here. Right in there. Excellent. Pay close attention. You don't want this to burn. So, you're gonna put that in there. And one last liquid element is going to be the coconut extract. So, we're just going to do a capful of this right in there. And then dump it straight in. That nice coconut flavor. So, as that's heating up, you want to kind of stir it around and make sure it's melting right. Just like so. So, it's not going to take too long. You just want to make sure it kind of gets in that nice liquid consistency, even the peanut butter and everything. So, what you want to do is on medium heat, you don't want this to burn. You basically just want to warm it up and liquefy everything. So, once that's kind of mixing up nice and tight, just like that, you're going to take your powders here, which is your 100% cocoa and also the chocolate. You're going to put them both in there. Just like so. Now they're in there. You're going to start mixing it up. This is the good part. Real good. Pay close attention here. So, as that's going, this is almost done. You're going to want to preheat the oven to 350°. So, now while we're getting this ready, we're going to put this in the bowl with the oats. We're going to start mixing that up. And as we're doing that, the oven's going to be heating up. So then once that's done, we're going to put the mix into the sheet here. The oven will be preheated and we're going to stick it in. As you can tell, that's looking about right. Perfect consistency. Looks like uh almost like fudge. So we're going to just turn the stove top off. I'm going to take and over here. So just going to take it there. Put it right in the bowl. All the oats. Make sure you get everything out of there. Now you just take this and start mixing it up. Okay, as you can see, we got everything mixed up. It's really sticky. So, we're just going to grab the pan over here and just take this basically raw material that we just mixed up and flop it in the bowl there just like so. So, I'm just going to kind of chunk it up a little bit. Boom. All in the pan just like so. I'm going to stick it in. Oven is preheated. Now, it's about 15 minutes in the oven on 350°, but every 5 minutes you want to check on it. Stir it up a little bit to make sure it doesn't burn. You got to be really careful on that. Each oven is going to be different. So, always stand by and check it even every 2 minutes or 1 minute or wherever you know you want to you feel safe. So, I'm going to sit back, wait about 5 minutes, and then we're going to check on it. Stir it up and see if uh it's ready. It's been 5 minutes. We're going to check on the granola, make sure it's not burning. Stir it up a little bit. Open this here. Oh, yeah. Perfect. So, just going to break it up. kind of toss it around. Make sure it's not going to burn on the bottom. So, just like that, put it right back in. Another five minutes or so, we're going to check on it again. Stir it up a little bit. I can't stress enough that you have to stand by and make sure that you stir this and that it does not burn cuz it will burn pretty easily if you just let it sit for 10 to 15 minutes straight. So, it's still a little sticky, but again, I can kind of tell that it was getting a little hot, maybe a little crisp on some edges. So, it's good that we're stirring it up here. Put it back in for about another 5 minutes, making sure it's done, and then it should be ready. Boom. And it's been another 5 minutes, which takes us to a total of 15 minutes. The way good granola should be done. I'm going to pull it out for the last time. Hope to god. And yes, that looks delicious. The oats are cooked. Nice golden brown. It's ready to enjoy. Unfortunately, usually you want to cool it off a little bit before you dig in and eat it. But I'm going to try it anyways and make sure it's good. A little hot, but damn, that's good. That's why we call it way good protein. Way good granola. Way good granola. Hey,