One of the first things people want to do when they get in the gym is, "I want to get big. I want to gain muscle." How do you gain muscle? Well, right away, they're on weight gainers. Pre-made weight gainers. Pre-made weight gainers usually contain macronutrient breakdowns that aren't that good for you. Too much sugar, too much carbohydrates, too much fat, or too much calories in general. I'm here to tell you that is not the way. You want to know the way? Well, I have the secret. And I'm here to tell you the secret. Get ready cuz you're about to get a grow job. We got the ice in the blender. Next up to make that nice milkshake consistency is going to be almond milk. The good thing about this is it's there's no lactose in it. So you if you are lactose intolerant, this is perfect for that. Also some nice healthy fats, some good fiber, good calories for that energy. Bring it out just about up to where the ice is, so we can thicken that up. Excellent. All right, next one is going to be one banana. Perfect potassium, calcium, a little bit of carbohydrates from sugar. The good thing is it's not going to spike your insulin like regular table sugar or anything like that. So, it's perfect before a workout again to have that nice energy and good for that full pump in the gym. Next, we're going to go one package of oatmeal. Good nice cinnamon flavor, which I love. Also good for that extended energy. Perfect for those pumps. One sec. Get the spoon. Nice natural peanut butter. Give it a little stir. Mix those oils up. Good thing thing about this is it has a nice healthy fats. Again, it's all about having enough energy and enough calories to go off of for that hour, hour and a half, 2 hour workout in that gym, hitting those nice major muscle groups or even doing compound movements like squats, chest press, whatnot. The most important ingredient coming up is going to be the protein. Specifically, it's going to be isolate protein. Isolate is going to hit the bloodstream a little bit quicker. You're going to be having this shake about an hour before your workouts. That way you can properly digest it. The good thing about the isolate, it's going to digest a little quicker. It's going to hit the bloodstream faster and it's going to bring your muscles the amino acids that much quicker. So again, it's all about giving enough energy to get in that gym and push those weights as hard as you can. Now that we got the ingredients mixed up in the bowl in the little blender here, we're going to bring it over and really blend it. Get that good consistency just like a milkshake. Excellent. You're going to bring it over. The best part of this process. You can smell all those ingredients coming out of there. Perfectly blended. Bonapetit. Ah, think grow job. And you'll be one step closer to being a buff dude.