Hey dudes, 5 in the morning. Just got to the gym and before we started our workout, we wanted to shoot this quick video to let you guys know what we plan on doing in the upcoming weeks. Basically, instead of the Q&A, which we wanted to do every Friday, and as you can see, we haven't done every single Friday. We wanted to compile all the questions. We get an overwhelming amount of questions and most of them I don't know I'd say maybe well an overwhelming amount all say the same thing. How do you lose fat and gain muscle? Well, what we wanted to do we thought it would be great is over the next eight weeks, every week make a video in a series called Guide to Getting in Shape. And what we want to do over that eight weeks is cover everything we can which shows us getting in shape. We've taken our progress pictures. As you can see here, this is the shape we're currently in. As you can see, Brandon has a lot less to go than I do. But that's good because that means over the next 8 weeks, I've got a lot of work to do. And we're going to document all that. And at the end of the 8 weeks, hopefully I've made quite a bit of a change. And hopefully if you guys follow along, you make quite a change too. That's why we want we want to give you this heads up. Next week we will start the series, but this week we wanted to let you guys know and also give you a few tools to get you started as well. Brandon has written up the uh cutting diet which we've included as a PDF in the description of this video. So if you want to see the diet we'll be using, look in the description. Also, since everybody's body needs are a little different, and I'm 6'2, I'm weighing in at 226 right now. Brandon's 6'2 as well. He's weighing in at uh 219. So, our our calorie and macro needs will be a little bit different, but we've also included a BMR calculator. Now, what that is, you're going to enter your gender, age, weight, height, and activity level, and it's going to give you I was going to interrupt real quick. If you don't know what BMR is, it's basil metabolic rate. It's basically or it's resting metabolic rate. It kind of falls along the same guidelines where it's what your body burns as many calories your body burns at rest. So if you laid in bed all day, it was what your body would use as far as the energy needs, caloric needs to just keep your body running. So that's kind of the baseline what you need to start uh any kind of real eating program. Exactly. So we've included that in the description. So, that'll give you a pretty good indication of where you're at. And we also included a macro uh calculator as well. Now, what that'll do, you'll enter those calories you've gotten off of the BMR calculator, and then you can kind of break it down to your specific needs, like if you're cutting or, you know, what have you, like what we're going to be doing. And it'll kind of break down those macros to give you a good idea of what percentage you should be having. Our percentage basically is breaking down to something very similar to this. 50% protein, 30% carbs, 20% fat. Now, that's going to fluctuate a little bit, mostly carbs because we usually keep the carbs pretty moderate during the week and we pump it up quite a bit on the weekend, but more or less that's the percentage it's going to stay at. But with these little handy calculators, it's going to help you get a good idea of what you want to do as well. and also our cutting diet which we've included as I said earlier which will give you an idea of the kind of diet we're going to do. Now starting next week we're going to show you the workouts we do, the food we're eating, all kinds of good stuff. But the plan is in those eight weeks is to make a great transformation. And hopefully if you guys want to do it as well, you do. And we all make a great transformation together. Great motivation and uh make a real change. Just in time for summer. Exactly. Cuz I I know I need it. Need that beach body ready. Exactly. Miller time is over. Okay. It's workout time. Yeah. I've been hitting the snooze for too long. Exactly. I wanted to hit the snooze this morning. Thank god I didn't. So, we will see you then. And until then, use those calculators, kind of get a great uh idea, hopefully go over our uh cutting diet. Um and we will see you soon. All right, dudes. Bye.