 Welcome to the Buff Dudes Kitchen. Today, we'll be food prepping some breakfast, lunch, and dinner options for some snacks, too. So let's get food prepping. The first recipe we're going to be doing is the egg muffins. Very simple. We've just got some English muffins, eggs, cheese, ham, and we're going to get right to it. So first off, we're going to start the oven because we're going to be baking the eggs in this guy right here. We're going to try to make them nice and round so they fit on those English muffins really easy. We're going to be cutting some ham up and we're going to be measuring all this out to make sure our portions are correct. So we can keep track of the calories and macros and very simple. Now that we have everything ready, it is time to start making these delicious egg muffins. So we're going to get the muffins ready. We've got the eggs baking. It's time to finish breaking these muffins apart. You have to do it this way. It's not authentic. That's true. No knives needed. We're going to be doing a serving of ham, which is two ounces, so we're going to be cutting accordingly. We're going to be lining all these out. Why did you choose to organize them in that way? I am chaotic. The eggs are done out of the oven. Here they are. Look at that. These actually just look like egg muffins. It's perfect. That's going to fit right on there. So we're going to add a little spice. Very simple. Salt, pepper. This is all due to taste. So as much or little as you want. These are thick. Oh yes. Look at that. That is perfect. Honestly, that looks delicious. I'm going to wrap them up. We're going to be wrapping these up. That way they're all prepared. And in the morning, you can just toss it in the oven and warm it up. Not in the aluminum foil though. Yes, in the aluminum foil. Oh, you mean in the oven? Yeah. Okay, I thought you were talking about the microwave. That's what I would do. Just toss them in the microwave. Meal number one down. Time to move on to the next one. Now before we move on to the next recipe, we want to make sure we have everything we need. And there's a few choice items that we'll be using that we get from a company called Thrive Market. Now they have a great catalog of many different products that you can choose from. And they deliver straight to your door, which for us, having a busy schedule, makes life pretty damn easy. And not only that, but they also prioritize working with ethical companies, which is huge for us. Knowing that they're putting the plan at first is really important and brings us a lot of peace of mind. So this is typically what we do. We sit down at the computer, log into Thrive Market website, and browse their catalog of different foods. Now since we kind of tend to make a little bit more simple recipes, there is an easy way to jazz it up or spice it up a little bit with spices and condiments, which will usually go to Thrive Market because they have an amazing selection. Yeah, and not only do they have a huge selection, but I found so many cool brands and products through their catalog. And it's just so much fun because every time we order again, I find new things and... It's a shopping spree. It's amazing. That's the fun part. Honestly, it is. And what's cool is once you kind of find your typical things that you want to stick with, you can have that list and you can just press Reorder and it comes straight to your door. So awesome. Big time saver, convenient. That's why we love it. So make sure you click the link in the description or go to thrivemarket.com backslash buff dudes to receive 30% off your first order and a free gift when you join Thrive Market today. So now that me and Mikhail have everything we need, it's time to get in the kitchen. So we have all the ingredients for option number two for breakfast and that's going to be the breakfast burrito. As you can tell, these tortillas are pretty massive. And the reason being is we're going to be making one burrito and splitting it. So we're going to be making three total burritos and be cutting them in two and that will be our one serving. So half a burrito is essentially going to be our serving. So that'll be making six servings. So six days in total. So we're going to get started and we're going to do ham, potatoes, cheese, eggs. Going to have some bell pepper just for little veggies. Breakfast burrito is one of my favorite, honestly. I love breakfast burritos so much. So we're going to kind of split responsibilities here. Mikhail is going to be handling the eggs. While Mikhail was handling the eggs, I finished up chopping up the potatoes. We started to preheat the oven at 450 degrees and put it on for 20 minutes. And once the potatoes were done, we threw the bell peppers on the skillet and started to construct the burrito. A lot of this stuff is very customizable. So if you want a little less fat, you can maybe use different cheese, less cheese, or instead of using whole eggs like we did, just do egg whites. So everything is customizable. We are just doing it this way, just due to our preferences, calories, macros, all that kind of stuff. Now we're going to be adding the potatoes on. Let's see if we can fit all this in there. Oh, I guarantee it. We're going to just smash it in there. We're going to buff-dude it in there. Yeah. There we go. That is the burrito. And that gives us two servings. Look at how big it is. This is my child. This is your child carrying a breakfast burrito. All right, so we're working on the next recipe, which is going to be pizza. We're going to be doing two different options. One is going to be a Mexican pizza and one is going to be a chicken pizza. But we're going to be making the dough from scratch. And I've actually never made pizza dough from scratch. It's going to be very interesting. But I have all the ingredients right here, which is going to be the all-purpose flour. We have some honey. You can either use sugar, honey, or a guy, or anything sweet like that. We're using honey. We've got salt. We have the olive oil, yeast, and a little bit of warm water here. First up, we're going to be mixing up the yeast, warm water, and the sugar, or in this case, honey. The yeast feeds off that sugar in the honey. And I'm just checking on Micaela's station over here because she's handling all the meat. She likes handling meat, what can I say? She's got the ground beef cooking right here, which is going to be used for the Mexican pizza, and then got the chicken over here. Yep. Which is going to be used for the chicken pizza, of course. And the tacos. I was going to say, the good thing is, we are really trying to consolidate the work we do. So we're making this chicken, but we're not only making it for the pizza, we're also going to be making it for some tacos later. So really trying to kill two birds with one stone with pretty much everything we do. The yeast is feeding. It's starting to foam. So we're going to be combining the flour and the salt in a bowl. Then pour the yeast in, mix that together. Now, typically you would have a nice mixer to mix this dough together, but you know what? Buff dudes don't need mixers. They do it all by hand, right? Right. There we go. There she is. Okay, so I'll get a little salt. There we go. You'll be handling one, I'll be handling the other. And we're going to see, we're going to have a little competition here to see if we can mix faster. Yeah, there we go. I'm getting my groove now. Okay, there we go. I think it was a tie on that one. Yeah. You did an awesome job. We're going to let this sit for a while. We got to let it rise. I think it's about doubles in size. And then we're going to be ready to roll it out. So now it's time to shred our chicken for the pizza and tacos. And you know, this sometimes can take a little while, but if you cook the chicken right, it shouldn't take too long. All right, while Makayla is finishing shredding the chicken, I'm going to start on the burgers here. I'm going to be making some patties. We're going to mix up all of this. And we are adding a little bit of panko breadcrumbs to the patties here. Kind of helps bind it together, adds a little extra carbs, a little texture in there. We're just weighing out the patties now roughly around four ounces. And once we got done making the patties for the burgers, we switched things up because the pizza dough was done. And it has risen fully. As you can see, it's about double in size now. Now we have to roll it out. So we're going to be dusting the countertop with a little flour here. Make sure it doesn't stick. Also the rolling pin. You do the old school way. There we go. It's a me, a buff Mario. Here at the Buffa Kitchen making us some pizza. So we rolled the dough out and we don't have a pizza stone or anything like that. But we're just going to be using a baking sheet here. We're going to be making more of a square pizza. Now, you know, honestly, I'm not the biggest fan of square pizzas. I like my pizzas round, but we're just going to have to do what we got to do with this one. So now that we have that all ready, we're going to start to add some of the toppings here. And this first one is going to be the Mexican pizza. So instead of doing a typical pizza sauce, tomato sauce base, we're actually doing a refried bean sauce. So a little bit higher in carbohydrates that way. But I got to be honest, it's probably one of my favorite pizza choices. The Mexican pizza is absolutely delicious. We're also going to be using the ground beef on this. Of course, the cheese, we're going to add some romaine lettuce. So it's going to be delicious. So this pizza is done. Now we're going to be going on to the chicken pizza and make that up. And then we're going to be putting them both in the oven at the same time. So they'll be all ready. Both pizzas are looking fantastic. Oh yeah, I cannot wait for these to be done and to eat them. We are smooth sailing. Michaela is just wrapping up some of the extra toppings, one being romaine lettuce for the Mexican pizzas. We're going to dice some of that up just to kind of sprinkle it on top there. And she's also prepping some other stuff like the tomatoes for the burgers. So she can slice these up, get those ready. We're just trying to use every little bit we have. Oh yeah, that is looking nice. There it is. The pizzas are done. Took a little extra time for these ones just because we made the dough from scratch. But it's just so much more rewarding knowing that you've done it yourself. And we have some extra toppings here in case we want to add anything else. Some lettuce on there. Probably add some sauce, whatever it is. But there we go. We're going to let these cool down. We're going to slice them up, portion them out, and then we're good to go. So we are in the home stretch here. We're going to be working on the burgers. Of course, we made these earlier and we're just going to be squeezing them into patties. Now the next step is we're going to be turning on the oven to 450 degrees. And we're going to have that preheat. And in the meantime, we're going to be chopping up some fries with these potatoes here. Michaela, that's her responsibility. Yes. She's the fry master. I'm heating up the oven and also heating up a pan to start cooking the burgers. Buff dudes, we've had a long history in the kitchen. I think it started a long time. One of our first videos was a cooking video. And it was just me and my grubby ass kitchen in LA. And yeah, you know, there's nothing fancy to it. And I think that's why I like cooking. You just get your hands dirty. I mean, you don't have to, obviously, you know, like Michaela here, she's using tongs to do it. And that's fine, totally fine. So just preference when it comes to cooking, whether that be an ingredient, a recipe, how you cook, what you cook. It doesn't matter as long as it tastes good for you. You know what I mean? And this is going to taste good. I mean, this is a freaking dish. I cannot wait to eat all this. So we're going to be making some quick special sauce for the burgers, the fries, really whatever you want. And it's going to be some pink sauce. Now this is probably the most simple sauce you can make and one that I like a lot at least. And it's really just ketchup and mayonnaise and you mix them together. It turns pink and God damn it, it's delicious. So we're going to be doing that. Just put it in the little jar here. So it's kind of nice to make some kind of special sauces that you really enjoy. I'm going to put that lid on, store it in the fridge. And there we go. Buff dude special sauce. Maybe we'll call something else. That might sound a little weird. There we go. Fries are done. We're going to put these in some containers and they're going to be all good to go. Now it's time to start on the snacks. We're onto the first snack and that is coming straight from the buff dude's cookbook and it's going to be the buffins. Yes. Yes, a classic honestly. This has been around for a while now. We've had this recipe and I definitely love this one. That's why we're doing it. I love muffins. Easy in the morning, grab it or really anytime, but great with coffee. So we have everything lined out here. As you can see, it's a decent amount of ingredients, but very common ingredients. And we have the tools, which is going to be a blender or food processor. Pretty much can be throwing everything into this starting off with the oats. So we're going to be kind of blending them up into a flour like consistency oats. And again, it's kind of nice bar. We're going to be throwing it all in the blender here. All right. So everything is in there. Now it's time to blend. Now we're just going to pour it straight into the pan here. We're setting the oven for 12 to 15 minutes and they'll be good to go. So in the meantime, we're going to start making the peanut butter cookies. We are taking it back with this recipe. This is the peanut butter protein cookies that we did on our channel. It's been like 12 years ago now. It's an old recipe. And as you can tell, it is clearly very buff dudes because there's like very, it's very minimal amount of ingredients here. It is a ton of peanut butter and a ton of protein. And that's basically it. All of our food needs. Yeah. Protein powder, peanut butter, good eggs. Yeah. Yeah. And that's why we love it. We're mixing all this together. Obviously we got a lot. We're doubling this recipe. So it might look a lot, but it is doubled. So we're trying to make a bunch of this. So we're just going to be throwing it all in a bowl. Now we're going to mix. Do you want to mix it? Do you want to do the honors? Sure. Flex some of those muscles as you mix. Sure. So that's pretty much mixed together. Now the last little bit is just forming the cookies. Yeah. Which is going to be just about golf ball size. And we're going to do a little special. This, this is, this is the christening of the, of the buff dude protein peanut butter cookie here. Okay. The last touch here, it's a secret. You have to have protein powder to just dust the fork there. And then you're using the fork, just gently push down on one side and then crisscross to the other and boom. I mean this is like Michelin star chef stuff right here. Gordon Ramsay's calling. Buff dude style. He would never call him. I would have to show him the ways of the buff dude kitchen. I don't think his kitchen is clean. It's organized. All of his recipes are very complicated. You know, we're, that's like the exact opposite of buff dudes in a lot of ways. But I got to say, you know what? Ours can be just as delicious and he would probably agree too. Just cause it's more complicated doesn't mean it's going to be more delicious. So this is it. This is proof of all the hard work. And I got to say I am extremely happy with what we got done and we got done in around four to five hours. So that's pretty quick. Obviously it helps with two people. So thank you, Michaela. You're welcome. Appreciate your help. And this is going to cover two people for around six days once we portion it all out. And of course we have multiple options for each day. So we have two different options for breakfast, lunch and dinner. Some of the stuff we're just going to construct as we go along like the tacos and burgers. And we have the snacks too, which is going to be the muffins or buffins and also the peanut protein cookies there. So this is awesome. Now we don't have to stress during the week. Hopefully you guys enjoyed this video and hope it gave you some ideas for maybe some either recipes or some food prep if you're interested in that. But overall you don't even have the food prep. You just make this as you go. So I'm excited. I'm ready to eat. Are you ready to eat? Let's do it. Let's eat it. Let's eat. We're just going to walk around just like this.