Hey dudes, on the road had to book a hotel. Unfortunately, the hotel I booked does not have a gym and I want to work out. Good thing is I have the Buff Dude hotel workout all ready to go. First on the list is going to be bed jumps. Because what better way about making a good first impression on the other guests than coming in your room and making a bunch of noise right off the bat by jumping up and down on your bed. Well, this way you have a reason because you're building those legs. So, stand shoulderwidth apart in your feet. You're going to stand at the foot of the bed on the floor and you're going to do a half squat down. You're going to excel your body up by jumping right to the edge of the bed on top. And then you're going to be stepping down to the bottom position getting ready for the next rep. So it's going to work your quads, your hamstrings, your glutes, your calves, accelerating your body up to the top position, stepping down, requiring a lot of energy, getting a lot of blood in those legs, and a good start to the workout. He must be doing the Buff Dude hotel workout. So, you haven't been kicked out of the hotel room yet. Good, cuz we're moving on to the pistol chair squats. So, what you want to do with this exercise is you're actually going to be standing on one leg. Your other leg is going to be shooting right out in front of you, no pun intended, and it's going to look like a pistol. You're going to be pushing back in the hips. You're going to be dipping down. You're going to be touching your glutes to the bottom, which is going to be the chair. And then you're going to be flexing and extending your body up to the top position. So, this is going to work your quads, your glutes, your hamstrings, your calves. It's going to work on some ankle stability. So, this is good. And also, it's going to be a unilateral exercise. So, if you have any asymmetrical problems or strength issues in one leg compared to the next, you can really work those out in this exercise. I hope you packed heavy cuz this next exercise is going to require luggage. It's going to be the one arm luggage row. So, what you got to do is think exactly about a one- arm dumbbell row, but in this case, instead of the dumbbell, you're going to be using your luggage. So, what you want to do is get in a scissor stance. You're going to be bending at the hip. You're going to be putting one arm, either your hand or your elbow, supporting your own body weight on your knee. You're going to grab that luggage, and you're going to row it up, getting a nice squeeze in the lats, and then bring it down to the bottom position. So, this is going to work those lats. It's also going to work a little bit of the rear delts and the biceps as a secondary muscle group. So that way you can build that muscle shield. Windshield wiper incline push-ups. What you want to do with these ones is actually place your feet on top of the bed. Your hands are going to be a little bit wider than normal for push-up. You're actually going to take them even wider than the outside shoulder because what you're going to do is alternate from one side, bending at the elbow, pushing off with one chest and then come to the next side, bending at the elbow, pushing off of the next, alternating back and forth, side to side, just like a windshield wiper. So, this exercise is going to hit the upper chest. The secondary muscle groups is going to be the triceps and front delts. So, if you want to build that nice upper chest, this is the exercise to do it right here in the hotel. All right, time to put that luggage to use again. We're going to be doing luggage lateral to front raise. So, what you want to do with this exercise is grasp that luggage. You're going to be using it as a lateral raise. So, you're going to be bending just at the shoulder joint coming straight to the side of you and then down to the bottom position and then immediately coming to the front of you. So, it's going to work the lateral h of that deltoid and also the front head of the deltoid. It's going to be an isolation exercise. So, you're just using that shoulder joint. What you want to do is just slightly bend in the elbow. Bring that shoulder up laterally to the body, bringing it down and then bring it right to the anterior part or the front part of the body. And then lower it down nice and slow to the bottom position. So if you want to build those boulder shoulders, grab that luggage and use this exercise. Time to build those triceps with chair dips. So grab that chair, place it behind you so the seat's facing you. And what you're going to do is have feet on the floor, knees slightly bent, supporting your own body weight with your hands. Your hands are going to be placed right behind you in the edge of the chair. You'll be bending at the elbows, getting a nice stretch in the triceps, and you'll be stopping about parallel to the floor. And you be extending the arms up, contracting the triceps, getting a nice squeeze at the top, and then lowering it to the body position and rep it out after that, helping build those horseshoe shaped triceps. So, we just got done building the back half of your guns with the triceps. Time to build the front, which is going to be the biceps with luggage concentration curls. So, time to put that luggage to good use once again. And not only for your clothes or your books or your laptop, but now it's going to help you build your muscles. So, what you want to do is grab the luggage. You be bending over supporting yourself on that knee and be placing the luggage and the arm right in line with the shoulder, hanging straight down, getting a nice stretch in the bicep. You'd be bending at the elbow joint, flexing that bicep, not moving the shoulder at all. Getting a nice squeeze to the top position and lower it down to the bottom position, helping build those guts. Time to use this luggage one last time with the plyometric sit-ups. So, what you want to do is sit back on the floor, feet hooked under the bed. You're going to be using a just a standard sit-up, but what's happening is you're actually going to be accelerating the luggage up to the top position, throwing it above you. You're going to be staying there until it drops below you and you're going to be decelerating the weight or the luggage in this case down to the bottom position. So, this is going to be using a little bit of the hip flexors, but it's also going to use the abdominis muscles, which that's going to be good. So, in case you need to do any laundry and there's no laundry on the side, that way you can wash your clothes right here in the hotel room. Just got done with the Buff Dude Hotel workout and boy am I tired. Work the whole body. Hit some plyometrics in there. Hit some unilaterals. Hit some alternating. We got it all. So hopefully you feel it too next time you're on the road and book a hotel room and just don't feel like working out at a gym or they don't have a gym. No problem cuz you have the Buff Dude Hotel workout. So dudes, get on the road and start hitting those luggage weights. Heat. Heat. Heat. Hey, Heat.