 I have five weeks until my very first natural classic physique competition, and I have to get down to single digit body fat. Now, I have done a lot of cardio in the past, but for this contest, I have to do a very specific kind in order to get down to single digit body fat. And thankfully, I found a way of doing it, which is extremely simple. But I must say, just because something is simple does not mean anything. It's easy. And in order to get down to single digit body fat. And in order to get down to single digit body fat. And in order to get down to single digit body fat, I have to have multiple factors. One was my food. I've been having 2700 calories every single day, six days a week, with one refeed day of 3200 calories. On that refeed day, the only thing I'm doing is adding 500 extra calories, six days a week, with one refeed day of 3200 calories. And I'm doing a lot of extra calories strictly coming from carbohydrates. The other six days, I'm keeping a 40% protein, 40% carbohydrate, and 20% fat split. Now, I am very, very strict about this. Again, just because it's simple doesn't mean it's easy. In addition, I am working out six days a week. The volume is high. The rest times are low. There's lots of supersets, and I'm trying to keep the weight as consistent as I can. Again, simple, but not easy. This is where cardio comes in. One day a week, I am doing high intensity interval trainings on my day off. It's 20 rounds. Every single round is 20 seconds going as fast as you possibly can with 40 seconds of active rest, which totals 20 minutes. 20 minutes doesn't sound long, but it is extremely strenuous. And there's a really great quote I like. The difference between a talented person and a successful talented person is grit. So I've got to get really gritty to make this work. This is what I've been doing once a week, every single week for the past two months. It's been working fantastic so far. I've always been a huge fan of cardio for general health, but right now I am not about general health. I am about preparing for a very strict competition. And this is what I've been doing in order to successfully prepare. And I am doing this high intensity interval training on a stationary bike. Of course, it can really be done in any fashion where you can go in all out bursts of extreme cardio followed by 40 seconds of active rest. You could do that sprinting on a track. You could do that with a jump rope. You could do that on a treadmill, really anywhere again, where you can just go as fast as humanly possible followed by 40 seconds of active rest. The good news is it's over a lot faster and it's less boring than traditional cardio. The bad news is it is extremely taxing. So if you're going to do this as well, I would recommend doing a lot of warmup beforehand, about 10 to 15 minutes. Prime yourself, get ready, stay hydrated, and then prepare to feel a pain unlike you have never felt before. Basically, since my teens, I've been trying to eat right, workout, do cardio, but I was never able to do it as successfully as now. And that's because now I'm making sure that they're all working together in unison. A lot of times I would try to outrun a bad diet by doing more cardio. Cardio was never the most fun for me, so it felt like punishment. I'm at a place in my life now at 42 where I enjoy the process, but it doesn't make it any easier, of course. It's just that they're all working in unison to help one another out as opposed to being maybe the cardio being a response to the bad eating or the eating not being beneficial to the workouts and the recovery. Now that I've got them all locked in, it's almost like a multiplier. They're all working and I'm responding two to three times better than I was in the past. I'm living more of a Spartan lifestyle. It's simple, it's consistent, and it's effective. I'm heading into the last three minutes here, so I've got to really kick it up a notch. We're huge fans of making music and this is the perfect time to debut a new song. It's called Flesh and Steel. We made it as a training montage. We've got Alex, the Italian opera singer. We've got Arcady, the Turkish composer, and we've got me who did the vocal melody and lyrics. We're going to be using this song to get the final three minutes done. If you enjoy it, link in description. You can check it out on Spotify. Use it as your training music. Use it to get these rigorous sessions done like I'm doing now. Are you ready? Let's debut Flesh and Steel and let's get this finished, baby. Yeah. Feel the steel. Just the grain of your body. I feel to be the best that it's ever. Being with the goal of winning will be chain us soon. It's just a drive that's in your DNA. But if the muscles and guts that hide away and all the spirits are flexing and fortitude, they're going to be a true of dude. It can't be tamed. It's something deep inside your brain. There's less to fear. Like a mix of flesh and twisted steel. You can't turn back. And now you're an idiot. Trying to lose. Trying to lose. I've got the fear. They'll steal. Over here. I'm a whisper secret untold. Forged in fire. Not both with gold. When the weight is too large and the thought set in. Bring fire the forge and the wood to win. Push past limits. Let your spirits soar. Finish the beastly fear. Forever more is there. Waiting to fight for you. You'll see to grow your beefy butt. Peace you. Gyms are a temple. Bevels are prayed. Every rapper step on an endless stare. Bevels in sweat. Washing off the fear. Leaving you fun. Defined and persevere. Let the music flex. Your energy flow. Embrace the burn. The pain and the afterglow. This is your legend. Your truth supreme. So hear the new PR. And let out your loudest scream. It can be tamed. There's something deep inside your brain. That starts to feel. Like a mix of flesh and peace to see. Iron whisper secret untold. Forged in fire. Not both with gold. When the waves still lost. And the thoughts head in. Bring the fire. The force. And the way to win. Push fast. Limits. Let your spirits soar. Release the beast within. Forever more is there. Ready to fight for you. Use it to grow yourself into a true of doom. Yeah. Yeah. 20 seconds all out. 40 seconds active rest. 20 total rounds. Oh, man. Oh, man. That was. That was killer. Hope this episode was able to help some of you out. Hope you enjoyed the new song. Yeah. And I will see you next week for another natural classic physique preparation video. Let's do this, baby. Five weeks left. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Bye.