Hey buff dudes and girls. If you want to build that explosive strength and have a whole bunch of exercises of pio boxes for you. It took three generations of buff dudes and we got it done. We're going to glue it, screw it, and tattoo it. So, to build our plyio box, we're going to need a 4x8x 3/4 in sheet of plywood. As you can see here, we've already made our cuts on that plywood. We're going to be cutting two 24x 28 1/2, two 20x30s, and two 20x 24s. We also are showing the waist after we cut that. Now, if you don't have a saw, the lumber yard will cut up for you. Then, we're going to be getting some 2 by twos. Let's go over some of the tools you're going to be need. Again, it's optional that you have a saw. You can have that cut at Home Depot or any other lumber yard that you have, but some of the things you're going to need yourself. You can use a square. You're going to be cutting it. You're definitely going to be needing a drill to put the screws in that we're going to be using. And these are wood screws. A sander to take off the edges of the ply box once it's finished so you don't have any sharp edges. Ed edges just in case you miss. We're going to be using a jigsaw. Cut the handles out. And then some paint and some stencils so we can put on our 30 in, our 20 in, and our 24 in. cuz either way you turn it, it's going to be an awesome pio box with three three different sizes. Let's get started on this project. Let's make some sawdust. So, we're going to take the 2 by twos and attach it to the two sides that are marked 24x 28 1/2. We're going to put a layer of glue on there. Then, we're going to use our wood screws and attach that. The framework is really going to add stability and longevity. Another thing about plywood, when you buy the sheet, sometimes plywood isn't perfectly flat just because it's wood in the shipping process, whatever. So, when you build your box, make sure you've got a nice flat surface to start to put it together on. If you take a surface like over here, which is kind of warpy, it's going to be hard to get all your corners to come out and then when the box is done, it's not going to be aligned perfectly. So again, start with a very flat surface and line your your framework out or your box sides and then start gluing and screwing. Make sure those corners are nice and square. Now on this part, we're going to use the inch and 3/4 screws cuz that's going to go actually an inch past the thickness of the 3/4 in fly. Let's do it. You can sink it in and counter sync it so they don't poke up. Now, if you want to line these out, you can put a screw every 6 in if you want. And that ain't going nowhere. I just want to point out another advantage to putting a framework around it. is you get a very stable solid surface, a solid wood product for those screws to go into. Eventually, something like this is going to happen with the plywood when you put the box together. It's okay to screw through this part of the plywood, but when you screw through the edge of the plywood, it's going to go through one of those layers. These are plywood is just a bunch of layers put together, sandwiched together. When you go through one of those layers, that weakens the joint. So, by adding that framework, you won't have any weak parts of putting the screw into the side of the plywood. So, it's a great advantage to just getting some 2 by twos and building a frame, which is really simple. All right, there we go. Now, both sides are done. They have the structural framework. We're going to add a piece in the center that's going to have an upright to go to the other top. Going to take the two 21in pieces and center them on the 15 and 3/4 in piece like this. And that's going to provide us that center structural support. So, we're just going to glue the ends, screw it together, and then we'll be able to start putting this box together. In this part of the build, we're using the 3-in screws like this. We're only going to need six of them because we're going through the 2 by twos into each other. So, we're going to put these last pieces of framework up and we're going to glue it. You really want to check that because the other it's going to go along. We're using inch and 3/4 throughout, but remember only six screws will be 3 in long to tie in the 2 by twos. She grew. Okay, so we got all the sides on. Check it out. frameworks in one last piece. And that's the top. I put some glue in there. We're going to go ahead and put this on top. Now, the tighter it fits, the better. So, it's fitting really tight. I'm just going to pry it in. The tighter it fits, the better. Since we have our framework and now we have our plyio box. A couple other things we're going to do is put some handles on it and some labels. But here's the sides. 20, 20x 30, 20x 30, 20x 24, 20x 24, and 24x 28 1/2, which actually will be 30 in. Remember that's the inside cut. So, let's complete this project. All right, it's all screwed and glued. So, our next step is the handles, which you're going to grab the pile box with. Went ahead and centered the handle and made a mark. Then I brought it down 4 in so you could have room to get your hand in there because remember we have framing here. So we have to drop it down a little. And then it is an inch and a half wide by 6 in long. So it's going to accommodate almost every hand. Now we're going to go ahead and cut that out with this jigsaw. Hello. Hello. Okay, we're going to go ahead and fill the screw holes with some wood putty. You don't have to do that, but we're going to go, oh, let's make it nice and clean looking. And that way when and then after this dries, we'll sand it. Okay, got it all sanded. Got the corners all rounded so there's no hurting on the shins. And now we're just painting it. buck dude style. What I did for a final, I put two coats of polyurethane on there and it kind of smooths everything out. Of course, sanded and rounded the corners, put the stencils on, put the tattoo on, and this baby's ready to jump. So, if you don't want to build one, you're easily attainable. But if you do, now you got a video to follow and build you a lifelong buck dudes ply box. So, we showed you how to build the DIY pio box. Now, let's show you some of our favorite exercises. Yeah. Hey, hey, hey. Heat.