Hey buff dudes and girls. Today we're going to be going over the single exercise external rotations. It's exactly what the name explains. You're externally rotating that arm outside the body to get a contraction in those rotator cuffs. The muscles that make up the rotator cuff is going to be the infraspanatus and also the terrace minor that help you externally rotate that shoulder. So, what you want to do to perform this exercise is you're going to be lying on the ground on your side. You're going to be taking a lightweight dumbbell and you're going to externally rotate your arm outside the body. Get a nice contraction in those small muscles of the rotator cuff, the inspasinatus, and also the terrace minor. And you're going to lower it down to the bottom position. You want to make sure you go nice and light in this exercise because what happens if you go too heavy, the bigger muscle groups of the shoulder are going to take over. the posterior delt, anterior delt, or the lateral head of the deltoid is going to start doing the work for you. And this is a reason to go a little bit lighter is because those muscles are small muscle groups. So, you want to make sure they're contracting properly. Nice smooth motion at the top position and then let it down to get a nice eentric contraction on the way down to make sure those muscles are contracting through that whole motion and you're not using any kind of momentum during the exercise. Just think of this exercise as shoulder insurance. It's going to really help stabilize that joint because that shoulder is the most mobile joint in the body. You want to make sure it's healthy and stabilized through big movements like bench press, pull-ups, overhead press. You're using that shoulder for a lot of stuff. Even day-to-day activities, pushing stuff up overhead, using it to do anything. If you're a baseball player, golf, anything you want to use that shoulder with, you want to make sure it's nice and stable and also healthy. So, make sure you include the external rotations in any kind of program that you do to make sure those shoulders nice and healthy and you also make sure you don't get injured in that shoulder joint. That's what makes this exercise Buff Dudes approved. We hope you enjoyed that single exercise tutorial video. And remember, all our single exercise tutorial videos go right along with our 12week program. You can find the 12-week program as a free download in the description of this video. The 12-week program was built by me and Brandon. It has four phases, each consisting of three intense weeks. It's A-50-page PDF, and we shot videos for each phase of the 12-week plan. You can also follow along us as we do the plan ourselves at our website, buffdudes.us. So, if you ever need any help with any of the exercises in the plan, just reference these videos. So, until then, stay buff.