Hey dudes, what's happening? We're in the gym just about to work out and we're also going to shoot our new single exercise tutorial video. Now, what we're going to do is switch it up. We've been doing the exercise tutorials for about a year now, but we want to include you guys a little bit more. So, what we're going to do is have it user submitted. Now, we're starting today with dumbbell crossovers, which was submitted to us. But what we're going to do in the following weeks is the top rated workouts in the description of the video is the ones that we're going to choose for future videos. So whatever is like the most thumbs up or the most people ask for will be the ones that we'll be doing from here on out. So submit your exercise that you want to see in the most thumbs up, we're going to make a tutorial video just for you guys. Exactly. And we're telling you already, no, we're not going to do how to play the skin flute. It's only going to be gym exercise. Do that on radio, right? Exactly. God help you if you don't. But it's only going to be workout stuff. So any like ridiculous comments. I mean, if it's all thumbmed up, I don't know. Maybe we might do. I mean, you know, we'll do it. I mean, come on. No. So, we're going to stick with just the gym stuff, but what you guys really want to see is the ones we'll be doing from here on out. And we're going to start with dumbbell crossovers. Dumbbell crossovers. Dumbbell crossovers. What you want to do with these is lie flat on a bench, feet flat on the floor, and you want to take a pair of dumbbells straight in front of you, and you're going to be doing flies starting off. So, take it down to the bottom position, getting a nice stretch in the chest, and you're going to bring it to the top position, but instead of stopping where the dumbbells hit together, you're actually passing them over each other with one hand in front of the other. So, it's crossing over the body, squeezing the chest all the way, contracting it, and then you're going to bring it down to the bottom position for the stretch in the chest. What you got to remember to do is try to keep the tension in the chest. So, when you cross the dumbbells over, you want to try to flex the chest and contract the chest as much as you can, squeezing it before you take it to the bottom stretch position. What you don't want to do is when you cross the dumbbells over is to relax the chest and have the rear deltoids take over when you try to return to the bottom stretch position. So, what this exercise is really going to focus on is going to be the chest. Uh it's going to really isolate the chest by doing the fly motion, getting that nice stretch position, just using the shoulder joint in the motion. And as you pull it to the top position and crossing over, you're going to get a really good flex and contraction in those inner fibers, getting those nice striations in that muscle. So next time you step in the gym and want that big chest pump, try the dumbbell crossovers and you'll be thanking the buff dudes or the guy that submitted this exercise.