Good morning. No, seriously. We're doing the single exercise tutorial on good mornings. It's an excellent exercise to strengthen the lower back, which is the rectus panise, and also the hamstrings. Get ready cuz we're about to get started. So take that barbell and you're going to place it firmly right on about upper trap area just like you would with a squat and have your feet just about shoulder width apart just like you would if you were performing a squat. The difference between this one is you're really only utilizing the hip joint. You're not bending in the knee and squatting down. The knees will be slightly bent just to relieve a little bit more stretch in the hamstrings so you can concentrate on that full range of motion. So, what you want to do is flex in the hips. You're going to be leaning forward like you're bowing forward, maybe in a courteous sense, saying good morning to someone, but with weight on your back. You want to keep your trunk or your upper body straight and contracted. So, it is a core exercise as well. The abs are going to be nice and tight and also the erector spin to help stabilize that spine because you don't want any rounding in the spine. You want to keep it as straight as possible. You'll feel a little bit of stretch in those hamstrings as you perform this exercise. And the goal is to get about parallel to the floor. Now, this might be hard to do if you first are first doing this exercise and you have a little tightness in those hamstrings. So, what you want to do is just work into that range of motion. Be comfortable in your range of motion just so you feel the tension on the hamstrings as well as the lower back. And then what you want to do is extend those hips and bring your body upward and get a nice squeeze at the top position. And that is when you have completed a full repetition of good mornings. So the good mornings are an excellent exercise to strengthen those lower back muscles as well as contract a little bit in those hamstrings and also work on some flexibility in the hamstrings as well. So try these out for yourself and see what you think. And as always, stay buff. We hope you enjoyed that single exercise tutorial video. And remember, all our single exercise tutorial videos go right along with our 12-week program. You can find the 12-week program as a free download in the description of this video. The 12-week program was built by me and Brandon. It has four phases, each consisting of three intense weeks. It's A-50-page PDF, and we shot videos for each phase of the 12-week plan. You can also follow along us as we do the plan ourselves at our website buffdudes. us. So if you ever need any help with any of the exercises in the plan, just reference these videos. So until then, stay buff.