The tea bar row. Hey dudes, I'm just working on the 12week program here. We're going to be coming out with it next week. So definitely look for that. It's taken us a little bit longer than we thought just cuz we really want to develop a solid program, but not only that, we're going to develop a frequently asked questions page just for you guys. So, in case you have any questions, you can look on the site after looking at the program and find out if we actually answered your question already before asking us anything, which will be great. So, definitely look for that. Now, I'm done with this. Onto the exercise. Today, we're going to be doing the T- bar row. This one in particular is going to be shoving a barbell right into the corner. We're not even using the machine, which makes it a lot easier cuz you can pretty much do them anywhere. And now, load the bar up with as many 45 plates you feel you can do. And what you want to do is you want to stand right over it, feet shoulderwidth apart, and you be pulling and grasping the bar. You can either use a close grip handle or you can just use your interlocked fingers, which makes it even easier cuz you don't need anything else to do other than the barbell and the 45 lb plates. So, grab that bar. You're going to have a full stretch position in the arms. And what you really want to do is focus on pulling through the shoulders and pulling then up through the elbows, getting a nice squeeze in the lats. In this particular exercise, it's going to be a shorter range of motion because the plates are actually going to hit your chest or want to hit your chest. So, you're actually getting that full stretch. You want to contract up, get a nice squeeze, and then you're going to let it down. This exercise is great to build that massive thickness in the back. What we like to call the meat shield. Muscle shield. Muscle shield. There we go. Thank you. All right, dudes. So, try this exercise out. Hopefully, you like it. And next time you want to build that muscle shield, try the tea bar row. Just like the Buff Dudes do.