the manual hamstring curl or as it's sometimes referred to the bodyweight hamstring curl. This is an excellent exercise to isolate those hamstrings and it's great for when you don't have access to a leg curl machine. All you got to have is you and something to put your feet under in order to accomplish this exercise. All right, dudes and girls. Let's get to how to perform the manual hamstring curl. So, what you're going to want to do first is find something to support your body weight and that you can anchor your feet under. What we're going to be using is a barbell and two dumbbells. Once you have that or something of the equivalent that can support your body, go ahead and get on your knees and grab some pads if you need to in case you experience a little discomfort and anchor the feet underneath the barbell, keeping your body vertical as we begin the exercise. Keeping your upper legs and trunk straight, go ahead and begin to lean forward using your hamstrings in order to control the descent down. Once you feel that your hamstrings can't control that descent any longer, go ahead and go towards the floor using your hands to catch yourself and end in the bottom position of a push-up motion. Push yourself up just enough until those hamstrings can take over once again and then use them to pull yourself back into the beginning position of this exercise. All right, there you go, dudes and girls. You just completed your first manual hamstring curl. It's an awesome isolation exercise for those hamstrings and it's one of our favorites because as we said, you can really do it anywhere and it really hits those hamstrings hard. So have fun lifting. We'll see you next time and stay buff. We hope you enjoyed that single exercise tutorial video. And remember, all our single exercise tutorial videos go right along with our 12-week program. You can find the 12-week program as a free download in the description of this video. The 12-week program was built by me and Brandon. It has four phases, each consisting of three intense weeks. It's A-50-page PDF, and we shot videos for each phase of the 12-week plan. You can also follow along us as we do the plan ourselves at our website, buffdudes.us. So, if you ever need any help with any of the exercises in the plan, just reference these videos. So, until then, stay buff.