! Hold up. It's already been over a month now since I injured my back. Alright, before we continue, let's rewind a little bit first. Working out is my life. Me and my brother both started BuffDudes back in 2012, and since then we've created hundreds of videos and shared countless good memories. But all that came to a screeching halt for me over a month ago. I was a pretty skinny kid growing up, but once I started to work out, I was hooked, competing in bodybuilding, getting into fitness modeling, and now making a livelihood out of it. When you make that kind of investment in your health, naturally you don't want it to go away. I've lost around 20 pounds since my injury due to not eating very much and inactivity, and although I know I don't look bad, there's this irrational fear that I'll wake up as that skinny kid again. So it's been over a month now since I released the video where I found out I had bulging discs throughout my lower back, and initially that was something that was extremely hard to take. In my mind, I'm like, I'm never going to work out again, and of course that is what we do. BuffDudes has been around since 2012, we've been creating content, and it all revolves around working out, being physically fit. All of a sudden when that's gone, that in a way defines you, that's who you are. So I felt a little lost in that moment, but after releasing the video and just reading all of your comments and just seeing the outpour of love and support was mind-blowing. And I just want to say thank you. So reading all of that and implementing a lot of the recommendations that you had from the stretching, the mobility, the physical therapy, today I am doing a lot better. But you know, there is a point where you reach, you have to start going to the next step, and that is for me, I have to start pushing myself in the gym. I have to see where I'm at because I have this level of physical fitness that I'm used to, that I have an image of in my mind that I want to be, and I want to get back to that. So I've been brainstorming for a while, and I think I have a good idea of what I need. So I am setting a specific goal, and today marks the first day where I'm going to start taking the steps to reach that goal. So there's going to be one thing that plays a huge role in this whole process, and that is going to be the Buff App. It's actually an app me and my brother developed, and we've been developing for years now. And one of the reasons why we decided to make it is we didn't see anything on the market, on the whole fitness tracking app market that we would really use. So we figured, well, let's start the process of making our own. And it has been quite a journey to make the app. One of the main inspirations for it was Duolingo, where you log into the app, it's a teaching tool, but it's also very fun. It's motivating, and that's exactly what we're going for in our app. There's gamification in it where you can level up, gaining experience points through each workout. There is very detailed stats in there. And if you do decide to check out the app, you can follow my journey because there is a community tab on there as well. You can follow friends, you can like, you can comment, get updates on the workouts they post. So that is very, very motivating and a feature I'm going to be taking full advantage of. So if you do want to check it out, you can find it on Google Play or the Apple App Store. Now speaking of working out, that's exactly what I'm about to do. I'm ready to get that pump again. I'm ready to feel that blood flow and feel those muscles straining. But man, I'm taking quite a while off. So, I don't know, we'll see how this goes. Thank you. Hey, how's it going? Good, how you doing? All right, that is 20 minutes down. Woo, broke a little sweat, which is always good. Now I'm ready for the workout. Feeling nice and warmed up. Just make sure I'm feeling good. Yeah, baby steps. I think there's been a lot of times throughout my lifting career where I take small breaks and, you know, get back at sometimes hard to find the motivation to keep going because you reach a certain level of physical fitness and take a short break, you come back and you're like, God, man, I'm out of shape. At least that's what it feels like. I wouldn't call myself in peak condition right now, so I've lost so much weight. It's crazy. And I know a lot of people are saying to me like, hey, you look great because I know I don't look bad, but I've definitely lost a lot of weight in this last month. But you know what? Hey, I'm going to use that for motivation. I see myself and imagine what I want to look like in the next six months. I think at this point, I don't want to let the injury, you know, what happened in my back, be my excuse because I think that's an easy thing to fall into. So that's going to be part of the schedule. Get to the gym, get my warm up in on the treadmill. And then afterward, I'm just going to introduce some light stretches. But on my day off, I'm going to introduce a bit more core work, some myofascial release, and just kind of feel out, you know, how sore I am if my back is kind of feeling a little achy or not. So there's certain things that I'm going to be kind of testing the waters throughout this process. And just go from there. You know, it's really just a process of feeling it out and making sure that you are in fact able to do what you want to do. And what I want to do is enter a local bodybuilding competition. So for the next six months, I'm going to be preparing for just that. Now it's the same competition my brother Hudson and girlfriend, Michaela, are going to enter as well. So by the end of it, I'm going to be stepping on stage against my brother. And, you know, I've seen what his physique looks like. So I have some very, very stiff competition. But I also know that there's some real risks involved in something like this. So I'm taking it very seriously. All I have to do is look at the example of a bodybuilder named Ronnie Coleman. He was an absolute beast of a man. And he was eight-time Mr. Olympia winner, but he injured his back during a workout. And when you went in to see the doctor, the doctor said, well, you should not work out. So he prescribed basically to take off working out. And of course, a guy like that is not going to heed that kind of advice. So he continued to work out and he ended up leg pressing over a thousand pounds and injured his back so much because of it that now he has a hard time getting around. That is something that is actually kind of scary. And I don't want that to obviously happen. So I am not only excited on one hand, but there's also some fear involved as well. But I don't want that fear to control my life. I want to be able to continue to have physique and live the life I want to. And it's not only the fear of getting re-injured, but I only have six months to prepare for a bodybuilding competition. So this is the first step in the journey. Hopefully you guys enjoyed the video. And if you're interested, definitely follow along. Hopefully you guys will be there rooting for me, Hudson and Mikaela. And until next time, stay buff.