 Hey, my name is Hudson White. I am going to be competing in my first natural, classic physique bodybuilding competition this weekend, and I've just hit a new low of 204 pounds. And today, I'm gonna be doing a high carb day. I'm gonna be showing you every single meal with all the macronutrients and calories, in addition to heading over to my brother Brandon's in order for him to critique my posing, see where I'm at, and then see what my body looks like after a day of 500 grams of carbohydrates. After having eaten low carbs for the past two weeks, it's gonna be a really interesting day, and I'm gonna be getting started right now. I'm on my way to Brandon and Mikaela's. I'm gonna do a little bit of last minute posing. They're about to be subjected to my half naked body. I apologize to Mikaela in advance, but they're troopers for doing this. I really respect and appreciate Brandon's expertise. Through this whole process, I have not had a nutrition coach, not had a posing coach. We wanted to do it the buff dude style, man. A little bit of DIY, taking a lot of our philosophies and applying them to the contest, see how well they work. And Brandon is a student of the film Pumping Iron. I think I can safely say he's seen it about 100 times or more, that's probably on the lower end. And that's what this is all about, trying to emulate the golden era, the silver era, the classic physique. All those guys who helped to inspire us, motivate us, wanna begin lifting, and I'm gonna give my best to pay respect to those dudes. And one thing I've learned through this entire process is you look at something like posing and you realize how hard it is, because it truly is a art form. You work so hard to build these muscles, but you have to properly show them off, because if you don't, you could lose it all at the last minute. And along with the correct angles you need to work, there's also the fact that you need to be tan to show them under the stage lights. There's all these little things I'm learning and I have to be ready for. And I think I'm at the point now where I'm so happy with the way my nutrition and my workouts have went. There's not a lot more that I can do except for put it in the hands of the judges and see what happens. And that's what this is at the end of the day. It's not your standard athletic competition. It's not a sports match. It's an opinion-based event. So you do your best. And I think I can truly say that I have pushed myself to my physical and mental limits, which was the goal from the very beginning. So this is gonna be a typical day at the Buff Household. I'm gonna be doing a little posing for Brandon and Mikayla. Not awkward at all. But I've gotta get used to this. He's taking his pants off. Yeah, I'm saying, you know, this is gonna be a lot more awkward for Mikayla than it is for me probably. But one of the reasons I'm doing this is to try to get over my nerves. You're gonna be in front of a big audience in your pretty much just in your skis. This feels a lot weirder than I, yeah, this feels a lot weirder than I thought it was. Is this an Olin fans video? I don't know. So we will get into the relax, which is the front, starting with the front relax. Behold this position comparing to other athletes, other bodybuilding athletes there. We're gonna do a quarter turn to your right. Nice. Nice and tight. And quarter turn to your right. Good, lower back detail, hamstrings tight. Good, quarter turn to your right. Nice. Quarter turn to your right. Reset to the front, nice, good. So we'll go into the mandatory poses. Front double bicep. Yep, set the feet first, boom. Nice hold, little comparison there. All right, good. We'll go on to the next one, which would be the side chest. Good setup, boom, nice, there we go. And we'll go to the next one, which is the side tricep. Nice, keep that core tight. Good smile, man. Got a damn smile, man. This is what I want to look like. Yeah, exactly. Going to the next one, which is the back double bicep. Tighten the hamstrings, reaching up. Nice, pulling down, get a good squeeze, lower back detail, boom, that's it. There you go, good, that was good. See those lats. All right, and maybe put your elbows slightly higher if you can, there we go, yeah, yep. They dip, then that's perfect. I mean, after that, then it's back to the, I actually forget if you go back to, I guess you go kind of back to the relaxed pose. I think so. I mean, you pretty much have to be in that the whole time you're on stage. Always be in that kind of like, yeah, exactly, for however long they want to keep you up there. And then, yeah, boom. Nice, looking awesome. Thanks. Back from Brandon Mikaela's. It was a great posing session. Brandon had some excellent insights. His last minute tweaks, what to do. Having to properly accentuate and show the muscles. I feel pretty confident. It is so much harder than it looks, man. Holding those poses for that length of time. I'm sure it's even going to be harder on show day just due to the nerves they're going to set in. Maybe a little bit of that shakiness. Really trying to keep that core tight. It's been so educational for me and I'm ready. It's so odd because these past couple of months, I've been obsessed with my body. I've had to be. I'm looking in the mirror all the time, taking constant photos for the unaware. It could seem extremely vain, but really you are a sculptor and your body is the project. So you owe it to yourself to constantly looking, tweaking, being critical. What can I do better? And it's been a fun process. It's been so educational. I would really advise if you're healthy enough to try it yourself because it gives you so much more appreciation for what you're capable of, how your body works, homeostasis. Really the fact that you have to trick your body in many ways to get to this point because your body doesn't care if you have a six pack. And I can honestly say I felt very healthy as a 42 year old before getting into this contest shape. But now I can say that I was able to take it to this level, which has been very exciting. A little bit of doubt sometimes set in. You're always thinking, am I good enough? Am I lean enough? Am I strided enough? But thankfully, I feel like I have the wisdom of not succumbing to any kind of body dysmorphic disorder. I could see how it would be very easy to develop because you don't want to put all your worth in your body. We're all gonna age, things are all gonna change. No matter how much work you have done or no matter what steps you take, I've never in my life seen an 85 year old that looks like a 22 year old. They could be an excellent shape for an 85 year old and that's what I plan on being. So with that in mind, I feel prepped baby. I feel good and I'm gonna go back home. I'm gonna have those last meals. This has been a great day for me because I've had some carbs, but they're going to be dropping once again in these final few days. And I'm gonna make that final push to be the best version of myself that I can possibly be. The final meal of the day. So many carbs and I think I could have had a little bit more. That is delicious. This bop. It is the end of the Reefy Day. Started off this morning at 1.95, I'm at 200 now, so about six pound difference. I'm feeling good. Really from this point, it's all mirror check. See how I'm looking, see how I'm feeling. And now the only thing I have left is to go there, get on that stage and see what happens. So I will see all of you on the other side if the next video is gonna be after the competition takes place. So send some kind words in the comments below if you can and wish me luck.