Yeah, that's me. My name's Brandon. I'm totally living my life like I'm straight out of the8s, dude. But you might be wondering how I got myself into living this bodacious lifestyle. Well, to answer that totally awesome question, we should probably go back to when it all started. Now, both me and my brother were born in the mid1 1980s, so I really didn't feel like I got to experience that time as much as I would have liked to. But the little bit I do remember is that it was big, it was bold, and it was totally awesome. A lot of memorable events can happen over a decade, and of course, the 80s were no different. Ronald Reagan becoming president, the rise and fall of the stock market, and all-time classic movies and music being released. Even to this day, there seems to be something about the 1980s that draws people in. I mean, it was around 40 years ago now, but a lot of the same stuff from that time period is still around and going strong. But you have to think, is it just nostalgia that's pulling us in to thinking that's the best decade in history? Or is it truly as awesome as we remember? That's why in this video, I want to see what it's like to live like a 1980s man for a full week. Now, I'm not going to be concentrating on politics or the economy, but what I do want to focus on is the lifestyle, the hair, the clothing, the pop culture, the fitness, the nutrition, and what they did in their pastime. Yeah. Just think of it as me trying to relive my childhood in a way, which I guess is probably what a lot of people are doing. So, it's time to see if I can truly implement the 1980s lifestyle into the modern day. And of course, to begin this journey, I need to start to look like a man from the 1980s. So to start out, let's do something about this facial hair. Each decade can have influences from the past, and in the 80s, you saw that clearly with a variety of different facial hairstyles. Full beards weren't quite as popular as they were back in the 70s, but mustaches seem to be in thanks to the help of Tom Cull and Magnum PI and Freddy Mercury from the band Queen. The stubble look also gained popularity thanks to Don Johnson in Miami Vice, but the clean shaven yepy look was all the rage. Now, as you can tell, my mustache isn't quite thick enough to pull off the Tom Celic look. So, I'm going to be going with the clean shaven yepy look. And the popularity of that is probably due to some of the great marketing by companies like Gillette, Shik, and Braun. And if I saw that commercial, I'd want to shave, too. The company Vic made disposable razors a major trend, making shaving more affordable and convenient. And they even give them away free when you ordered a McDonald's meal. Yeah, that was an actual thing. And I always remember my dad using bit growing up. So that's what I'm using. And one thing I always remember is this is inevitable. I don't think I would say disposable razors would be my first choice. Ah, there we go. All clean shaven. Enough to say that big disposable razor irritated the out of my skin and I even nicked myself a few times. I wonder if they showed that in the marketing. But you can't forget the aftershave. And there's quite a few different brands, but ones that stood out were Aqua Velva and Brute. Now, Aqua Velva was maybe a little bit more of the barberhop cool feel, and Brute was more the muskier, manlier smell, and even had marketing saying the essence of a man. So, Brute, you definitely sold me. I'm going with you. Oh, there we go. Oh, yeah. Smelling manly. Now that I'm all clean shaven, it's time for the hair. There are many different hairstyles in the 80s, drawing inspiration from several past decades, blending retro influences with its own over-the-top style, ranging from big voluuptuous rocker hair, the feathered look, mullets, jerry curl, the greaser, and of course, flat tops came back. And since I'm fresh off my recent I Lived as a 50s man, I'm going to stick with the flat top, but with one big difference, hair dye. And I'm going to be bleaching my hair today, but I've never done that before. So, I'm recruiting my girlfriend here to help me out, who has also never done it before. Dying your hair was the new fun thing to give you a unique look. And with musicians like Billy Idol, Madonna, and Cindy Looper leading the way for the newer generation, it was clear that standing out and looking different was what the 80s were all about. All finished up. What do you think? It looks good. Looks really blonde. Yes, it does. So, now that I got the hair, it's time to get the clothes. My goal is to find clothing that's from the 80s, or at least similar items you would find people wearing, which was a wide variety of different styles. Power dressing was a sign of the times because the 80s were all about looking bold and successful. Men wore oversized blazers with shoulder pads, pinstripe suits, and suspenders. There was also casual cool. Brands like polar, lacrosse were huge with pastel polos and pop colors. And you can't forget denim and lots of it. Acidwash jeans, jean jackets, and ripped denim were musthaves. You would also see Nike, Reebok, Adidas, and Puma tracksuits. And of course, sneakers like Air Jordans released in 1984, changed the game. Then there was the rock and metal influence. Bandanas, leather jackets, ripped jeans, and studded accessories were essential to help emulate your favorite band. So, I just got back from the thrift stores, and I have to say, I found a lot of good stuff, and I tried to stick with the same brands you would find in the 80s, like Levi, Wrangler, Nike, and Reebok. And I even found an old membersonly jacket. But now, it's time to try all these clothes on. And what better way to do it than a classic 1980s montage. Okay, so I think that takes care of the clothing, but there's one last stop I need to make. I'm going to head to my brothers to see if there's any relics from our childhood in his attic. And if you've seen Goonies, well, there's bound to be something up there. I don't know what you're going to find up there, but good luck. All right, now that I have everything, it's time to start looking like a 1980s man. Now, you might notice the typical '8s routine wasn't all that different from today. They had plenty of modern conveniences, like a fancy digital clock blaring its alarm, a brand new portable music player for tunes on the go, and a massive collection of cassette tapes, even if you kept replaying your two favorite songs. Breakfast was easy enough, or a bowl of a popular sugar- loaded cereal designed to fight off the dreaded soggies. And of course, nothing wrapped up the day better than firing up your favorite video game on the latest state-of-the-art entertainment system. The 1980s saw a growing fascination in media. And with cable TV becoming a major center point in the American family, advertisements and marketing skyrocketed, selling everything from home computers like the Commodore 64, gaming systems like the NES, cars, beer, fashion, cigarettes, and movies. And a commercial that was trying to sell a new exciting product might look something like this. This kid just got a video game entertainment system for Christmas. This kid just got a boom box for his birthday. But this kid got the newest and latest Buff app, featuring state-of-the-art graphics, new ways to level up, and packed full of exercise tutorials to help you build your body like your favorite action hero movie star. Including interactive graphs and detailed breakdowns for each workout. There's so many features, we can't even mention them all. You'll feel like you're actually inside a real life video game, but you're the main character. The Buff app might look like something coming straight from the future, but it's available now on Google Play and the Apple App Store. What are you waiting for? Download it now. Okay, so they didn't have smartphones back then, but the first commercially available mobile phone was released in 1983, the Motorola Dinetac 8000X, nicknamed the Brick, mainly because how it looked and it weighed over 2 lb. This thing would set you back around 4 grand, which would be around $11,000 today. So, as you can tell, technology was becoming a big business. In fact, it was growing at such a rapid pace, there was movies like War Games that was expressing concern about how it was going to affect the world. Which is interesting because we see the same thing today with the advent of AI. And although the worldwide web didn't exist until 1991, there was an early form of the internet used by government agencies, universities, and tech enthusiasts, but they communicated mainly through bulletin board systems, early email, and textbased networks. Now, I tried to look into getting some of this old technology from back then to use it in this video, but like most things, you can slap vintage or retro onto it and charge an arm and a leg. So, I don't have that available. And of course, I can't use modern technology like this or like this, but I can do something else that was becoming extremely popular in the 80s. Fitness in the 80s was becoming huge. And with Ronald Reagan embracing the fitness boom by revamping the president's council on physical fitness, a program started by President Eisenhower in the 1950s and the first lady Nancy Reagan leading the Just Say No campaign. America saw a resurgence in physical education and interest. There were also influences of TV and movie stars like Richard Simmons launching Sweat to the Oldies, Jane Fonda's Workout, which became the bestselling VHS of all time, selling over 17 million copies, and of course, the rise of the action heroes like Sylvester Salone and Arnold Schwarzenegger. Ironically, with the Just Say No campaign, bodybuilding saw an explosion in steroid usage, which goes right to the 80s being the decade of excess. Before the 80s, fitness was mostly for athletes or bodybuilders. But this decade turned it into a mainstream lifestyle. Whether through aerobics, bodybuilding, home workouts, or gym memberships, fitness became a social and cultural movement. Gyms were a lot more available back then. You look back in the past, the 60s, the 70s, a little bit harder to find chains of gyms, gyms that you would just be have easy access to. In the 80s, it really opened up. You had Gold's gym, World's Gym, and you had BS. And of course, you had the advent of VHS tapes, so you could work out right at home. And it just became so accessible to everyone. And that was one of the reasons why fitness really exploded. Great marketing, advertisements, and movies. You saw guys like Arnold Schwarzenegger, Sylvester Salone. All of a sudden, the public saw these superhero physiques come to life in an actual human form. Seen that on the big screen, I think that motivated a lot of people to get their ass in the gym and to get in shape. My hair really good. Yeah. So, that was very reminiscent of an 80s workout. I got to say, it was all about the pump. And I can tell I'm feeling very pumped from that workout. But now that I pumped these muscles up, it's time to get some nutrition. The 1980s were a fascinating time for nutrition and food culture, shaped by changing lifestyles, emerging health trends, and of course, a booming processed food industry. One of the biggest shifts in the decade was the rise of low-fat and diet foods. The fear of dietary fat, largely driven by government guidelines in media influence, led to an explosion of fat-free and reduced fat products. From fat-free yogurt to leaner versions of popular snacks, people were consuming more healthconscious options. At the same time, fast food and convenience meals were thriving. Microwavable dinners, instant meals, and processed snacks became household staples as busy families embraced the convenience of quick prep meals. Fitness culture also had a major impact on food trends. With the rise of aerobics, bodybuilding, and gym culture, high protein diets gained traction. Protein shakes, energy bars, and supplements became increasingly popular. Yet, despite the push of healthier eating, processed and sugary foods dominated supermarket shelves. Breakfast cereals were loaded with sugar, brightly colored, and marketed to kids with fun mascots. Soda consumption was at an all-time high, and the introduction of diet sodas like Diet Coke in 1982 gave consumers a guilt-free alternative. As you can tell, nutrition in the 80s was a mixture of extremes. Booming health trends battling against a title wave of process and fast food. The 1980s were undeniably a unique time in food history. One of the most notable fast food chains was, of course, McDonald's, introducing the Happy Meal in 1979. But in the 80s, they started to introduce toys from major franchises like Star Wars, Transformers, and Disney, which was a genius move on their part. I remember growing up, I could not wait to go to McDonald's to see what they had in their Happy Meals. At that time, it was Ninja Turtles. Sometimes they would give VHS's out. I mean, it was a whole experience. The whole family went there, but there was usually one more stop you would make before heading home. There was something magical about walking into your local video rental store. The distinct smell, the sense of wonder, the thrill of browsing through rows of VHS tapes. Each cover told a story, some cool, some downright terrifying. While these stores may now be relics of the past, the movies from that era are far from forgotten. If anything, they're more alive than ever. Growing up, movies weren't just entertainment. They were an escape, a portal to worlds I could only ever dream of. It's hard to put into words just how much they shaped me. There's something about the '8s movies that just hit differently, like they crack the code on making something truly special. Maybe it's because I grew up watching them, triggering that classic reminiscence bump where childhood memories burn brighter and feel more emotionally charged. But even now, I see how powerful nostalgia is. How it wraps you in a sense of comfort, pulling you back to a time when life felt simpler. These movies weren't just about the stories. They were about the experience. where you were, who you were with, and the pure joy of discovering something unforgettable. And something that went right along with movies was merchandising. And as you can tell, it is still very popular. One thing you didn't realize as a kid is all your favorite TV shows like Transformers, He-Man, Ninja Turtles, they were all made just to sell toys, to sell merchandise. They wanted you to get so attached to these characters. You would go to the stores, you'd see those characters that were so recognizable to you, seeing them every Saturday morning, you would nag your parents to buy them. And it worked. And it worked big time. And it is still working today. What a smart marketing move on their part. They're not only getting the adults, now they're getting the adults kids, too. So, it's kind of a two for one deal. They're having the parents introduce all this cool nostalgic characters and merchandise to the kids. What do you think about all this? It's very cool. I think so too. Or back in the 80s they would say it's totally rad. So we made it to the weekend and that would usually mean you and your friends would pile in your mom's station wagon and head to the mall. It was more than just a place to shop. It was the social epicenter of the decade. Whether you're hitting up the gap for the latest styles, flipping through records of Sam goodie, or grabbing a slice of greasy but glorious Sabaro Pizza, malls had it all. Bright neon lights, packed food courts, and the everpresent sounds of arcade games buzzing in the background. This was the ultimate weekend hangout. And as you can tell, malls aren't quite what they were back in the 80s. This is as busy as it gets, but back then they were totally rad. For teens, the mall was the spot to see and be seen. Groups of friends wandering from store to store, clutching shopping bags and sipping Orange Julius, while others camped out at the arcade trying to top the high score on Pac-Man or Galaga. And let's not forget the movies. With multiplex theaters becoming a mall staple, you could shop till you drop, then catch the latest blockbuster like Back to the Future or Ghostbusters. Malls in the 80s were bigger, louder, and cooler than ever. And although they might not be essential to life today, they'll always be an iconic symbol of the era. There was something about them all. Just the smell, the vibe, the energy. It was something special, right? My journey of living my life as a 1980s man is complete. And I realized that this video turned into a little bit of a love letter to the 1980s. And I think that's partly because of my perspective. I was a kid. I didn't have any stress or responsibility. My head was just full of wonder, imagination, and everything felt so magical. And I realize if you're an adult, you did have the stress, you did have responsibility, and you had to deal with the political unease or the economic uncertainty or social change that was happening. But you know what? That happens in every era. So, I think the real lesson for me is just no matter what time period you're in, make the most out of it. So, I hope you enjoyed this video. I had a lot of fun making it and I would love to hear some of your stories that you have from the 1980s. And if you have any recommendations for the next decade, we can do. And I do just want to say that I do handle all of this. Uh we don't have a crew. I handle the camera, the lights, the writing, and the editing. So these videos do take a little bit extra work. I try to do as much research as I possibly can just to obviously throw in some fun facts in there for people that are maybe not so familiar with that decade. Uh but if you do really enjoy this content, you can support us by checking out our Buff app on Google Play or the Apple App Store. So, uh yeah, I got to wrap this up as a 1980s man. This whole experience has been totally rad, dude. Stay buff.