 Hey, my name is Hudson White. I'm a 42-year-old Lifetime natural, and I've spent the past four months preparing for my very first bodybuilding competition. And now, it's time to try to go out and win this thing. Contestants, line up! It's time to hit those final posts! And the winner is... There's the food. And there is the tan. Tried my best to get a good night's sleep last night, but that didn't work out too well. Got up at 3 a.m., just couldn't go back to bed, so it's about 5.30 now. I'm up. I'm having my first small meal. I'm gonna go get a little bit of touch-up on this tan, rubbed a little bit off last night. I roll around quite a bit while I'm sleeping, so I'll have to get a little bit of touch-up on this tan. So, I'll have to get that fixed. Then I'm gonna come back to the hotel, have my big meal of the day. It's gonna be a lot of rice. It's gonna be a little bit of salmon. And then it's almost showtime, baby. Yeah. Back at the hotel room after getting the second coat of tan. I am having my final meal before the prejudging starts. Doing a little bit of last-minute posing just to prepare. This is it, man. Four months of non-stop training and eating, unlike I've ever done before. This is the hardest I've ever worked in my life. I can truly say that I have stuck to the game plan. Now, all we've got to do is execute. Love dudes, love girls. Let's do this. I am backstage. I am eyeing the competition, and it is already immediately apparent that all of these guys have come to win this thing. Woo! Yeah! Woo! 3, 4, 3, 3, 11, switch. Go double-box down. Okay, yeah. Woo! Very fast and close. Yeah. Woo! We're going into our competition. 3, 4, 3, 3, 11, switch. Double-box down. Nice. Yeah! Woo! Double-box takes the back, double-boxes. There it is, there it is. Yeah. Woo! Yeah, next stage. Two rounds down, two to go, and now I've got to go back out to the Masters. Double-box. Double-box. Yeah, that looked good. Good. Woo! I've been out there for what it feels like hours now, but I can't stop because now he's the big one. We've got to open this to all the competitors. Now it is time to truly show what I've been working for. There's a couple guys who I can see are going to be a big challenge, and probably the most credentialed out of the bunch is number 376. He's a lifelong athlete and former USC, Longhorn, and Dallas Cowboy Strength and Conditioning Coach. I can see he's got a trainer with him backstage, and this dude is looking serious. So I have got to bring everything I can to the stage. 3, 14, 3, 12, switch. 3, 20, 3, 76, switch. 3, 20, 3, 76, switch. Front double-box out. Yeah, there you go. Nice. 3, 76, 3, 20, switch. Your favorite classic pole. Get it. The mandatory rounds are over and just in time because I gave it everything I had. The hard work was done, and now all I had left was my solo posing, which really almost felt like a vacation after the four back-to-back rounds of facing off against other competitors. I tried my best to not only emulate the legends, but to pay tribute to them as well. Aesthetics size than natural classic physique. With my posing out of the way, it was time to find out how well I've done. Our fourth place award and percent to get to Gabriel Leto. We have Victor Jog. We'll take our second place award and percent to our runner-up, our god, Igor Benko. Woo! Yeah! Yeah! We'll take our second place award and percent to our runner-up, Tyler Stetlum. Woo! And we'll show our classic, the same, the last couple of different pole-housing rounds again, number 314 Hudson. Yeah! Woo! Yeah! We'll take our second place award and percent to our runner-up, Hudson. Woo! Yeah! Woo! Yeah! We'll start by taking our third place award and presenting it to Number 300 Larry Orson. Woo! Hudson. Woo! We'll pause for a while and pause a pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause So it turns out in the end the only person to beat me wasn't a 20 year old, wasn't a 30 year old, but was a man six years older than myself. And that just showed me that not only is age just a number, but for a lot of people it can also become an excuse. But you should always try and strive for something more. So even though I had placed first in two categories by placing second in Masters and Open, it still gave me a hill to climb and a future goal to try and go out and accomplish. Alright, if you could wrap this experience up in one word, what would it be? You would... Buff! Jesus! Is that even a word? It's just flex. I think that's even better. Is that even a word? It's true. And this is about the last flex I have because I'm a flexed out man. Yeah, I bet. I'm ready to have a little food. I'm ready to enjoy some family company and I want to say thank you to all of you who have supported us over the years. It means the world to me. That's part of the reason that I did this entire thing was because of you. So much appreciated and we'll try our best to keep going strong. Super Friday, bro. Yeah, man. You're crying. Cut the camera.