 I went to the gym for the first time at 14. I went to the gym for the first time at 14. It has been a long wait, as that was the minimum age allowed to work out. And every day up until that point, I'd watch my dad come home around 6 p.m. and take off his smelly leather workout gloves and make himself a chocolate protein shake while gasping for breath and drenched in sweat. It was like he came back from a battle or something, and I was instantly intrigued. Once I was finally able to join him in the gym, it was love at first sight. ACDC blasting on the old cassette player, the 80s posters on the wall which were already 20 years outdated, the mullets, the MC Hammer parachute pants, the line around the block to use the only piece of equipment anyone in our small gym even knew how to use. This was the strangest, most bizarre place my 14-year-old self had ever been to. And I had to have more. 21 years later, I have had a lot more, and I learned a lot in the past. And in this video, I want to share the mistakes you should avoid, and finally, the routine which has brought me the most success. I want to begin by saying use patience, because that's exactly what I didn't have starting out, and it cost me big time. I began the way a lot of young dudes begin, bench press and curls. And let me tell you something, it worked. I saw a difference in size, and I felt leaner. And then I went and screwed it all up by not using patience. I switched up my diet, thinking if I started gulping down the Maxo Gainer 7000 shakes, it'd result in more muscle mass. Sadly, I only ended up looking like this. They say you can't out-train a bad diet, and they're definitely right. It simply isn't going to work. Don't think eating unsalted chicken breasts and oatmeal are the only ways to get big, because I did, and all I ended up doing was purging myself through the week of anything tasty, and then binging on everything I felt I'd missed out over the weekend. It was a vicious cycle, and any progress I'd made over five days was lost over two. The solution? Find alternatives to your favorite recipes. You don't have to stop eating waffles or pizza, you just need to find or make versions of them which aren't loaded with fats or sugars. And this applies to cereal as well. Thankfully, I've got Magic Spoon. High protein, low carb, zero sugar. It tastes exactly like regular cereal, save for the fact that it's better in every conceivable way. And I'm pretty lucky, because I work out first thing in the morning, so it's an easy way to get in some food before I hit the gym. Magic Spoon is a pretty hot commodity around the Buff Dudes household. If you want to try some for yourself, click the link in our description and enter code Buff Dudes to get their best-selling four-pack variety box, plus free shipping. My personal favorite flavor is cocoa, but last week it was blueberry, and next week it'll probably be frosted. That's because it's hard to pick just one because they're all so damn good. So remember, don't suffer by eating cardboard. Eat what you enjoy, just find alternative variations of your favorites. Multiple ways work. Bro splits, 5x5, German volume training, upper lower body, push-pull. There's a lot of different workout routines out there, and there's going to be advocates and detractors for each one. I've tried them all, and you know which ones work best? All of them. You know what doesn't work? Procrastinating on which one you should pick and doing none of them at all. Here's a big thing to keep in mind when performing any of these methods. Learn proper form. Stay consistent. Keep rest times low, and remember to take a few days during the week off. Remember, you don't get stronger after the workout. You get stronger after the recovery. And chances are you're going to see a lot of the same exercises in all of these training methods. Bench press, overhead press, pull-ups, bicep curls. Until you've been working out long enough where you really begin to understand your body and what direction you'd like it to go in, whether that be powerlifting, bodybuilding, using it for a specific athletic sport, or just general health, chances are you're going to see great progress on any training program. People will sometimes make fun of bro splits. And if you don't know the term, it basically means devoting one day to a certain body part. So Monday would be chest, Tuesday back, Wednesday legs, and so on. And this training method is sometimes looked down upon. But the funny thing is, bro splits were our gateway into the gym and what helped us to fall in love with working out in the first place. And in the process, we made some damn good gains while hanging out with friends, listening to music, and doing a ton of bicep curls. Sure, we eventually implemented push-pull routines and 5x5, but the important thing is we were in there, learning just a little bit more each day and getting better and better. My perfect routine. So we went over a few of the pitfalls. Now let's go over the method which has brought me the most success. Working towards an end goal and amping up the difficulty along the way. I want to explain it like a video game. When you begin the game, your character has basic abilities and you encounter enemies just strong enough to challenge those abilities. They're hard, but they're not so hard you cannot progress any further. Once you've defeated enough of these enemies, you level up, gaining strength and new abilities. And what happens? Those old enemies are no longer challenging. You've got to move on to new ones, which, much like the old ones, are just hard enough to challenge your new abilities, but not so hard as to have you give up in frustration. The same has applied to me when working out and I've returned to this simple process time and time again with great results. Let's begin with level one. In level one, I'll spend a period of time focusing on large compound exercises, such as squats or overhead press, performing full body workouts three to four times a week, and doing five sets of five reps on four to five individual exercises each day when I'm in the gym. This not only helps to engage all my muscles, it also helps with strength and that initial spark of consistency. Three days a week isn't a huge commitment, and for a lot of people, it's very doable. And for some, they can stick with this routine their entire lives. But since this is the buff dude's video game, we'll be moving on to the next level. Level two is the upper lower body splits performed four days a week. This is pairing up any exercises which feature the upper body on one day and the next day pairing up lower body exercises only. You haven't felt a pump until you've worked out your back and chest on the same day, and along with slightly shorter rest times, you'll be implementing isolation exercises into your routine as well, such as our beloved bicep curls. If you've also been eating consistent, this is probably when you're going to begin to notice a real change in your physique, which is always a great inspiration to keep going forward, knowing that your hard work is paying off. Level three is the classic bodybuilding split, or as I mentioned before, the bro split. You'll be focusing on a smaller group of muscles each day and working out five to six days a week. Some of our favorite pairings are chest and back, biceps and triceps, and a day dedicated to legs. In addition, we'll implement supersets and even shorter rest times. This is also a great time to pinpoint muscle groups which you feel are lagging behind, which for me was always my upper chest and calves. Now, you can spend one year on an individual level or a month on a level, but as I've been doing this for quite some time, I'll usually spend about one month on each level of this game. So by level three, this would put me at about three months of consistency. And by this time, I'm a well-oiled machine, overpowered, looking buff, and kicking ass. But what happens when you hit level three? Do you just stay there forever, stuck in limbo? No. Just like in any good action RPG, you reset back to level one, except now it's level one nightmare mode. You've got all your prior abilities, and you're facing the same enemies, but now they're just a little bit harder, ready to push you to compete, but not so hard as to make you give up in frustration. And that video game analogy, when applied to working out, is really the basis of my success. Progress, gain strength and knowledge, apply those newfound abilities, and begin again at just a slightly more difficult level. Not only does the variety keep things refreshing, it's something both beginners and the more advanced the light can enjoy. And it sure as hell has worked for me. So I hope you enjoyed this video, and I hope you're able to use a few of the things which have helped me out on the path to becoming a buff dude.