

=== FILE: $750,000 Tractors, No Days Off — The Truth About Farming [MCFurYA6s-I].txt ===

 oooohhhhhh oooohhh oooohhh Do you think you have what it takes to be a farmer? Well, that's what I'm going to find out for myself today, stepping out of the gym and on to the farm. I'm not only going to be performing physical labor, I'm going to talk to generations of farmers to find out what it really takes, including the financial hardships and the unpredictability of one of humanity's oldest jobs. So it's time to head to the farm and put in that day's worth of work. Meet the Vines. They are four generations of farmer who have been at the profession for over 100 years, and today they've graciously let me work on their property in order to learn how to do it myself. And I'm going to begin by learning under their young son Andrew as he teaches me something every farmer should know, and that is how to run a tractor. Welcome to my house. Wow, there's a sweet pad you got here, Andrew. All we need here is 12 hours of work. It's so comfy. It's a whole time with two people. We're playing weed. Right? So this is a GPS. So this is peak farm simulator. Okay, there we go. Push the button until it walks in. Can't touch the wheel. Gotcha. And then you'll drop the green trailer. That's it. Wow. So this is what you do for 12 hours a day. Nice. Sit down. What do you do all day? Not much. Just sing it literally. Listen to music. Your dad actually, a couple years ago, was on GPS. He was on a stone lookup and went to a fence. My dad? He cut his slide, got out, fixed the fence for anyone noticed. With Andrew describing how to get it done, it was time for me to give it a go. And I was really surprised by just how automated modern day tractor driving is. In fact, once you have it locked in, the GPS pretty much does all the rest. And it made me curious, how was farming back in the old days? I wanted the question answered. So after I wrapped up, I went to visit Louis Fine, the eldest of the Fine family, and the one who got his start farming along with his brother, Buzz, over 50 years ago. So when your dad passed away in 62, how old were you? I was born in 41, so I've been about 21. So you took on all those responsibilities? Yeah. And you farmed ever since? Yeah. Now what was farming like back when you were in your 20s? It was a lot different than now. The tractors these days got GPS and all that, cabs, air conditioning. We didn't have that in those days. When was the time that you could no longer farm? I think I hung it up about when I was 78. What were some of the physical hardships of farming back when you were young? Well, trying to make ends meet. If there was another profession you could have done, would it be something else or would it just be farming? I don't know. I never really thought about doing anything else. Brought up farming and just kept farming. Was it satisfying work? Most of it. Yeah. Some things I like to do like plowing with a bottom plow, turning that soil over and smelling that new dirt. I kind of like that. Speaking with Louis really helped me realize that back then you couldn't simply drop a job in order to pick a new one. And even the simple things like freshly plowed soil could make a lifelong impression. And so could the reward of a hard day's work. And that's exactly what they had me do next. Removing weeds and rocks, two never-ending threats to a farm field and something still done the old-fashioned way using manual labor. Thankfully, I had some help, including Louis, who some of you may remember from when we trained him as a teenager in the gym. But now it was his turn to teach me how to farm. Louis, last time we saw each other was eight years ago. Is this where you imagine yourself in eight years? I did not. And hopefully by this time next year we won't still be here. And as you can see, Louis developed into a very handsome 26-year-old man, single by the way, ladies. So get off of farmers only and just hit him up in the comments. What is your female audience? It's about 1%. So you're not doing too hot, but we have 3 million subscribers to do the math. That's a pretty fair amount. I'm not sure you can do math, so I can't do the math on that button. It's high. It's in the thousands. And it's a lot better than your options out here, as you can see as well. You got your brother, but I don't think you guys are that backwards. I don't think so. Having wrapped up the manual labor, we had all worked up an appetite, and I had to see what a farmer's diet consisted of. My impression was a big country breakfast. Eggs, bacon, toast, you name it. But it turns out it was something very different. In fact, Andrew let me know that about 75% of their diet was made up of fast food. Why? Convenience. They may be feeding the nation some of the world's best food, but that doesn't necessarily mean they're eating it themselves. And once we were finished with the fast food, it was off to have something just a little bit better. I got some very special dad. Comes courtesy of David. There, who sponsored this video, it is their protein bar. It's 28 grams of protein, 150 calories, zero grams sugar, and two grams of fat. Wow. This is going to taste a hell of a lot better than that fast food, David. I could have given it to the other guys, but I wanted to save all of it for us. They'll never know until they watch the video. Ooh, tasty. David, grab yours today. Link in description. With the afternoon well underway, we had to hustle in order to get the day's job done, especially as we prepared for the winter season. And it was a great opportunity to talk to Phil, the head of the Fine Household, who told me what it takes to be a farmer and some of the hard realities of performing such a job. Now, do you think farming is better now than it was then? No. The expense side has gotten so out of hand. For someone getting into farming, there's probably going to be a lot of anxiety and stress involved. There's an old adage that you can either buy land or equipment. You can't buy both. And now with both land, but especially equipment, so expensive, you, to get your foot in the door, you would have to have an in almost. Either born to it or marry into it. Kind of hard just off the bat, just to get into it. And speaking of bankroll, what are we looking at? Like, let's say, you know, your combine breaks down and you just got to buy a new one. What's the price there? So a new one would be around $750,000. Wow. For a combine. And you're going to need more than just a combine. Yeah, you need several tractors and you need to implement. The neighbor just bought a sprayer that is robotically controlled. It sprays target weeds and you can go through and it'll just spot spray. And they say that it cuts your chemical costs by 70, 80%. How long do you think you're going to be able to continue farming? Oh, I, you'll find me on a ditch bank with a shovel in my hand. And I can always tell my wife just throw a little dirt on me so the pros don't get me and I'll be good. Do you think it was hard for your dad to give up farming? Oh yeah, still is. If there, if there was one parting word of advice you could give to a new farmer, would it be? I think the biggest thing would be get good at finances because I'm horrible at paperwork. Luckily my wife's not very good either, but I think there's so much we do that is basically like gambling. You know, we're betting on the market like right now to get better. There's a lot of farmers planting crops this year. You talk to them, I don't know why I'm planting it, but I got to plant something. With Phil helping to enlighten me on the realities of modern day farming, it was time for me to face another reality. Could I run a backhoe in order to load a full rig up with hay and finalize all the tasks before the winter season set in? It was a tough task, but thankfully I had the help of DIY Duke, my dad and an employee on Phil's farm. Was I up to the task? We were about to find out. First thing we're going to do is crank this old caterpillar up. There she goes. So we'll go ahead and move forward. It's kind of like a giant claw machine. Yeah, it is. And the prize is bluegrass hay bales. And you have a backup alarm just to alert those people there's a new driver. Very new. This takes all the labor out of it. A lot of people complain about, oh man, I got to load hay, but really it's nothing like it used to be. So all you're doing is a steering wheel and a few controls. It's kind of like Terminator, the machines have taken over. And right now you're still an operator, but I don't think we're that far out where they're going to be AI driven. Which is a wild thought. So we better keep these machines happy. With plenty of help courtesy of my dad, I was able to load the trailer up. And I quickly learned that here on the farm, there is a lot of different tasks to do. And there is a new challenge each and every day. This is the true reality of farming. Basically everything is broke down and you spend about half the day just trying to get things working. And this is why every farm needs a DIY do. Hey, come up and I'll try just for that right now. I always get a little blow up. Whoa, whoa, whoa. He's scared. He falls for it every time. Hey, look, I'm scared. Working on the farm not only gave me an opportunity to work alongside the fines, but also some of their farm hands as well. Including Gabriel, where farming was much more than just a job, it was a dream come true. Gabriel, how long have you been farming? 17 years. Do you still enjoy farming? Oh yeah, I love that every day. What's your favorite part of farming? Combine is one of the best things. So what brought you up here? Living a better life. Trying to help my mom, my dad in Mexico. It's one reason I come here. Do you see yourself continuing to farm? Yes, till I can't. I love here. I like it. What is probably the most physically hard part of farming? Irrigation and work out early in the morning every day. Working Monday to Sunday. So it's seven days a week? Seven days a week, every day. As Gabriel let me know, sometimes in farming, there is no days off. And with that in mind, we went and tackled some more weeds. Doing as much as we could in preparation for the end of the year. Farmer Olympics. He has longer legs. On your mark. Get set. Go. That's how they determine who gets the tractor and who gets to burn weeds. As the wind began to kick in, I realized we had wrapped up at the perfect time. And it made me realize that weather can be a farmer's best friend or worst enemy. And that wrapped up my day on the farm. So what was a buff dude's take on the profession? Well, having a chance to look at some of my relatives' old photos of life on the farm, it reminded me how much easier we have it in the modern day. But even though we may have it easier from a physical perspective, with the rise of technology and costs, it brings about a whole new set of potential problems to worry about. But as the sun began to set, I was able to turn around, take a moment, and be reminded of what Lou had said earlier in the day. That sometimes it's the simple things that make it all worth it. And that was my biggest takeaway while spending a day helping out on the farm.

=== FILE: Are The Buff Dudes Quitting？ [omU_7m1DZMA].txt ===

 so the surgery was a success. They attached the pec back to the humerus and the recovery begins. It's going to be six weeks in the setup you see here and then three months with little to no weight bearing on my left arm and about the six month mark, I should be able to get some workouts and so it's going to be a long road, but I do have to say really quick, thank you so much for the kind words. I got a chance to read them over and I just really appreciate all the kindness, all the really great tips, all the stories that you yourself have went through dealing with various injuries. I'm going to really take that to heart. I'm going to take the recovery slow based upon a lot of your recommendations. So just really truly thank you all. And the title of this video is, are we still going to continue? Well, I am going to meet up with Brandon. We're going to get in a little workout, lower body and very light, but it's going to be a good chance for us to discuss that. So I'm going to get up, get ready and then get that workout in with Brandon. Welcome to the set of Grumpy Old Men, the remake. Get off my lawn. Brandon's back. He threw it out. So we're going to try to get that workout in. You know, we're not taking light of the situation, but I think we've always found humor the best way of kind of dealing with hardship. So we're going to get through this and we're going to see how we can do because I don't know. You ready to try it out? Yeah, I mean, I'm fine because I've been working out. So, you know, I think we're fine now, but don't get injured. I've been taking it easy still. And this is another workout I'll be taking easy with. But, you know, I think it's more fresh for Hudson, of course. So, but it's good to finally work out. We haven't worked out for a long time. No, we haven't together. Yeah. So we're going to be booting the buff up. That's what we're going to be tracking this in. That's what I'm going to be using rigorously through my rehab process. Check it out if you haven't had a chance. Love to have you in it. And let's get going. My setup is a little different now that I'm out of bed. The Darth Vader machinery I had on earlier was actually a very cool ice pack, which keeps the water flowing. But this is what I'm normally going to look like here. Probably getting this off pretty soon, actually. That's about the length of the cut they did. The doctor said the surgery went well, which I was very happy to hear. My bicep had kind of fallen out of the groove as well. So they put that back into place. Originally, it was thought that it was the clavicular head that had torn, but it actually ended up being the sternocostal. So they pulled the sternocostal back. They went ahead and they put some buttons in the bone. So it kind of went through the bone and then the button pops out to keep it a little bit more secure. There are some really strengthened cables. So the most important thing now is that I do not move this for the next couple weeks, next couple months. Because the problem is, is the cables are actually stronger than the tendons. So before the tendons can kind of like marry the muscle and the bone again and kind of all like get that really good reconnection. The tendons can actually kind of tear through it, which they described as a little bit like a cheese grater. So I did not want that to happen. So there's not going to be a lot of action here, but I'm still trying to keep the rest of my body as active as possible safely. Just so that I don't have an even longer road to recovery once this is finally all good to go in about nine, six to nine months or so. And I have this very cool little mobility ball attached onto my brace. So I can get a little bit of work in this arm. It's a little bit like a dog toy. It's kind of a buff dude, a little buff dude setup going on right here, which is nice. So whenever I need that exercise, I just grab that thing. My goal is to have a massive lower body and a tiny shriveled little upper body when this is all set and done. Welcome to the buff dudes lair. This is where all the magic happens. This is probably where we spend about 90% of our time doing buff dudes content. Yeah. Unlike a lot of people online now for the past 14 years, I mean, the writing, the shooting, the being in front of the camera, the editing. It's all been me and Brandon and it's never changed. It's Brandon helped alleviate a lot of pressure off me because probably about what six or seven years ago you started the editing as well. So we've got we've got a nice little teamwork thing going on here. I felt a little guilty because I mean Hudson was doing so much work doing all the shooting and the editing. Editing was just a lot. It's a huge workload. So I finally stepped up, which some people may ask, Hey, why don't you hire other people out to do it? And I think the answer is other than like our really big videos where we've had to, we just truly enjoy the process. It's time consuming, but when you love what you do, it's not that big of an issue. And really the days of the more DIY, the challenges, it's a young man's game. And we were kind of some of the first online to begin doing that content. A lot of people kind of took the ball and ran with it. And I guess probably what we would say to that is you can have the ball. We're done with it. We found a new ball. We moved on to a much bigger, better ball. We're working on the next I Tried Living. It's really Brandon's project. I got to give you the credit. I've been very happy just watching them. So we're going to keep going with this and we're very excited. We hope you enjoy it and look for it soon. So now that me and Brandon have had a chance to work out, we kind of took you through our workflow. The question is the video title are the buff dudes quitting? Well, I just want to say again, I really appreciate all the support in the last video, the kind words, the great messages on how you yourself have recovered meant a lot to me. I know with all the positive there came a little negative. Some people are saying, well, there's a lot of people out there in the world that have a lot worse than this, which, you know, I completely agree with the point of the prior video wasn't really to say how bad I had it. It was just to be transparent on what's happening and what's happening next. So I think in the face of adversity, no matter if you're going through this or maybe had a bad day at work, it's the real strength is just pushing forward, not quitting. So having said that, I don't want to quit. I want to recover. I want to get strong, hopefully stronger than I was prior because it's really again that mental mindset that can really be the champion sometimes when you're down or you're facing a setback. So thank you all again. We will be closing a chapter, but now it's time to start a new one. So look for Brandon's 2000s video soon. I'm going to start the rehab recovery series and thank you all for watching. Thank you all again. So until the next video, stay buff.

=== FILE: Beginner's Workout & Food Guide (Everything You Need To Get Started!) ｜ 2026 Edition [2be0xWGOgJY].txt ===

 ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus ascidentus Now there's usually two types of people. One you wake up motivated and ready to go in the new year. The other one might feel a little hungover from the night before, but no matter what person you might be, we're making this starter guide video to help you kick your year off right. So in this video we'll be covering the most important aspects of getting in shape. And in order to get the most out of your workouts, you want to download the Buff App. It's actually an app me and my brother Hudson have been developing for the last two years. The Buff App provides a way to track your progress through detailed stats, has a wide selection of programs from beginner to pro, including our most recent release, the New Year's Revolution Plan, and an easy way to stay motivated through our unique RPG style leveling up system. You'll also have extra support from an amazing Buff community that keeps growing. Make sure you download it today. It's available on Google Play or the Apple App Store. But before we get to the workouts, we're going to prep some food. So we're going to run to the store real quick and grab some ingredients. Okay so while they're out getting some food, I wanted to take this time to go over a little bit of the basics of nutrition. Now I think before starting anything, it's a good idea to understand your specific goal. Do you want to lose weight? Do you want to gain weight? Once you kind of understand that, it's a lot easier moving forward. Micaela is currently lost right now. So we have a pretty short list. We're not going to be here long, but it's just the bare essentials, you know. And that's what you got to do. You got to go to the grocery store and have a goal. We have a very specific goal. And we're going to be accomplishing that goal. We have three recipes that we're going to be cooking. And so we're just getting all the ingredients for those so we know exactly what we're doing and we're fully prepared. Now nutrition can be as simple as you want it to be or as complex as you want it to be. I would say the most simple way to look at it is if you want to lose weight, you eat less. And if you want to gain weight, well, you eat more. This looks cool. I want this. Okay, no, no, we got to stick with the list. And of course, there can be a lot more that goes into it. For instance, you can get more into your BMR, your basic metabolic rate, and then go into your TDE. And then you can go into more of like macro splits, how much protein carbs and fats you need. Right at number three here. And I quickly want to go over what your BMR is, what TDE is and what macro splits are. Now BMR is your basal metabolic rate, which is basically how many calories your body requires at complete rest. So if you laid around all day, how many calories would it take to keep you alive? Now the TDE takes your BMR and adds activity levels on top of that, which is your total daily energy expenditure. And macro splits are basically taking your complete calories that you're having throughout the day and splitting them up into where they're coming from. 40% of those calories are coming from protein, 40% coming from carbs and 20% coming from fat. Hopefully that cleared things up a little bit. But these are all very adjustable and different from person to person. So if you want to get a little bit more deep dive into nutrition, that's pretty much a good place to start. All right, Mikhail, I just had a question real quick. What has really changed in your eating habits over the years? I would say the main things are protein is always a priority in my meals. It's something that I used to never think about when I was planning my meals. I would more just think about what was yummy or filling. So now protein is always a priority. I think that's what's made the biggest difference in my 15th. Once you kind of have a little bit more of a baseline of not only your goal, but maybe how many calories and macros you need, really moving forward, it's going to be pretty much the same for everyone. And I would say the next step would be preparation. Once you have a good idea of the amount of food you're going to be having every day, that's a good idea to start prepping your food. So that way it's going to be available to you because consistency is king. If you don't stay consistent with anything, you're really never going to get any results. So preparing your food can be extremely important. And now that we made it back from the grocery store, that's exactly what we're about to do. It's food prep time. And we're going to keep this very simple. We're only doing a few recipes. And I think that's one thing that we would recommend for a lot of people just starting out. Don't overwhelm yourself and try to prep every single meal. Maybe just start with a couple meals like we're doing today. And we're going to take a few of the recipes from our very own Buff Dudes Cookbook. Now the first one we're doing is Buff Ends. And it's not really a meal, but more of a snack. But I think that makes life a lot easier when you have a lot of food that you can grab on the go. I'm a pretty big snack person. So having a healthy snack, I feel like is very important. And I love this recipe because it is just so simple. I mean, you throw a bunch of ingredients in a blender, you blend it up, throw it in the oven. So very quick, very easy. And that's what we're all about. All about. She's my DJ, baby. All about. She's cutting the onions in here. It's okay sweetheart. It's just an onion. There we go. The chicken in tuna salad is done. Now this recipe called for chicken alone, but we didn't have enough. So we ended up adding some tuna in there as well. And the nice thing is cooking is totally customizable to your desires. So we also just threw in some bacon bits and olives and some peppers too. It turned out really good. I did turn out good. Now there's a couple more things we would highly recommend having to make this whole process a lot easier. And number one is going to be a food scale. Food scales were a game changer for me when I really started taking my nutrition seriously. You need to know exactly how much food you're eating if you're trying to gain weight or lose weight at a certain rate. In conjunction with food tracking apps, I was able to reach my goals a lot faster with this. And along with those, having food containers can be very important as well because if you're cooking all this food, of course you need a place to store them. We use glass. They're a lot more durable. And so it's an excellent investment. So only with those couple things, you can really make your life a lot easier. And for some people who say, I don't want to track all my food. That's very tedious. Well, you only really have to do it for about a week or a month to at least get a good idea of what food portion sizes look like and really how much you're having throughout the week. So we wrapped up with all of our food prep and that feels pretty damn good to be done with that one. But that's only part of the equation. The next part is going to be fitness. So we're on our way to the gym now and we're going to be going over some of the things to keep in mind when you're first starting out or maybe you're coming back from an extended break. All right, Mikaela. So what are some of your first memories when stepping inside the gym? Well, some of my first memories involved just wandering around, wondering what all these machines are and trying to figure out how they work. But I have to say, I was extremely intimidated my first few times in the gym, but I'm really glad I was diligent because I think I laid a really good foundation by using machines. As opposed to Mikaela, I did not start out on machines. I think she definitely did it the right way. I kind of jumped right into barbell work, dumbbell work, and I was that typical teenager that was seen flailing like a fish out of the water trying to get his balance and very uncoordinated. And that really goes to show you that when you first start out, you want to kind of think of it as movement patterns rather than just like, how much weight can I lift and how jack can I get. That'll come later. But in the beginning, just basically it's your central nervous system trying to adapt to what you're putting it through. And that's why machines can be a little bit more beneficial because they're in a fixed position, they're fixed movement. You have to get that feeling of the movement and start to build that strength and movement pattern, learn that movement pattern before moving on to something that's a bit more difficult like barbell work, dumbbell work, and the New Year's Revolution plan is really programmed around that. It's starting with machine work and it's allowing you to adapt to these specific movements before then really evolving into a better version, not only yourself, but also your abilities in the gym. You want to get that functional movement. You want to get those movement patterns, but also you want to get a pump. And I think that's very important when it comes to starting out in the gym and kind of finding that motivation, finding the reason why you're there. Because a lot of times if you don't enjoy it, you're not going to come back. You're not going to build that consistency. You do have to have that balance of you're there for a reason, you're there to better yourself, but it's also what gets you coming back to the gym time and time again. When you look in the mirror after months and months of getting to the gym and being consistent with it and you see the differences when you first started out and what you look like after months of hard work, that's going to be a hell of a lot of motivation because you're going to see some major results. All right. So that wraps up the starter guide video. We get to kick back and relax and have full confidence. We'll be able to wake up tomorrow morning with everything ready to go and prepared. Now, although this might be the end of the video, it could be the beginning of your fitness journey. So hopefully you enjoyed this video. And if you get a chance to definitely check out the Buff app, hopefully we'll see you on it. So until next time, stay buff.

=== FILE: Could This Be The End？ (No More Gym) [53nIYMfNeBI].txt ===

 oof. Okay, so this is a little bit of a different video in one that I was contemplating whether I want to do or not. I think everyone has a certain amount of pride in... I have pride in my health, my strength, and so this is a little difficult to do, I guess, in some ways because you have to basically admit your weakness. So to give a little context, I'm dealing with some pretty serious back pains and it all started when I went to the gym and I was performing a leg day, I was doing some front squats and just doing a warm-up set of 135 pounds, so I didn't think it was that big of a deal. So my first set, I felt this shock or electricity run through my back there. So it was a little scary, but I listened to my body and I said, okay, I'm not going to do this exercise, maybe I just performed it, put my back in a little bit of a weird position. So I went on with the rest of my workout, did hack squats, walking lunges, leg extensions, and it felt pretty good. But the next day, I could barely get out of bed. I was experiencing some extreme sharp pain in my back, specifically in my spine, which was very concerning and I had moments where I would walk around and my back would just freeze and I would drop to my knees and I couldn't move. So with my girlfriend basically kind of in a way forcing me to go to the urgent care, saying, hey, this is serious because I think with some people maybe you guys could relate to this, you're like, I'll just let it heal on its own. But it was pretty concerning and I have had back issues in the past. So more muscular. So this was, it definitely felt different. So I went to the urgent care just for peace of mind and he did a few tests. He said, you know, you're not having any sciatic pain, but this is pretty concerning as far as the pain level goes. So I went ahead and ordered an MRI to get a little bit more of an in depth look at what was going on in there. And so I am basically waiting for the results at this point. Still taking it pretty easy, taking time off the gym, obviously. And yeah, this is going to be very interesting. I just got my MRI results in and I am looking them over now. And on first impressions, I have to be honest, it's not looking too good. I don't pretend to be a doctor. So I don't know exactly how much I should read into these, but essentially my lower spine has some problems. So L2L3 minor disbolge with left subarticular annular fissure L3L4 broad based disbolge with left subarticular annular fissure L4L5 broad based disbolge with right subarticular annular fissure and L5S1 underlying broad based disbolge and small central dispertusion with central annular fissure. So all of my lower back has bulging discs with annular fissures and protrusion. Again I don't know how bad that is. It sounds pretty bad. But I guess at this point I'm glad to know what it is and that it is in fact in my spine rather than just a pulled muscle. So I was correct in that sense. My next step is to try to see if I can cure it essentially or what I need to do to make it better. So I think I'm going to be reaching out to a physical therapist to get more clarification on this diagnosis and see what I need to do for the next steps so I can get this taken care of or see how long it's going to take to get back to 100%. After reading my MRI results I couldn't help but think of worst case scenarios but I tried to tell myself not to worry. To ease my mind I quickly called a physical therapist that was highly recommended by my girlfriend that she had used in the past with great results. So I booked his first available session. Currently on my way to my physical therapy session my back's been kind of acting up a little bit throughout the week. It seems a bit more aggravated so I'm pretty eager to get this session and to find out what's going on and just kind of take one step in the right direction. I sat down with Tim Evans. He has a doctorate in physical therapy, a master of science in physical therapy and kinesiology and is professionally trained in a variety of manual therapies, spinal manipulation, dry needling and sports science. So I definitely felt like I was in good hands. After I showed him my MRI results he quickly broke it down in simple terms and had some very interesting studies to show me. He informed me that around 50% of men my age can have bulging discs with no symptoms and although it might sound scary it's actually somewhat normal. What I am dealing with is slight tears in the disc which through certain movements can become more aggravated or become worse. Now Tim knows what I do for a living so he understands I am a very physical person and that is part of my job so he wanted to do a quick test of putting me on an elliptical to see how I would do. And once he had a better idea he had some troubling news for me. After seeing Tim for the first time I have a better understanding of the severity of the injury I am dealing with and I was told it wasn't from the workout or the exercise front squats alone. It was an accumulation of many things over the years. I mean I have been working out for over 20 years now and what we do on our channel can be very physically demanding not only from the workouts but other videos. For instance I am currently in the process of making an 1880's man for a week and we were out building a cabin, lifting a lot of logs, cutting a lot of trees and that could have been a part of it. It's just that wear and tear over the years so it's hard to hear and the troubling news he had for me was that this injury could take anywhere from 6 months to 12 months to completely heal and for me to be back to 100% and that's hard to hear. What we do on our channel it's workouts or some type of challenge that's always going to be physical and we just released a fitness app called Buff and at this point I can't use it. I can't be on it. I have a community on there and I want to let everyone know that is on the app and has not seen me upload any workouts or be that active on it and this is the reason why. The good news is there is steps I can take moving forward doing light stretches in the morning and also he can say I can start implementing some very light cardio with the elliptical machine. So that's exactly what I'm going to be doing because now I have a very specific goal and that's to get better as fast as I can. So per Tim the physical therapist orders I am on my way to the gym right now to perform some light cardio on the elliptical machine for around 20 minutes. I mean the real goal here is to be active without really hurting yourself without aggravating my back so I'm going to try to avoid a lot of the twisting motion and really try to stay as stable as I can not be too tense while I'm performing it and just get my heart rate up and try to break a sweat. I mean it's been a while now since I've been to the gym so this is going to be good to be back. So guys how you doing? Nice. Alright so I got about 15 minutes of elliptical in I got to say I was going to try to make it to 20 but there's just some spots that were acting up a little bit so I'm going to call it good there. I think it feels good to move again, feels good to sweat and man I got to say it's a little difficult there because I'm just looking at all those weights out there in the gym and that's calling my name like sirens singing a sweet song to the sailors but little do you know it's basically death so I got to take a break from the weights but I will be back. So that is where things are at right now. I really wanted to make this video as an update and also just to let people know what's going on because I will not be working out for a while but I have a very specific goal now and that is to get better and to recover and I think the mental aspect is very important so I'm just trying to stay as positive as I can and I draw a lot of inspiration from my brother Hudson because I saw him go through his injuries ankle injury and it was a very severe break and he never once was negative and he got through it and he's better than ever and buffer than ever as well so I'm keeping that in my mind and you know I know this isn't the worst injury in the world and I think that's kind of what I'm telling myself knowing that I'm just going to come back bigger better and buffer than ever so you know there we go. And for everyone out there stay safe and as always stay buff.

=== FILE: Fitness News： ALL The Gym Drama, Beef, and Controversies! [IbpWw9DoONM].txt ===

 Welcome to fitness news. For those of you who don't have 47 minutes to watch this week's reaction video, but still crave the petty, meaningless, knitting circle bullshit, in international news, transplant surgery is booming in Turkey. Turkey's new slogan, if you want your hair perky, head to Turkey. Other countries are quick to follow their lead, with one saying, wanna restore your tiny steroid-destroyed sack? Head to beautiful Iraq. That's a good one. And now, a quick word from our sponsor, BuffDude's PhD. Wanna act like a smug, know-it-all prick, without actually knowing anything? Grab the BuffDude's Exercise Sense PhD. You don't need to study for it. Hell, you don't even need to spell. Just make sure no one ever, ever, ever gets a hold of it. I don't know how to read, write, or spell, but now I'm an exercise scientist too. Go online, spend five minutes, and grab yours today. I feel smarter already. Let me do them on my third PhD. Wow. And now, thumbnail trend of the week. Tiny man surrounded by large, intimidating group of other men. What are they implying here? They're not implying anything. It's only fitness. Oh, oh, oh. And now, whatever happened to, where we explore whatever happened to your favorite fitness trend of yesteryear, whatever happened to the paleo diet, it went extinct. Again. Moving on. And now we're back with Wrapping Fart Wobblies. Let's check out what's happening in a local gym near you. Man decides to get in shape. Immediately accuses himself of not being natty. In breaking news, man in a commercial gym spotted rewracking his weight. Authorities are investigating. Man buys $300 worth of supplements, but then forgets to train. Man on carnivore diet hasn't pooped in 19 days. He says he feels incredible. But we say he's full of shit. Breaking. Gym Wi-Fi down. 14 influencers confirmed missing. Oh, those poor influencers. No one cares. And now a word from our real sponsors, David Protein. In art, there is elegance. There is profound meaning. But sometimes there is even more. 28 grams of protein. 150 calories. Zero grams sugar. It's a masterpiece. David. Unwrap greatness. David Protein. Hmm. Delicious. And now it's time for Fit and Slang of 2025. Hyper trophy. It's the award you win for watching the newest Jeff Nippard video in which he shows you the real way to build your biceps, backed by new, new, new, new, new, new scientific research. Because clearly these guys had no idea what they were doing. None at all. No biceps. Street interview. We ask people, who do you trust for fitness advice? The man who's calm and collected? Or the guy who's just screaming obnoxiously into the camera? Survey says, car screen guy. Because the loudest, most obnoxious one in the room is always right. It's true. Scientists have discovered a new gene linked to natural muscle growth. It's called having good genetics. Now let's go to the buff dudes who are currently filming their new video, I Lived Like the Rock, for 24 hours. What is up everyone? I am on my new press tour and I'm going to be doing a surprise visit to some of my most die hard fans here at the assisted living home. Look, here's one of my fans now. Who are you? That's right. I'm almost unrecognizable in my new movie, White Adam, where I play a drug addicted albino that's haunted by the death of a pet parrot and goes on a drug-induced murder spree. It's out in theaters now and it's fun for the whole family. Dying to try my new energy drink, Zoentonol. With over 500 milligrams of caffeine, this will rev up your physical and mental capabilities to their maximum potential. Great for the whole family. Thirsty for my new tequila, Terrogave. I handpicked these agave plants to handcraft the perfect tequila recipe. Great for the whole family. You'll feel your best in my new workout shoes. They're better than the rest. They are absolutely the best. I think she's sleepy now. Check out my products. Buy my stuff. My fans, they faint when they see me. Well, that wraps up the inaugural fitness news. Got any breaking news updates? Drop it in the comments. And if it's good, we'll use it. And if it's bad, we'll still use it. So good luck and until next time, go fuck yourself.

=== FILE: High Protein Meal Prep ｜ Healthy Burrito, Pizza, Burger Recipe & More [uZ55FsH4AGA].txt ===

 Welcome to the Buff Dudes Kitchen. Today, we'll be food prepping some breakfast, lunch, and dinner options for some snacks, too. So let's get food prepping. The first recipe we're going to be doing is the egg muffins. Very simple. We've just got some English muffins, eggs, cheese, ham, and we're going to get right to it. So first off, we're going to start the oven because we're going to be baking the eggs in this guy right here. We're going to try to make them nice and round so they fit on those English muffins really easy. We're going to be cutting some ham up and we're going to be measuring all this out to make sure our portions are correct. So we can keep track of the calories and macros and very simple. Now that we have everything ready, it is time to start making these delicious egg muffins. So we're going to get the muffins ready. We've got the eggs baking. It's time to finish breaking these muffins apart. You have to do it this way. It's not authentic. That's true. No knives needed. We're going to be doing a serving of ham, which is two ounces, so we're going to be cutting accordingly. We're going to be lining all these out. Why did you choose to organize them in that way? I am chaotic. The eggs are done out of the oven. Here they are. Look at that. These actually just look like egg muffins. It's perfect. That's going to fit right on there. So we're going to add a little spice. Very simple. Salt, pepper. This is all due to taste. So as much or little as you want. These are thick. Oh yes. Look at that. That is perfect. Honestly, that looks delicious. I'm going to wrap them up. We're going to be wrapping these up. That way they're all prepared. And in the morning, you can just toss it in the oven and warm it up. Not in the aluminum foil though. Yes, in the aluminum foil. Oh, you mean in the oven? Yeah. Okay, I thought you were talking about the microwave. That's what I would do. Just toss them in the microwave. Meal number one down. Time to move on to the next one. Now before we move on to the next recipe, we want to make sure we have everything we need. And there's a few choice items that we'll be using that we get from a company called Thrive Market. Now they have a great catalog of many different products that you can choose from. And they deliver straight to your door, which for us, having a busy schedule, makes life pretty damn easy. And not only that, but they also prioritize working with ethical companies, which is huge for us. Knowing that they're putting the plan at first is really important and brings us a lot of peace of mind. So this is typically what we do. We sit down at the computer, log into Thrive Market website, and browse their catalog of different foods. Now since we kind of tend to make a little bit more simple recipes, there is an easy way to jazz it up or spice it up a little bit with spices and condiments, which will usually go to Thrive Market because they have an amazing selection. Yeah, and not only do they have a huge selection, but I found so many cool brands and products through their catalog. And it's just so much fun because every time we order again, I find new things and... It's a shopping spree. It's amazing. That's the fun part. Honestly, it is. And what's cool is once you kind of find your typical things that you want to stick with, you can have that list and you can just press Reorder and it comes straight to your door. So awesome. Big time saver, convenient. That's why we love it. So make sure you click the link in the description or go to thrivemarket.com backslash buff dudes to receive 30% off your first order and a free gift when you join Thrive Market today. So now that me and Mikhail have everything we need, it's time to get in the kitchen. So we have all the ingredients for option number two for breakfast and that's going to be the breakfast burrito. As you can tell, these tortillas are pretty massive. And the reason being is we're going to be making one burrito and splitting it. So we're going to be making three total burritos and be cutting them in two and that will be our one serving. So half a burrito is essentially going to be our serving. So that'll be making six servings. So six days in total. So we're going to get started and we're going to do ham, potatoes, cheese, eggs. Going to have some bell pepper just for little veggies. Breakfast burrito is one of my favorite, honestly. I love breakfast burritos so much. So we're going to kind of split responsibilities here. Mikhail is going to be handling the eggs. While Mikhail was handling the eggs, I finished up chopping up the potatoes. We started to preheat the oven at 450 degrees and put it on for 20 minutes. And once the potatoes were done, we threw the bell peppers on the skillet and started to construct the burrito. A lot of this stuff is very customizable. So if you want a little less fat, you can maybe use different cheese, less cheese, or instead of using whole eggs like we did, just do egg whites. So everything is customizable. We are just doing it this way, just due to our preferences, calories, macros, all that kind of stuff. Now we're going to be adding the potatoes on. Let's see if we can fit all this in there. Oh, I guarantee it. We're going to just smash it in there. We're going to buff-dude it in there. Yeah. There we go. That is the burrito. And that gives us two servings. Look at how big it is. This is my child. This is your child carrying a breakfast burrito. All right, so we're working on the next recipe, which is going to be pizza. We're going to be doing two different options. One is going to be a Mexican pizza and one is going to be a chicken pizza. But we're going to be making the dough from scratch. And I've actually never made pizza dough from scratch. It's going to be very interesting. But I have all the ingredients right here, which is going to be the all-purpose flour. We have some honey. You can either use sugar, honey, or a guy, or anything sweet like that. We're using honey. We've got salt. We have the olive oil, yeast, and a little bit of warm water here. First up, we're going to be mixing up the yeast, warm water, and the sugar, or in this case, honey. The yeast feeds off that sugar in the honey. And I'm just checking on Micaela's station over here because she's handling all the meat. She likes handling meat, what can I say? She's got the ground beef cooking right here, which is going to be used for the Mexican pizza, and then got the chicken over here. Yep. Which is going to be used for the chicken pizza, of course. And the tacos. I was going to say, the good thing is, we are really trying to consolidate the work we do. So we're making this chicken, but we're not only making it for the pizza, we're also going to be making it for some tacos later. So really trying to kill two birds with one stone with pretty much everything we do. The yeast is feeding. It's starting to foam. So we're going to be combining the flour and the salt in a bowl. Then pour the yeast in, mix that together. Now, typically you would have a nice mixer to mix this dough together, but you know what? Buff dudes don't need mixers. They do it all by hand, right? Right. There we go. There she is. Okay, so I'll get a little salt. There we go. You'll be handling one, I'll be handling the other. And we're going to see, we're going to have a little competition here to see if we can mix faster. Yeah, there we go. I'm getting my groove now. Okay, there we go. I think it was a tie on that one. Yeah. You did an awesome job. We're going to let this sit for a while. We got to let it rise. I think it's about doubles in size. And then we're going to be ready to roll it out. So now it's time to shred our chicken for the pizza and tacos. And you know, this sometimes can take a little while, but if you cook the chicken right, it shouldn't take too long. All right, while Makayla is finishing shredding the chicken, I'm going to start on the burgers here. I'm going to be making some patties. We're going to mix up all of this. And we are adding a little bit of panko breadcrumbs to the patties here. Kind of helps bind it together, adds a little extra carbs, a little texture in there. We're just weighing out the patties now roughly around four ounces. And once we got done making the patties for the burgers, we switched things up because the pizza dough was done. And it has risen fully. As you can see, it's about double in size now. Now we have to roll it out. So we're going to be dusting the countertop with a little flour here. Make sure it doesn't stick. Also the rolling pin. You do the old school way. There we go. It's a me, a buff Mario. Here at the Buffa Kitchen making us some pizza. So we rolled the dough out and we don't have a pizza stone or anything like that. But we're just going to be using a baking sheet here. We're going to be making more of a square pizza. Now, you know, honestly, I'm not the biggest fan of square pizzas. I like my pizzas round, but we're just going to have to do what we got to do with this one. So now that we have that all ready, we're going to start to add some of the toppings here. And this first one is going to be the Mexican pizza. So instead of doing a typical pizza sauce, tomato sauce base, we're actually doing a refried bean sauce. So a little bit higher in carbohydrates that way. But I got to be honest, it's probably one of my favorite pizza choices. The Mexican pizza is absolutely delicious. We're also going to be using the ground beef on this. Of course, the cheese, we're going to add some romaine lettuce. So it's going to be delicious. So this pizza is done. Now we're going to be going on to the chicken pizza and make that up. And then we're going to be putting them both in the oven at the same time. So they'll be all ready. Both pizzas are looking fantastic. Oh yeah, I cannot wait for these to be done and to eat them. We are smooth sailing. Michaela is just wrapping up some of the extra toppings, one being romaine lettuce for the Mexican pizzas. We're going to dice some of that up just to kind of sprinkle it on top there. And she's also prepping some other stuff like the tomatoes for the burgers. So she can slice these up, get those ready. We're just trying to use every little bit we have. Oh yeah, that is looking nice. There it is. The pizzas are done. Took a little extra time for these ones just because we made the dough from scratch. But it's just so much more rewarding knowing that you've done it yourself. And we have some extra toppings here in case we want to add anything else. Some lettuce on there. Probably add some sauce, whatever it is. But there we go. We're going to let these cool down. We're going to slice them up, portion them out, and then we're good to go. So we are in the home stretch here. We're going to be working on the burgers. Of course, we made these earlier and we're just going to be squeezing them into patties. Now the next step is we're going to be turning on the oven to 450 degrees. And we're going to have that preheat. And in the meantime, we're going to be chopping up some fries with these potatoes here. Michaela, that's her responsibility. Yes. She's the fry master. I'm heating up the oven and also heating up a pan to start cooking the burgers. Buff dudes, we've had a long history in the kitchen. I think it started a long time. One of our first videos was a cooking video. And it was just me and my grubby ass kitchen in LA. And yeah, you know, there's nothing fancy to it. And I think that's why I like cooking. You just get your hands dirty. I mean, you don't have to, obviously, you know, like Michaela here, she's using tongs to do it. And that's fine, totally fine. So just preference when it comes to cooking, whether that be an ingredient, a recipe, how you cook, what you cook. It doesn't matter as long as it tastes good for you. You know what I mean? And this is going to taste good. I mean, this is a freaking dish. I cannot wait to eat all this. So we're going to be making some quick special sauce for the burgers, the fries, really whatever you want. And it's going to be some pink sauce. Now this is probably the most simple sauce you can make and one that I like a lot at least. And it's really just ketchup and mayonnaise and you mix them together. It turns pink and God damn it, it's delicious. So we're going to be doing that. Just put it in the little jar here. So it's kind of nice to make some kind of special sauces that you really enjoy. I'm going to put that lid on, store it in the fridge. And there we go. Buff dude special sauce. Maybe we'll call something else. That might sound a little weird. There we go. Fries are done. We're going to put these in some containers and they're going to be all good to go. Now it's time to start on the snacks. We're onto the first snack and that is coming straight from the buff dude's cookbook and it's going to be the buffins. Yes. Yes, a classic honestly. This has been around for a while now. We've had this recipe and I definitely love this one. That's why we're doing it. I love muffins. Easy in the morning, grab it or really anytime, but great with coffee. So we have everything lined out here. As you can see, it's a decent amount of ingredients, but very common ingredients. And we have the tools, which is going to be a blender or food processor. Pretty much can be throwing everything into this starting off with the oats. So we're going to be kind of blending them up into a flour like consistency oats. And again, it's kind of nice bar. We're going to be throwing it all in the blender here. All right. So everything is in there. Now it's time to blend. Now we're just going to pour it straight into the pan here. We're setting the oven for 12 to 15 minutes and they'll be good to go. So in the meantime, we're going to start making the peanut butter cookies. We are taking it back with this recipe. This is the peanut butter protein cookies that we did on our channel. It's been like 12 years ago now. It's an old recipe. And as you can tell, it is clearly very buff dudes because there's like very, it's very minimal amount of ingredients here. It is a ton of peanut butter and a ton of protein. And that's basically it. All of our food needs. Yeah. Protein powder, peanut butter, good eggs. Yeah. Yeah. And that's why we love it. We're mixing all this together. Obviously we got a lot. We're doubling this recipe. So it might look a lot, but it is doubled. So we're trying to make a bunch of this. So we're just going to be throwing it all in a bowl. Now we're going to mix. Do you want to mix it? Do you want to do the honors? Sure. Flex some of those muscles as you mix. Sure. So that's pretty much mixed together. Now the last little bit is just forming the cookies. Yeah. Which is going to be just about golf ball size. And we're going to do a little special. This, this is, this is the christening of the, of the buff dude protein peanut butter cookie here. Okay. The last touch here, it's a secret. You have to have protein powder to just dust the fork there. And then you're using the fork, just gently push down on one side and then crisscross to the other and boom. I mean this is like Michelin star chef stuff right here. Gordon Ramsay's calling. Buff dude style. He would never call him. I would have to show him the ways of the buff dude kitchen. I don't think his kitchen is clean. It's organized. All of his recipes are very complicated. You know, we're, that's like the exact opposite of buff dudes in a lot of ways. But I got to say, you know what? Ours can be just as delicious and he would probably agree too. Just cause it's more complicated doesn't mean it's going to be more delicious. So this is it. This is proof of all the hard work. And I got to say I am extremely happy with what we got done and we got done in around four to five hours. So that's pretty quick. Obviously it helps with two people. So thank you, Michaela. You're welcome. Appreciate your help. And this is going to cover two people for around six days once we portion it all out. And of course we have multiple options for each day. So we have two different options for breakfast, lunch and dinner. Some of the stuff we're just going to construct as we go along like the tacos and burgers. And we have the snacks too, which is going to be the muffins or buffins and also the peanut protein cookies there. So this is awesome. Now we don't have to stress during the week. Hopefully you guys enjoyed this video and hope it gave you some ideas for maybe some either recipes or some food prep if you're interested in that. But overall you don't even have the food prep. You just make this as you go. So I'm excited. I'm ready to eat. Are you ready to eat? Let's do it. Let's eat it. Let's eat. We're just going to walk around just like this.

=== FILE: I Lost 20 LBS of Muscle, Here's Why... [TL6Bi6dUq9I].txt ===

! Hold up. It's already been over a month now since I injured my back. Alright, before we continue, let's rewind a little bit first. Working out is my life. Me and my brother both started BuffDudes back in 2012, and since then we've created hundreds of videos and shared countless good memories. But all that came to a screeching halt for me over a month ago. I was a pretty skinny kid growing up, but once I started to work out, I was hooked, competing in bodybuilding, getting into fitness modeling, and now making a livelihood out of it. When you make that kind of investment in your health, naturally you don't want it to go away. I've lost around 20 pounds since my injury due to not eating very much and inactivity, and although I know I don't look bad, there's this irrational fear that I'll wake up as that skinny kid again. So it's been over a month now since I released the video where I found out I had bulging discs throughout my lower back, and initially that was something that was extremely hard to take. In my mind, I'm like, I'm never going to work out again, and of course that is what we do. BuffDudes has been around since 2012, we've been creating content, and it all revolves around working out, being physically fit. All of a sudden when that's gone, that in a way defines you, that's who you are. So I felt a little lost in that moment, but after releasing the video and just reading all of your comments and just seeing the outpour of love and support was mind-blowing. And I just want to say thank you. So reading all of that and implementing a lot of the recommendations that you had from the stretching, the mobility, the physical therapy, today I am doing a lot better. But you know, there is a point where you reach, you have to start going to the next step, and that is for me, I have to start pushing myself in the gym. I have to see where I'm at because I have this level of physical fitness that I'm used to, that I have an image of in my mind that I want to be, and I want to get back to that. So I've been brainstorming for a while, and I think I have a good idea of what I need. So I am setting a specific goal, and today marks the first day where I'm going to start taking the steps to reach that goal. So there's going to be one thing that plays a huge role in this whole process, and that is going to be the Buff App. It's actually an app me and my brother developed, and we've been developing for years now. And one of the reasons why we decided to make it is we didn't see anything on the market, on the whole fitness tracking app market that we would really use. So we figured, well, let's start the process of making our own. And it has been quite a journey to make the app. One of the main inspirations for it was Duolingo, where you log into the app, it's a teaching tool, but it's also very fun. It's motivating, and that's exactly what we're going for in our app. There's gamification in it where you can level up, gaining experience points through each workout. There is very detailed stats in there. And if you do decide to check out the app, you can follow my journey because there is a community tab on there as well. You can follow friends, you can like, you can comment, get updates on the workouts they post. So that is very, very motivating and a feature I'm going to be taking full advantage of. So if you do want to check it out, you can find it on Google Play or the Apple App Store. Now speaking of working out, that's exactly what I'm about to do. I'm ready to get that pump again. I'm ready to feel that blood flow and feel those muscles straining. But man, I'm taking quite a while off. So, I don't know, we'll see how this goes. Thank you. Hey, how's it going? Good, how you doing? All right, that is 20 minutes down. Woo, broke a little sweat, which is always good. Now I'm ready for the workout. Feeling nice and warmed up. Just make sure I'm feeling good. Yeah, baby steps. I think there's been a lot of times throughout my lifting career where I take small breaks and, you know, get back at sometimes hard to find the motivation to keep going because you reach a certain level of physical fitness and take a short break, you come back and you're like, God, man, I'm out of shape. At least that's what it feels like. I wouldn't call myself in peak condition right now, so I've lost so much weight. It's crazy. And I know a lot of people are saying to me like, hey, you look great because I know I don't look bad, but I've definitely lost a lot of weight in this last month. But you know what? Hey, I'm going to use that for motivation. I see myself and imagine what I want to look like in the next six months. I think at this point, I don't want to let the injury, you know, what happened in my back, be my excuse because I think that's an easy thing to fall into. So that's going to be part of the schedule. Get to the gym, get my warm up in on the treadmill. And then afterward, I'm just going to introduce some light stretches. But on my day off, I'm going to introduce a bit more core work, some myofascial release, and just kind of feel out, you know, how sore I am if my back is kind of feeling a little achy or not. So there's certain things that I'm going to be kind of testing the waters throughout this process. And just go from there. You know, it's really just a process of feeling it out and making sure that you are in fact able to do what you want to do. And what I want to do is enter a local bodybuilding competition. So for the next six months, I'm going to be preparing for just that. Now it's the same competition my brother Hudson and girlfriend, Michaela, are going to enter as well. So by the end of it, I'm going to be stepping on stage against my brother. And, you know, I've seen what his physique looks like. So I have some very, very stiff competition. But I also know that there's some real risks involved in something like this. So I'm taking it very seriously. All I have to do is look at the example of a bodybuilder named Ronnie Coleman. He was an absolute beast of a man. And he was eight-time Mr. Olympia winner, but he injured his back during a workout. And when you went in to see the doctor, the doctor said, well, you should not work out. So he prescribed basically to take off working out. And of course, a guy like that is not going to heed that kind of advice. So he continued to work out and he ended up leg pressing over a thousand pounds and injured his back so much because of it that now he has a hard time getting around. That is something that is actually kind of scary. And I don't want that to obviously happen. So I am not only excited on one hand, but there's also some fear involved as well. But I don't want that fear to control my life. I want to be able to continue to have physique and live the life I want to. And it's not only the fear of getting re-injured, but I only have six months to prepare for a bodybuilding competition. So this is the first step in the journey. Hopefully you guys enjoyed the video. And if you're interested, definitely follow along. Hopefully you guys will be there rooting for me, Hudson and Mikaela. And until next time, stay buff.

=== FILE: I Made My Brother and his Girlfriend Rate My Body [d348xbk99gc].txt ===

 Hey, my name is Hudson White. I am going to be competing in my first natural, classic physique bodybuilding competition this weekend, and I've just hit a new low of 204 pounds. And today, I'm gonna be doing a high carb day. I'm gonna be showing you every single meal with all the macronutrients and calories, in addition to heading over to my brother Brandon's in order for him to critique my posing, see where I'm at, and then see what my body looks like after a day of 500 grams of carbohydrates. After having eaten low carbs for the past two weeks, it's gonna be a really interesting day, and I'm gonna be getting started right now. I'm on my way to Brandon and Mikaela's. I'm gonna do a little bit of last minute posing. They're about to be subjected to my half naked body. I apologize to Mikaela in advance, but they're troopers for doing this. I really respect and appreciate Brandon's expertise. Through this whole process, I have not had a nutrition coach, not had a posing coach. We wanted to do it the buff dude style, man. A little bit of DIY, taking a lot of our philosophies and applying them to the contest, see how well they work. And Brandon is a student of the film Pumping Iron. I think I can safely say he's seen it about 100 times or more, that's probably on the lower end. And that's what this is all about, trying to emulate the golden era, the silver era, the classic physique. All those guys who helped to inspire us, motivate us, wanna begin lifting, and I'm gonna give my best to pay respect to those dudes. And one thing I've learned through this entire process is you look at something like posing and you realize how hard it is, because it truly is a art form. You work so hard to build these muscles, but you have to properly show them off, because if you don't, you could lose it all at the last minute. And along with the correct angles you need to work, there's also the fact that you need to be tan to show them under the stage lights. There's all these little things I'm learning and I have to be ready for. And I think I'm at the point now where I'm so happy with the way my nutrition and my workouts have went. There's not a lot more that I can do except for put it in the hands of the judges and see what happens. And that's what this is at the end of the day. It's not your standard athletic competition. It's not a sports match. It's an opinion-based event. So you do your best. And I think I can truly say that I have pushed myself to my physical and mental limits, which was the goal from the very beginning. So this is gonna be a typical day at the Buff Household. I'm gonna be doing a little posing for Brandon and Mikayla. Not awkward at all. But I've gotta get used to this. He's taking his pants off. Yeah, I'm saying, you know, this is gonna be a lot more awkward for Mikayla than it is for me probably. But one of the reasons I'm doing this is to try to get over my nerves. You're gonna be in front of a big audience in your pretty much just in your skis. This feels a lot weirder than I, yeah, this feels a lot weirder than I thought it was. Is this an Olin fans video? I don't know. So we will get into the relax, which is the front, starting with the front relax. Behold this position comparing to other athletes, other bodybuilding athletes there. We're gonna do a quarter turn to your right. Nice. Nice and tight. And quarter turn to your right. Good, lower back detail, hamstrings tight. Good, quarter turn to your right. Nice. Quarter turn to your right. Reset to the front, nice, good. So we'll go into the mandatory poses. Front double bicep. Yep, set the feet first, boom. Nice hold, little comparison there. All right, good. We'll go on to the next one, which would be the side chest. Good setup, boom, nice, there we go. And we'll go to the next one, which is the side tricep. Nice, keep that core tight. Good smile, man. Got a damn smile, man. This is what I want to look like. Yeah, exactly. Going to the next one, which is the back double bicep. Tighten the hamstrings, reaching up. Nice, pulling down, get a good squeeze, lower back detail, boom, that's it. There you go, good, that was good. See those lats. All right, and maybe put your elbows slightly higher if you can, there we go, yeah, yep. They dip, then that's perfect. I mean, after that, then it's back to the, I actually forget if you go back to, I guess you go kind of back to the relaxed pose. I think so. I mean, you pretty much have to be in that the whole time you're on stage. Always be in that kind of like, yeah, exactly, for however long they want to keep you up there. And then, yeah, boom. Nice, looking awesome. Thanks. Back from Brandon Mikaela's. It was a great posing session. Brandon had some excellent insights. His last minute tweaks, what to do. Having to properly accentuate and show the muscles. I feel pretty confident. It is so much harder than it looks, man. Holding those poses for that length of time. I'm sure it's even going to be harder on show day just due to the nerves they're going to set in. Maybe a little bit of that shakiness. Really trying to keep that core tight. It's been so educational for me and I'm ready. It's so odd because these past couple of months, I've been obsessed with my body. I've had to be. I'm looking in the mirror all the time, taking constant photos for the unaware. It could seem extremely vain, but really you are a sculptor and your body is the project. So you owe it to yourself to constantly looking, tweaking, being critical. What can I do better? And it's been a fun process. It's been so educational. I would really advise if you're healthy enough to try it yourself because it gives you so much more appreciation for what you're capable of, how your body works, homeostasis. Really the fact that you have to trick your body in many ways to get to this point because your body doesn't care if you have a six pack. And I can honestly say I felt very healthy as a 42 year old before getting into this contest shape. But now I can say that I was able to take it to this level, which has been very exciting. A little bit of doubt sometimes set in. You're always thinking, am I good enough? Am I lean enough? Am I strided enough? But thankfully, I feel like I have the wisdom of not succumbing to any kind of body dysmorphic disorder. I could see how it would be very easy to develop because you don't want to put all your worth in your body. We're all gonna age, things are all gonna change. No matter how much work you have done or no matter what steps you take, I've never in my life seen an 85 year old that looks like a 22 year old. They could be an excellent shape for an 85 year old and that's what I plan on being. So with that in mind, I feel prepped baby. I feel good and I'm gonna go back home. I'm gonna have those last meals. This has been a great day for me because I've had some carbs, but they're going to be dropping once again in these final few days. And I'm gonna make that final push to be the best version of myself that I can possibly be. The final meal of the day. So many carbs and I think I could have had a little bit more. That is delicious. This bop. It is the end of the Reefy Day. Started off this morning at 1.95, I'm at 200 now, so about six pound difference. I'm feeling good. Really from this point, it's all mirror check. See how I'm looking, see how I'm feeling. And now the only thing I have left is to go there, get on that stage and see what happens. So I will see all of you on the other side if the next video is gonna be after the competition takes place. So send some kind words in the comments below if you can and wish me luck.

=== FILE: I Tried Living As A 1990's Man For A Week, Here's What Happened [x8jHOyG52WU].txt ===

! Yup, that's me. My name's Brandon, and for the past week I've been living my life like I'm straight out of the 90s. Now you might be thinking how I got myself into this situation. Well, to answer that question, I should probably go back to the very beginning to when it all started. I was born in the mid-80s, so by the time the 90s hit, I was 6 years old. Just the right age as a kid to soak in the decade in all its glory. Okay, maybe it wasn't all that glorious as a kid. Like any era, the 90s had its fair share of unforgettable moments. Bill Clinton's presidency, an impeachment, the OJ Simpson trial, the Gulf War, classic movie and music releases, and a tech revolution that brought us the internet, mobile phones, CDs, and legendary gaming systems like the PlayStation and Nintendo 64. And that is just scratching the surface. If you're an adult or a kid that grew up in the 90s like I did, you probably have a soft spot for certain things, whether it was the music, the fashion, the movies, or the ridiculous amount of time spent rewinding VHS tapes. And lately it feels like the 90s are bigger than ever. And maybe that's just Gen X and millennials looking back at their younger days through rose-tinted glasses, or maybe the decade really was all that in a bag of chips. So to find out, I'm putting it to the test. For one week, I'm ditching the modern world and fully immersing myself in the life of the 1990s, man. Now, I'm not going to concentrate on politics or the economy. I'm here for the lifestyle, the hair, the fashion, the pop culture, and the day-to-day routine. So I hope you're ready because we're about to travel back in time to the 1990s. It's the early 90s. The Simpsons just wrapped up its first full season. The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air made its debut and theaters were packed for movies like Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles. Meanwhile, MC Hammer had everyone dancing to Can't Touch This. And you didn't just hear these cultural shifts. You saw them. The hair styles, the fashion, everything reflected the era. I was only six or seven at the time and you're damn right I had my hammer pants. I also spent my time watching Darkwing Duck, Toxic Crusaders, Family Matters, and the disappointing finale of Alph. Meanwhile, my musical taste ranged from weird Al to more weird Al. Now, the goal is to live like someone from the 90s. So everything I'll be doing will be from the 90s, from listening to the music, watching the movies, and using the technology. And the tech part is not going to be that easy. They didn't have big, flat screen TVs, modern computers, and they definitely didn't have smartphones. So before I fully commit to the 90s lifestyle, I'm going to be using modern technology to find what I need. We take it for granted now, but back in the early 90s, something like this wasn't possible. Although eBay was founded on September 3rd, 1995 as Auction Web and officially became eBay in 1997, it was still common if you wanted to find something vintage. You'd have to head to a thrift store, a yard sale, or maybe a flea market. Things were less accessible. It was a treasure hunt. It felt more rewarding finding something. Today, it's all too easy to find retro and vintage, which is a huge market. But back then, it was less about vintage and more about looking forward to the future. But now that we've made it to the future, a lot of us clearly just want to go back. And speaking of going back, my next step is to transform myself into someone you'd see at that time. But what make people look like they're from the 90s? Well, that could all depend on where you lived, your age, and who your influences were. But when it came to hairstyles, there was a handful of very recognizable looks. In some no doubt, you might even rock yourself. The 90s brought the curtains, becoming an iconic middle-parted look made famous by Leonardo DiCaprio, Nick Carter, and every boy band ever. It was floppy and slightly greasy. The Caesar cut, short, cropped with a straight fringe, George Clooney's signature look on the show ER. You'd also see Frosted Tips, rocked by Justin Timberlake and Mark McGrath. The buzz cut was popular with musical artists like Tupac and L.O. Cool J. The flat top was still around, with Will Smith sporting it on the Fresh Prince, high, boxy, and bold. And a new comer, especially in the early 90s, was the grunge bedhead, longish, messy, and unbothered, thanks to Kurt Cobain. Then there was the Cornrose and Braids, popularized by Allen Iverson and Exhibit. And lastly, you might have seen some holdouts from the 80s like The Mullet, business in the front, party in the back. And much like hairstyles, facial hair trends were pretty diverse. It was common to see stubble, which was a big part of the grunge movement. The goatee was another look you would commonly see, along with the sole patch, chin strap, and maybe even more of a retro look like the handlebar mustache. But I'm going to draw some inspiration from my dad on this one. He rocked a mustache throughout the 90s, which is more of a holdout from the 80s. But when you think about it, a decade doesn't magically transform into an entirely different way of living. So the early 90s could be seen as very comparable to the late 80s. So I'm getting closer to that 90s look, but now it's time to talk about style. And there was something that just released that made quite the impression on me as a kid. Did everyone look like this in the 90s? No. But Ice Ice Baby did top the charts, and this was proof that the 80s influences were present in the early 90s. But there was something on the horizon that would change everything. It's September 10th, 1991, and Nirvana releases smells like teen spirit. Little did they know a whole generation would latch onto this look, sound, and attitude. Teens quickly adapted to caring less about fitting in, despised sellouts, and no longer strive for success and money like you might have seen in the 80s. And Vanilla Ice was arguably seen as one of the biggest sellouts of the 90s. So my next step is to try to fit in. But it wasn't cool to fit in in the 90s. I don't know. It was all a little confusing back then. With the popularity of grunge on the rise, it was common for teens and young adults to shop at thrift stores for their clothes. Fashion was becoming more about anti-fashion. Looking like you don't care. Rip jeans, baggy tees, and flannel shirts were the go-to look. The days of looking preppy were over, and the rise of looking grungy was here. Now it has to be said that not everyone jumped on the grunge bandwagon, but I was born and raised in Oregon, so there's almost a hometown pride knowing that grunge came from the Pacific Northwest. So I definitely feel right at home looking just like this. The Seattle scene became the epicenter of the grunge movement in the early 90s. Bands like Pearl Jam, Soundgarden, and Alison Chains blew up and was commonly referenced as the Seattle sound. You would now see groups of people donning hand-me-down clothes, converse shoes, and playing hacky-sank in the park, trying to heart us not to fit into society. And it really hasn't changed much up here, which is funny because it's even referenced in the show Portlandia. Or if you want to live back in the 90s while you move up to Portland or maybe even Seattle. And when you're up here, you can feel that. The overall attitude, the style, and really the feeling of the whole place is very much stuck in the 90s. There was one simple rule to the grunge movement, don't sell out. But wait a minute, time out. I was just a kid back in the early 90s, so my biggest concern wasn't about selling out, it was video games. There were two notable releases in 1989, the Game Boy and the Sega Genesis. Both saw extreme success not only upon release, but also through the early 90s. The Game Boy for its handheld, on-the-go convenience, and the Genesis for its cooler alternative feel that fit right in with the early 90s. And great marketing like Genesis does, would Nintendo. I didn't know it at the time, but there was a war being waged, a bit war. And I chose my side, the Super Nintendo. With a revved up graphical upgrade to 16 bits over the now out-of-date 8-bit NES, this new state-of-the-art gaming system was what dreams were made of. I spent most of my early days sipping on Capri Suns, sucking on Ring Pops, and playing games like Super Mario Kart. Life was simple. But that was life through the eyes of a kid. If you were a teenager, you had other things on your mind. But those cars were most likely out of reach for most kids, so you're more likely to see something like this. A 1993 Suzuki Side-Nit. Including four-wheel drive, four doors, and a 1.6-liter four-cylinder engine, this car might not have been a fancy sports car, but it would get you anywhere you wanted to go. With the economy and the slight recession, imported cars with more economic gas mileage and reliability became very popular. Maybe you had this exact car, or maybe not. But no matter what car you had, your first car is most likely still one of your favorites. And since this is the car I'll be driving around all week, this is definitely my favorite car. Getting your first car allowed new ways to hang out with your friends and allowed total freedom. All you had to do next was pick up the phone and dial. Hello. Hi Mr. Sanders, I was wondering if Johnny was available. Who is this? Well, it's Brandon, Johnny's best friend. Uh-huh. Hey Johnny, your little boyfriend is on the phone. Back then you didn't have the availability of social media, so you had to get your social interactions in person or over the phone. A quick phone call to see if your friends were available and you'd schedule a time and place to meet up. Most likely, that would be at your local mall. So I'm here at the Lloyd Center Mall in Portland, Oregon, and it first opened on August 1st, 1960 as the biggest open-air mall in the United States. And since then it's gone through different changes and looks, and I haven't been to this mall in, God, I don't even remember, probably since I was in my early teens, but I'm about to head in to see what it's like. And one of the most well-known features I had was the big indoor ice skating rink. And as you can see, it's still very popular. Maybe not back in his glory days, but hey, there's still people here, which is a good sign. There's probably stuff back from the 90s still in here somewhere. So since me and my brother grew up in a small town, it's around like 3,000 to 4,000 people, we would have to take a trip up to Portland, Oregon to the Lloyd Center here to find pretty obscure stuff, mainly like Dragon Ball Z VHS's or certain toys like from Starcraft or Spawn. And there's one place called Suncoast that we would go to that was right here in this mall. Still see stores like this Gambit's Games and ANMA or FWC. It's no Suncoast, but you know what, they're still trying to keep it alive, which I appreciate. They still f**king have it. They have Orange Julius. Oh, I gotta get Orange Julius. Not only could you shop at the mall, but you'd also come here to hang out with friends and also see the latest movie releases. And in the 90s, something came along that would change how movies were made forever, computer-generated imagery. CGI first appeared back in the 1970s with films like Westworld, but it wasn't until the 1980s that filmmakers really began experimenting with it, using it more often and on larger scale in movies like Tron and The Abyss. Then came the 1990s. Computers were getting more powerful and suddenly CGI started to look real. Terminator 2 and Jurassic Park blew audiences away with visuals that felt life-like. It was a turning point, one that opened the door to a whole new era of filmmaking. And since most people had small CRT TVs in their home, you would have to go to the movie theaters to see them on the big screen with surround sound and cutting edge visuals. And a lot of times, that would be at your local mall. Now this is completing the experience, sipping on an Orange Julius in the food court. But there is something that's missing, as you can tell, there's no one here. And that's really a theme throughout this whole mall is, it's just not what it used to be. And after the mall, if you didn't happen to grab any food at the food court, it was only natural to pick up some fast food. The 90s marked a golden era for fast food. Chains like McDonald's, Burger King, Taco Bell and KFC were more than just restaurants, they were cultural institutions. With drive-thrus booming and marketing aimed squarely at kids, fast food became a fixture of everyday life. Happy Meals came with collectible toys, ads featured Saturday morning cartoon tie-ins, and everything was super-sized. But while burgers and fries ruled the scene, Subway was quietly rising as the so-called healthier fast food alternative. It's made to order sandwiches and eat fresh branding appealed to a growing wave of health-conscious customers. By the late 90s, Subway was opening more locations than any other chain, positioning itself as the counterpoint to greasy burgers and fried food. I remember when Subway opened in the small town I grew up in, it quickly became the go-to spot for everyone to grab their meals. And that was pretty evident too, because everyone's cars smelled like the footlongs and was also riddled with all the packaging from Subway. Across the board, fast food in the 90s was fast, cheap and everywhere. It was on our TV screens, in our schools, and on every road trip. For many, it defined an entire era of eating, and in a way, growing up. So we made it to the mid 90s, and things were changing. Hip-hop wasn't just music, it was a movement. Tupac and notorious BIG were topping the charts, defining the sound of a generation, and the styles were representing how people were influenced by it. On TV, friends had us quoting catchphrases, and the X-Files had us looking to the skies trusting no one. Meanwhile, Hollywood was getting a digital upgrade. Toy Story made history as the first fully computer animated film. Jumanji, Batman Forever, and Mortal Kombat lean into effects like never before. In fact, 1995 was a stacked year for movies in general. We got Seven, Heat, Clueless, Braveheart, and a Goofy movie. And one film in particular spawned one of the greatest first-person shooters of all time, Goldeneye. Gaming was evolving fast. While it was common to play Oregon Trail in school and head to your local arcade to play Street Fighter Ninja Turtles or Simpsons, home consoles were starting to take over. On September 9th, 1995, the PlayStation was released in North America. At launch, the PlayStation released with a small but varied lineup of games, and around 100,000 units were sold in the first weekend, which was considered a major success. But Nintendo was hot on their heels. On September 29th, 1996, the Nintendo 64 hit North America. It launched with Pilotwings 64 and Super Mario 64, a game that completely redefined 3D gaming. So with this guy popped onto screen and my brother and I saw it for the first time, it's hard to put into words just how crazy this was. First, we were seeing real dinosaurs running around on the big screen in Jurassic Park, and now we're controlling a real-life Mario. Of course, looking back at it now and comparing it to modern games, the graphics are basic and the camera angles can seriously suck at times, but when it really came down to it, it wasn't the graphics that made it a classic. It was just fun. And playing it today, it's still fun. Now, there has to be something said about how video games were back in the 90s. You didn't have access to thousands of games on Steam or on Game Pass like you do today. And you didn't have access to thousands of reviews and gameplay footage to sway your opinion. As sure, you might have looked at a Nintendo Power or PlayStation Magazine to see some screenshots and read the review, but overall, it was a leap of faith. So at that point, it was either by it, which wasn't cheap, especially as a kid, or the more common option, rent it. And for most people, that would mean a trip to your local blockbuster. Blockbuster was founded back in 1985 by David Cook, opening the first store in Dallas, Texas. And by the late 90s, it was starting to peak with close to 9,000 stores nationwide. This is the last blockbuster store in existence located in Bend, Oregon. And it makes you think, if blockbuster would have bought Netflix back in 2004, $50 million, like they had the chance to, would we still see blockbuster on every corner? We'll never know. But as it stands, this is just a relic from the past. And I'm glad we still have it. Although local video stores were still around, blockbuster made movie and video game rentals fast, easy and accessible to everyone. Walking through the aisles and browsing the latest rental options felt like a weekly ritual. The smell of popcorn, the buzz of CRT screens playing previews, the soft hum of tapes being rewound, and the blue and yellow glow of the signage. It all felt like a mini adventure. But nothing topped the moment you got your own rental card. That little blue and yellow badge wasn't just plastic, it was independence, power, and the key to Friday night freedom. A true 90s rite of passage. Once you rented your game, the next step was to call your friends over your landline for an all nighter to play it. Which, back then, could only be experienced through couch co-op. No online matchmaking, no headsets, just you, your buddies, and a tangle of controller cords sprawled across the living room floor. The glow of the tube TV lit up the room while you took turns, trash talked, and made up house rules as you went. It was chaotic, it was loud, and it was perfect. But video games weren't the only thing you could do with your friends. The mid 90s also saw the rise of extreme sports. In 1995, the X Games came out and suddenly everyone wanted to be a skateboarder, including me. And clearly, I'm not very good. Skateboarding was a huge deal back when I was a kid, so I tried my hardest to learn how to do it. But after hundreds of attempts to try to learn how to ollie, I finally quit. But thankfully, there was an alternative for me. By the late 90s, skateboarding had found its way into living rooms of millions with the release of Tony Hawk's Pro Skater in 1999. The game brought skate culture to a whole new audience, blending real world tricks with high speed gameplay. It became a phenomenon, not just a way to experience skateboarding, but to live it virtually. It wasn't about the sport anymore. It was a lifestyle, a global community, and for many, it was their first introduction to the world of extreme sports. But there was another board that was picking up speed in the 90s, and that was snowboarding. Snowboarding wasn't necessarily new to the 90s. It was created back in 1965 by Sherman Poppin and was called the Snurfer, but it gained a lot of popularity in the 80s and continued on throughout the 90s. But with the release of the Winner X Games in 1997, snowboarding solidified its place as the new extreme sport you could perform on the mouth. Anything's extreme, you can get definitely extreme. I mean, any kind of like this is definitely extreme. So naturally, in our teens, me and my brother piled into our old beat-up Subaru station wagon, put on some corn, and headed to the mountain. And since I'm living in the 90s, that's exactly what we're about to do. It wasn't quite as extreme as the 90s, but we tried our best. We went extreme for 40-year-old bodies. Yeah, that's true. For 40-year-olds, yeah, it was pretty extreme for us. As you can see, these boots are falling apart. The reason being is these are actually from the 90s. I got these probably when I was around 14 or 15 years old and I've had them ever since. Vans. I mean, nothing says the 90s more than vans. But there was another sport that pretty much lived and died in the mid to late 90s. Inline skating came crashing onto the scene with the help of Scott and Brennan Olson, founding Rollerblade Inc. in the 1980s, updating a design that actually dated all the way back to the 1760s invented by a Belgian named John Joseph Merlin. With slick marketing and perfect timing, Rollerblades quickly became the new kids on the block. Aggressive inline skating took off, riding the same rebellious energy and carving out its own space in the underground sport scene. These Rollerblades aren't from the 90s. Back in the day, I was rocking the K2 Fatty Pros, but unfortunately, I couldn't track any down that were in my size for this video. But it's crazy to think how fast Rollerblading caught on back then. And when it did, I jumped right in, buying the magazines, watching movies like Brink, and really to have a goal of becoming a pro aggressive inline skater. And as you can tell, that didn't work out. And that's probably for the best because Rollerblading pretty much died out in the late 90s. It was a quick rise and a quick fall. But as fun as extreme sports were, there was something creeping into every household around the world. Little did we know, life as we knew it was about to change forever. In the mid to late 90s, the internet was a frontier. A digital wild west full of possibility chaos and wonder. Dial up connections, screeched to life as millions of users logged on through bulky desktop computers. And for some people, it was a pretty confusing time. Websites were simple, often little more than blocks of text and pixelated images, yet they felt like portals to endless new worlds. Services like AOL, Yahoo, and Netscape Navigator were household names guiding curious explorers through a sprawling, untamed landscape. Early chat rooms and message boards gave birth to the first digital communities, where friendships were forged between strangers separated by thousands of miles. It was an era of discovery where every click felt like an adventure, and even the smallest website could hold a hidden treasure. Email revolutionized communication, instant messaging introduced a new kind of immediacy, and the online marketplaces like eBay hinted at the beginnings of a global digital economy. There were no influencers, no streaming services, only raw connection. Built one line of code at a time. The internet of the 90s wasn't just a tool, it was a new frontier for creativity, expression, and the human connection. Reshaping how people lived, learned, and dreamed one pixel at a time. We didn't know it then, but we were standing at the edge of a revolution. Like most people, my family had some computers over the course of the 90s, a Commodore 64, Gateway 2000, which you might remember came in a cow print box, and an Asus. So of course, me and my brother quickly started to use them to play online video games, like Quake, Warcraft 2, and Starcraft. We also started to communicate with some of our friends through ICQ and AIM, which was pretty mind blowing. Hours and hours were now spent using it to the dismay of anyone trying to call getting the dreaded busy tone. And as you can see, I purchased this set up here, which is a bit of a Frankenstein of different parts, but it's something similar to what you'd see back in the 90s. And using it now, there's definitely a certain charm about its simplicity. But overall, using it this past week has been a trip down memory lane, and it's a reminder why we all got sucked into this virtual realm. And that's exactly what happened to me and my brother. The internet allowed us to reach far beyond our small town we grew up in. Suddenly our aspirations started to shift. We began dreaming of bigger things. So with the help from our dad, we started making films and started selling those films on VHS tapes over the internet through a website my brother designed. Now we shot them on these cameras, the XO1 and Geo1. And it's crazy to think about it now, but this XO1 shot in 420p and cost nearly $4,000. Today, I shoot my content on the Sony FX3, full 4K resolution, and it cost less than this XO1 did. But filmmaking wasn't the only thing we had going on. We started a band inspired by groups like Metallica, Nine Inch Nails, Korn, and Pantera. We called it Blind Automatic and tucked away and all that creative chaos was a song called Infernal Machine, a track we never finished. Now it's been sitting on the shelf unfinished for almost 30 years, so to truly complete this journey, we're going to head into the studio to finish what we started all those years ago. And to do that, we reached out to Derek Williams. He's been a musician and teacher for the last 20 years and has toured around the world with artists like Thomas Rhett, Mike Posner, and Leanne Rimes. So we met up at his studio and got to sit down with him to get a bit of a backstory to his experience in the 90s. Yeah, so my name is Derek Williams. I was born in Nashville, Tennessee in 1984. I started playing guitar when I was eight. I got an electric guitar when I was 10. And immediately you have to get in a band. I mean, the whole idea about getting a musical instrument in the 90s was I need to get this thing so I can participate in a band with a group of guys. And so I started my first band probably when I was 10. And maybe you write some really terrible songs and have a lot of fun. That's the point. You know, speaking of writing terrible songs, we're going to have you listen to Infernal Machine and get your thoughts. Okay, let's hear Infernal Machine. Yeah, okay. Perfect. As Derek listened to our song, I couldn't help but feel like I was 15 again, flooded with that raw unfiltered excitement. There we were sitting with a real professional musician and he was actually listening to our track. It was surreal. It's a good tune. Let's see what we can do with it. Let's see if we can't, you know, what would happen if we updated this song and hey, let's finish this thing. What do you think? He offered some great notes, then had us jam a bit to get a feeling of the song and our vision. After that, he sent us on our way. And as we walked out, it hit us deep down. We still believed it. We had a late 90s middle hit on our hands. I like how you did it so slowly. The beer is going to be like, wait, what's he doing? And then it's trash. Okay, so the song needed a lot of work, but thankfully with the help from Derek, we knew we could polish the song into something that sounds professional. At this point, my brother Hudson headed back into the studio to record the singing. Infernal Machine. Infernal Machine. And do that again, then I can shift that one over. You see what I mean? Okay. Infernal Machine. And after hours of hard work, the song was officially finished. What I'm holding my hand is 26 years in the making. And of course you had to burn up to CD because we're about to do what we used to do. And that is pop this in, listen to it on our blown out speakers, drive around aimlessly until we get bored, and have a damn good time. I'm ready to be a 90s kid for one last night. So am I. Pop it in. So As we drove around listening to the finished version of the infernal machine, I was reminded of the hours and hours we spent doing this exact same thing as teenagers. Driving around, talking, headbanging to the music and pondering what the future held for us. The word nostalgia is thrown around a lot these days and I don't know if I've ever truly understood the feeling until now. This whole experience has been a wild ride and in certain moments it felt like I was transported back in time. It's hard to define what getting older feels like. In your mind you're still the same person you were as a kid, yet the world around you changes. But that's part of growing up. And every new generation will look back on their younger days with the same feeling. But of course, the time they grow up in is never going to quite top the 1990s. If you made it this far into the video, you're a true 90s kid and I just want to say thank you. These videos take a lot of work and I continue to try to expand upon them. So if you want to give us some support you can check out our fitness app called Buff that we just released on Google Play in the Apple App Store. Now I don't have a crew so I handle all this myself. The writing, lighting, camera and editing which is why these videos take a lot more time than normal. But I do have to give special thanks to my brother Hudson and my girlfriend Mikaela for helping me on this project when I needed them most. I'd love to hear your stories from the 90s and also any recommendations for the next era we can do. So thanks for watching and I'll see you in a different decade.

=== FILE: I Tried Living As An 1890's Man For A Week, Here's What Happened [uqUUjhtCzhs].txt ===

 Hey, by downloading our Bothomp, you're helping to support videos just like this. Thanks. You guessed it, partner. That's me. My name's Brandon, and for a spell now, I've been living live straight out of the 1800s. Out here, the days are long, the nights are cold, and the work never really ends. It's a hard life, full of grit, hunger, and the kind of work that tests a man's spirit. You might be wondering how I ended up in this world. Well, that's a story of struggle, discovery, and maybe a little redemption. And like any story, it's best to start the tale at the very beginning. The 1800s. Now, I think it's safe to say we've all been a little curious what it would be like to live in a time period from the past, and that's exactly why I created this series. I've lived like a man from the 1950s, the 1980s, and the 1990s, but for this one, I wanted to take it back to a time of cowboys, outlaws, in the wild west. A part of American history is so iconic, it still captures imaginations around the world, from movies and video games to Halloween costumes and lunchboxes. It doesn't matter who you are or where you're from, you know where the cowboy is. Now, looking back at it now, it seems to see why the wild west has turned into something mythical, like dragons or aliens. But this fantasy, it was all real. Now, I was introduced to the wild west like most people through movies and video games. Figures like John Wayne and Clint Eastwood influenced an entire generation, and video games like the Oregon Trail and Red Dead Redemption continue to. And in turn, the wild west has been solidified as one of the most popular times in history. And like much of history, a lot happened in the 1800s, specifically how Americans worked their way west. In 1803, the US doubled in size with the Louisiana Purchase, opening the gates to the American West. Soon after, Lewis and Clark were sent to explore the new frontier, charting rivers, mountains, and tribes never seen by Americans. But expansion came at a cost. The Indian Removal Act forced native tribes off their land in one of America's darkest chapters. In 1848, the war with Mexico ended, with the US claiming even more territory, stretching from sea to shining sea. Then came gold. In 1849, thousands raced west to strike it rich, forever changing California and the frontier. In 1862, President Abraham Lincoln signed the Homestead Act, offering 160 acres of land to anyone willing to farm it for five years. It kicked off one of the largest waves of settlement in American history. And as families made their way west, they followed a now famous route, the Oregon Trail. In 1869, the east and west were finally connected by rail. Suddenly, the frontier wasn't so far away. By the 1880s, the west was booming with homesteaders. This was the peak of the pioneer era. Son houses, windmills, barbed wire, and backbreaking labor was used to tame the land. That brings us to where I come in. See, growing up, everyone wanted to be a cowboy, but the real people who built the west were the settlers. So that is exactly what I'm going to be doing. I'm going to be living my life like a settler coming to the west. No electricity, no running water, and no modern technology. So the real question is, can a modern man survive the 1800s? Now, before I dive headfirst into the deep waters of the wild west, I have my word cut out for me. I need clothes, tools, and a location because the goal is to go out in the middle of nowhere and build a cabin from scratch and live in it. So I have a plan. Step one, research. I'm not exactly an expert on the 1800s, so I've got some serious research to do. A lot of reading and studying to get a real sense of how people lived back then. Step two, location. I need a piece of land way out in the middle of nowhere, somewhere rugged, untamed, and full of trees I can cut down for lumber. Step three, clothes and tools. To live like a true frontiersman, I've got to dress the part and get my hands on the same kind of tools they would have used to build and survive. And for that, I'll be using modern technology, but back then they had something just as powerful, their own kind of online store long before the internet ever existed. The Sears Robuck and Company catalog. It was the Amazon of the 1800s, a lifeline for families scattered across the American frontier. By 1897, it had grown to over 600 pages, packed with just about everything you could imagine. Clothes, tools, furniture, guns, watches, even wagons. For many people living miles from the nearest town, it was more than a catalog. It was a window into a world of possibilities. You could order almost anything by mail and they would arrive right at your doorstep, delivered by train or wagon. And it was also used as a convenient source of toilet paper. Now there's only so much I can learn from books, so I went to a local ranch to tag along with some modern day cowboys. Yeah, some people might think that all the cowboys died out in the 1800s, but I was witnessing the first hand that they were very much still alive. Today they were wrangling some cattle, and it was a sight to see. With precise teamwork and expert handling, they quickly got the cattle grouped up and pushed them right into the corral. I gotta be honest, when I see all the cows spread across the land here, you got a handful of cowboys and cowgirls. I was thinking, man, this is gonna be rough. We're gonna be out here all day, but man, they were efficient. It's already done. That was pretty quick. That is impressive. Of course, I got me in my modern day vehicle, but at least I got to witness it. As I stood there watching people and animals move in sync, it hit me that this scene hasn't really changed in over a century. I was watching the present, but it very much felt like I was looking straight into the past. All right, so I just made it back from the ranch, and that was a cool experience. Now, initially, I wanted to try to get a horse for this video, but you know, they're not that easy to get a hold of. I mean, it's not like a vehicle. You can't just go out and buy one. I mean, I guess you can, but you need a place to keep them. You need to feed them and care for them. So that's not gonna happen. And I guess I could have borrowed one, but you know, I don't think anyone would be too keen on me borrowing one of their horses, because truth be told, I've never even ridden a horse before. So I'm gonna be going solo on this one. And I still have a few things to get ready because the goal is to leave first thing tomorrow morning. So I got to start packing up. And I'll be taking a very minimal amount of gear. Originally, I wanted to cook over an open fire, but I don't have a way to store the food. And it's currently the peak wildfire season. So instead, I'll be taking some pickled eggs and jerky. It might not be much, but they didn't have much back then. And now that I pretty much have everything I need, it was around this time I got a call from my dad. He heard about the project I was working on and explained to me that this subject hit a lot closer to home than I originally thought. So I made a quick trip to see what he had to show me. Meet my dad, Duke. He's the reason I got into Westerns in the first place. All right, dad, so you got something to show me? Yeah, this is the United States of America land deed. It was given in 1850 because it made donations to settlers who came out West and they gave him 160 acres or what would they call one quarter. And it's signed by the president at the time, Ulysses S. Grant. That's right. I just found out my relatives were settlers that came to Oregon back in 1876. I suddenly realized this project had become something else entirely. It was no longer just a test of survival, but a chance to feel what it's really like to step into the unknown and build something from nothing. Define the odds to carve out a new life. This was going to be a true journey into just how resilient a human spirit can be. As I grabbed my gear, I couldn't help but have some reservations about what I was getting myself into. I'd be all alone out in the middle of nowhere with little to no real experience. But maybe that's how most pioneers felt. As I hiked deeper into the wild, my spirits lifted when I found the perfect location. A wide open area, beautiful scenery, lots of trees, and most importantly, no sounds of cars, no power lines, not a trace of modern life in sight. So now that I claimed my spot, I quickly laid out my tools knowing I had to get right to work because I only have one week to build an entire cabin by myself. And with it being the hottest part of the year with the temperatures reaching over 100 degrees, the sooner I get the shelter built, the better. The log cabin was essential as the pioneers first stepped toward carving out a life in the wild frontier. In the 1800s, when settlers moved west to claim land and build a future, the log cabin was often their only protection from the elements and their refuge after long days of hard work. But beyond its basic function as a home, the log cabin was an emblem of survival and ingenuity. One of the great benefits of a log cabin is there was no need for nails. Early settlers used notches in the logs, called dovetails or saddle notches, to interlock them securely. And because wood was the primary building material, settlers often relied on whatever type of trees were available, pine, oak, or in my case, being in central Oregon, juniper. In many ways, the log cabin represented the pioneer spirit itself, practical, self-sufficient, and determined. It was a small but vital part of a larger story, one of resilience and perseverance that helped shape the American frontier. So I'm setting a little workstation up here, digging some posts in, I'm getting to a notch, it out, set kind of like a crossmember up so I can just lean some of the logs against it and I can work on the logs that way a lot easier. But there's still a lot of work to be done. Ooh, I've been working for probably, I don't know, three hours now and I have barely got anything done, so I got a long road ahead of me. This is where a horse or mule would come in handy. And that's one of the main reasons why they had them. Transportation but also helping them out with this manual labor. The horse. Now you couldn't talk about the 1800s without talking about horses, an iconic symbol of the American West. Horses plowed fields, herded cattle, carried mail, and sometimes helped haul wagons across thousands of miles of rough terrain. Entire cultures like the plains tribes became masters of horseback life, transforming their way of living after horses were introduced by the Spanish around the 1500s. They weren't possessions but companions, a living breathing machine that helped carry dreams across an entire continent. And to be honest with you, I wish I had a horse right about now to help share some of this workload, and for a little companionship too. It is hard to understate how much work this takes. These juniper are just a big bush, just full of limbs. So limbing it, chopping it down, then dragging it into position there is just taking probably around 30 to 45 minutes, depending on the size of the tree. And it is just killing me. Huge respect to those settlers in those days. There's another tree down. And another five pounds of loss probably. Oh god. Never gets easier. Day one and I was already learning just how unforgiving this life could be. Back home this life might seem appealing, a man out in the wild building something from nothing. It's easy to believe that from the safety of a couch watching it play out in a movie. But out here it's just the sound of my own heavy breathing steel hitting wood in the fear of the unpredictable. Looks like there's a storm coming up. Well, the storm's been going on for quite a while now. As you can tell it's got pretty dark and I'm just taking cover under a tree just to keep drying. I really don't have anywhere else to go. So I think at this point I just got to weather out the storm and hope it passes by soon. And I was not prepared for this. Needless to say I barely got any sleep last night and to be honest it was really hard to find the motivation to get up and start moving. But this cabin isn't going to build itself. And I got nothing else to do out here. So I got back to work. Oh god. I cannot believe how much work this really is. Such a small tree but god that took so much work and in this heat I felt like I was going to pass out. But it's done. You know limit and drag it over. As the sun set on day two I sat there soaking in the view. Just yesterday I was cursing the weather and fighting off feelings of defeat. But now I couldn't feel more at peace. I guess that's the lesson out here. You have to face the bad moments to really appreciate the good ones. Enjoying my hard-earned boiled eggs and jerky I hunkered down for a much needed night's rest. This is definitely some hard living. My entire body is sore and this is the high desert. So it might have been in the hundred yesterday but last night it got pretty damn cold. So I didn't get the best night to sleep and of course sleeping on this hard ground doesn't help any. But the sun's up and I got to start another day's work because I got to try to get this cabin done as fast as I can. It was another day and I had a long list of things to get done. And although it was the morning the sun was already out in full effect in the heat was already getting to me. And I was running low on water. Life on the frontier wasn't just hard. There was a high likelihood that it could be deadly. Out here there were a hundred ways to meet your end before you ever finish your morning coffee. You could be crushed by a wagon, thrown from your horse, bitten by a rattlesnake, freeze solid in a blizzard, suffer from heat stroke or maybe just get a little dehydration. Disease was everywhere. Cholera, smallpox, scurvy, typhoid and of course the most infamous of all. Dysentery. Anyone ever played the Oregon Trail knows how that one ends. And if nature didn't get you accidents probably would. A simple cut could turn septic. An axe swing gone wrong could mean death by gangrene, loss of blood or best case scenario, lose a leg. Out here there were no hospitals, no paramedics and no second chances. Survival wasn't about being brave. It was most likely about being lucky. It is hot as hell right now. And I am just dying in this heat and the faster I can get out of this heat the better. A little bit of a breeze but it didn't help much. I'm just thankful for this hat and this handkerchief because it's helping the sun get out of my face. But regardless I'm gonna try to get this done as fast as I can but god I got just so much work to do. The sun is getting lower in the sky. I grabbed some rocks cut a few more trees down but I didn't get anywhere close to what I wanted to get done today. It just feels like every day is going to almost like a waste because I just feel like I take one step forward and two steps back. I'm starting to cut the trees but I'm going farther and farther away from the site just to get the right ones and I have to drag them over here which takes so much effort and so much time as well so I don't really have that many logs. But I'm gonna start placing the logs down just to at least get an idea of where I want this cabin but I'm gonna have to rethink my strategy because this really isn't working. Oh yeah my workbench fell down. I just kind of added to it all which didn't really surprise me. It wasn't really that well built anyways. Hopefully that doesn't happen to the cabin when I'm done with it. The sun is just now going down over that hill and I am beat. So I think I'm about to call this a day get some food set up camp my little canvas bag there so I can get some needed rest. So I've been sitting here contemplating what my next move is and how I'm going to get this done in time and I just don't think I'm going to be able to do it. The amount of logs I need to finish this cabin is just not doable in the time frame that I have. It's going to take months to get this done and that is just too long. So I think I've decided to pack up and head to the nearest town. I'm going to send a telegram to some family members. My brother, my dad, see if they can head my way and help out to build this cabin because god I'm gonna need all the help I can get. So the next morning I packed up my gear and walked in the nearest town and was reminded again how important owning a horse would be. But as I got close to the town I felt the sense of excitement which was probably a similar feeling most pioneers had even if the towns weren't much. A few dusty streets lined with wooden buildings, a general store, a blacksmith, maybe a saloon or a hotel but in the 1800s small towns with a lifeblood of the frontier and if the town was big enough they might have the option to send a telegram which is why I'm here. Before phones and instant messages the telegram was the lifeline of the 1800s. It all started in the 1830s when Samuel Morrison and Alfred Veldt developed a system that could send electrical signals through wire turning dots and dashes into words and from that moment on communication would never be the same. For the first time news could travel hundreds of miles in minutes instead of weeks. It connected cities, businesses and families across the growing nation and became the heartbeat of the American frontier. But it wasn't cheap. Every word cost money so messages were kept short and direct just enough to get the point across. Births, deaths, business deals or in my case a plea from a man in the wilderness asking for help. Out on the frontier family was everything. They were a support system, a source of knowledge and a reminder that no one truly makes it alone. When I sent out that telegram I wasn't sure anyone would answer but sure enough they did and it looks like they not only brought the muscle and know how but also some tools. With the help of my dad and brother this cabin would be built in no time. We were working like a well-oiled machine trading off limbing, cutting, sawing and hauling rocks the same singular goal but it wasn't just the extra help. It was a boost in morale, a new sense of energy, motivation and purpose. I was now realizing this was the real frontier life teamwork and camaraderie. We were in this together and because I had them I knew I would survive. But just as we were starting to feel confident little did we know disaster was about to strike. The Cranfire now organs the largest wildfire. The Cranfire. The Cranfire. The wildfire forced a mass evacuation the largest active wildfire in the United States. It was nearing mega fire status. There is official say it's now the largest wildfire burning in the state. Which exploded overnight. Sparking evacuation orders including the Ashwood community. It has destroyed a total of six buildings, four of those being homes. Now there is always a high likelihood that there's wildfires in the summer but it didn't really cross my mind that we'd be directly in the path of one. So we were evacuated from the area alongside the residents, their families and animals and we're pleased to hear everyone made it out safe. Arriving home was a strange experience although I've only been out in the wilderness for a handful of days stepping inside my house almost seem foreign. But I can't tell you how incredible something as simple as taking a shower felt. As the dirt and grime washed away it felt as if the frontier life was going down the drain with it. I was back to modern life. Plentiful food, power, running water and technology. Which is what I was glued to as I continued to track the path of the cramfire. So this puts a major stop to this project. I mean the whole video was revolving around building this cabin and living in it and at this point that's just not going to happen. I mean the good news is the wildland firefighters are getting the fire under control and I just want to say thank you to them for risking their lives to save others. And I do have to say you know I try to make these videos as authentic as I can putting in the actual work and trying to get that feel of what it might be like. But I do realize that there's a line of actually living in the 1800s and producing an entertaining video on my experience with it. So we did have a cell phone on standby just in case for emergencies and I am very happy we did because case in point we wouldn't have known there was a fire and also the evacuation so that was very helpful. But at this point I'm pretty much on standby. I have no idea how much damage has been done. Obviously this was a massive fire so I just have to wait and see when I can get back out there and to see if anything's actually salvageable or not. So it's been a while after the cramfire but as you can tell it was pretty devastating and this is really what is left of this countryside. Trees are burned up, the ground is full of ash and I've got to be honest looking around I don't really see much more of a reason to be out here. There's nothing to really do and there's nothing to use now. All the logs we spent so much time cutting down and preparing to build the log cabin are gone, they're burned up. Oh man and this is kind of sad to see honestly it's such a beautiful countryside and this is what it looks like now. The good news is nature does return, it's going to be beautiful again but in the meantime I need to find out what I'm going to do next because this part of the journey is clearly over. No matter the time in history life has always been shaped by hope, hardship and uncertainty and in the 1800s that hope had a direction. West. A new territory opened up, sold as a chance at a better life. Stories passed from one person to the next and newspaper articles painted the west as a land of endless opportunity and untouched beauty. It's no surprise so many people came chasing that dream but it was a journey never meant for the faint of heart. My own attempt at living like a settler didn't quite work out the way I imagined and that might have been the truth for many of them as well. It wasn't always a storybook tale. The cabin and the land are gone now, lost to the fire. A reminder of how fragile life could be out here. But the spirit of a settler was not about a happy ending, it was about not quitting, it was about moving forward, working through the hardship and refusing to let the dream die no matter how heavy the cost. And as I stand here in the shadow of these mountains I realize life isn't about what I've left behind but about the journey that still lies ahead. My story is not over, it's barely begun. Losing the cabin and the land just means I have to search for a new frontier, a new way to step deeper into this world. These mountains whisper a different kind of life and that's where I'm headed next. But that story is for another time. So that was my experience in trying to live as an 1800s man and that ended up being quite the journey. So I just want to take this time to give a little bit of a behind the scenes look at what goes into making something like this because this whole project took over six months to make and that's partly due to it being done by a one-man crew. I handle the writing, the camera, the lighting, and the editing as well as being in front of the camera. Now this is the fourth video in this series, the first one being that I tried to live as a 1950s man and each one became a little bit bigger, the 1980s one and the 1990s one and now this one becoming the most ambitious one. The plan was to build an entire cabin and all the work you see in this is real. I probably only included a fraction of the amount of shots in the edit because well let's be honest who wants to watch someone cut trees down for hours on end because as it turns out I vastly underestimated the amount of logs needed to build a cabin. So I did have my brother and dad help out which they put a ton of work into which it doesn't really show in the video because well I just didn't want the redundancy of shot after shot of dudes working out in the heat. After we finished the build the rest of the video was going to be me living in the cabin but we had some pretty major setbacks. Number one was the wildfire that you saw in the video and the second one was I actually sustained a pretty serious back injury which I ended up going in to get an MRI and found out I had multiple bulging discs so even if we wanted to build a different cabin after the fire that wasn't going to be a good idea so I had all this footage of the build and no cabin so at this point it was pretty much back to the drawing board. I rewrote the script and took the footage I had and started to edit it together to try to get a cohesive story. There's a balance I try to create in these videos one being the documentary style of following someone trying to live in a certain time period and the more entertaining and cinematic style of the story and look and in order to capture that I have all of this the FX3 is my main camera with the A7S3 being my camera B and I shot it all in anamorphic using the blazar 35 and 50 millimeter lenses to give it a little bit more of that old western feel. I also have a slider and a Ronin for those tracking and gimbal shots and a bunch of tripod, sea stands and lighting to get that three-point lighting, key light, fill light and hair light and for sound I use the Sennheiser MKE 600. Once I have all my footage all bring it into premiere to start my edit adding voiceover, graphics, sound effects and music and since I shoot my footage flat I'll usually bring it into Da Vinci Resolve for some color grading but for this one I just kept it all in premiere and there ended up being this funny dichotomy of trying to live as an 1800s man for a short amount of time but most of my time was here surrounded by all of this spending over a hundred hours editing this video and I get it you know some people are just gonna say there was none of this in the 1800s shooting with this camera I completely understand and you know this is done for entertaining purposes. There you go a small look into what I do to make videos like this I hope you enjoyed it and if you'd like to show us some support please check out the buff app you can find it on google play or the apple app store your support really does help us to continue to make videos like this so thank you and until next time  stay buff, pilgrim.

=== FILE: I Won My First Bodybuilding Show Naturally at Age 42 [nWjaX75R3jU].txt ===

 Hey, my name is Hudson White. I'm a 42-year-old Lifetime natural, and I've spent the past four months preparing for my very first bodybuilding competition. And now, it's time to try to go out and win this thing. Contestants, line up! It's time to hit those final posts! And the winner is... There's the food. And there is the tan. Tried my best to get a good night's sleep last night, but that didn't work out too well. Got up at 3 a.m., just couldn't go back to bed, so it's about 5.30 now. I'm up. I'm having my first small meal. I'm gonna go get a little bit of touch-up on this tan, rubbed a little bit off last night. I roll around quite a bit while I'm sleeping, so I'll have to get a little bit of touch-up on this tan. So, I'll have to get that fixed. Then I'm gonna come back to the hotel, have my big meal of the day. It's gonna be a lot of rice. It's gonna be a little bit of salmon. And then it's almost showtime, baby. Yeah. Back at the hotel room after getting the second coat of tan. I am having my final meal before the prejudging starts. Doing a little bit of last-minute posing just to prepare. This is it, man. Four months of non-stop training and eating, unlike I've ever done before. This is the hardest I've ever worked in my life. I can truly say that I have stuck to the game plan. Now, all we've got to do is execute. Love dudes, love girls. Let's do this. I am backstage. I am eyeing the competition, and it is already immediately apparent that all of these guys have come to win this thing. Woo! Yeah! Woo! 3, 4, 3, 3, 11, switch. Go double-box down. Okay, yeah. Woo! Very fast and close. Yeah. Woo! We're going into our competition. 3, 4, 3, 3, 11, switch. Double-box down. Nice. Yeah! Woo! Double-box takes the back, double-boxes. There it is, there it is. Yeah. Woo! Yeah, next stage. Two rounds down, two to go, and now I've got to go back out to the Masters. Double-box. Double-box. Yeah, that looked good. Good. Woo! I've been out there for what it feels like hours now, but I can't stop because now he's the big one. We've got to open this to all the competitors. Now it is time to truly show what I've been working for. There's a couple guys who I can see are going to be a big challenge, and probably the most credentialed out of the bunch is number 376. He's a lifelong athlete and former USC, Longhorn, and Dallas Cowboy Strength and Conditioning Coach. I can see he's got a trainer with him backstage, and this dude is looking serious. So I have got to bring everything I can to the stage. 3, 14, 3, 12, switch. 3, 20, 3, 76, switch. 3, 20, 3, 76, switch. Front double-box out. Yeah, there you go. Nice. 3, 76, 3, 20, switch. Your favorite classic pole. Get it. The mandatory rounds are over and just in time because I gave it everything I had. The hard work was done, and now all I had left was my solo posing, which really almost felt like a vacation after the four back-to-back rounds of facing off against other competitors. I tried my best to not only emulate the legends, but to pay tribute to them as well. Aesthetics size than natural classic physique. With my posing out of the way, it was time to find out how well I've done. Our fourth place award and percent to get to Gabriel Leto. We have Victor Jog. We'll take our second place award and percent to our runner-up, our god, Igor Benko. Woo! Yeah! Yeah! We'll take our second place award and percent to our runner-up, Tyler Stetlum. Woo! And we'll show our classic, the same, the last couple of different pole-housing rounds again, number 314 Hudson. Yeah! Woo! Yeah! We'll take our second place award and percent to our runner-up, Hudson. Woo! Yeah! Woo! Yeah! We'll start by taking our third place award and presenting it to Number 300 Larry Orson. Woo! Hudson. Woo! We'll pause for a while and pause a pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause pause So it turns out in the end the only person to beat me wasn't a 20 year old, wasn't a 30 year old, but was a man six years older than myself. And that just showed me that not only is age just a number, but for a lot of people it can also become an excuse. But you should always try and strive for something more. So even though I had placed first in two categories by placing second in Masters and Open, it still gave me a hill to climb and a future goal to try and go out and accomplish. Alright, if you could wrap this experience up in one word, what would it be? You would... Buff! Jesus! Is that even a word? It's just flex. I think that's even better. Is that even a word? It's true. And this is about the last flex I have because I'm a flexed out man. Yeah, I bet. I'm ready to have a little food. I'm ready to enjoy some family company and I want to say thank you to all of you who have supported us over the years. It means the world to me. That's part of the reason that I did this entire thing was because of you. So much appreciated and we'll try our best to keep going strong. Super Friday, bro. Yeah, man. You're crying. Cut the camera.

=== FILE: My Life Has Just Changed Forever [rzOX49iAI_s].txt ===

 Okay, so much like the title says, I have had a very wild last week. This isn't necessarily a video that I wanted to make, but I thought I should, just to let you know what's going on. There's some good news, there's some bad news. I will start with the very good but shocking news we had. This grand plan, we thought it'd be so cool since I did a bodybuilding contest last year. We thought, well, this year why don't we have it brother versus brother. Our dad was going to do it, Auga, Makayla. It was going to be like a family entering a bodybuilding contest. Then of course that was a little derailed when Brandon had his back injury. And well, we got some news. Auga was preparing for her competition. She was doing a great job, really hard worker, very determined. She woke me up one morning and said, take a look at this pregnancy test. What does it look like to you? And I said, well, it says positive, which was quite a shock to both of us. We weren't really planning on it, but it happened. The buff seed is strong. So we were going through with those steps. We had the ultrasound. Auga said something feels different. That doesn't feel like the past two because we have two other children. She went into another ultrasound. I wasn't present and she came home. She kind of had some tears in her eyes. I was wondering what was happening. She said the doctor did the ultrasound and said, well, there's baby number one and there's baby number two. It took me a second to process and I said twins and Auga said, yeah, we're having twins. And I felt an emotion that I had never experienced up to that point. I'm not even sure how to describe it. I'm sure, you know, it looked like I saw a ghost. Once I kind of let it process for a little while, I was very excited and it's fun. It is a little high risk. It's going to have to be monitored pretty closely throughout the whole duration. That's the good news and the bad news, unfortunately, a couple of days later, we were working on a video. It was a DIY build, you know, kind of trying to rush. It's all about trying to get ideas out there. We kind of had another big one where thinking, oh, why don't we make like a post-apocalyptic gym? Wouldn't that be cool? Kind of like Mad Max, all the movies we really love. So we're testing some of the equipment, you know, we're doing it again and again. This is a multi-day shoot. So it was me, my dad, a buddy, his, Brandon, Kaila, we're all there. We're all working away. And I was testing machine, testing machine. There was that one moment I wasn't thinking and I just really ripped into it. It was kind of like a DIY equivalent of a cable fly and I just heard this pop. It kind of felt like a rubber band had exploded right about here. We kind of made a little DIY low mid-makeshift sling with a t-shirt and we had to drive about an hour to the urgent care. The doctor said, based upon your symptoms, it looks like you're going to need an ultrasound. The first five days I would say I could not move my arm. I mean, and that led me to believe that it was a bicep tear, like a proximal bicep tear, like it basically tore from the shoulder. A lot of swelling. I would say most of the pain was in the shoulder and had the ultrasound. They worked on it for quite a while. They did it. They went back. They came again. They did it some more. They said, well, it looks like the good news is there's no full tear, but they would recommend getting an MRI. The process of getting an MRI was a little lengthy for me. I had to get a referral. They set up the referral for kind of like two weeks later, but I said, I can't wait that long. I just said, can you just give me one? They said, well, no, you got to have a referral. I went online. I found a doctor online. They gave me a referral. I came back. They told me to fax it. I said, well, no, have a fax machine. So I came in person. I gave it to them. Had to wait another day or two for them to kind of process it in their system. Got the MRI set up. Had that done. By that time I was healing very quickly. It was kind of shocking. I had a lot of the mobility back. I was kind of moving my arm quite a bit. I felt pretty good. And then I got a text at about 9 p.m. from my physical therapist and he said, hey, check your email right now. So I did knowing the news probably wasn't going to be great. And the results from the MRI was, yes, it's a full pecter, the tendon with the three and a half centimeter retraction. So, you know, my pecs kind of been pulled this way. And yeah, I was bummed. I was super bummed. Tried to set up the orthopedic surgeon immediately. Unfortunately, that wasn't able to happen. It's been about like three weeks now. It's, you know, I'm sure for those of you who have went through an injury as well, it's like you're constantly thinking all the things through your head about how it could have been avoided. Obviously, I've tried to like work out safely my entire life. I'm 43 now. I haven't had a major injury while like traditionally working out. It's only been doing these like kind of like ridiculous challenges and DIY builds we've done. So, I mean, we're at a crossroads. I mean, Brandon's injured. I'm injured. It's a major injury. You know, you're talking about nine months to a year of recovery time. I'm going to be in a sling for a month. I'm not really going to be able to use the arm at all for up to three months. So, yeah, there we go. I'll make another video after the surgery. The surgery is happening very shortly. Me and Brandon will also have to discuss what the future holds because at this point we have no idea. Hate to end on a downer, but I'm going to stay strong. I mean, I'm just very anxious to get the surgery because I can't wait to begin the recovery process. I think that's the hardest thing at this point is just waiting. I'll have the surgery and then we'll see what happens and then we'll let y'all know. So, hope 2026 is going good for the rest of you. Again, there was some good news. So, that's great. I couldn't let the whole video be a downer, but I will see you again after the surgery. And, you know, until then, I can still flex with this arm. Stay buff. Had to show you a quick update on August physique. She went from a bodybuilder to a... Bodybuilder. Literally. Two bodies. Two bodies. Two bodies. It's going to get much bigger. And I also thought it might be interesting for those of you who may wonder what a pectare looks like pre-surgery. So, I'm going to take my t-shirt off really quick and show you. Little anti-climactic. Not that exciting. As you can see, there's not a lot of difference. I made a mistake early on when I didn't realize it was a pectare and I was kind of flexing my pec, which I shouldn't have. Now, you'll notice there's that natural indentation there and a healthy pec. When I flexed this one, there's a little bit more of an indentation, which kind of led me to believe there was probably some issue there. But, looks pretty normal overall and I think that's the dangerous part is because if I wouldn't have had that MRI, I wouldn't have known the extent of the damage and I could have done the really bad thing, which is making it even worse, which would have resulted in a lot of scar tissue, a lot more rehab, and the orthopedic surgeon may have had a much harder time pulling the pec back to drill it into the shoulder. So, this is what I look like now and my next step is having that surgery. So, I will see you all then and wish Aga luck and wish me luck as well.

=== FILE: My Wife Made Me Workout Like a Woman for 90 Days, Here's What Happened [Q_wSODlGcZw].txt ===

 for the next 90 days, I'm gonna try to turn my husband into a woman. Wait what? Pistons! For years, I've trained like a dude. Heavy, basic, simple. But for the next 90 days, I'm switching sides. Will I tighten up, get firm, or maybe I'll unlock a hidden muscle mommy gene buried deep inside my cheesy glutes? I have no idea, but I'm about to find out. Pistons! So a couple months back, I took my wife, Aga, through more of a man's training program. And a lot of people in the comments said, hey, well now that she's done it, it's your turn. But one of my first questions is, what makes up a woman's training program? What is the main difference? Because being a 90s kid, I would hear a lot of terms thrown around, like toning up. And that's very vague. I mean, what exactly is toning up? And it actually makes me really proud to see women training now, because a lot of people has realized it's not like this massive different world. It's just specificity. So that's exactly what I am going through doing this, which kind of works out perfect. Because I did a bodybuilding competition earlier this year. And one of the things that I felt I was kind of lagging behind on with shoulders back, maybe not so much glutes, but legs, surely. So that's the goal. I'm having 3,800 calories a day, and I'm trying to make things big. Nice. Stage 1, day 1. Here we go. Oh my goodness. That's objective occasion. Do it more. Yeah, I was about to say you like it. Day 1 was pretty much what I expected it to be. Really hard. We had a mix of balance, stability, a lot of compound exercises, and unilateral work. So even though I was training like a woman, it felt just as intense as any man's workout I've ever done. And I am tracking my entire journey in our Buff app. So if you'd like to see all my workouts, you can check it out. It's available on Android and iOS. There's a free version where you can do custom workouts and have access to over 500 exercises. Or if you'd love to support us, you can do all of our plans and also have access to a great community. How are you? So pumped. Nice. Taking a little look back at what I weighed earlier in the year, I was pretty lean, more so than I'd usually like to be. And that is my big goal, is trying to put on as much weight as I can. So I'm going to see if I can maximize all this training for my benefit. So while I am doing a lot of like glutes and shoulders work, I'm also really loading that weight up in the process because I want to see just how much I can change over the course of these three months. I was looking for some signs that it's going well and I just found one. I have, I'm very proud to say, ripped my first pair of pants while performing a leg workout. So those muscles back there are growing. They can't be contained and I'm going to have to find some new pants, but I don't know, I'm a little proud of it. So one pair of pants down and possibly many more to go. I am on my fourth week and that means I'm entering stage two. Now, stage one was kind of like the entry level guide to, I guess, what you could say, training like a woman. So there was balance. There was some more of the dynamic exercises, a lot of compounds. But now I'm heading into more of this specificity where I really am training with certain exercises, which are typically more focused for women. One of those being hip thrusts. My hip thrusts are coming along great, but I've run into a little bit of a predicament in that. Our home gym, we've only got 500 pounds. Now I say only that's a lot of weight, but I feel I can go more in my hip thrust. Thankfully, I have a backup weight available. It may look a little awkward, but sometimes in order to get that PR, you got to be willing to get a little awkward. There we go. I like big butts in a can. So how are you feeling now that we're halfway there? I'm feeling good. Yeah, the weight is going on fast. I was really happy about the strength gains, but unfortunately, I'm not really noticing any kind of voluptuous shape developing in my body. Yeah, I don't think there's much we can do about that. Which I'm kind of happy about. But I am very proud of the fact that I PR'd on the hip thrust. That was amazing. Thank you for the help, by the way. You're welcome. You can hip thrust me anytime. Cut. We finally got to the end of the Bavogar plan, and there's no better way to end it than with a full-blown glutes-only workout. I would expect nothing less. Let's do it. Someone's gonna have to give this bar a pregnancy test. It's done. You committed to the booty gains, and to show you how proud I am, I have a present. Oh, no. Oh, yes. And now it's time for the booty pose down. You've been warned. So, in my video last year, you taught me some very masculine poses. Yeah, well, we're not doing that. Oh, okay. Yeah, we're not doing that today. Today, we're teaching you how to do the feminine poses and how to move with grace. A lot of interior pelvic tilt. There you go. Wow. What? It's like, you just got to imagine you're a duck. Dang. Okay. Well, good job. That's the first step. In your... I'm so confused right now. See how your quad pops? Oh, nice. And now we do this nice little dainy. Put it in the front to create the curves. You do this so much better than I do. Well, I would hope so. Now we're gonna take it back. Okay, show a little bit of the tricep. Yeah. Nice. Now we go to the money shot. Oh, no, not this one. Secure booty out. There you go. Wow, looks good. Yeah, but yeah. Then you do a little sway of the hip. No, no, no, stop. Oh, God. Okay, let's... Let's take this hand back. I think you're doing too good. Okay, so it's all about the transitions. We don't just, you know, we need to be dainy, feminine. Okay. With motions. A lot of hand motions. I'm none of those things, but I'm gonna give it my best try. So now we're gonna put the weight on this leg. Okay. In a nice transition. Wow, that was so graceful. Yep. This booty should pop here and we twist and then you flex. So we gotta have a little bit of the bobdooks in there. Yeah, just a little bit. There's not much left. This is the result of three months of bulking. That is quite a difference from my competition weight, but overall I'm happy because as a natural going into a bulk, I was able to put muscle into the groups I wanted to, and the glutes was a nice little bonus. I'm sad to report that your attempt to turn me into a woman failed miserably, but I gotta say I loved the training. It's always extremely fun for me to do something new, and it kind of goes to show you that you're not gonna necessarily turn into something if you train like something. I know with your video, a lot of people almost kind of got mildly offended by even the title of the video, but I'm not gonna say that I'm not gonna say that I'm not gonna do anything new. I'm gonna say that I'm not gonna say that I'm not gonna do anything new. I'm not gonna say that I'm not gonna be offended by even the title itself, so I'm very interested to see how people take the title of this one. But it's really the specificity, you know? The goal was bigger legs, back shoulders, you know, I only had really that 90 day period. You're not gonna make these astronomical gains, but I am happy with what happened. I got some PRs and I put on some solid weight. The booty's popping. Ah yeah, pure steel. So let us know what you want us to do next time. I mean, wilder than this, but keep those gains coming in. Until next time, stay buff.

=== FILE: The Diet That Built Our Bodies (and our Buff Dudes Career!) [yzp8yb-DTUU].txt ===

 We tracked every calorie in macro we ate for 10 years. Here's what happened. For some people, counting calories in macros may seem like a lot of work, but as we've learned over the years, it is usually the missing piece of the puzzle in order to fully realize your buffazique. In this video, we're going to be going over the top grocery items, the meal plan, and the macro splits which helped turn Brandon into a god. Literally. I'm on my way to the grocery store, and what I'm going to be doing is buying the foods that help me win my first bodybuilding competition. Something by the way that I did completely naturally at the age of 42, and I have to say it's a diet which has been life changing. But I also don't want to leave out anyone who may not know exactly what calories in macros are. So to help fix this problem, I have spent the last week working on a 60 second song to try to explain calories in macros the best I can, and I'm calling it What's a Calorie. I hope you enjoy it. What's a calorie? It's a measure of energy. The food you eat has a caloric score. Giving your body power and so much more. This core idea, you got to grasp. Calories come from macros for every single task. Macros are the source, the three big guns. Where all your body's energy runs. Protein, carbs and fats and sometimes ethanol. They come from stuff like meat, bread, nuts and alcohol. Protein repairs muscle and makes them grow at 4 calories per gram. The anabolic ammo. It's a quick fuel for your brains and brawn. At 4 calories per gram, it's an energy autobahn. That's a hormone and vitamin absorption. 9 calories per gram, it's dense in proportion. Ethanol is essential in your system. Depressant at 7 calories per gram, it's uselessness is incessant. Now how to find your perfect zone? Calculate your TDE on your cell phone. Wear your food and be consistent. You'll never see change if you're not persistent. So know your grams. Know your fuel. And don't you forget buff dude's rule. Yeah. Ha ha ha. The title of this video is no joke. I had been tracking my calories in macros since I was 19 years old. So I just want to quickly go over why I started and how it helped me achieve some pretty cool goals. Now I started tracking calories in macros due to competing in a bodybuilding competition at 19 years old. And I even have some of my old diaries from back then. And as you can tell it's very basic and was more focused on calories because I didn't really have a good idea of what I was doing. It was all just trial and error at that point. But there's one thing I did know. Protein was good for muscle growth so I ate a lot of it. And it worked. After my competition I quickly began shooting for fitness magazines like reps and muscle and fitness and started to get a better handle of how to manipulate my calories and got more precise on my macro split for the best results. And because of this my confidence started to rise and I began dreaming of bigger things. I made a goal of one day making the cover of muscle and fitness magazine. Now unfortunately I didn't achieve that goal which was a lesson that you might not get everything you want. But little did I know this path would lead me down to something even better. Because of the fitness work I got a commercial agent and got sent out for castings that needed a buff dude for the role. And apparently that was a perfect fit. I got cast as Kratos in the God of War Ascension trailer which was an amazing experience. And later I was cast as Mario in two separate commercials which I flew to Japan to shoot. Now I'm not saying all this to brag but instead I wanted to give an example of how something so simple as starting to track my calories and macros eventually led to some pretty cool stuff. Now obviously not everyone has a goal of fitness modeling or commercial work but regardless of what your goal is taking the time to care for your body and having the confidence of knowing that you can be the best you can be can eventually bring you to new heights. And of course we also started buff dudes. Me and my brother Hudson made a goal of making an awesome fitness channel and I got to say after these 12 years it's been an amazing experience and it really all started with just counting calories and macros and trying to build an amazing physique. Oh well that takes care of the daily groceries except for the protein. If only there was a way to get that extra little bit in a convenient form. There is. Introducing David a protein bar that redefines what's possible. 28 grams protein 150 calories and zero grams sugar. That means over 75 percent of its total calories come from protein alone. David isn't just another protein bar it's the future of protein. This is exactly what I've been missing in order to achieve my perfect macrosplit. Way free shipping on your first order. Try David today. Muscles are made in the gym but revealed here in the kitchen is a very powerful quote to me because that's the mentality it took for me to realize that was the missing piece of the puzzle that I needed to finally see my physique come into focus. And unlike Brandon who really was a machine from about the age of 20 to 30 he still is but during that period of time it is no joke he literally tracked all of his calories and macros. I remember many nights going out we were with friends maybe we'd have some pizza, beers whatever and every time he was like no it doesn't fit my calories and macros and as you could see earlier from what he said he was rewarded handsomely for that. Now I can say I've tracked mine for about 10 years as well but it's been more intermittent but I was very happy with the fact over the course of the past five months I rigorously tracked mine and I was able to win my very first natural bodybuilding competition and I have to say a big part of that was thanks to many of you who motivated me who gave me very kind words of encouragement and as a way of saying thank you I've designed my exact routine I used eating wise in order to win my competition and I've included it as a free PDF in the description of this video so download it print it out and use it as I have maybe not for a bodybuilding competition but really just to help get into the best shape of your life and as you can see here these are the meals that I've used over the course of that five months to get into that shape. Really simple stuff I'm a big fan of single ingredient foods I did a natural testosterone boosting test about a year ago in which I really tried to focus on foods whose claimed benefits was boosting natural testosterone and I've kept those as a staple of my diet ever since because I strongly believe they're extremely beneficial and some of the things that I have to say in regards to calories and macros is number one don't be scared of it a lot of people think oh man that's just one more thing I got to do and I don't have time for that and the great news is you don't have to make it a daily thing that you're going to do until the day you die it's just a really great way to find out where you are because through our lives we've met so many people and they go well I'm eating enough or I'm getting enough protein and we say really what are you trying tracking it and they come back to us and they go oh man you're right I was only having 60 grams of protein one day 200 the next I was having 250 grams of fat one day my carbs are way too high so really the way I look at it is you can reach your destination without counting calories and macros but it's a really great flashlight map and an overall aid in order to help you reach that destination much faster which with a much clearer idea of where you're going so in regards to quote unquote diets I would say calorie and macro tracking is hands down my favorite of all time you can do it whether you're keto carnivore vegan it doesn't matter all you're doing is keeping track of what you're putting into your body and for me it's been extremely beneficial that wraps up our 10 year calorie and macro journey the video might be wrapped up but our journey is going to continue because we are going to still count our calories macros because it's done wonders for us and it continues to these abs and get chiseled out of stone they actually got chiseled from counting my calories macros he's an actual Greek statue God now this is peak calorie and macro tracking this is what the other guys don't want you to know about actually maybe not yeah maybe we should say this actually doesn't happen we applied makeup and Brandon's gonna be taking this off with a scrub for the next six hours in the shower yeah let's all pay our respects in the comment section and until next time stay buff

=== FILE: We Ate Nothing But EGGS for a Week, Here's What Happened [OrPsJSxdpxI].txt ===

 We ate nothing but eggs for seven straight days. Here's what happened. Here's what happened. Here's what happened. Here's what happened. Here's what happened. Here's what happened. Here's what happened. Here's what happened. I think I got a call quiz. I'm just too full. There was a popular diet back in the 1960s by a man named Vince Garanda, a bodybuilder and trainer named the Iron Guru. He made up a diet plan that consists of 36 eggs a day with steak and ground beef mixed in, heavy cream and butter. And he claimed that it was a steroid replacement diet. Is that true? Well, I'm about to find out because that's the exact diet I'm going to be on for the next week. And I, on the other hand, am going to be taking it even further. For the next seven days, I'm going to have nothing but eggs for breakfast, lunch and dinner. What's going to happen? We have no idea. But we are about to go get our blood work done because we're going to do it before and then after the seven days, we are going to be doing it after. We just luck. We're going to get some more blood drawn. I hope I have some blood left. We've had a lot of tests lately. We're getting some tests done so that way we can see the results essentially after one week of eating 36 eggs a day. This is going to be very interesting. It is always kind of cool to see where you're at and how something that you switch up for a week affects you. So that is the cool part. Blood bros. I don't want to flex. I was going to flex. Blood starts to run everywhere. So here we go. This is the beginning. Let's eat all those eggs and then we're going to come back and see what happens. Then we're going to have matching. I know, right? The body is just going to be. I think they didn't have a hard time finding the veins. I see about 700. Here we are. We're at the grocery store. It's going to be very easy shopping today. I've got a very short list. Number one is going to be eggs. 36 eggs a day. That equals 252 eggs. Over the course of seven days, that means we need to buy a lot of eggs. That's going to be personal on a list. So let's get to it. There we go. Now this is what 504 eggs would look like. Two guys over the course of one week, seven days. This is how many eggs we would be eating. So that is a lot. Next up, we've got the heavy whipping cream. Now this is going to be used for the shakes, the egg shakes essentially, just to add a little bit more fat and flavor. A few more things is going to be ground beef. Now I'm going to probably go with a little bit leaner ground beef just because I'm having so much fat from the eggs, heavy cream, stuff like that. So I'm going to go 93% lean. Here we go. Some steak. This is going to be good. Steak and eggs, man. These guys knew. They knew it was up. A few more things. He did have some greens. Spinach and cucumber. Going to have this as a salad with one or two of the meals. And that is it. Very, very simple. We are done. It's time to check out. We're back from the grocery store and I just picked up some eggs that were $3.50 for a dozen. So I am able to eat for about $10 a day, get over 200 grams of protein, get 2,500 calories. That's a pretty damn good deal in my opinion. All right. So we just got back from our egg shopping spree and it is kind of intimidating seeing all of these eggs. And of course I have my meat and a little bit of veggies as well. But now the next big challenge is to see if I can fit all of this in my refrigerator. After a while I finally found enough room in my fridge to fit all of these eggs and I got to say it was pretty intimidating seeing them all in there and knowing I'm going to have to eat them over the next week. But tomorrow is when the challenge starts. So it's time to see if I can actually do this. It is day number one. It's the morning. I have woken up fast. I'm weighing in, doing a little bit of a physique check. It is day number one and I am taking this time to weigh in to see how much weight I gain or lose during this week long journey of eating 36 eggs a day. I'm also doing a physique check to see what I look like in the beginning, comparison to the end. Now I know there's not going to be a huge difference within only a week but it's always interesting to see even minor changes. Now I'm logging my weight in our Buff app. It's an app that we've been developing for a long time. We built it from the ground up and a lot of care has gone into making this app. We put a lot of gamification features into it meaning that you can gain experience points through your workouts. You can level up. You can unlock metals that have all custom artwork. No AI generated artwork whatsoever in this app and you can build out custom workouts, routines. You can use our pre-designed programs that have a world map so you can kind of keep track of where you are within the program and there's a massive community on this app, an amazing community tab where you can follow people, you can comment, you can like and of course there is a lot of different stats. You can look and do, you have a homepage on the app to see your levels, to see your experience and to see basically how you're progressing through your fitness journey. We are extremely proud of this app. We would love for you guys to download it. You can find it on the Apple App Store or Google Play so check it out and let us know what you think. There we go. We are looking at one full day of eating right here. I've got some Willy's eggs. Dozen times three, thirty six. This is going to be one full day of eating. Pretty simple. I am ready for my first meal of the day and it is going to be very simple. Of course, eggs are the main component of this meal. I'm doing six whole eggs fried or I should say lightly fried but I'm really trying to keep the eggs as runny as possible and Vince was a big believer in this. He didn't want to denature the protein. He thought that it was better for absorption and better for digestion. Of course, now we know that isn't necessarily true but I'm going to be sticking with how Vince did it. There we go. We are looking at 720 calories, 72 grams of protein, 48 grams of fat. This is 12 eggs and this is breakfast. I'm on to my second meal of the day and it is going to be the hormone precursor protein shake. That's what Vince called it. What does that mean? I'm not entirely sure. This is absolutely delicious. No carbs, all fat, all protein and damn, it is tasty. Once I'm done, I'm going to be hitting the gym and it's time to see if this hormone precursor protein shake actually works. Continuing the theme of following Vince Garanda's advice, I'm going to be performing his eight by eight on us workout. The reason it was called the honest workout is because of supposedly how brutally effective it was even if it looked simple on paper. It is eight sets of eight repetitions. I'm going to be performing shoulders, biceps and triceps today. The whole goal in this is to keep every repetition very slow and controlled and the rest times are as low as 15 seconds. We're really going to be over before I even know it. We're going to bust this out. As I was charging through the workout, I started to ponder why eggs have been such an integral part of food history and how they become synonymous for some with building a healthy physique. Has this always been the case? And not necessarily. Eggs have had a rocky path in how they've been looked at as either healthy or not. So let's take this time to get a better look at eggs throughout history. Sometimes yes, sometimes no. Let's go back in history for eggs, friend or foe. In prehistoric times, eggs were edible and that's about the only thing that mattered. That and remembering how to chew them properly. In ancient Egypt, eggs were a symbol of life and rebirth. Even buried in tombs for the afterlife. The Romans started meals with eggs. The phrase obovo meant from the egg or from the very beginning. In medieval Europe, eggs were banned during Lent, viewed as a foe for the first time, but certainly not the last. At the turn of the century, eggs had become a breakfast staple, a sign of strength and vitality. Most were America made eggs a cultural icon. Sunny side up, alongside bacon and toast. Then in 1968, there was a turn for the worst. When the American Heart Association sounded the alarm, limit eggs to three per week, they said. The E80s doubled down on cholesterol fear. Egg yolks became the villain. Egg whites, the hero. In 1999, a Harvard study suggested moderate egg intake didn't increase heart disease risk in healthy people. The tides were turning. By 2015, US guidelines dropped the cholesterol limit entirely. Eggs were back on the menu. And today, some hail eggs as nature's multivitamin, while others still eye them with suspicion. The truth, as always, is somewhere in the middle. What do you think? All right. I am done with day number one. I had a total of 42 eggs. Breakfast 12, lunch 12, dinner 12, and I had the six hard boiled. My eggs were medium sized, so I had to eat a little bit more. I ended up having 2,500 calories, which is exactly what I wanted. 252 grams of protein, 168 grams of fat, and zero carbohydrates. I just had straight eggs. Little bit of salt and pepper. I don't know. I loved it. I love eggs. That's not to say I'm going to love them over the course of an entire seven day, but day number one is done and I thoroughly enjoyed myself. And I'm excited to see where the rest of this experiment goes. What I'm struggling with most in the gym and with my workouts is really the fact that I typically have about 30% of my carbs before a workout, 40% afterwards. I'm really using that quick energy as a source of fuel. So very rapidly stopping that has been a bit of a shock for my system. Now, I've done this before with keto. I've done it with fasting and I'm feeling those same similar effects. I'm trying to transition into using the fat as the fuel source and it is just not happening as fast as I'd like. So I feel extreme fatigue and a big drop in strength levels. I don't think I can do it. I don't think I can keep eating these eggs. No tears, please. That would be a waste of good luck. What are you? An angel to some, a demon to others. Your smell razor. Me to take your ass for a pint. Drink. It is currently the halfway mark in this challenge and I want to give a little update on how I'm feeling. So I'm having six meals a day. I'm eating every two to three hours and I'm having a little over 4,000 calories. But surprisingly, I am pretty hungry throughout the day and I'm always looking forward to my next meal and that is something I didn't quite expect. Now I know a lot of people are probably curious about digestion or maybe if the farts are completely deadly and I have to be honest, I have not had an issue with digestion. I haven't really had any gas, nothing out of the ordinary at least. And if I do, it doesn't smell any different than it normally does. So I know that might be too much information for some people, but I know some people out there might be a little curious. So 36 eggs a day, I got to say, this has been a pretty easy challenge so far and I know I have it pretty easy. Hudson, he is just having eggs where I am getting a little variety in there and I think that is helping me a lot. So I am ready to finish up this challenge, but I am curious, of course, after this, what my blood work is going to say because I am having an insane amount of fat throughout the day and I went from having a pretty normal diet to all of a sudden having zero carbs and all fat and protein. So I'm a little concerned, but so far I'm doing pretty awesome. Eggs are consumed all over the world and there is a ton of different recipes. So we thought it would be cool to make a segment called Eggs Around the World. And I have recruited Buff Mom. She is going to be making all of these recipes for the very first time. Are you ready? I'm ready. Here we go. Here we go. In France, there is the omelette, thin, elegant, classy, refined. In India, there is masala egg curry, bold, spicy, rich and comforting. In Mexico, there is huevos rancheros, rustic hearty and full of life. In Japan, there is tamagoyaki, sweet, delicate, layered. In Italy, there is the frittata, rustic filling, communal. In Greece, there is trappasada, bright, fresh, Mediterranean. In Turkey, there is manemen, savory, saucy and very shareable. In China, there is the tomato and egg stir fry, sweet, savory and a bit like home. In the United States, there is the modern deviled eggs, creamy, zesty, bite sized. In Iran, there is kokus absi, fragrant green, celebratory. In Spain, there is the tortilla espagnola, golden, layered, iconic. In Thailand, there is kajal, crispy, fluffy, street style. Now this looks like our kind of place. Time to eat some moe eggs. It is currently Friday and we're getting closer to wrapping this challenge up so we decided to go out and eat for a little treat. And we definitely found the perfect place. The good news is we know they have eggs here. Now the question is, are they going to make 12 of them for us? That's always a little tricky when you're ordering off the menu. You're like, give me 12 eggs please. They always kind of give you that look like one. Okay, so I have a very interesting request. Me and my brother are doing an experiment throughout the week where I particularly am just eating eggs. So I was going to ask, could I get a special request to just have 12 eggs? Would that be possible? Okay. Okay, because I need 6 eggs. Okay. I'm just going to have them as possible and then us in a state. They have to be cool with our order and fulfilled it. And we enjoyed our eggs, but this was only day 5 and we had 2 more days left. And I was a little nervous because tomorrow we had a big challenge ahead of us. We've got 2 days left of our egg experiment and we're upping the ante a bit. There's a classic movie called Cool Hand Luke and in it, the character Luke makes the bet that he can eat 50 eggs in 1 hour. So that's exactly what we're going to try to do. We have 100 eggs right here, 50 eggs each and we're going to see if we can do it in 1 hour. So what will me and Hudson be eating? Well, 50 eggs each, that is 3000 calories, 300 grams of protein and 200 grams of fat each. But doing that in 1 hour, that seems like a feat. First off, just want to say huge thanks to our mom for boiling all of these eggs, 100 eggs. It took an hour, which wasn't bad. Wow, that's not bad. So an hour to make and hopefully an hour to eat. We've got the timer almost ready to go. This is 50 right here. Once the first egg is eaten, the timer will start. The little toes. Here we go. Timer started. Doesn't even look like a beat. I mean, yeah, you've eaten more than me. I'm not good at this. I'm taking down this first jar. Now I might take a little break before I get to the second one, but I'm definitely going to nonstop on this thing. I'm getting close. We've got it, man. I know, I'm going to try, I'm going to play, I'm a hardist. 70 eggs to go. Got it, no. Okay, I suddenly did get a tiny little twinge of sour in my stomach, though. I'm hitting that limit. I think I got a cold quench. It's too cold. That's it, that's it for me. I'm going to, I'm just close to throwing up. I see it in your eyes. Yep. They're turning green. Your whole complexion is green. Yeah, in fact. I'm the color of these yolks now. Well, what was the official, thank you. Yeah, thank you. The official, let's count these up while there's one there. I didn't get much honestly, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. So I only made it through 15. 15? That's it. Wow. I couldn't do it. I'm just not up to the challenge, I guess. Now excuse me while I vomit. Out of both orifices. Yeah, who knows. But I'm going to be gone now. I'll be in the bathroom for the next hour. Good luck. Thanks. Mom, we're going to need a plunger. It was at this point I headed home knowing I only ate 15 eggs and needed to eat another 21 throughout the day. But Hudson stayed behind to finish the rest of the 50. I couldn't help but wonder if he was going to be able to do it. And if he did, how that was even possible. This is it. I am down to the final egg, the 50th. It's been well over two hours so I'm not beating Cool Hand Luke's record. I am just happy to have made it this far. 300 grams of protein, 200 grams of fat. You may notice I've been extremely serious in the time lapse. That's because I've spent about the last hour and a half in a therapy session talking to my mom about the life choices which led me to eating 50 eggs in one sitting. This last one alone is going to take like 25 minutes. I did it. 50 eggs. About two and a half hours. The challenge is done. Mom, we're going to need to resume our therapy session. Sunday, my experiment with eggs is taking a dramatic turn. Eggs are no longer a diet. They're an obsession. I think about them. I dream about them. Sometimes I even feel like I'm becoming them. The more I consume, the more my desire for eggs increases. I had to find something, find an egg beyond normal human comprehension and after a manic night of research, I'd found it. It's here. So I'm currently waiting for my brother. He's heading to my place right now. He said he's bringing a big surprise. I think he is here. There he is. I got it. He's got a special gift. I don't know what this thing is, but it looks pretty big. Should feel it. It feels heavy. It is heavy. What the hell is that thing? This is the largest egg in the world. This is a normal egg and this is the ostrich egg. I'm so interested to see how this thing is going to taste. That's true. Or how the hell we're even going to get into that thing. I know, right? We got to bust out the special tool for this one. This is the moment of truth. Oh my, whoa. You can see the yolk in there. It's massive. There it goes. Oh my. That was like never ending. That's a full day of eating. That is insane. Brandon, it's time to cook. Yeah. We're just having Michaela help here cook up some of the eggs. She's been stirring to make sure it's cooking all the way through. And she's noticing that it doesn't look like a typical egg. There's something special with this one. Are you sure this isn't an alien egg because this looks pretty disgusting and gelatinous. I've got to be honest, it does actually look kind of gross. It looks like gelatin or something in this. So it looks a little off. The smell of it seems almost like, it's like wild game. There's something about wild game that's just a little different. That smell is almost like gamey. It's hard to explain. You go first. We're going to have Michaela be the taste tester. Here you go. The ostrich egg taste test. Here we go. Not bad. Not bad at all. Fluffy, light. It has a lot of flavor. It does taste a little different than a normal egg, like a typical egg. Yeah. It's lighter, I feel like. It's not quite as flavorful as a regular egg. Great aftertaste. Okay. Yeah, I like it. Thumbs up. So, the challenge is over. The blood work results are in. Let's check it out. Okay, so the beginning blood results were all in the grain. All normal, which is nice to see. Very healthy. And that doesn't really surprise me too much. We try to lead a healthy lifestyle and have a good consistent diet. Having said that, let's now check out the after. And before we get into it, I want to say really quick, I added up the amount of eggs I had over seven straight days. Remember, all I had was eggs. And the amount I had in one week was 291 eggs. That's a lot of eggs. It's kind of disappointing to see, honestly. There's a lot of red flags that pop up in my after challenge blood test here. We're not looking too good anymore. No, no. My total cholesterol is up to 270. That's 70 over than what you should normally have. What's yours? Mine is 209. So, mine is a lot higher. And I think that's probably partially due to me just having a lot of heavy cream, a lot of butter, steak, and ground beef. Look, Vince Garanda said this was the steroid replacement diet. The steroid side effects. That's probably what he's talking about. Exactly. You know, your hair looks a little thinner. I got a lot more pimples. My LDL cholesterol is up to 195. What's yours? Mine is 152. So, yours is substantially higher. Absolutely. And my non-HDL cholesterol is up to 211. Mine is 168. Wow. I'm starting to think that I actually got the better deal by eating nothing but eggs. I think you did. And you know, it's funny because it mainly just comes down to cholesterol. Everything else looks normal. I think just comparing both of ours. Everything else is almost identical. Except the cholesterol. Mine is just skyrocketed. I mean, that's kind of crazy to think only after one week, which is not that long. I mean, a lot of times people will say, hey, you can't do a diet for one week and see results or changes. Well, I did. I saw my cholesterol skyrocket. And also, I saw huge changes in my body composition as well. I started at 216 pounds by the final day. I was down to about 206. Wow. So, I lost about 10 pounds in one week, which realistically I wouldn't consider healthy either. But that's pretty much what happens when you're having zero carbs. The fatigue was hitting me so bad in those final two days. I was supposed to get in some workouts and I just, I didn't even bother because I was struggling with really clarity, staying awake. I was having to take naps during the day, which isn't something that I usually do. And I know that can be, a lot of times what happens when you shock your system with something such as getting rid of the fast acting energy from the carbohydrates, but regardless, it still hit me hard. I mean, that was a crash diet. You did what is essentially a crash diet. Cut out all carbs. You did a major change just like that and we're on in a week and in lost 10 pounds. I weirdly enough, even though I was having up to 4,000 calories a day, lost about three pounds, which is crazy, which is weird. So that is, that is definitely, I did not expect that. I expected me to gain at least five pounds. And I, on the other hand, was having about 2,500 calories, which is about 300 less than I normally have. So the fact that I lost that much weight wasn't a huge shock to me because I was in a calorie deficit and I wasn't having any carbohydrates. So that was the egg experiment. It was very interesting and I think we, I think we busted that myth. Oh yeah. Yeah. And I think we're also going to take a little vacation from eggs for the time being until we get our cholesterol back in order. Brandon, especially, we got to monitor this guy closely. I know. I'm going to have to get on a normal diet for a week and then take it, take my blood test again, just to make sure I'm normal. No kidding. Cool. So let us know if there's any kind of diet experiment or myth you would like to see busted. And until next time, stay buff.

=== FILE: We Found the Secret to Staying Young (From 60–90 Year Old Athletes) [0qR6R8RmQTY].txt ===

 We are here in Corvallis, Oregon, home to OSU, beaver football, and the senior game. Okay, yes, they may be seniors, but here's the thing. These athletes are wiser, tougher, and more determined than most 20, 30, and 40-year-olds we know, including us. But they don't have it easy, pushing past adversity and father time with the benefit of youth no longer on their side. And one of those athletes is our dad. He just turned 68, and he's going to be competing in the senior games alongside some of the fittest people on earth. So me and Brandon thought this would be the perfect opportunity to tag along, watch him train, and ask as many senior athletes as we could the real question. What's your secret? And it turns out the answers that they gave us changed the way we view everything. Before heading out to the senior games, I met up with my dad, Duke, to see how his training was going and to ask him the question, how he's able to continue to do it at 68 years old. You know, it's always hard to fit everything into life, sometimes very challenging. When I decided to do the senior games, I was still working full-time. I'm still working full-time now. I drive truck, haul hay, tractor, do some mechanical stuff, all that kind of farm related things. So in order to fit the training in, I've got to try to schedule all that into the day or the week or the month. And of course that's challenging, but if you're up to that challenge, it's amazing how much you get accomplished. If you want to win a competition or compete in a competition, then set that goal and reach that goal. And if he don't reach that goal, we'll keep going until you do. You don't always have to get first place. The best thing to do is beat your personal best, challenge yourself. And that will be the greatest challenge I think you'll ever face because that's sometimes the most difficult. When I turned 60, that's when I decided that I want to do something competitively. So I started late in life, but that gives a good example of it's never too late to start. And because of learning the hard way without a teacher, it took a little longer, but I think learning from my mistakes. And that's the important thing. You think, Oh, I made a mistake. I messed up. I'm not worthy of it. But no, that's not the case. Making mistakes is good because once it's made, you probably never, ever repeat that mistake and you learn from it. So you can use that all through life. With my dad's work day and training wrapped up, we headed out to grab one last dinner before his competition. And it was there, he told me the real secret behind his success. If you think of a picture at your life or your pursuits or those kind of things, oftentimes you can't complete that picture on your own. So I have to give credit to Diane, my wife, who helped me complete the picture I was trying to draw, trying to paint the picture, beat a javelin, throw her a hammer, throw her. It took the right nutrition, the right inspiration. And she was always behind me doing that. And I can't give her enough credit for being that person who everybody should have in life, someone behind you, pushing you, helping you along. And then vice versa, you do the same for them. Dinner was finished and so was my dad's wise words. And now it was time for me and Brandon to pack up and hit the road. The training was over and the competition was about to begin. But first, it was time for an unforgettable encounter with the sponsor who made this video possible. I'll pack for the road trip. Now, if only there was a snack with the perfect macronutrient split for me. There is. What is that? Introducing David. Finish your masterpiece. 20 grams protein, 150 calories and zero grams sugar. This is the protein bar I've always dreamed of. Superior protein for the human form. David protein bar. David. Whether you're on a road trip, in between meals or just want a snack, grab a David protein bar. Enjoy free shipping on your first order. Try David today. David protein bar. We're getting down to the wire here. There's about half an hour before the big man performs. You feel nervous? Yeah, that's the key. I think really that adrenaline and that power. Well, do Scott plenty of adrenaline and power. So we're rooting for you doing a little bit more warm up. And then we're going to watch the javelin and hammer throw. Yeah. With our dad getting ready for his two events, me and Brandon thought this would be the perfect opportunity to wander around and find as many athletes as we could in order to ask them questions in regards to aging, fitness and how they stay inspired. I'm here with Ed. So we got Nathan here. I'm here with John. Now, John, how old are you? I'm 64. 73. I'm 59. 78. 84. Ed, we wanted to know what would the one piece of advice you would give your younger self be. Stay active. Believe you can do it. Stay in better shape. Probably don't drink so much beer. Continue working out. Don't stop. Take better care of your knees. Take things a little more seriously along the way. It's better to stay in shape than to try to get in shape. Get off the couch. Don't stop. Try it. Just do it. You're never going to be as young as you are now. Keep moving. Keep active and find the thing that you love to do and know that you there's never an end point. Like you can you can keep finding that new passion until you're 100. What do you do to keep yourself motivated to keep yourself getting out of bed every morning? I like to do it to inspire my kids. Just to get out of bed now is a great thing but yeah. The surprise that that the day we might bring. Just show up even if you got a crutch. If you can limp into the ring and do something you show up. It's for fun. You have to focus on what's ahead and not think about what happened before. And now we got a lot of people maybe they're getting in their late 20s 30s even coming up to 40s and they're telling themselves I can't do that or it's too late. What would you say to that? No you're not too old. I don't know if you are ever too old. You're not too old. You're not too old. I think you got to find what inspires you and feels good to you and really capitalize on that. Get off your duff. Just start. Begin doing something. I don't care if it's walking around the block. I think resistance training is critical. I think we should all be doing resistance training. Working on legs and balance. I think there's a psychological aspect to exercise which does more than just how you stay fit. Keep keep plug and keep going and enjoy it. This is the fountain of youth. If you stick with it you know and keep drinking the water of that fountain then you you could stay as young as you can. Find that thing that they love and to keep moving in whatever way feels good to them. No you're never going to be as young as you are now and you're never too old to start learning and start working on it and improving. That sums it up perfectly. Thank you Julie. That was amazing. Awesome. Congratulations. Thank you. Good luck today. Thank you so much. Really appreciate it. Feeling rejuvenated by watching the athletes perform but also their wisdom that only age can provide it was now time to watch our dad perform and see if all the training had paid off. What was it 42? 9. 9. Amazing job dad. Thank you. What a way to start. And I've been training like crazy to try to hit 40 and I wow. Nice. Training works. Who would have thought? Nice job. With over six months of training and the goal of hitting 40 meters our dad was extremely excited that he had not only hit 40 but he had surpassed that. Accomplishing his goal and going even farther. Afterwards it was time to watch him perform in the javelin alongside many of the other people that we had interviewed and watching their camaraderie and athleticism was a perfect way to wrap up the day. Now the only thing left was to find out how our dad had placed. Was he able to place first or was the competition just too fierce? First place. Congratulations. Thank you. Congratulations. There's for the hammer first place. Now we're here to collect his other medal. What are you serious? Thank you. Wow. I didn't expect. I probably was the only competitor in my age group. Don't shut up. He's got two first place trophies. He kicks some serious ass. Daddy did it. That's a good, that's going to be the title. No thank you guys. You guys are inspirational. I don't think I could have thrown so far in the hammer unless I was viewed through the scope of those lens with you guys behind it. We're glad to help. We're glad to support you and you kick some serious butt. Yeah. Yeah. Now days we're constantly bombarded on social media that you're just not good enough. Your body's not performing like it used to and the only solution is to take this pill to get big or take that pill to get small. But what we saw today was a group of people whose quiet determination made a huge impact. We're all going to age but there's no reason to make it an excuse. Just adapt, find a community of like-minded individuals and look past the noise and tell yourself that you can do it no matter if you're starting out at age 22 or 92.

=== FILE: We Lived Like Gen Z Teens and Learned The Scary Truth [NhxTzCsErB8].txt ===

 we let teenagers control our lives for 24 hours. Here's what happened. We that, who that, take a picture, baby, let me step back. So we have two teenagers with us today. Yo, bag bag. Woo, woo. Now, what kind of foods do you guys have waiting for us? Just kind of roam around and pick some stuff out. OK, so we're going to be grazing, basically. You're saying that's kind of like what most teenagers do. Oh, yeah. See what looks good and pick it out. Find what looks good. Yeah. Just eat it until you are full. Very simple. I like it. It's spartan. Now, what kind of proteins are we in store for? Hot Cheetos. That is a protein I haven't heard of, but... A lotta chemically GMOs. Red Forti, yeah, Red Forti, yeah. Wow, OK, that's gonna be interesting, it's not gonna feel good. Let's go to store, let's grab that stuff. Defense, Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense This okay, so this is very factually correct and you at yourselves eat this Maybe once a month come on Yeah, that's what we all said he had to relapse the other night, okay This is basically just liquid sugar the teenagers drink water About every fortnight every blue moon When you play fortnight or every fortnight every fortnight Yeah, so we are to the energy drinks section Is this like a common staple of the modern American teenage diet energy drinks every day The days of black coffee or dying Wow done sugar-free energy three monsters every morning That is the teenage diet my god now. This is something that does not surprise me too much is we're right next to the ramen and That's something we ate is this is a time honored teenage tradition So I'm actually kind of happy to see this I have not eaten ramen since I was probably 19 Millennials and Gen Z have more in common than maybe we originally thought This is all The proteins that you need to grow flaming hot cheetos One gram of protein is serving 15 servings per container, so there's 15 That's all you need that's like a meal could kill that one meal right there I probably could should I know but take we're following it. Yeah One of us may die I see the fear in Brandon's eyes it continues to grow he's not saying much anymore He's pretty confident when we came in here, but now he's just quietly dying inside watching Evan and James pick his poison teenage laxative So this is okay, so this is great We're getting in the mind of teenagers, so it is really there is no plan There is no blueprint living in the moment. Yeah, literally you just go to a store to stay like whoa Follow the tip of my finger, okay? It's the most sugary one beef jerky cool One one just one grab they grab this one one for me, and have to fight So what are you guys thinking? I think this pretty good. This looks good working up your appetite. I'm glad it's working up someone's appetite Yeah, sorry, I was I'm in a daze right now I think I'm just getting mentally prepared to consume all this, but I think we're ready So thank you guys for helping us out for shopping for us already. I don't think so either Doritos burritos spicy hot cheetos make your insides like needles and your anus break or peedles To get a better understanding of the subject I'm gonna do it a deep dive into what makes teens stand out in today's society if I'm gonna emulate it I have to understand it first Okay after hours of research and now my algorithm thinking I'm interested in teenage boys I think I have a better handle on what I need to do to look like a modern teenager Whoa, whoa, whoa messy. No, no. So the first thing I need to do is get a haircut and for this I'm gonna need some help so I'm recruiting my girlfriend Michaela. Are you up for the challenge? Yeah, I am But how are we cutting it? Have you ever cut hair before? No? Well, it's gonna be a mold great I Don't know if this is a bad sign or not, but Michaela is currently watching tutorials on the how to cut hair What don't you go to the hairdresser and they're watching videos Oh Fresh out of the shower and this is the final result of Michaela cut my hair and I got to be honest I don't know if she did an amazing job or a horrible job But either way, I think it looks pre spot-on. So I guess in that way she did an awesome job But now that I got the haircut it's time to get the clothes Okay, we are at the hottest trendiest place every teen shops at Walmart And teens heard me say that there would probably be one word they would use for that Cringe, but hey, we're gonna see what works, you know, it is so funny because me and Hudson We grew up in the late 90s early 2000s as teens and all the same stuff That we grew up with this teens is popular now Dragon balls the corn. I mean granted. We are at Walmart so I don't know how hip this place is but Gotta be honest. I'm I'm feeling pretty hip right now Marty I'm already getting into it. This is it the transformation is starting to happen right in front of your eyes So that was it. I think it is a very successful shopping spree. I got some slides I got some what I call threads and I'm gonna check out Pre-workout No cap red Oh Yeah pure processed sugars I can feel the red 40 it's making this way right towards my heart. That's this thing right here So tired So tired You're looking good brah that's real solid form brah Yeah, you're gonna hit a new PR Yeah, brah, bro, you got this bra How's the hair it's fire yeah, okay nice I Know in the process of trying to look like a teenager I don't think any teens really has hair like that but It looks like a way people see this This is like AI's version of a teenager. Yeah, that's what is a teenager into AI. This is what it would come out with Yeah, yeah the worst kind of AI Bruh Is that red 40 it's a damn red 40 it's it's it's it's it's painting my skin This is this is just a reminder us just doing this right now looking like this and working out like this Is it makes me think that if we were flying them all when we were teenagers it probably wouldn't be Much different actually looks worse. Yeah, because there was no sense of irony or tongue-in-cheek. Yeah You've taken broccoli hair to another level I Think we're about done I think we've outstayed our welcome. It's only been about five minutes It's gonna we say another five minutes and we're gonna be like tarred and feathered I'm liking this way more than I should Swipe left swipe down front yellow back brown Broccoli head 90s drip dry scoop four hits and let the pump rip Walk with a lip because a sponge by pimp red 40 artificial just like I like my intelligence I go rhythm pop on my mouth a doom scrolling down bet no cap brain right This is legit right here It's too deep bra. It's too deep You don't want to hurt yourself bra. There we go knees caving in 16th of a squat Dude has the best squat form Rounded back this is good Checking all the boxes and we're not even making fun of anyone but ourselves now this was our form Yeah, I think I feel like teens now are probably more educated than ever Honestly, you see a lot of teenagers now. I mean they're miles ahead of what we were. Yeah, especially in the gym. So Oh, yeah Oh, bro feeling swole You know all that bad form and short range of motion kind of made me work up my appetite And thankfully evident james recommended the perfect place for us to go eat the way to go is killer burger Gotta get that Piece of candy pockets burn the tongue y'all y'all brah east of riz like the braman noodles cause it a noodle looks like a noodle Bra they wanted your riz bra. Peanut butter bacon burger This is the first time that's the american way of saying heart attack I mean, I love all those three things. So why not just combine them all all black And luxury Look at that. Yeah, there's your peanut butter Thanks to teenagers now we know. Yep. We're about to try it ready That's dope What? No, I don't know. That's fine. That's fire No cap. I know the perfect thing to wash is down with My hand I'm texting the boy with the emojis of sin We actually took our um Translator. Yeah, she's actually back here make yourself known Hey, yeah, there you go. So she's with us at all times constantly referencing the internet to make sure that we're doing this right now It slaps the burger slaps bruh it slaps i'm bodying this burger i'm gonna body it my muscles are cooked Gas I'm gonna have gas. I gotta say this burger is gonna give me gas. I'm gonna bring up the reality How do you like the new look is it cringe Kind of do I have a little bit of riz? Yes. Nice Apologies to brandon, but I could not do the hair anymore, but what I am doing. I'm still busting through this food This thing is finished and I thought I would show you really quick just how much sugar is in this thing So we have six servings of 46 grams of sugar I'm gonna go ahead and put a waist scale down measure this thing just to show you Exactly how much there is and here we go I drank Literally a cup of sugar a little bit more actually because I finished off the gatorade as well. I'm feeling Something I don't know exactly what it is, but it ain't good And I think this is a perfect time to segue into our sponsor who made this video possible David I saw an angel in the marble and carved until I set him free Rigorously perfected protein 28 grams protein 150 calories zero grams sugar meet David your protein bar idealized The optimal protein for the optimal form The most effective portable protein on this planet David Enjoy free shipping on your first order try David today David protein bars Cool cool cool groovy epic lit dig it sick fire far out awesome goat bread benjamins bag hip chill Vibe right on true that no cap cat dude bra heavy random Sus out of sight tight flex charm game Riz Everyone can do the dough when I'm getting money. Yeah, I'm gonna get some oh and they can lie Who that we that who that we that who that take a picture baby? Let me step back Bruh My stomach is feeling pretty sick right now because I have just been Overloading it with insane amount of calories and especially sugar. I am currently on my last meal Which is the ramen bowl here? I'm still trying to finish the Cheetos and my dr. Pepper But I have totaled my calories I've eaten today And it is shocking. I've had five thousand five hundred and forty Calories or at least I will once I finish all this Uh started with the pop tarts this morning was three hundred and seventy calories eight grams of fat 71 grams of carbs and four grams of protein went onto the burger Which was 1500 calories now, I'm including the fries. I'm not sure how much they were but probably around 600 calories Cheetos once I finished this bag that is 2,400 in calories 225 grams of carbs 15 grams of protein And 165 grams of fat the soda right here is 900 calories containing 240 grams of sugar And this dinner is three hundred and seventy calories 13 grams of fat 57 grams of carb rate hydrates and seven grams of protein so This is a lot and I think it all just comes down to being a teenager. You just want convenience. You want something that tastes good Um, I know for myself. I didn't cook a lot when I was uh when I was a teenager Ramen noodles definitely was a thing frozen corn dogs soda was huge So it's really just whatever tastes good and is easy And it has definitely been easy today whoo but not easy on my stomach and I've just I've felt pretty at this point right now. I feel pretty lethargic I think it's just these overload of carbohydrates, but I am gonna wrap this up. I don't know It might take me a while to finish these two. I'm gonna I'm gonna finish this bowl right now. I'm trying to um Do a two for one deal and top it off with a little bit of these Cheetos But brah My stomach is not it's it's an L I'm feeling my stomach is taking an L right now messy do do piece of candy pockets burn the tongue yum yum brah Easter eggs like the ramen noodles cause it a noodle looks like a noodle wow wow Sweet sweet dextrose The teenage experiment is over. I want to take this moment to apologize to everyone who had to experience seeing us in public Yeah, and so I think now I'm gonna get my hair back to normal and you need to start to stress Like myself Gen Z have fun while you still can Gen a is right behind you ready to take your place and they're gonna look at you and be like oh god You will be the new boomers soon. Yeah, you will be the zoomers So embrace this moment while you can enjoy it and until next time stay buff Intelligence Thank you very much. This has been confessions of a former teenager

=== FILE: We Lived Off Doctor's Health Advice for 1 Week, Here's What Happened [n5mK0crrTwk].txt ===

 We follow doctors' health advice for one week. Here's what happens. MUSIC It seems like everywhere you look nowadays, advice is being given out on the internet, either from fitness influencers or doctors of varying degrees. But we're going to go to the source and live our lives according to medical professionals. Is it going to be better or is it going to be worse? We're about to find out. Wish us luck. MUSIC Okay, I have you fasting for six days, water only, and on the seventh day, horse meat raw. Any questions? No, I think that's everything. I appreciate your professional opinion. Thanks, Duke. MUSIC That's Dr. Duke. Oh, sorry, Duke. Dr. Duke. I have millions of viewers. I claim to know stuff. Okay, what are you doctor of? Everything. Okay, and that's fantastic, but just tell me what kind of doctor you are. You want to know what kind of doctor I am? Yes. I'm a chiropractor. MUSIC So I'm currently at the grocery store and I'm going to be shopping, getting all my food according to the my plate chart. And there's four things that I'm going to be concentrating on, vegetables, grains, proteins, and fruits. So I'm going to be grabbing what I need and then building up my plate. MUSIC So we just got back from the grocery store and we have all the food lined out here. We have the vegetables, grains, fruits, meats, and lastly, we have the dairy. Now it's funny to look at the my plate specifications because it's quite a bit different than what I was used to growing up with the food pyramid. So I'm going to be portioning this out for the my plate daily recommendations for me personally. So this is it, the my plate daily recommendations for me personally or at least my age range. We have seven ounces of meat, four cups of veggies, seven ounces of grains, two cups of fruit, and one cup of dairy. And as you can tell, the portion sizes are pretty small. I mean, I could probably finish this in one meal and that's because this is based off a 2000 calorie a day diet. Of course, you would make some adjustments depending on your activity level or maybe your goals. But it is interesting to see the changes and the differences between the food pyramid and now the my plate with food pyramid grains are at the bottom. They were the foundation. They were the starting point and it worked its way up from there with my plate. It's a bit more of a well rounded diet or at least kind of like, you know, structure. Very interesting to see. And I think it's a pretty good starting point for most people. Doctors recommend 150 minutes of moderate cardio week. But instead of spending 30 minutes on a treadmill, we figured we would knock this cardio out the buff dude's way by climbing a volcano. I'm heading to three finger jack. Now I know it sounds a bit like an outlaw biker, but it's actually a 7800 foot volcano in the Oregon Cascades. Carved by glaciers, its jagged Ridge is what gave it the name. The route is about 10 miles with nearly 3000 feet of climbing. A hike which is rated hard and usually takes eight to 10 hours. Just coming down from the top, we are on our way back and we're at the two and a half hour mark now. So we got the recommended 150 minutes of cardio. They recommended doing it in a week. Buff dudes do it in a day. So knocking that out, finishing this up. Hell of a scenic walk. Absolutely amazing way to spend those recommended minutes of activity. We finished up eight miles, three hours and 15 minutes. Nice little hike there. Blue past the recommendations, but it felt damn good. So this one is done. It is the morning and with the USDA my plate and the American Heart Association claiming to get the proper energy sources and nutrient intake. You have to have breakfast every morning. So that's exactly what we're going to be doing. Ah, a nice healthy breakfast. Now I grew up with the notion that breakfast was the most important meal of the day. If you didn't start your day with breakfast while you're not having a good day. Mm-hmm. Does that same with goes with you? Yeah, for sure. And I feel like a lot of times breakfast sets the tone for my day. It kind of gets my momentum flowing. So I do really enjoy having a nutritional breakfast. I think that's really a good point because it's not just the nutrient intake and energy sources from breakfast. It is kind of more of a mindset thing. It's like fixing your bed first thing in the morning, making breakfast first thing in the morning. It's just kind of like you said sets the tone, get your day started off right. Do you absolutely need breakfast every single morning? I don't know. I guess it kind of depends on the person, but we are having breakfast. This looks delicious and we're going to dive in. Yeah. On our hike earlier up to three finger jack, I went through about 50 ounces of water, but I was very surprised because that's only about half of what they recommend, which is 125 ounces or pretty close to a gallon. Now, I grew up my whole life hearing the adage eight glasses of water a day, which is only really about 60 ounces. So to hear that they recommend closer to one gallon was very surprising because that's typically what I aim for in an entire day. And it's not only plain water that they recommend. They include any type of hydration, whether it comes from coffee, other drinks or even the food we consume. And I think anyone that strives for this goal is going to find a very interesting side effect in regards to drinking those recommended 3.7 liters a day. And that is going to be that you're going to be having to take a whole hell of a lot of bathroom breaks. And excuse me, that's what I've got to do with this very moment. It's time to talk about body mass index or BMI. Now, what is BMI? Essentially, it's a way to calculate if you're underweight, normal weight or overweight. And I have a personal experience with this and it goes back to when I was 20 years old. I was getting life insurance at the time. I can't remember why, but they required me to go in and take a physical. So being 20 years old and really into fitness, I mean, I go into that doctor's office extremely confident and even cocky, knowing that I'm going to pass with flying colors. And I pretty much did, except for one thing, a red flag popped up and that red flag was my BMI. I was categorized as level one obese. Now, I was shocked. I was like, what the hell is this? You know, I didn't even know what BMI was. So the doctor explained to me said, it's a flawed system and it doesn't take your muscle mass into account. It pretty much just weighs out your height to weight ratio and that's it. So being six foot two, 240 pounds, I was too heavy for my height. Even now at 215 pounds, I'm still considered overweight. I would have to be around 180 pounds for my height to be categorized as normal. So all in all, it's a flawed system and I feel like it's really interesting that the medical professionals use such a simple way to categorize everyone as either being underweight, normal weight or overweight. So we've got a good idea of the BMI, but what about the actual body fat percentage? And that is going to be within the eight to 24 percentile range. And over the years, I've had a chance to test that theory, fluctuating pretty close to the end of both of those ranges. Recently, I did a bodybuilding competition where I got sub 5 percent and I've also been pretty heavy in the past as well. From my personal experience, I feel that this is pretty accurate to fall right there in the middle. I feel really good at the 12 to 15 percent body fat range. I can still be very athletic. I can eat a diet which really doesn't feel too restrictive and I feel good. But again, that's probably going to vary from person to person. How many grams of protein do I need per day? Now that is a very popular question and one with a variety of different answers coming from different sources. But thankfully, the definitive answer is finally in with new research done by the National Academies claiming that we all need 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight. Now that means the average adult male should be having around 56 grams of protein per day in the average adult female around 46 grams. And for my body weight, that means I need as little as 70 grams of protein per day. So I have a lot of different foods laid out here and we're going to be talking about protein content in these different foods. So as you can tell, we have our meats, eggs over here. We have some protein supplement, cereal and some beans. Now looking at right here, this is 93 percent lean ground beef. This is around 70 grams of protein. This would be my daily requirement if I would be following the National Academy guidelines. This is 11 eggs around the same amount of protein. This packet of tilapia would be my daily requirement. If I ate this whole box of cereal, I had these three cans of beans, three servings of whey protein supplementation. So this is kind of hard to imagine only having this much protein per day because that's only around 200 and calories of my daily requirements. If I was having pure protein, now obviously there's carbohydrates, there's fat. So I'd essentially have to fill in the rest of my calorie requirements around 2800 calories through carbs and fat alone. So I don't know if I could really get away with that. I mean, I've grown up having in prioritizing protein, having around one gram of protein per pound of body weight. And I have to be honest, it's worked really well for me. But I think the difference is, is how active you are, how much muscle mass you have. And I know this is where the conversation starts to come in. What is the right amount? And I think with that new research saying we only really require 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight. I don't know if that's entirely accurate, but maybe it is for some people and that's the hard thing because everyone's a little bit different and requires different macronutrients splits. But for me, I think I'm gonna be staying with around one gram of protein per pound of body weight. Supplements are a $40 billion industry and it's hard to find someone who's involved in fitness that isn't taking them. In fact, most influencers are pushing them constantly. Even we ourselves have seen real benefits from some such as creatine, caffeine and whey protein. But what supplements do the National Institutes of Health, the Mayo Clinic and the CDC recommend? It turns out, nothing. And while they don't outright say stay away from supplements, they do take a stand on what really comes first. The Mayo Clinic adds food should always come first, supplements should only fill in the gaps. And the CDC is clear, supplements can't replace the variety of foods important for a healthy diet. So while supplements might promise the world, doctors' orders are simple, eat real food. Now I do agree with them when they say that whole food should be the foundation for a proper diet. I also got to say that supplements can play a part sometimes even in ways that you wouldn't realize. Pre-workout, even something as controversial now as like creatine gummies for example. We took those for years and whether they were working or not, sometimes it's the placebo effect you need in order to get your ass in the gym and get it done. You take that one scoop of pre-workout and something clicks in your mind where you think, okay, it's go time. But I'd like to hear your thoughts as well. Do you think supplements are just an overpriced gimmick or do you think they have benefits for a physical active lifestyle? Sodium can be a tough subject because it comes in many different forms and there seems to be a big debate around how much you should have or how little. But when it comes to the USDA, they recommend having at the maximum 2,300 milligrams of sodium per day which I weighed out the equivalent in normal table salt which looks like this. And as you can tell, that's not very much. Now the American Heart Association recommends you have even less than that at the maximum of 1,500 milligrams a day which I weighed out in table salt as well which looks like that which is even less of course. And I have to be honest, I probably have that much salt in my first meal of the day. Now I remember growing up and there's a lot of fear around sodium having too much of it can increase cholesterol or maybe increase your chances of heart disease. But I think now more than ever people are starting to realize it's maybe the benefits of sodium with the popularization of electrolyte drinks especially if you're an active person. But it's funny because the recommendations from the USDA and the American Heart Association still stand and I have to be honest, they seem extremely low. Now I quickly wanted to go over the differences of sodium contents in certain foods. Now number one is the cereal. If you ate this whole box you would be at maximum capacity of your sodium intake at over 2,300 milligrams of sodium. Now one slice of this bread is 280 milligrams. A serving of this barbecue sauce is 280. A serving of this ground beef is 75 milligrams. And one packet of electrolyte mix is 1,000 milligrams of sodium. So as you can tell there's a lot of variation of sodium content in certain foods. Other being processed or whole foods. But I think it really comes down to just understanding what sodium is, what it does for you. And it's never bad to track the amount whether that's a high amount or low. Alcohol. This is one that feels like it's constantly being debated. How much is too much? Should you be having alcohol at all? A lot of times you'll hear a glass of wine can be healthy. Recently though it seems like the consensus is the best you can do is just not drink at all. Now that is not quite the doctor's recommendation. Which is for men two glasses of alcohol a day is what they find to be in the healthy range. My first question was well what is two glasses of alcohol? And that turns out to be a total of 24 ounces. My next question was well what would the percentage of alcohol be? Which would be 5%. So that's either two average beers or one shot of a stronger spirit such as whiskey. I'm guessing many of you probably agree that the best thing to do would not to drink at all. But also then you'll see the people that live to be over 100 years old. And one of the things that they typically say is they would have a beer or shot of whiskey every night. So this one is still up for debate and I'm sure it will be for many more years to come. But it's probably best sticking with the opinion no alcohol is probably your best option. Ah sleep now we all need it but according to the CDC we might not be getting enough of it. They recommend seven to nine hours of sleep every night which I think at this point that's a pretty well-known fact. But there's a few things you have to cut out in your nightly schedule to make sure you're getting that amount of sleep. And phones is one of them. Now most people get home after they've had a long day. They want to relax and sit down and enjoy their TV time. Me included. But more research has shown that you have to prep your brain for good sleep. And with harsh blue lighting that's emitting from the TV it's actually stimulating your brain. Even though you're sitting back and relaxing thinking that you're prepping yourself for sleep. It's actually doing the opposite. So it's recommended to shut the TV off around two hours before going to bed. If you're lucky enough to have a cooling system in your home well it's recommended to set it around the mid sixties at night for optimal sleep. That's pretty chilly. It's all about building a schedule. Doing your nightly routine and trying to get to bed at the same time every night. Finally made it to bed. Now this is the time where it can be extremely tempting to jump on your phone. But instead of jumping on your phone try replacing that with a book. Now I know for me once I start reading night that can pretty much put me out like a light. I can also sometimes introduce some blindfolds. Now this will cut out any kind of unwanted light either at night or in the morning. Or maybe get some blackout curtains put on some white noise. Whatever it is really to help you get the best quality of sleep. And I'd be really curious to know what you guys do for your nightly ritual to make sure you're always getting your best night of sleep. But for now it's time for me to go to sleep. Good night. The week long diet and workout experiment is over. And I gotta say it was pretty interesting to try all these. We were familiar with some and not as familiar with others. But once you kind of live it out you realize very quickly that it's more of a general sense of how to do things. If you take it for gospel I don't think it's as effective for sure. It's hard to create a diet and workout plan for an entire country or the entire world. But I think it's a good jumping off point. Most of it seemed to make sense. Some of the ones like protein, the BMI, sodium was a little like I might need a little bit of work. But let us know what you think. Do you think it needs a complete overhaul? Is there some things they're just totally off with others that are right? Diets have moved in all kind of directions now. You got people doing something they say it like quadruples. Stosterone. It heals all their ailments. We're never quite as sensational. I think we're very much more kind of like middle of the road. But let us know your thoughts. Yeah. And I think it comes down to it. If it works for you, hey, that's great. And if it doesn't, you know, get rid of it. So it really kind of is that simple. So let us know your thoughts and until next time, stay buff.

=== FILE: We Tried an All Liquid Diet, Here's What Happened [XFVKsiCHX_M].txt ===

 Solid foods are terrifying, and the fitness industry has been lying to you about whole foods. Based upon new scientific studies, here is exactly why you should be switching to liquids. Solid food creates what bio-hackers call gastric drag. Your body has to work to break down a steak. But liquid? It bypasses the stomach's turbulence and mainline's nutrients straight into the bloodstream. It's not just eating, it's a nutritional injection. Life began in the ocean and we are 70% water. Eating solid foods is fighting against our own natural biology. Fitness influencers may lie, but evolution doesn't. So to demonstrate the raw power of the liquid protocol, I have prepared a classic testosterone-boosting breakfast. Eggs, avocado, toast, and, to help blend it all together, some searing hot black coffee. Now let's optimize it. Brown goo, the color of efficiency, the sludge of success. Bottoms up for buff dudes. Okay, that was absolutely horrific. And all the science stuff I said, total bullshit. But it just goes to show you that you cannot believe every single bio-hack you hear on the internet. But having said that, the liquid diet, believe it or not, does have its benefits. And me and Brandon are going to find out exactly what those are. So today we are going liquid diet only. I got breakfast out of the way. Let's see if it's going to benefit us or maybe drive us insane. So the liquid meal challenge is underway and I wanted to take this time to go into a little bit of a backstory into my experience with making liquid meals. Now specifically for me, it was like masking or shakes. I was around 17, 18 years old and I introduced them about three to four times a day, feeding them inside my normal major meals with whole foods. Now the reason I did that is, well there's a couple reasons why I did that. Number one, I had no idea how to cook. So at that age, I would probably have my mom make my meals or maybe just throw something together that was very, very simple. So in order to get more calories and more food in, nothing is easier than just to throw a bunch of stuff inside a blender and hit and go. And when it really came down to it, the second reason was because it's just such a huge time saver. And I want to go into how much of a time saver it is by comparing the time it takes to make a normal breakfast and how much time it takes to make a liquid meal. For the solid food breakfast, I'm making a basic meal with eggs, toast, ham and some sliced apples. So nothing too time consuming. And for the liquid meal, I'm throwing in some milk, half a cup oatmeal, a few tablespoons of peanut butter and some protein powder. Making sure I'm having a well-rounded meal with fats, proteins and carbs. And that's time. Two minutes and 40 seconds. And time. That was almost exactly 12 minutes to make breakfast. So there we go. It took just about 12 minutes for a full normal whole food breakfast and two minutes and 40 seconds for a liquid meal. But the food I made didn't go to waste. Michaela's going to be able to enjoy it. Meanwhile, I get to enjoy my nice liquid meal. Now there's another huge benefit of making a liquid meal is you can have it on the go. The convenience of a liquid meal. Man, I sure am hungry right now. Thankfully, I have a liquid meal readily available. And it's tasty too. The only bad thing is the longer the workout goes on the warmer the skits and it's not so tasty after that. I'm going to have to get a cup of that. Oh, Jay, huh? Yeah. It's, gotta say, it's not the most enjoyable drinking a warm, thick shake. It is pump-fuel though. I'm just glad I'm not doing legs. I'm probably bowing chunks right now. Meal one down. Brandon made a good point that liquid diets can be excellent for efficiency. But he is approaching this challenge like a logical, level-headed human being. You grew up watching action movies in the 80s and 90s. You notice a really weird pattern. The tough guy main character never sits down for a nice meal. He throws cold pizza, raw eggs, beer, and whatever else is on the counter into a blender. It was Hollywood's way of saying, this guy is on the edge. He's too busy fighting crime to chew. So I'm approaching lunch like a divorce detective in a 1991 action thriller. I've got 48 hours to solve the case. A captain breathing down my neck and a liver that hates me. I don't have time for flavor and texture. I need the I don't give a shit shake. That smells, that smells like the 1980s. I'm just gonna drink it straight out of here because I have a feeling that's the way they would have preferred it. If it looks a little vomitous, it tastes a little vomitous as well. I'm going for it. Okay. You're not telling me those guys who are all like 6% body fat was actually drinking this thing. But I just did. Yeah. It is meal number two for me and it's gonna be more of a post-workout dessert. There is a delicious and easy way to make your own soft serve ice cream. Oh, it takes. Here's some frozen bananas. And thankfully I have some right here. So we have all the ingredients right here, the frozen bananas and the milk. And that's pretty much all you need. But there is a very simple liquid meal hack that I used to do all the time. And that's to throw a protein bar directly into the blender here to add extra protein and flavor. And thankfully we have David protein bars to help out with this part with multiple delicious flavors. Amazing macros including a whopping 28 grams of protein. David protein bar is exactly what I need to give this liquid meal a special touch. Now this is damn good. If you've never given a shot, definitely try it out. It's like this liquefied creamy ice cream with little chunks of protein bar. And I mean, it's, you're definitely gonna get addicted and probably get a brain freeze because you drink it so fast. But I just want to say thank you to David protein bars for helping to make this possible. Now they're normally eaten regularly as a solid, but hey, goes to show you, you can pretty much liquefy anything. And if it's something like David protein bars, well, then it's going to taste damn good. So if you'll excuse me, I'm going to finish liquid meal number two. One of the side effects. How you feeling? I'm feeling like an 80s burnout action hero right now. I bet they kind of smell like one too. I'm sure I do. My stomach is feeling something different. And we're not done yet. No, we're not because we have to finish it off with the most iconic liquid meal of all time. Ready? You know, I think you got the short end of the stick on this challenge. I feel like it. Yeah. I mean, I got to eat good tasting food this whole time. And you know, honestly, if you want to blend your food, if you want to have the liquid meals, well, there's definitely a good way to do it. But I think Hudson there's also a bad way to do it. As you can see. So that's what you need sometimes. You need to show the good, but you also need to show the bad. Yeah. My 80s burnout action hero days are over. It was quick, better to burn out than to fade away. Oh hell yeah. So I'm about to burn out the toilet and until next time, stay buff.

=== FILE: Worst Pain Ever？ 😨 I Let Her Wax Everything [QOqLPp9D3C4].txt ===

 My name is Hudson Wright, I'm a lifetime natural, and I have my very first classic physique bodybuilding competition in one week. And up until this point, there has been the workouts, there has been the nutrition. I've shared it all on this channel, which you can find in the playlist below, but I gotta be honest with myself. There is the one thing that's probably the most important factor of this entire process, and that is the fact that I am basically competing in a dude's beauty pageant. LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL LOL because I was digging this whole like Brendan Fraser and Ceno Man look. I'm gonna look at it one last time, say goodbye, and then Auga gonna get to work on trying to make this a little bit more prettier in time for the pageant. So we have four scent options for you. You can choose the scent of your pain. We have tea tree, eucalyptus, lemon, and peppermint. When I'm in excruciating pain, I always do like the scent of a little lemon, so I'll go with the citrus flavor today. So I actually have a confession to make. I never waxed anyone before. So this is gonna be interesting for both of us. Yeah, that's hot. That is hot wax. Is it too hot? It's slightly uncomfortable, yeah. No countdown or anything? Just go for it. Oh man, you just do you, baby. Ah! How many times do we have to do that in total? About a hundred. Ah! Fuck! Ah! Mother fucker! Ah! That's just lower back. How do you feel, I'm sorry. I'd rather have dry socket again. That's what I had after my wisdom tooth. I mean, that felt better than this. It was at this very moment that I realized I had made a tragic mistake. Why not just try shaving? Well, I actually had, but after a horrible breakout, I thought waxing might be the better option. I could not have been more wrong. Fuck working this like that, Jesus Christ. I'm gonna be a Harry K man the rest of my life. I'm never gonna compete in bodybuilding again, just because of this shit. It was time for a quick road trip and a reflection on life's choices. La, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la, la. We've been at this for an hour and I've never experienced anything like this before. So I went out and I got some of these wax strips because I'm gonna try it myself. I don't know if this is gonna be any better. Why? I just got a pole you can't think about. It's like a bandaid. I just turned this little strip into a werewolf. That works. You gain so much appreciation or maybe, I don't know if appreciation is the right word, for why people do this? I mean, my mind is blown. We have about three more hours of this. Remember that part in the video about 30 seconds ago when August said there would be about 100 strips total? Well, it turns out her math was a little off. The end. Look me in the eyes when we do this one. You looked away. Here we go. Here we go. Hold my hand. Oh man, I was afraid of that. Oh God, why? Okay, you did good. Stare down was a success. Okay, you know that other part of the video about one minute ago where I said it would take about three hours? Well, it turns out my math was a little off as well. This ended up taking two days and a total of six hours of waxing. I lost a lot of hair, a little bit of my soul and even more of my dignity in the process. Are those our final three? Just do it. That would bring us up to 180 rips. Not including the glue. The hair just keeps coming. So hey guys, that wraps up the thrilling conclusion of the full body wax. It's like the guy that's almost killed in like a cougar attack and then the situation ends and then he's like, okay, Tubers, like and subscribe if you want to see other cougar attacks like this in the future. And you're like, dude, you almost died, but hustling baby. Six hours and 180 strips later over two days and my waxing experience began and ended for all time. Let me clarify that. I will never have anyone or anything touch any hair on my body ever again. And afterwards, well, it was a breeze. Auga treated me to all kinds of relaxing daddy makeover essentials, including virgin sacrifice, blood mass, weird gold face paint with bunny ears, shaving, tanning, manicures, pedicures and more. All to prepare me for the big day. How do I look? Beautiful. Well, thank you, mission accomplished. All thanks to you. The beautification is finished. Now it's time for peak week and then we're gonna go out and try and win this thing. Yeah. Outangled. I don't know why I'm holding my nether regions. Ah, ha, ha, ha. Wow, I'm so glad I was distracted. Well, the hair grows in a different direction. It's cool. As you get older, the hair just keeps growing in all the wrong places. The next time you see those shots of Dorian Yates working out the dungeon or Ronnie Coleman deadlifting like the 800 pounds. Also remember they were most likely doing this a few days out from their competition as well. This is just a part none of them want to show. Okay, we're trying a double rip to just see if this goes faster, pain is pain, honey on three. Are you ready? One, two, three. Oh, God. The better or worse. Oh, God.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.049153Z ===
