 Okay, so much like the title says, I have had a very wild last week. This isn't necessarily a video that I wanted to make, but I thought I should, just to let you know what's going on. There's some good news, there's some bad news. I will start with the very good but shocking news we had. This grand plan, we thought it'd be so cool since I did a bodybuilding contest last year. We thought, well, this year why don't we have it brother versus brother. Our dad was going to do it, Auga, Makayla. It was going to be like a family entering a bodybuilding contest. Then of course that was a little derailed when Brandon had his back injury. And well, we got some news. Auga was preparing for her competition. She was doing a great job, really hard worker, very determined. She woke me up one morning and said, take a look at this pregnancy test. What does it look like to you? And I said, well, it says positive, which was quite a shock to both of us. We weren't really planning on it, but it happened. The buff seed is strong. So we were going through with those steps. We had the ultrasound. Auga said something feels different. That doesn't feel like the past two because we have two other children. She went into another ultrasound. I wasn't present and she came home. She kind of had some tears in her eyes. I was wondering what was happening. She said the doctor did the ultrasound and said, well, there's baby number one and there's baby number two. It took me a second to process and I said twins and Auga said, yeah, we're having twins. And I felt an emotion that I had never experienced up to that point. I'm not even sure how to describe it. I'm sure, you know, it looked like I saw a ghost. Once I kind of let it process for a little while, I was very excited and it's fun. It is a little high risk. It's going to have to be monitored pretty closely throughout the whole duration. That's the good news and the bad news, unfortunately, a couple of days later, we were working on a video. It was a DIY build, you know, kind of trying to rush. It's all about trying to get ideas out there. We kind of had another big one where thinking, oh, why don't we make like a post-apocalyptic gym? Wouldn't that be cool? Kind of like Mad Max, all the movies we really love. So we're testing some of the equipment, you know, we're doing it again and again. This is a multi-day shoot. So it was me, my dad, a buddy, his, Brandon, Kaila, we're all there. We're all working away. And I was testing machine, testing machine. There was that one moment I wasn't thinking and I just really ripped into it. It was kind of like a DIY equivalent of a cable fly and I just heard this pop. It kind of felt like a rubber band had exploded right about here. We kind of made a little DIY low mid-makeshift sling with a t-shirt and we had to drive about an hour to the urgent care. The doctor said, based upon your symptoms, it looks like you're going to need an ultrasound. The first five days I would say I could not move my arm. I mean, and that led me to believe that it was a bicep tear, like a proximal bicep tear, like it basically tore from the shoulder. A lot of swelling. I would say most of the pain was in the shoulder and had the ultrasound. They worked on it for quite a while. They did it. They went back. They came again. They did it some more. They said, well, it looks like the good news is there's no full tear, but they would recommend getting an MRI. The process of getting an MRI was a little lengthy for me. I had to get a referral. They set up the referral for kind of like two weeks later, but I said, I can't wait that long. I just said, can you just give me one? They said, well, no, you got to have a referral. I went online. I found a doctor online. They gave me a referral. I came back. They told me to fax it. I said, well, no, have a fax machine. So I came in person. I gave it to them. Had to wait another day or two for them to kind of process it in their system. Got the MRI set up. Had that done. By that time I was healing very quickly. It was kind of shocking. I had a lot of the mobility back. I was kind of moving my arm quite a bit. I felt pretty good. And then I got a text at about 9 p.m. from my physical therapist and he said, hey, check your email right now. So I did knowing the news probably wasn't going to be great. And the results from the MRI was, yes, it's a full pecter, the tendon with the three and a half centimeter retraction. So, you know, my pecs kind of been pulled this way. And yeah, I was bummed. I was super bummed. Tried to set up the orthopedic surgeon immediately. Unfortunately, that wasn't able to happen. It's been about like three weeks now. It's, you know, I'm sure for those of you who have went through an injury as well, it's like you're constantly thinking all the things through your head about how it could have been avoided. Obviously, I've tried to like work out safely my entire life. I'm 43 now. I haven't had a major injury while like traditionally working out. It's only been doing these like kind of like ridiculous challenges and DIY builds we've done. So, I mean, we're at a crossroads. I mean, Brandon's injured. I'm injured. It's a major injury. You know, you're talking about nine months to a year of recovery time. I'm going to be in a sling for a month. I'm not really going to be able to use the arm at all for up to three months. So, yeah, there we go. I'll make another video after the surgery. The surgery is happening very shortly. Me and Brandon will also have to discuss what the future holds because at this point we have no idea. Hate to end on a downer, but I'm going to stay strong. I mean, I'm just very anxious to get the surgery because I can't wait to begin the recovery process. I think that's the hardest thing at this point is just waiting. I'll have the surgery and then we'll see what happens and then we'll let y'all know. So, hope 2026 is going good for the rest of you. Again, there was some good news. So, that's great. I couldn't let the whole video be a downer, but I will see you again after the surgery. And, you know, until then, I can still flex with this arm. Stay buff. Had to show you a quick update on August physique. She went from a bodybuilder to a... Bodybuilder. Literally. Two bodies. Two bodies. Two bodies. It's going to get much bigger. And I also thought it might be interesting for those of you who may wonder what a pectare looks like pre-surgery. So, I'm going to take my t-shirt off really quick and show you. Little anti-climactic. Not that exciting. As you can see, there's not a lot of difference. I made a mistake early on when I didn't realize it was a pectare and I was kind of flexing my pec, which I shouldn't have. Now, you'll notice there's that natural indentation there and a healthy pec. When I flexed this one, there's a little bit more of an indentation, which kind of led me to believe there was probably some issue there. But, looks pretty normal overall and I think that's the dangerous part is because if I wouldn't have had that MRI, I wouldn't have known the extent of the damage and I could have done the really bad thing, which is making it even worse, which would have resulted in a lot of scar tissue, a lot more rehab, and the orthopedic surgeon may have had a much harder time pulling the pec back to drill it into the shoulder. So, this is what I look like now and my next step is having that surgery. So, I will see you all then and wish Aga luck and wish me luck as well.