 for the next 90 days, I'm gonna try to turn my husband into a woman. Wait what? Pistons! For years, I've trained like a dude. Heavy, basic, simple. But for the next 90 days, I'm switching sides. Will I tighten up, get firm, or maybe I'll unlock a hidden muscle mommy gene buried deep inside my cheesy glutes? I have no idea, but I'm about to find out. Pistons! So a couple months back, I took my wife, Aga, through more of a man's training program. And a lot of people in the comments said, hey, well now that she's done it, it's your turn. But one of my first questions is, what makes up a woman's training program? What is the main difference? Because being a 90s kid, I would hear a lot of terms thrown around, like toning up. And that's very vague. I mean, what exactly is toning up? And it actually makes me really proud to see women training now, because a lot of people has realized it's not like this massive different world. It's just specificity. So that's exactly what I am going through doing this, which kind of works out perfect. Because I did a bodybuilding competition earlier this year. And one of the things that I felt I was kind of lagging behind on with shoulders back, maybe not so much glutes, but legs, surely. So that's the goal. I'm having 3,800 calories a day, and I'm trying to make things big. Nice. Stage 1, day 1. Here we go. Oh my goodness. That's objective occasion. Do it more. Yeah, I was about to say you like it. Day 1 was pretty much what I expected it to be. Really hard. We had a mix of balance, stability, a lot of compound exercises, and unilateral work. So even though I was training like a woman, it felt just as intense as any man's workout I've ever done. And I am tracking my entire journey in our Buff app. So if you'd like to see all my workouts, you can check it out. It's available on Android and iOS. There's a free version where you can do custom workouts and have access to over 500 exercises. Or if you'd love to support us, you can do all of our plans and also have access to a great community. How are you? So pumped. Nice. Taking a little look back at what I weighed earlier in the year, I was pretty lean, more so than I'd usually like to be. And that is my big goal, is trying to put on as much weight as I can. So I'm going to see if I can maximize all this training for my benefit. So while I am doing a lot of like glutes and shoulders work, I'm also really loading that weight up in the process because I want to see just how much I can change over the course of these three months. I was looking for some signs that it's going well and I just found one. I have, I'm very proud to say, ripped my first pair of pants while performing a leg workout. So those muscles back there are growing. They can't be contained and I'm going to have to find some new pants, but I don't know, I'm a little proud of it. So one pair of pants down and possibly many more to go. I am on my fourth week and that means I'm entering stage two. Now, stage one was kind of like the entry level guide to, I guess, what you could say, training like a woman. So there was balance. There was some more of the dynamic exercises, a lot of compounds. But now I'm heading into more of this specificity where I really am training with certain exercises, which are typically more focused for women. One of those being hip thrusts. My hip thrusts are coming along great, but I've run into a little bit of a predicament in that. Our home gym, we've only got 500 pounds. Now I say only that's a lot of weight, but I feel I can go more in my hip thrust. Thankfully, I have a backup weight available. It may look a little awkward, but sometimes in order to get that PR, you got to be willing to get a little awkward. There we go. I like big butts in a can. So how are you feeling now that we're halfway there? I'm feeling good. Yeah, the weight is going on fast. I was really happy about the strength gains, but unfortunately, I'm not really noticing any kind of voluptuous shape developing in my body. Yeah, I don't think there's much we can do about that. Which I'm kind of happy about. But I am very proud of the fact that I PR'd on the hip thrust. That was amazing. Thank you for the help, by the way. You're welcome. You can hip thrust me anytime. Cut. We finally got to the end of the Bavogar plan, and there's no better way to end it than with a full-blown glutes-only workout. I would expect nothing less. Let's do it. Someone's gonna have to give this bar a pregnancy test. It's done. You committed to the booty gains, and to show you how proud I am, I have a present. Oh, no. Oh, yes. And now it's time for the booty pose down. You've been warned. So, in my video last year, you taught me some very masculine poses. Yeah, well, we're not doing that. Oh, okay. Yeah, we're not doing that today. Today, we're teaching you how to do the feminine poses and how to move with grace. A lot of interior pelvic tilt. There you go. Wow. What? It's like, you just got to imagine you're a duck. Dang. Okay. Well, good job. That's the first step. In your... I'm so confused right now. See how your quad pops? Oh, nice. And now we do this nice little dainy. Put it in the front to create the curves. You do this so much better than I do. Well, I would hope so. Now we're gonna take it back. Okay, show a little bit of the tricep. Yeah. Nice. Now we go to the money shot. Oh, no, not this one. Secure booty out. There you go. Wow, looks good. Yeah, but yeah. Then you do a little sway of the hip. No, no, no, stop. Oh, God. Okay, let's... Let's take this hand back. I think you're doing too good. Okay, so it's all about the transitions. We don't just, you know, we need to be dainy, feminine. Okay. With motions. A lot of hand motions. I'm none of those things, but I'm gonna give it my best try. So now we're gonna put the weight on this leg. Okay. In a nice transition. Wow, that was so graceful. Yep. This booty should pop here and we twist and then you flex. So we gotta have a little bit of the bobdooks in there. Yeah, just a little bit. There's not much left. This is the result of three months of bulking. That is quite a difference from my competition weight, but overall I'm happy because as a natural going into a bulk, I was able to put muscle into the groups I wanted to, and the glutes was a nice little bonus. I'm sad to report that your attempt to turn me into a woman failed miserably, but I gotta say I loved the training. It's always extremely fun for me to do something new, and it kind of goes to show you that you're not gonna necessarily turn into something if you train like something. I know with your video, a lot of people almost kind of got mildly offended by even the title of the video, but I'm not gonna say that I'm not gonna say that I'm not gonna do anything new. I'm gonna say that I'm not gonna say that I'm not gonna do anything new. I'm not gonna say that I'm not gonna be offended by even the title itself, so I'm very interested to see how people take the title of this one. But it's really the specificity, you know? The goal was bigger legs, back shoulders, you know, I only had really that 90 day period. You're not gonna make these astronomical gains, but I am happy with what happened. I got some PRs and I put on some solid weight. The booty's popping. Ah yeah, pure steel. So let us know what you want us to do next time. I mean, wilder than this, but keep those gains coming in. Until next time, stay buff.