Hey dudes, what's going on? Guide to getting in shape. Just wanted to give a quick update. What we plan on doing is not this week, but beginning the week after next update every single day with the workout we'll be doing so you can follow along. So, Monday we'll have our full chest and back routine. Tuesday legs, Wednesday arms, so on and so forth. We wanted to do this so you could really see what the second half of the program is all about. And when we conclude those six videos, one video for every single workout, we'll finish it with the final guide to getting in shape week eight where we'll cover just, you know, kind of a recap of our nutrition, abs, calves, forearms, some of the stuff we haven't covered yet. Also, we wanted to in this video include footage of Brandon's second bodybuilding contest because we thought that would be really cool to show you kind of like our beginnings. We just did the teen bodybuilding video working out with Ian, who had never been in the gym before, and we wanted to show how much progress Brandon's made since his first competition when he was 19. Looking back on the the bodybuilding competition that I competed when I was 19, uh the first time around went really good. It was awesome experience, and the second time, of course, even better because winning first place. But the whole point of it was learning how to set goals and motivate yourself and achieve uh a certain thing that you put in front of you. And the the best part is I'd never really wanted a career in bodybuilding, but it the best part was that it taught me how to really um see something and and grab it and grasp it and really um go for certain goals and and you can take that outside the gym too. So you can not only now having that nice frame of mind of being able to to to look at something and say okay this is the goal and this is the end result I want to have and then achieving that and now that can go out through anything in life. So really looking back and now kind of watching the video. I mean, of course, back then I thought I was pretty big and gained a lot of muscle, which I was because for back then compared to what I was. Um, now looking back and now I'm seeing like, well, you know, I wasn't quite as big as I I remembered, you know, but that's the that's the kind of mindset, that's the kind of goal. Well, and that's a good thing because you're always growing and getting bigger and you're moving on to the next. And that's the thing, a goal is just a dream which has been realized. And that's why you need to set goals because you don't want to just be a dreamer. One day I'll be big. I mean, we look back now and it's funny. I was helping Brandon with the competition. He was the one who actually competed as a teen. You know, we were thinking at the time, "Oh, man. We're huge." And now you look back and you're like, "Oh, wow." You know, I was small back then. But that's good because it's just you keep going over your next hurdle. You You achieve one goal, well, you instantly move on to your next. It's never over. That's why we jokingly say one step closer to being a buff dude, cuz you're always one step closer. you never are like, "Okay, I'm there." Cuz once you're at the top of the hill, where do you go from there? You know, you just usually down, which so there is no real top. I mean, you're always trying to climb. And that's the best thing is you're always trying to climb and there's and it's you don't want to say, "Well, there's no top, so it's like where do I go from there?" No, there's always something better. There's always something more. And you have to have that kind of attitude because it's that constant hunger that's going to drive you through life and either be in the gym or outside. So, that's what kind of mentality you want to have. And that's what it can create inside the gym is having the mentality. That's why it's so good. Yeah. You always just want to keep the hunger there, keep the fire alive. And with that said, we are actually at the gym parking lot. It's Saturday. We're going to hit legs. We're going to be shooting some videos and we will see you dudes soon. All right, take it easy. Fourth place goes to Nick Satler. Here we go. Top three guys. Third place, Alex Larkin. What do you guys like out there? Second place, the runner up, Bruce Warden. And the winner, Brandon White. They are top five guys. Number five is Brian Co., fourth place, is Nick Sadler. Third place, Alex Lar. Second place, Bruce Warden, and first Brandon White. Go strike any pose there, guys. You got to do a poll. I know you cool and all, but just go ahead. I'm too cool to pull down, man. Yeah. What do you guys say? These guys are looking tough. Tough teenagers are busy. Thanks a lot, guys.