I need 10,000 Quest bars delivered to my daughter's birthday party an hour ago. What are you clowns doing? I'll call you back. Who Who are you? Yeah. Oh, I'm with the Befinsky brothers, sir. Plumbers? I just came here to check out this uh countertop problem you guys got going on? Since when do plumbers inspect countertops? Well, since 1907, sir, the Befinsky brothers have specialized in all forms of kitchen maintenance. Better to be proactive than reactive, as we always say. Hey, bro. Can you get over here and help me out with this? Oh, hello. It's me, the other Buffinsky brother, here to do some plumbing over here. You guys look absolutely ridiculous, and I'm not sure if I trust you, but I've got work to do, and I'll let you do your thing. I need a limousine, a quest bar, stat. Let's go. Let's go, people. Move it. Move it. Nice. He bought it. Yeah. Let's do this thing. You make the recipe, I'll film the episode on my camera. Let's go. Welcome to the Bethinsky kitchen. I mean Buck Dude's kitchen. Today we're going to be making peanut butter protein Rice Krispie treats. And boy is it a treat. Let's get started. For this recipe, we're going to be needing Rice Krispies, vanilla protein, agave, peanut butter, dark chocolate. Starting this recipe off, we're going to be going with the three cups of the crispy cereal. We're going to be putting them right into a larger bowl and letting them sit. Hold them right there. Immediately going to take a half a cup of agave and a half a cup of peanut butter. And we're going to be putting them into a mediumsized bowl. Microwave safe. So go ahead and pour the agave right into the microwave safe mediumsiz bowl. Make sure I get all out of there. And then we're going to take the half a cup of super chunk peanut butter. Going to be scraping that into the bowl here. Now that that's done, we're just going to kind of mix this in together here a little bit. Now that we got the peanut butter and agave mixed up, we're going to be putting it in the microwave for 30 seconds. It's all heated up. Make sure mix it in good. Nice, warm, hot, all smooth. So now we're going to take the two scoops of vanilla protein powder. Pour one in. Mix in a little bit. I got one scoop in there. Going to get a second one. Oh yeah, delicious protein. Now that we got the agavei and the peanut butter and the protein all mixed in here, as you can see, it's a nice thick consistency. We're going to be pouring it in with the crispy cereal here. So, go ahead and scrape it all out of this bowl right into the cereal. Dump it in. Bam. So, now you're going to be taking a spatula here for something similar. I'm just going to be mixing that cereal in with the agave, peanut butter, and protein mix here. Making sure it's nice and sticky and mixed really well. Now, you might notice the peanut butter, agave, and the protein mixture is going to be pretty thick and it's going to be hard to mix. So, what you want to do is just take your hands if you get patient like I do and just mix it up nice and well. And once that's all done, be taking a cooking sheet here, get some cooking spray, get a nice light spray there. Make sure your Rice Krispie treats aren't sticking to the pan after you pull it out of the fridge. So, once that's done, you're just going to dump it into the pan here. Going to kind of lay it nice and flat. Squish it down. Make sure it's all together and binded together here. I think we got it. Now, we're ready for the dark chocolate topping, which is optional, of course. So, we're going to be making a little bit of a half and half treat here. Half dark chocolate on the top and half without. So, what you want to do is just take six little chunks of dark chocolate, put it in a microwave safe bowl, and we're going to head over to the microwave and cook it up to make sure it liquefies. All right. Oh, perfect. Completely melted through. Nice and liquidy. Sometimes these bowls get a little hot being in the microwave, so you want to be careful. But we're good to go, especially because we're buff dudes. All right. So, we're just going to take this chocolate. We're going to slowly pour it over the Rice Krispie treats right on top. Yeah, we made this recipe half with chocolate on top, half without. And we use a little bit smaller of a pan. So, if you increase the pan size, you're just going to want to add a little bit more chocolate. We use six bars of chocolate. So, you could use 8 to 10. If you want to cover the whole thing, you just increase a little bit more. So, that way you cover the whole recipe with chocolate. That being said, we're going to put this in the refrigerator for 30 minutes. All right. Now that the 30 minutes are up, we're pulling the Rice Krispie treats out of the refrigerator and we're ready to cut it up and eat them. All right, we're done with the Buff Dudes protein peanut butter rice crisp. Hey, you're not plumbers. You're those pesky buff dudes. Uh, no. We're plumbers. The This is the stuff we found at the bottom of the sink, Mike. It's Give me some of that. Hey, sink sludge is pretty good. Thanks, guys. I guess you could say uh buff dudes approved.