They're old. They're tired. They have goofy ass names. And they're almost completely forgotten. What am I talking about here? I'm of course talking about the Zmen curl, the Arnold press, the overhead squat, and the underhand cable flies. These will consist and make up the expendable workout. Now, what you're going to learn is these exercises are anything but expendable. With any good attack plan, you're going to need some damn good teammates. And with these four different exercises, they're going to recruit multiple joints and multiple muscles all at the same time so that even you could take on a thousand man army. Zin curls, a great exercise. Now, what you want to remember with this one is as you come up, you really want to concentrate on that supernating action, really hitting the peak of the bicep. As you're at the top position, pronate your palms down and slowly let the weight drop. Now, this is going to help with the form extensors. We're all about teamwork here, the forms and biceps together, and that's what the expendables are about. I want you to do is visualize what you want. You know, get get something you're angry about. Think about stop when my mom will shoot. That's it. Good. That's fantastic. Now, how about over the top? Yeah. I tell the movies you did cuz you get angry. All right, let's do it. Our last action hero. That was horrible. That was a great movie. I love this action hero. It's fantastic. The premise. What about Junior? Oh, Junior. Ah, usually I'm the one impregnating people, but in this one I get pregnant. It's fantastic. How about your political career? California, you sucked. The Arnold press. A great exercise for shoulder warm-up. Working all three heads, the deltoid, the anterior, the medial, and the posterior heads. This is great to start out your exercise before doing any kind of major shoulder lifts. This is not a forgotten exercise here. If it's not forgotten, it was on the expendables list. The expend Well, cuz they know my name sells tickets. That's why. Yeah, that's why they put this exercise in the expendables list because it's not expendable. Yeah. What do you think about that slide? Overhead squats. Raising your center of gravity. It's really going to put stress on that core to help stabilize you throughout the whole motion. Primarily working the legs going up and down through the motion, keeping the pressure through the heels as you press up, involving the glutes. Now, the shoulder joints are going to be involved as well because it's having to stabilize the weights held above. One more. You have it. Yeah. Yeah. Watch the arms. The arms. Yeah. You got to keep them straight, you know. Oh, how are you? I'm doing good. I'm doing really good. How was the exercise? Oh, my knees a little tight. Your shoulders a little tight. It's called age, my friend. You know, it's called HGH. The underhand flies. A great way to work the pectoralis major. Getting that nice full pump look in those packs. Cuz let's face it, you got to look good in those vests, right? No oiliest alone. It's time to get serious. What is he doing? Let's do this. Now, it's time for me to show you how it's done. A Stallone breed. You're the only one putting me in movies now. You have to live. I call someone to help you. I'm getting too old for this Now, a lot of these exercises are largely forgotten, but they shouldn't be. It's going to take a lot of muscle, and it's going to take a lot of muscle teamwork, making your body anything but expendable.