Hey dudes, back here with the teen training and we're going to focus on some lower body training. So today we're going to hit those legs and make sure you guys know how to build them right. So stay tuned cuz you're about to get buff. Andrew, you ready for squats? We're going to start out with the leg training. Squats. Yeah. Yeah. You ready? Okay. We're going to be doing it over here cuz we're going to use the barbell. Unfortunately, the gym doesn't have a standard squat rack. So thankfully I'm here to save the day, right, Andrew? Yeah. So we're just going to do warm up. We're going to start off with just the box squats to kind of help you warm up, get the nice range of motion, get you comfortable with the exercise itself. And I'm just going to bring this up. Put it right on your shoulders. Ready? All right. Right there. Even it up. Right on the traps, shoulders. All right. Good. Push those hips back. Ready? Let's go. Hips back. Push through the heels. Good. Keep the chest up. Excellent. That's it. Remember, pressure to the heels. That's better. Good. Those back just a little bit more as you lower. That's better. Good. Straight up. Good. Want to get that nice vertical motion in the bar. Good. That's it. This just a warm up. So, let's rep them out. Just get the muscles warmed up, the joints. Good. Keep the pressure right through the heels. Keep the chest up and push through. Okay. Five more. Ready? 2 one. One more. Breathe up. Good. Awesome. Got you. Come here. Hey. How'd that feel? Come here. Come here. Don't be too shy. It felt good. Where'd you feel it? In my legs. and your legs. Good. Yeah. Yeah. Heart rate's going a little bit. Okay. Good. So, that blood's pumping in those legs, which is good. It's bringing the nutrients, the oxygen in there, so it's helping you get ready for the next set. You ready to go up? All right. Cool. Let's do it. Let's try just one of these. Uh we're going to try for around 10 to 12 reps. The thing is this started out with the box squats. So, we're getting comfortable with the range of motion. Now, we're going to actually do the free squat. So, you're just going to come down to parallel to the floor and then just going to bring it right back up. So, same range of motion, same everything's the same, but we're just going to minus you actually sitting down or at least your glutes touching something. So, you're just going to come down, right back up. Same muscles, everything. Okay, you ready? So, you're going to step out further so that way when you drop those hips down, there's nothing going to be there to support you. Ready? All right. Okay. Got it. Mhm. Here we go. Same range of motion. You got it. Push the hips back. Get through the heels. Keep it through the heels. Good. Push the hips back. Chest up. Push through those heels. You want to get that nice vertical motion. Bar straight down. Bring it up. Good. Good. Nice deep breath as you bring it down. The oxygen in and exhale. Good. Bring down a little farther. A little farther. Drop those. Yep. There we go. Yeah. Keep those knees right in line those toes. That's it. Yep. Good. Down and then push. Let's get one more. One more. Nice and strong. And up. Good. Going to do walking lunges. Uh, it's going to hit the quads. It's going to hit a little bit of the hamstrings. It's going to hit the glutes. It's also going to do a little core work, too. Since you're walking, you're actually stepping forward. And as you step forward, your muscle has to accelerate your body and then decelerate your body as you end the movement. So, accelerating forward, decelerating, accelerating just like so. So, adds a little bit of power in there, too. And what you want to do is you want to take that nice long stride. So when you drop that body down, the knee is not coming over the toe, pinching that joint. And again, you want to push through the heel like you do everything else. Keep it nice and even. Um, so let's go ahead and have you do it. So you need to step forward. Nice and long lunge. Bring it down. Good. Tap the knee just slightly. So that was perfect. And then now take the next step. Nice and long. Next step. Tap right into the next one. Good. That's it. Good. That's perfect. Okay, let's just go this way. One more. Forward. tap right next to the next one. So again, what you want to do and do one second is as you come into the first one here, you're going to accelerate forward right into the next one just like so. Yeah. And when you're stepping forward, go heel toe. So that way you're immediately pushing through your heel. Yeah. Let's try. There we go. Push through the heel. That's it. All the way up. Excellent. Good. Perfect. Your center of gravity is around your core region. That's why they call your core. your balance. So when you put gravity dumbbells, it's actually lowering your center of gravity. So it actually makes balance a lot easier. So if you did a bar like you were on squats and have it here, it's going to hide your center of gravity, which makes a little bit harder to balance. So this is actually going to make it easier. Although the exercise is harder because of the weight itself, the muscles. See what I'm saying? Yeah. All right. Ready? There we go. Nice long step down. Touch right into the next one. Boom. Good. Yep. That's it. Perfect. Good. Yeah. Chest up, shoulders back, push through and up. Perfect. Good. Nice. Now, felt pretty good. Yeah. Yeah. Awesome. Ready for the next one? Let's do it. Okay, Andrew. The next leg exercise is going to be Romanian deadlifts or RDL's for short. So, this is really going to concentrate on the hamstrings. It's actually a hamstring isolation exercise. So, what you're going to be doing with this, you're going to start out with dumbbells so you get the proper form and then we're going to switch it up to barbell. So, with this one, so it's kind of like a deadlift in the sense that you want to really focus on the hinge of the hips, but this is you're actually not bending your knees. You're going to keep the knees pretty stationary. So, you're going to be slightly bent, but you're going to lock them out in that position. And then you're going to take the bars or in this case the dumbbell start. You're just going to keep it here and you're going to pull it up from that motion, hinging back. So your hips pushing them back. Hips are going to be flexing to bring the weight down. And then you're going to be extending the hips forward just like so. You want to try that with dumbbells. Kind of get you warmed up. Get the proper form. And what you want to do is feel the stretch in the hamstrings here, the back of the legs. So keep the dumbbells here right in front. Knees slightly bent. And so they're going to be locking in that position right there. No, not lock them out. Yeah, lock them just slightly bent. Perfect. So, hinge the hips back. So, push the hips back and then just bring your chest downwards like your back, but keep that back straight. So, keep Yeah. So, here we go. I know this is a tough one. This is a tough one. So, straighten out. Straighten everything out. There we go. Good. So, keep this all straight. Just push those hips straight back. Keep the chest up just like you're stretching your hamstrings. Now, bring the hands to your feet like a hamstring stretch. Yep. Keep this locked. Pinch it. Pinch my finger. Just pull it back. There we go. Yeah. Yeah, that's it. Now bring those hips straight back and then push forward just slightly there. Get the stretch right in there. Yeah. So instead of bending in the spine, so you're flexing your spine here. Just push the hips back like here. Like you're bowing forward just like that. So you're bowing in forward, but push your hips back. Push your hips back. There we go. Keep pushing. Keep pushing your hips back. Keep going. And then bow forward. Bow forward. Bow forward. Keep going. Keep going. And then bring it up. Good. You start feeling the stretch on the hamstrings. What you want to do though, this is the hard part, is to keep that back straight as possible. So the straighter the back here, the more pressure it's actually the more stretch it's going to take on your hamstrings. So if the back starts bending here or flexing here, it's going to relieve the stress on the hamstrings, and that's why the body naturally wants to do it. So that's why you keep it back, keep the shoulders back, and you're going to push forward just like so. So you see how my hips are pushing back just like that. So you get that nice vertical line again. So the weights here and the weights are going to drop straight down the body and then you get that nice stretch. You're only really lowering that weight just down to around the knee level and then you're going to bring it up from there. So let's try it again. Okay. Hips pushing back. Chest up. Chest up. There we go. Keep going. Arch back. Arch. Arch. Yeah. And it's tough. Just imagine your hips here and arching them back. See how that can arch here. So, you want that position as you lower down. Yeah, there we go. And then pushing this back, bending at the hips. You're a lost cause. Yeah, that's all right. We'll practice it. Let's drop the weights. Okay. So, we're going to practice that same range of motion cuz I'm now determined to get it. Is we're going to do without the weights and just get the form. So, sometimes it's easier for people to get the form when the weight's actually going them down. But for you, we're going to focus on not flexing your spine, keeping your spine as straight as you can. And it's going to be the hip action. So remember, flex hip extension. So remember when we were going over deadlifts, it was the hip action. When you're bringing it down here and the hips, see the hips are flexed in this position. And then you're bringing up, you're extending. So it's a very similar action in the hips. Your knees are just not bending. There's no bending in the knees or flexing. Yeah. Yep. So do it like it. Let's let's start it off like a deadlift. Imagine being a deadlift here, right? And then when you're going up here and then remember when you get past the knees here, you're still in this position and then you extend the hips forward. So that it's the end of that motion that that's the motion of the main deadlift is the top half of the deadlift. It's very similar. So yeah, you ready to do it? Yep. All right, let's grab the bar. So a little wider than shoulder. Yep. So, it's going to be right outside the legs. Let's bring the feet in slightly together. So, your feet are going to be about shoulder width, toes slightly outward, just like a squat. Yeah. And remember, as you come down with the bar wide, right along the thighs, knees slightly. Remember, chest up right there. Back straight. Yep. Perfect. Breathe down. Stretch. Stretch. And then bring it back up and extend. And now straighten everything out. Perfect. Breathe. Let's do it again. Yep. Let's bring it down. Nice and soft. Again, back straight. stretch and then bring it up and extend this forward. Perfect. That's excellent. Ready? Let's keep going. Cuz now you got to teach the mind. So the mind is going to remember this exercise. The more you do it, the muscles will fire automatically in the proper form because you can do it thousands and thousands of times. So then when you do it, when you're having 315 lbs on this, you're going to be able to just do it here and just go like perfect. Like not even thinking about it. And we go down. Stretch. Bring it back up. Perfect. Good. Excellent. Let's go again. Down and then back up. Perfect. Good. Again, down. Nice stretch in the stones. Good. Up. A little less bend in the knees. Little less bend in the knees. So, good. Yep. Down. Yep. Up. Up. Up. Good. Cuz you want to breathe down nice and slow. And then you want to feel a nice stretch in the hamstrings. And then you get to that point. And then you're going to lift back up. It's called the stretch reflex. Nice stretch. Bring it back up. And he's saying perfect. Good. Excellent. Good. We just did an isolation exercise for the hamstrings, which is the RDL's or the Romanian deadlifts. Now, we're going to do isolation exercise for the quads or the front of the the leg there. Um, it's going to be an extension of the knee. And then it's going to be really easy. You're on a machine. So, what you want to do is get a comfortable position where the back of your knees are actually right along uh the pad here. Does that feel cuz it looks like you're a little too far forward. You're going to pull this pad out. So, that way your hips can be pushed back. And then now the back of the knee is properly supported by the actual pad itself. We're going to start really light. So you want to just extend the knee straight forward and get a nice flexion right in the actual muscles themselves. So flex. So as you bring it up. So extend and then flex and then right back down. Nice and slow and controlled. Okay. Again. There we go. Squeeze nice and slow on the way down. Good. So you always want a nice controlled pattern. Right. These ones if you do them right are going to really burn. So keep going. You want to rep them up. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. The teard drops right here. So bring it up. Nice squeeze. Slowly lower it down. Good. Yeah. And then right when you meet the bottom, right back up. So there's no rest time. Yeah. Squeeze right back down. And then send up. Squeeze. Right back down. Good. Send up. Squeeze. Nice and slow on the way down. Good. Bring it up. Squeeze. Nice slow on the way down. Again. Up. Squeeze. Slow on the way down. Two more. Up. Squeeze. Slow. Good. Bring it up. Squeeze. And then slowly down. Good. All right. Little breather. I know you get a massive burn. The good thing about these is you can really control the concentric contraction or is going to be the flexion of the muscle on the top position or in this case the extension of the knee joint. And then on the eentric contraction, which is the negative portion of the lift, you want to control that too cuz the muscle works both ways, right? It's not just the concentric. So a lot of people will just do the exercise and be like, "Okay, that's the important part is just getting from A to B, which is from A to B and then B to A is actually so you get actually two shots." And that's why it burns so much. It's because there's more muscle fibers involved in because it has control on the way up and then also on the way down. Yeah. How's it feel? Yeah, it burns. Exactly. That's why I take a little rest time, take around 60 to 90 seconds between sets and then you hit it again. That way your body can actually flush out or flush out the lactic acid that builds up in the muscle that creates that burn in there. Feels like my knee is cramping. Your knee is cramping. Yeah. It's getting It's actually not your knee itself. It's the quadriceps or the teardrops, the vasis lateralis and the vasis mediialis muscles that run alongside the knee. But as soon as you strengthen those muscles and a few other muscles too that coincides with those, your knee joint is going to be super strong. So there's some joints in the body that you can injure pretty easily either in sports or just day-to-day activities, which is going to be the knee joint or the shoulder joint. So, when you strengthen all those muscles, either be bigger muscles or smaller muscles around those joints to help protect them, you're good because then injuries are going to be like zero for you, right? Okay. All right, Andrew. We're going to get some calf raises in. We're going to do this on the Smith machine. So, a lot of times gyms will have calf raise machines that you can sit down in or like donkey calf raises, 45° angles. But in this case, this is going to be the easiest for you. Just find a Smith machine. It's going to be standing calf raises. Hopefully, your gym will have a block like this, which in this case it obviously does. We're going to adjust it right here. somebody else try. And you're going to bring this up top position and you're going to bring the bar just like you're doing squats. So, it's going to be in the same position on your neck and you bring your toes. So, first I'm just going to go over with you so you kind of see me do it. Here you're going to walk to the edge and then you're going to drop those heels as far as you possibly can. So you want to get that maximum stretch in the calves. And then you're going to push through your toes all the way to the top position. Get the full flex in the calves and then nice and slow on the way down. And you want to get that full stretch. You want to hit your heels almost close to the floor. I mean as full stretch as you possibly can. You want you want it to actually be painful. And then breathe up. Nice squeeze. Flex nice and slow on the way down. Just like so. So this is an isolation exercise for your calves. It's obviously going to build strength in your calves. Also going to, you know, build for size, too. So, in any kind of running or sprinting, your calves are going to be activated. Walking, whatever it may be. You ready for it? All right, let's do it. Yep. Bring it up. Got it. Push up. Push the toes. Toe. Toes. Good. Okay. Walk to the edge a little bit more. Drop those heels as far back as you possibly can. Feel it. Stretch. And then push through the heel or push the toes all the way up. Bring the heels up. And then pull the heels down. Stretch. Push through the toes. Squeeze. Flex. And then now down nice and slow. Good. Again. controlling the motion. Get a nice eccentric contraction. Negative. And then get it concentric all the way up. Flex nice and slow on the way down. Good stretch. Breathe out and squeeze. Again, you want to kind of you want to keep this kind of momentum cuz if you change momentum, if you're just going really fast, you wouldn't be getting you'd be getting bouncy. You get momentum in this. And this one, you're controlling momentum. So now the muscle has to control it on both motions. Good. How you feeling? Good. Burning. Yeah. Good. up. Okay, as you burn out, Andrew, we're going to do some partial repetitions. So, the partial repetitions is only taking one part of the contraction. So, wait, wait. Keep it. Now, just focus on the top portion. So, bring the heels all the way up. Push, push, push, flex. Only come partially down. Partially down. And then right back up. So, squeeze. And let's We're going to speed this up. Ready? Squeeze up. Squeeze. Speed up. Little quicker. A little quicker. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Up. Squeeze. Squeeze. Squeeze. Good. All right. Awesome. Yeah. How do they feel? Burning. You don't have to do a lot of weight on these. A lot of people think, "Oh, I'm going to put, you know, 150, 200, 300 lb on this." When you don't because if you control it that way, you change momentum, and then you do a little partial reps at the end, get a nice squeeze, some contraction, the top position. That's all you need. I mean, eventually you're going to be obviously having to go up in weight because your calves are going to be so big that they're going to need a lot more weight on them than this. So, that's good. That's what you want, right? Hey, nice work. So, we just finished the leg workout or the lower body program with Andrew over here, which is great cuz he's in sports. He wants to get a little bigger and he wants to get a little buffer, which is perfect. So, I came to his rescue. I came to his gym. I showed him what to do and what not to do. So, hopefully he'll reap the benefits and the rewards of a good program and build that size and become a buff dude. So, Andrew, after this workout, or actually, let's go before this workout or before we you you and me started. How did you feel about coming to the gym? Uh, I felt intimidated coming to the gym cuz I'm 125 lb weekly. And now working out with the buff dudes. I'm more confident. I'm going to get I'm going to become a buff dude. Yeah, I'll pay you I'll pay you later for for plugging me there. Exactly. Um, but I mean, honestly, obviously coming to the gym be intimidating. I felt the same way when I first started out and I didn't really know what to do or even the proper form. So, obviously you could more injuries come into play or even just you don't reap the benefits of a proper program because you're doing it improperly. Um, but now we're kind of going through the form. Uh, we're going through what not to do, what to do. And so, do you feel more confident coming to the gym? Yeah. Yeah. I I didn't really know how to do leg exercises when I came in the gym, but now that when you taught me all of them, I kind of know what to do and I know how to get my legs bigger and do faster, be stronger. Nice. Okay, so flexing the elbow, pulling up, squeeze right back down. Nice and slow. Slow the bicep control it. So again, concentric, flexing. Go ahead up and then slowing down. Slow eentric. So it's tearing those fibers each way. and full benefit. Nice and slow. Good. Yeah. Keep those palms up. Perfect.