Well, this is not the situation we thought we would find ourselves in about 3 months ago, but here we are. Here we go. 4 weeks post pec surgery. You can see the nice healthy scar there. I'm in this sling about 23 hours out of the day. The only time I can get out of it is for a little bit of physical therapy. Like you saw Auga performing on me and when I take a shower I got to sleep with this thing. It's pretty uncomfortable but you know it's for a really great cause. At the 6 week mark I can get out of it but I'll probably wear it whenever I'm in public and still sleeping and everything any anywhere where I might be compromised. So it's just going to take a lot of patience as I watch this arm basically slowly wither away. And I've actually provided a link in the description of the video for those of you who are maybe like really curious because it shows an operation on a powerlifter which is exactly the same procedure I had done on myself. It's not for the squeamish, but for those of you who may want to see exactly what was done, you can check that out if you would like. Our very first Buff Dudes videos, we were sitting in a car. It was 4:00 a.m. Both of our jobs were eminent and we were getting in that workout and shooting our YouTube videos before we had to go. So, this feels kind of like it's come full circle. It's a flashback, man. This is kind of crazy. Blast from the past. Uh, I think we're in a slightly different situation, though. Both dealing with injuries. Um, but >> we're not stopping. >> Exactly. We're still motivating philosophy >> and we're still driving to the gym. So, how could we stop when we face adversity? We're like, "Okay, we're packing it up. We're done." >> Hell no. >> And thankfully, I have Brandon because I actually can't drive for the first 6 weeks in this sling. So, he's also my chauffeur. We've got Uber Gains over here. >> Yeah, it's perfect. I mean, this taxi only goes to the gym and back, so it works out. We're going to be hitting legs. We are working on our new T-Rex training system. It's every man's worst nightmare. The only workout you can do is lower body. I'm really curious to see how much gains you make in your legs working only legs for the next six months. It's all I've got. So, I need to I need to build those things. Then, after we're done with the leg workout, probably do a little cardio. The goal is 10,000 steps because really just looking at this as like a full reset starting from the very beginning. Just trying to stay active, trying to move, get something done both physically and to help mentally. going to be logging it all in our Buff app. We just released our new cardio update, by the way. We're super excited about so you can track all your cardiovascular activities. If you haven't had a chance, check it out. We love the community that's there. Thank you all. And we're going to be logging every single workout, so you can just follow every single one we do. Help keep us accountable, help keep you accountable. Give it a shot and uh say hello. We'd love to have you. No matter if you're dealing with injuries or you're completely healthy, I mean, it's always good to just go into the gym and have a plan. You know, obviously Hudson now, uh, just due to his situation, he might not be able to concentrate on upper body so much, but he still has that plan laid out, which is working lower body. It's getting his 10,000 steps in his cardio, continuing to make gains in one area, um, and also get and stay in great shape. So, I mean, I think for me, you know, that's extremely motivational to see and just a good reminder that it doesn't matter what situation you're in, having a plan, having a goal is really the first step. And then it's, of course, taking the uh other variables into play, too. Your nutrition, um using something like an app to track everything to make sure you're continuing to get those gains and to stay on track, uh is just that's kind of how it all comes together. I'm trying to learn from my mistakes because when I broke my ankle a few years back, the recovery was longer. I waited longer and it was almost like I was giving my future self the burden of getting [laughter] in shape, right? >> Which I don't want to do this >> like Thanks for taking me over. >> I would have traveled back in time and punched myself [laughter] >> as I was laying on the couch playing Red Dead. >> I was going to say, but it was Red Dead Redemption 2. I mean, you had some good parts of that. I don't regret it, but it was wild how out of shape I got in such a small amount of time. And I think that's what can be shocking, at least for me, for someone who's been relatively athletic their whole life. It takes so long to get into shape and it so short in the period of time you can get out of shape. And I'm just trying my best to avoid that because as kind of depressing as this situation is, I don't want to make it even more depressing. I don't want to dig that hole even deeper because it's way harder to climb out of. So that is what you we are doing now. Keeping that motivation, keeping that momentum, we're not stopping. Buff talk over. Yeah. One of the biggest reliefs so far has just been getting the surgery over with. And now knowing that I can start with the building blocks of recovery. But I got to say one thing that really helped me through this entire thing was many of you. the comments such as small setbacks make for major comebacks. There was also another one that I really enjoyed saying, "We don't come for the buff, we come for the dudes." And that meant a lot to me. That was extremely touching because when this first happened, I ran online. I started looking up who else has experienced pec tears because I think as many of you who have encountered a major injury know, it feels singular. you kind of feel like it the only person it's happened to is you. And finding that it's happened to other people was a little bit more reassuring. So, I hope that I can be there for some of you who are maybe going through an injury or a hard time in their lives. Maybe you'll stumble upon this video series and be like, "Okay, well, if a 43year-old can tear their pec and come back, well, I can, too. So, I'm right there along with you. We're going to get through this together. A lot of it's just keeping strong really the mental part. I mean I feel like so much is focused a lot of times on the physicality but for me it's just trying to keep mentally strong which I am going to try my absolute best to do. And in addition to that it's going to be a tangible goal and my tangible goal is going to be recovering in time to hold our twins when they are born this summer. So, I will see you in future installments of this series as I continue to recover the next big step getting this sling off for good. So, look for that very soon. Let me know if there's anything you would like to see in a recovery series like this. I'll try to show the physical therapy, the eating, and more. So, until next time, stay safe and stay buff. Here's the goal. Growing every day. >> And we also found out what we're having. Drum roll. >> Two buff girls got [laughter] my work cut out for me. >> Good luck, honey. >> The injury doesn't kill me. The stress will.