I'm here to commit gym crimes and drink protein shakes. And a mom out of protein shakes. The guy who literally comes out of nowhere to tell you he's using that. Hey, using that. Don't touch it. Four sets left, man. Using that. What about the overly sweaty guy who offers the spot you want to bench press? You got this. Oh yeah. Yeah. You can get it. You can get it. Two more. Do you need a helper? Ah, you're good. How about the guy that buys the big slab of lifting chalk and he has no idea what it's for. The spin instructors who take their job way too seriously. All right, people. Up and down. Up and down. Let's do this thing. Hey, Amanda, pick those candles back up to speed. I see you. All right, pick it up. Hey, [\h__\h] I said pick it back up. You're in this class. You're part of my [\h__\h] world. All right, one out. You're mine. All right, people. Little interruption. We're all good. Who's having fun? How about the dude walking on the treadmill at 1 m an hour for 60 minutes expecting results? Okay, I'm feeling the burn now. Almost there. 60 minutes down. I must have burned a hell of a lot of calories. Time to reward myself with some burger and fries. The veteran. Back in my day, we didn't count sets and reps. We knew we were done when one of us was seriously injured. Pre and post-workout was beer and whiskey. If we wanted some protein, we slaughtered a cow and ate it raw. Back in my day. Now, pardon me. I have to go to the locker room and blow dry my balls. How about the guy who uses every piece of gym gear available? Dead lift or alive. You're working out with me. The obligatory walking lunges guy who walks everywhere. Get out of my way, bro. Trying to do some walk. Oh god. Ah. God, this guy is everywhere. One more time. One more time, bro. You're going to be What about the guy who locks eyes with you every time you look in his general direction, dudes who suffer from ILS, invisible laugh syndrome. Symptoms include carrying two invisible TVs under your arms. So, if you or your friends suffer from these symptoms, seek help immediately. The dude who took way too much preworkout. Said don't exceed three scoops. I took 12. I felt fine. What about the parents who leave their babies unattended at the gym? Huh? What about the guy who could lift more than you, but he's always injured? How about the guy who plays his music on speakerphone mode on a cell phone while he's working out? God, that's annoying. Hey, Brandon, I think I got you beat, man. How about the guy who plays his boom box out loud for all to hear, playing custom gym songs for everybody to hear? Never heard of that. Well, get ready to live cuz you're about to right now. Shields with All right, dudes. Now it's time for some of the gym crimes that you submitted. Mike Chang. Wait, Mike Chang. Personal trainers that don't live. Unclaimed protein shake farts. Male personal trainers that become with the ladies more personal than trainers, if you know what I mean. How old are the buff dudes?