 We built a gym from a tree. We built a gym from a tree. We built a gym out of concrete. We built a primitive gym. And now, we're going to build a gym out of junk! Yeah! So how are we going to be building this junkyard gym, Dad? You know, I have a unique position. I live out on a farm, and I have access to all this junk. It's going to be a treasure hunt! A junkyard treasure hunt! To build the greatest ultimate junkyard gym anyone's ever seen! Yeah! We got one requirement for the equipment we're looking for. Can it curl? Oh yeah! That's alright. It's not bad. I'd put it on about 4 out of 10 on the curling scale. This stuff is actually a little newer than the gym equipment you'd find at Gold's Gym in Venice. And it's cleaner. Yeah! And it doesn't smell like piss. I think we're going to need some tetanus shots before we build this gym. We just found our gym bench. We can do some seated presses. Oh, that's solid, baby! And it's comfort, too! Oh, damn! It's heavy as hell! I think we can maybe make like a squat rack out of this. It's a big old dumpster. It's full of all this metal. Look at this! Oh yeah! Oh yeah! That feels good! 10 out of 10 on the curl scale, baby! Perfect! All of this junk has a story. Thank you for everything. I think we could maybe make like a squat rack out of this. I think we might have found a jackpot here. It's a big old dumpster. It's full of all this metal. Look at this! Oh yeah! Yeah! Yeah! That feels good! 10 out of 10 on the curl scale, baby! Perfect. Buff the jack. You good caller? All of this junk has a story, and thankfully we brought along our historian. Buff Dad, what's the story on this one? 1932, International Harvester 34A. They needed alfalfa for the beef. This did turn the whole tide of World War II, this small piece of equipment. You made that all up, didn't you? Yep. Okay. Boom. Boom. Yeah. We got a lot of good stuff. Really excited to make the ultimate Buff Dude Junk Jam. Yeah. A normal person would park the tread a little closer, but you know Buff Dude's parking far away, so we get a little extra workout. oh no okay we got the inside colors on so we gotta be putting the outside colors on but we have to stabilize that bar from moving around. That's going to be a simple fix. We're just going to take some plywood, take a hole saw, drill the same size hole as that, cut off the corners, put a bolt through the wheel to the plywood, two bolts probably. That'll stabilize that tire. Then we'll do the same on the next tire, stabilize that, and then that bar will go through without any movement so we get the true lift without any kind of leeway. So two barbells made one for deadlifts and one for bench squat or bent over rows and we're going to be working on the dumbbells next and with the dumbbells we're going to be using some brake rotors and of course DIY duke is going to work his magic to turn these into some sweet dumbbells that can be used really for anything. So we're getting this much closer to completing the gym and I'm pretty pumped because what we've done so far is pretty badass and I'm excited to lift all this heavy steel, rubber and god knows what else. Basically that's our dumbbells right there. Oh yeah! Man that's massive! Man that's massive! Man that's massive! All right off the salvage pile we found exactly what we needed for the bench and the squat all in one big pipe but we got to do some cutting and some welding and then we're going to attach it to that old roll bar. It's going to be pretty simple to put it together but it's going to take some work. So we got the stand-ups done. At this point we're going to get the piece of flat bar where the barbell is going to set on. We're going to put a little riser back here so it won't go off the back and a tiny little riser up here for safety. So go ahead and do that. This is one gym that requires gloves. A lot of time to go to a public gym. You'll see someone with gloves on and you'll be like yeah what is that guy doing? Gloves are you kidding me? But this one you better be wearing gloves or you're going to get something stuck in your hand or some kind of disease. This ups the badassery. I feel like when you're in the gym you're pressing a lot of weight you feel really cool but when you're pressing rusted metal, rusted steel, tires, I mean how much better can that be? Come on. Yeah! This is how Lord Humongous got his name before he was just Lord then he started picking this shit up and then he got humongous. Brandon show him out. Click of a button. There he goes. Get in position. There he goes. There we go. It doesn't get much safer than that. This is completely safe. 100%. Plump it out. Yeah. Plump it out. Yeah. Big time. Yeah. Where's that 225 probably? Yeah. Nice. Nice. Find me. There we go. Nice. Junkyard gym. Junkyard gym. Junkyard gym. Here we go. I got a cramp on my back. Oh no he's got a cramp. Oh no. That's what happens. I think I need to. Yeah why Duke has it gets a lot of cramps. Nice. Hearing some popping. Hearing some crackling. But that actually might be the seat. It's not you. So I'm not sure. I think it's my spine. Okay. Go ahead and put that at the base of my spine. Yeah. We want um. What do you call those plate things in the spine? That's where we want the tape to be. Disks? Disks. They're called discs I guess. Yeah. So uh. That's two pieces of tape. You think that's going to hold the spine up okay? Yeah. I'm good to go. Nice. I mean I see some bones sticking through but I think you're good. You know this looks a little unsafe and I'm not too sure about doing this. Oh wait a second. That was the security I needed. Now I'm good to go. Now when you're trapped you're trapped. I think I'm actually going to keep that off. So dad tell us about this waiver you got assigned before joining your junkyard gym. It's pretty simple. It's only a paragraph long with a few disclaimers and some attorney bull crap. You know it's like tiny print. It's like ahhh. And you don't even need pre-workout because naturally you have a lot of adrenaline wondering if this is going to fall apart or not. Yeah. So your heart rate's always going really fast. I guarantee that's going to stay together. You did sign the waiver. Yeah. I didn't even read it. You said I didn't have to. So as you can see this gym pretty much contains all the major tools that you're going to need to get the compound movements. You can get your deadlifts. You can get your squats. You can get your bent over rows. Your bench press. Your overhead press. And that's really all you need. But of course if you want to get any kind of um you know isolation movements we have dumbbells. So pretty much takes care of everything. And that was really the idea of having a gym or any gym. You want to make sure you can get the bare essentials in those big compound movements. That is really going to be the most important thing. Even if it is made out of rusted bolts and jagged metal and old stinky rubber and oil stains. You know what? Hey you can still make those gains. Yeah. Just want to mention to you that everywhere in the world there's junk. The human race has been around long enough to produce a lot of junk. So no matter where you are you're going to find the junk to build a gym. Do it. And if you want your own spinal tape then go to diyduke.com and uh they're only going to be 39.95. Yeah. All autographs. Any injuries. Any injuries too. Can you see your tape? No. That's the thing to pass. That's it. DIY Duke tape. Okay. I got to tell you this junkyard gym was amazing experience. I loved every minute of it. Finding the junk. Putting it together. And then actually being able to work out with it. Yeah. This is definitely one of my favorite gyms. Concrete. Primitive. Wood. This is the most badass gym of them all. And I think we're going to combine all of them together to make it the ultimate buff dude commercial gym. Yeah. That would be crazy. You just got to sign that waiver. Yeah. The strongest only survives in that gym because uh you're either going to crush your skull. You're going to get splinters up your ass or you're going to create some major imbalances. If you live through the workout you're a buff dude. Yeah. And we'd like to give another big thanks to Magic Spoon for helping to make this video possible. Remember to click our link below to build your very own variety box and use our code buffdudes for five dollars off. You can choose from the best selling cocoa, fruity, blueberry and frosted. Don't wait. Visit Magic Spoon today. One man's junk is another man's gym. Yeah.