We built a gym from a tree. We built a gym out of concrete. We built a primitive gym. And now we're going to build a gym out of junk. So, how are we going to be building this junkyard, gym, dad? You know, I have a unique position. I live out on a farm and I have access to all this junk. It's going to be a treasure hunt. A junkyard treasure hunt to build the greatest ultimate junkyard gym anyone's ever seen. Yeah. We got one requirement for the equipment we're looking for. Can it curl? Oh, yeah. That's all right. It's not bad. I'd put it at about four out of 10 on the curling scale. This stuff is actually a little newer than the gym equipment you'd find at Gold's Gym in Venice. It is cleaner. Yeah. And it doesn't smell like piss. I think we're going to need some tetanis shots before we build this gym. We just found our gym bench. We can do some seated presses. Oh, that's solid, baby. And it's comfort, too. Oh, it's heavy as hell. thinking we can maybe make like a squat rack out of this. I think we might have found a jackpot here. It's a big old dumpster. It's full of all this metal. Look at this. Oh yeah. Yeah. That feels good. 10 out of 10 on the curl scale, baby. Perfect. Bust the jack. You good caller? All of this junk has a story and thankfully we brought along our historian buff dad. What's the story on this one? 1932 International Harvester 34A. They needed alalfa for the beef. This did turn the whole tide of World War II. This small piece of equipment. You made that all up, didn't you? Yep. Okay. Boom. Yeah, we got a lot of good stuff. Really excited to make the ultimate buff dude junk gym. Yeah. Normal person would park the trailer a little closer, but you know, Buff Dudes parked it far away so we get a little extra workout. Oh no. Okay, we got the inside collars on. So, we got to be putting the outside colors on, but we have to stabilize that bar from moving around. That's going to be a simple fix. We just got to take some plywood. Take a hole saw. Drill the same size hole as that. Cut off the corners. Put a bolt through the wheel through the plywood. Two bolts probably. That'll stabilize that tire. Then we'll do the same on the next tire. Stabilize that. And then that board will go through without any movement. So we get the true lift, without any kind of leeway. Heat. Heat. two barbells made, one for deadlifts and one for bench squat or bend over rows. And we're going to be working on the dumbbells next. And with the dumbbells, we're going to be using some brake rotors. And of course, DIY Duke is going to work his magic to turn these into some sweet dumbbells that can be used really for anything. So, we're getting this much closer to completing the gym. And I'm pretty pumped because what we've done so far is pretty badass. And I'm excited to lift all this heavy steel, rubber, and god knows what else. Basically, that's our dumbbells right there. Oh yeah, man. That's massive. All right, off the salvage pile, we found exactly what we needed for the bench and the squat all in one big pipe. But we got to do some cutting and some welding. And then we're going to attach it to that old roll bar. It's going to be pretty simple to put it together, but it's going to take some work. So, we got the standups done. At this point, we're going to get the piece of flat bar where the barbell's going to set on. We're going to put a little riser back here so it won't go off the back and a tiny little riser up here for safety. So, go ahead and do that. This is one gym that requires gloves. A lot of time you go to a public gym, you'll see someone with gloves on, you're like, "Yeah, what is that guy doing? Gloves? Are you kidding me?" But this one, you got to you better be wearing gloves or you're going to get something stuck in your hand or some kind of disease. Yeah. Damn. This is ups the badassery. I feel like when you're in the gym, you're pressing a lot of weight. You feel really cool. But when you're pressing rusted metal, rusted steel tires, I mean, how much better can that be? Come on. This is how Lord Humongous got his name. Before he was his lord, then he started picking this up and then he got humongous. Brandon, show him how it works. Click of a button. There he goes. Position. There he goes. There we go. It doesn't get much safer than that. This is completely safe. 100%. Pump it out. Pump it out. Big time. What is that? 225 probably. Nice. Nice me. There we go. Nice. Junkyard jam. Junkyard jam. Junkyard jam. Here we go. That is I got a cramp in. Oh no, he's got a cramp. Oh no, it's what happens. I think I need to DIY Duke has gets a lot of cramps. Nice. Hearing some Hearing some popping. Hearing some crackling. But that actually might be the seat, not you. So I'm not sure. I think it's my spine. Okay, go ahead and put that at the base of my spine. Yeah, we want um what do you call those plate things in the spines? That's where you want the tape to be. Discs. discs. They're called discs, I guess. Yeah. So, uh, that's two pieces of tape. You think that's going to hold the spine up? Okay. Yeah. I'm good to go. Nice. I mean, I see some bubbies sticking through, but I think you're good. You know, this looks a little unsafe. I'm not too sure about doing this. Ah, wait a second. That was the security I needed. Now I'm good to go. Now, when you're trapped, you're trapped. I think I'm actually going to take that off. You So, Dad, tell us about this waiver you got to sign before joining your junkyard gym. It's pretty simple. It's only a paragraph long with a few disclaimers and some attorney bull crap, you know? It's like tiny print. And you don't even need pre-workout because naturally you have a lot of adrenaline wondering if this is going to fall apart or not. So, your heart rate's always going really fast. I guarantee you that's going to stay together. You did sign the waiver. Yeah, I didn't even read it. You said I didn't have to. So, as you can see, this gym pretty much contains all the major tools that you're going to need to get the compound movements. You can get your deadlifts, you can get your squats, you can get your bend over rows, your bench press, your overhead press, and that's really all you need. But, of course, if you want to get any kind of um, you know, isolation movements, we have dumbbells. So, pretty much takes care of everything. And that was really the idea of having a gym or any gym. You want to make sure you can get the bare essentials in those big compound movements. That is really going to be the most important thing. Even if it is made out of rusted bolts and jagged metal and old stinky rubber and oil stains, you know what? Hey, you can still make those gains. Yeah. Just want to mention to you that everywhere in the world, there's junk. The human race has been around long enough to produce a lot of junk. So, no matter where you are, you're going to find the junk to build a gym. Do it. And if you want your own spinal tape, then go to diyduke.com and uh they're only going to be $39.95. Yeah. Kinsio tape. No, that's the thing to pass. DIY Duke tape. Okay. I got to tell you, this junkyard gym was amazing experience. I loved every minute of it. Finding the junk, putting it together, and then actually being able to work out with it. Yeah. This is definitely one of my favorite gyms. Concrete, primitive, wood. This is the most badass gym of them all. And I think we're going to combine all of them together to make it the ultimate Buff Dude commercial gym. Yeah, that would be crazy. You just got to sign that waiver. The strongest only survives in that gym cuz uh you're either going to crush your skull, you're going to get splinters up your ass, or you're going to create some major imbalances. You live through the workout. You're a buff dude. Yeah. And we'd like to give another big thanks to Magic Spoon for helping to make this video possible. Remember to click our link below to build your very own variety box and use our code buff dudes for $5 off. You can choose from the bestselling cocoa, fruity, blueberry, and frosted. Don't wait. Visit Magic Spoon today. One man's junk is another man's gym. We have