 We are here in Corvallis, Oregon, home to OSU, beaver football, and the senior game. Okay, yes, they may be seniors, but here's the thing. These athletes are wiser, tougher, and more determined than most 20, 30, and 40-year-olds we know, including us. But they don't have it easy, pushing past adversity and father time with the benefit of youth no longer on their side. And one of those athletes is our dad. He just turned 68, and he's going to be competing in the senior games alongside some of the fittest people on earth. So me and Brandon thought this would be the perfect opportunity to tag along, watch him train, and ask as many senior athletes as we could the real question. What's your secret? And it turns out the answers that they gave us changed the way we view everything. Before heading out to the senior games, I met up with my dad, Duke, to see how his training was going and to ask him the question, how he's able to continue to do it at 68 years old. You know, it's always hard to fit everything into life, sometimes very challenging. When I decided to do the senior games, I was still working full-time. I'm still working full-time now. I drive truck, haul hay, tractor, do some mechanical stuff, all that kind of farm related things. So in order to fit the training in, I've got to try to schedule all that into the day or the week or the month. And of course that's challenging, but if you're up to that challenge, it's amazing how much you get accomplished. If you want to win a competition or compete in a competition, then set that goal and reach that goal. And if he don't reach that goal, we'll keep going until you do. You don't always have to get first place. The best thing to do is beat your personal best, challenge yourself. And that will be the greatest challenge I think you'll ever face because that's sometimes the most difficult. When I turned 60, that's when I decided that I want to do something competitively. So I started late in life, but that gives a good example of it's never too late to start. And because of learning the hard way without a teacher, it took a little longer, but I think learning from my mistakes. And that's the important thing. You think, Oh, I made a mistake. I messed up. I'm not worthy of it. But no, that's not the case. Making mistakes is good because once it's made, you probably never, ever repeat that mistake and you learn from it. So you can use that all through life. With my dad's work day and training wrapped up, we headed out to grab one last dinner before his competition. And it was there, he told me the real secret behind his success. If you think of a picture at your life or your pursuits or those kind of things, oftentimes you can't complete that picture on your own. So I have to give credit to Diane, my wife, who helped me complete the picture I was trying to draw, trying to paint the picture, beat a javelin, throw her a hammer, throw her. It took the right nutrition, the right inspiration. And she was always behind me doing that. And I can't give her enough credit for being that person who everybody should have in life, someone behind you, pushing you, helping you along. And then vice versa, you do the same for them. Dinner was finished and so was my dad's wise words. And now it was time for me and Brandon to pack up and hit the road. The training was over and the competition was about to begin. But first, it was time for an unforgettable encounter with the sponsor who made this video possible. I'll pack for the road trip. Now, if only there was a snack with the perfect macronutrient split for me. There is. What is that? Introducing David. Finish your masterpiece. 20 grams protein, 150 calories and zero grams sugar. This is the protein bar I've always dreamed of. Superior protein for the human form. David protein bar. David. Whether you're on a road trip, in between meals or just want a snack, grab a David protein bar. Enjoy free shipping on your first order. Try David today. David protein bar. We're getting down to the wire here. There's about half an hour before the big man performs. You feel nervous? Yeah, that's the key. I think really that adrenaline and that power. Well, do Scott plenty of adrenaline and power. So we're rooting for you doing a little bit more warm up. And then we're going to watch the javelin and hammer throw. Yeah. With our dad getting ready for his two events, me and Brandon thought this would be the perfect opportunity to wander around and find as many athletes as we could in order to ask them questions in regards to aging, fitness and how they stay inspired. I'm here with Ed. So we got Nathan here. I'm here with John. Now, John, how old are you? I'm 64. 73. I'm 59. 78. 84. Ed, we wanted to know what would the one piece of advice you would give your younger self be. Stay active. Believe you can do it. Stay in better shape. Probably don't drink so much beer. Continue working out. Don't stop. Take better care of your knees. Take things a little more seriously along the way. It's better to stay in shape than to try to get in shape. Get off the couch. Don't stop. Try it. Just do it. You're never going to be as young as you are now. Keep moving. Keep active and find the thing that you love to do and know that you there's never an end point. Like you can you can keep finding that new passion until you're 100. What do you do to keep yourself motivated to keep yourself getting out of bed every morning? I like to do it to inspire my kids. Just to get out of bed now is a great thing but yeah. The surprise that that the day we might bring. Just show up even if you got a crutch. If you can limp into the ring and do something you show up. It's for fun. You have to focus on what's ahead and not think about what happened before. And now we got a lot of people maybe they're getting in their late 20s 30s even coming up to 40s and they're telling themselves I can't do that or it's too late. What would you say to that? No you're not too old. I don't know if you are ever too old. You're not too old. You're not too old. I think you got to find what inspires you and feels good to you and really capitalize on that. Get off your duff. Just start. Begin doing something. I don't care if it's walking around the block. I think resistance training is critical. I think we should all be doing resistance training. Working on legs and balance. I think there's a psychological aspect to exercise which does more than just how you stay fit. Keep keep plug and keep going and enjoy it. This is the fountain of youth. If you stick with it you know and keep drinking the water of that fountain then you you could stay as young as you can. Find that thing that they love and to keep moving in whatever way feels good to them. No you're never going to be as young as you are now and you're never too old to start learning and start working on it and improving. That sums it up perfectly. Thank you Julie. That was amazing. Awesome. Congratulations. Thank you. Good luck today. Thank you so much. Really appreciate it. Feeling rejuvenated by watching the athletes perform but also their wisdom that only age can provide it was now time to watch our dad perform and see if all the training had paid off. What was it 42? 9. 9. Amazing job dad. Thank you. What a way to start. And I've been training like crazy to try to hit 40 and I wow. Nice. Training works. Who would have thought? Nice job. With over six months of training and the goal of hitting 40 meters our dad was extremely excited that he had not only hit 40 but he had surpassed that. Accomplishing his goal and going even farther. Afterwards it was time to watch him perform in the javelin alongside many of the other people that we had interviewed and watching their camaraderie and athleticism was a perfect way to wrap up the day. Now the only thing left was to find out how our dad had placed. Was he able to place first or was the competition just too fierce? First place. Congratulations. Thank you. Congratulations. There's for the hammer first place. Now we're here to collect his other medal. What are you serious? Thank you. Wow. I didn't expect. I probably was the only competitor in my age group. Don't shut up. He's got two first place trophies. He kicks some serious ass. Daddy did it. That's a good, that's going to be the title. No thank you guys. You guys are inspirational. I don't think I could have thrown so far in the hammer unless I was viewed through the scope of those lens with you guys behind it. We're glad to help. We're glad to support you and you kick some serious butt. Yeah. Yeah. Now days we're constantly bombarded on social media that you're just not good enough. Your body's not performing like it used to and the only solution is to take this pill to get big or take that pill to get small. But what we saw today was a group of people whose quiet determination made a huge impact. We're all going to age but there's no reason to make it an excuse. Just adapt, find a community of like-minded individuals and look past the noise and tell yourself that you can do it no matter if you're starting out at age 22 or 92.