 We follow doctors' health advice for one week. Here's what happens. MUSIC It seems like everywhere you look nowadays, advice is being given out on the internet, either from fitness influencers or doctors of varying degrees. But we're going to go to the source and live our lives according to medical professionals. Is it going to be better or is it going to be worse? We're about to find out. Wish us luck. MUSIC Okay, I have you fasting for six days, water only, and on the seventh day, horse meat raw. Any questions? No, I think that's everything. I appreciate your professional opinion. Thanks, Duke. MUSIC That's Dr. Duke. Oh, sorry, Duke. Dr. Duke. I have millions of viewers. I claim to know stuff. Okay, what are you doctor of? Everything. Okay, and that's fantastic, but just tell me what kind of doctor you are. You want to know what kind of doctor I am? Yes. I'm a chiropractor. MUSIC So I'm currently at the grocery store and I'm going to be shopping, getting all my food according to the my plate chart. And there's four things that I'm going to be concentrating on, vegetables, grains, proteins, and fruits. So I'm going to be grabbing what I need and then building up my plate. MUSIC So we just got back from the grocery store and we have all the food lined out here. We have the vegetables, grains, fruits, meats, and lastly, we have the dairy. Now it's funny to look at the my plate specifications because it's quite a bit different than what I was used to growing up with the food pyramid. So I'm going to be portioning this out for the my plate daily recommendations for me personally. So this is it, the my plate daily recommendations for me personally or at least my age range. We have seven ounces of meat, four cups of veggies, seven ounces of grains, two cups of fruit, and one cup of dairy. And as you can tell, the portion sizes are pretty small. I mean, I could probably finish this in one meal and that's because this is based off a 2000 calorie a day diet. Of course, you would make some adjustments depending on your activity level or maybe your goals. But it is interesting to see the changes and the differences between the food pyramid and now the my plate with food pyramid grains are at the bottom. They were the foundation. They were the starting point and it worked its way up from there with my plate. It's a bit more of a well rounded diet or at least kind of like, you know, structure. Very interesting to see. And I think it's a pretty good starting point for most people. Doctors recommend 150 minutes of moderate cardio week. But instead of spending 30 minutes on a treadmill, we figured we would knock this cardio out the buff dude's way by climbing a volcano. I'm heading to three finger jack. Now I know it sounds a bit like an outlaw biker, but it's actually a 7800 foot volcano in the Oregon Cascades. Carved by glaciers, its jagged Ridge is what gave it the name. The route is about 10 miles with nearly 3000 feet of climbing. A hike which is rated hard and usually takes eight to 10 hours. Just coming down from the top, we are on our way back and we're at the two and a half hour mark now. So we got the recommended 150 minutes of cardio. They recommended doing it in a week. Buff dudes do it in a day. So knocking that out, finishing this up. Hell of a scenic walk. Absolutely amazing way to spend those recommended minutes of activity. We finished up eight miles, three hours and 15 minutes. Nice little hike there. Blue past the recommendations, but it felt damn good. So this one is done. It is the morning and with the USDA my plate and the American Heart Association claiming to get the proper energy sources and nutrient intake. You have to have breakfast every morning. So that's exactly what we're going to be doing. Ah, a nice healthy breakfast. Now I grew up with the notion that breakfast was the most important meal of the day. If you didn't start your day with breakfast while you're not having a good day. Mm-hmm. Does that same with goes with you? Yeah, for sure. And I feel like a lot of times breakfast sets the tone for my day. It kind of gets my momentum flowing. So I do really enjoy having a nutritional breakfast. I think that's really a good point because it's not just the nutrient intake and energy sources from breakfast. It is kind of more of a mindset thing. It's like fixing your bed first thing in the morning, making breakfast first thing in the morning. It's just kind of like you said sets the tone, get your day started off right. Do you absolutely need breakfast every single morning? I don't know. I guess it kind of depends on the person, but we are having breakfast. This looks delicious and we're going to dive in. Yeah. On our hike earlier up to three finger jack, I went through about 50 ounces of water, but I was very surprised because that's only about half of what they recommend, which is 125 ounces or pretty close to a gallon. Now, I grew up my whole life hearing the adage eight glasses of water a day, which is only really about 60 ounces. So to hear that they recommend closer to one gallon was very surprising because that's typically what I aim for in an entire day. And it's not only plain water that they recommend. They include any type of hydration, whether it comes from coffee, other drinks or even the food we consume. And I think anyone that strives for this goal is going to find a very interesting side effect in regards to drinking those recommended 3.7 liters a day. And that is going to be that you're going to be having to take a whole hell of a lot of bathroom breaks. And excuse me, that's what I've got to do with this very moment. It's time to talk about body mass index or BMI. Now, what is BMI? Essentially, it's a way to calculate if you're underweight, normal weight or overweight. And I have a personal experience with this and it goes back to when I was 20 years old. I was getting life insurance at the time. I can't remember why, but they required me to go in and take a physical. So being 20 years old and really into fitness, I mean, I go into that doctor's office extremely confident and even cocky, knowing that I'm going to pass with flying colors. And I pretty much did, except for one thing, a red flag popped up and that red flag was my BMI. I was categorized as level one obese. Now, I was shocked. I was like, what the hell is this? You know, I didn't even know what BMI was. So the doctor explained to me said, it's a flawed system and it doesn't take your muscle mass into account. It pretty much just weighs out your height to weight ratio and that's it. So being six foot two, 240 pounds, I was too heavy for my height. Even now at 215 pounds, I'm still considered overweight. I would have to be around 180 pounds for my height to be categorized as normal. So all in all, it's a flawed system and I feel like it's really interesting that the medical professionals use such a simple way to categorize everyone as either being underweight, normal weight or overweight. So we've got a good idea of the BMI, but what about the actual body fat percentage? And that is going to be within the eight to 24 percentile range. And over the years, I've had a chance to test that theory, fluctuating pretty close to the end of both of those ranges. Recently, I did a bodybuilding competition where I got sub 5 percent and I've also been pretty heavy in the past as well. From my personal experience, I feel that this is pretty accurate to fall right there in the middle. I feel really good at the 12 to 15 percent body fat range. I can still be very athletic. I can eat a diet which really doesn't feel too restrictive and I feel good. But again, that's probably going to vary from person to person. How many grams of protein do I need per day? Now that is a very popular question and one with a variety of different answers coming from different sources. But thankfully, the definitive answer is finally in with new research done by the National Academies claiming that we all need 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight. Now that means the average adult male should be having around 56 grams of protein per day in the average adult female around 46 grams. And for my body weight, that means I need as little as 70 grams of protein per day. So I have a lot of different foods laid out here and we're going to be talking about protein content in these different foods. So as you can tell, we have our meats, eggs over here. We have some protein supplement, cereal and some beans. Now looking at right here, this is 93 percent lean ground beef. This is around 70 grams of protein. This would be my daily requirement if I would be following the National Academy guidelines. This is 11 eggs around the same amount of protein. This packet of tilapia would be my daily requirement. If I ate this whole box of cereal, I had these three cans of beans, three servings of whey protein supplementation. So this is kind of hard to imagine only having this much protein per day because that's only around 200 and calories of my daily requirements. If I was having pure protein, now obviously there's carbohydrates, there's fat. So I'd essentially have to fill in the rest of my calorie requirements around 2800 calories through carbs and fat alone. So I don't know if I could really get away with that. I mean, I've grown up having in prioritizing protein, having around one gram of protein per pound of body weight. And I have to be honest, it's worked really well for me. But I think the difference is, is how active you are, how much muscle mass you have. And I know this is where the conversation starts to come in. What is the right amount? And I think with that new research saying we only really require 0.8 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight. I don't know if that's entirely accurate, but maybe it is for some people and that's the hard thing because everyone's a little bit different and requires different macronutrients splits. But for me, I think I'm gonna be staying with around one gram of protein per pound of body weight. Supplements are a $40 billion industry and it's hard to find someone who's involved in fitness that isn't taking them. In fact, most influencers are pushing them constantly. Even we ourselves have seen real benefits from some such as creatine, caffeine and whey protein. But what supplements do the National Institutes of Health, the Mayo Clinic and the CDC recommend? It turns out, nothing. And while they don't outright say stay away from supplements, they do take a stand on what really comes first. The Mayo Clinic adds food should always come first, supplements should only fill in the gaps. And the CDC is clear, supplements can't replace the variety of foods important for a healthy diet. So while supplements might promise the world, doctors' orders are simple, eat real food. Now I do agree with them when they say that whole food should be the foundation for a proper diet. I also got to say that supplements can play a part sometimes even in ways that you wouldn't realize. Pre-workout, even something as controversial now as like creatine gummies for example. We took those for years and whether they were working or not, sometimes it's the placebo effect you need in order to get your ass in the gym and get it done. You take that one scoop of pre-workout and something clicks in your mind where you think, okay, it's go time. But I'd like to hear your thoughts as well. Do you think supplements are just an overpriced gimmick or do you think they have benefits for a physical active lifestyle? Sodium can be a tough subject because it comes in many different forms and there seems to be a big debate around how much you should have or how little. But when it comes to the USDA, they recommend having at the maximum 2,300 milligrams of sodium per day which I weighed out the equivalent in normal table salt which looks like this. And as you can tell, that's not very much. Now the American Heart Association recommends you have even less than that at the maximum of 1,500 milligrams a day which I weighed out in table salt as well which looks like that which is even less of course. And I have to be honest, I probably have that much salt in my first meal of the day. Now I remember growing up and there's a lot of fear around sodium having too much of it can increase cholesterol or maybe increase your chances of heart disease. But I think now more than ever people are starting to realize it's maybe the benefits of sodium with the popularization of electrolyte drinks especially if you're an active person. But it's funny because the recommendations from the USDA and the American Heart Association still stand and I have to be honest, they seem extremely low. Now I quickly wanted to go over the differences of sodium contents in certain foods. Now number one is the cereal. If you ate this whole box you would be at maximum capacity of your sodium intake at over 2,300 milligrams of sodium. Now one slice of this bread is 280 milligrams. A serving of this barbecue sauce is 280. A serving of this ground beef is 75 milligrams. And one packet of electrolyte mix is 1,000 milligrams of sodium. So as you can tell there's a lot of variation of sodium content in certain foods. Other being processed or whole foods. But I think it really comes down to just understanding what sodium is, what it does for you. And it's never bad to track the amount whether that's a high amount or low. Alcohol. This is one that feels like it's constantly being debated. How much is too much? Should you be having alcohol at all? A lot of times you'll hear a glass of wine can be healthy. Recently though it seems like the consensus is the best you can do is just not drink at all. Now that is not quite the doctor's recommendation. Which is for men two glasses of alcohol a day is what they find to be in the healthy range. My first question was well what is two glasses of alcohol? And that turns out to be a total of 24 ounces. My next question was well what would the percentage of alcohol be? Which would be 5%. So that's either two average beers or one shot of a stronger spirit such as whiskey. I'm guessing many of you probably agree that the best thing to do would not to drink at all. But also then you'll see the people that live to be over 100 years old. And one of the things that they typically say is they would have a beer or shot of whiskey every night. So this one is still up for debate and I'm sure it will be for many more years to come. But it's probably best sticking with the opinion no alcohol is probably your best option. Ah sleep now we all need it but according to the CDC we might not be getting enough of it. They recommend seven to nine hours of sleep every night which I think at this point that's a pretty well-known fact. But there's a few things you have to cut out in your nightly schedule to make sure you're getting that amount of sleep. And phones is one of them. Now most people get home after they've had a long day. They want to relax and sit down and enjoy their TV time. Me included. But more research has shown that you have to prep your brain for good sleep. And with harsh blue lighting that's emitting from the TV it's actually stimulating your brain. Even though you're sitting back and relaxing thinking that you're prepping yourself for sleep. It's actually doing the opposite. So it's recommended to shut the TV off around two hours before going to bed. If you're lucky enough to have a cooling system in your home well it's recommended to set it around the mid sixties at night for optimal sleep. That's pretty chilly. It's all about building a schedule. Doing your nightly routine and trying to get to bed at the same time every night. Finally made it to bed. Now this is the time where it can be extremely tempting to jump on your phone. But instead of jumping on your phone try replacing that with a book. Now I know for me once I start reading night that can pretty much put me out like a light. I can also sometimes introduce some blindfolds. Now this will cut out any kind of unwanted light either at night or in the morning. Or maybe get some blackout curtains put on some white noise. Whatever it is really to help you get the best quality of sleep. And I'd be really curious to know what you guys do for your nightly ritual to make sure you're always getting your best night of sleep. But for now it's time for me to go to sleep. Good night. The week long diet and workout experiment is over. And I gotta say it was pretty interesting to try all these. We were familiar with some and not as familiar with others. But once you kind of live it out you realize very quickly that it's more of a general sense of how to do things. If you take it for gospel I don't think it's as effective for sure. It's hard to create a diet and workout plan for an entire country or the entire world. But I think it's a good jumping off point. Most of it seemed to make sense. Some of the ones like protein, the BMI, sodium was a little like I might need a little bit of work. But let us know what you think. Do you think it needs a complete overhaul? Is there some things they're just totally off with others that are right? Diets have moved in all kind of directions now. You got people doing something they say it like quadruples. Stosterone. It heals all their ailments. We're never quite as sensational. I think we're very much more kind of like middle of the road. But let us know your thoughts. Yeah. And I think it comes down to it. If it works for you, hey, that's great. And if it doesn't, you know, get rid of it. So it really kind of is that simple. So let us know your thoughts and until next time, stay buff.