 we let teenagers control our lives for 24 hours. Here's what happened. We that, who that, take a picture, baby, let me step back. So we have two teenagers with us today. Yo, bag bag. Woo, woo. Now, what kind of foods do you guys have waiting for us? Just kind of roam around and pick some stuff out. OK, so we're going to be grazing, basically. You're saying that's kind of like what most teenagers do. Oh, yeah. See what looks good and pick it out. Find what looks good. Yeah. Just eat it until you are full. Very simple. I like it. It's spartan. Now, what kind of proteins are we in store for? Hot Cheetos. That is a protein I haven't heard of, but... A lotta chemically GMOs. Red Forti, yeah, Red Forti, yeah. Wow, OK, that's gonna be interesting, it's not gonna feel good. Let's go to store, let's grab that stuff. Defense, Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense Defense This okay, so this is very factually correct and you at yourselves eat this Maybe once a month come on Yeah, that's what we all said he had to relapse the other night, okay This is basically just liquid sugar the teenagers drink water About every fortnight every blue moon When you play fortnight or every fortnight every fortnight Yeah, so we are to the energy drinks section Is this like a common staple of the modern American teenage diet energy drinks every day The days of black coffee or dying Wow done sugar-free energy three monsters every morning That is the teenage diet my god now. This is something that does not surprise me too much is we're right next to the ramen and That's something we ate is this is a time honored teenage tradition So I'm actually kind of happy to see this I have not eaten ramen since I was probably 19 Millennials and Gen Z have more in common than maybe we originally thought This is all The proteins that you need to grow flaming hot cheetos One gram of protein is serving 15 servings per container, so there's 15 That's all you need that's like a meal could kill that one meal right there I probably could should I know but take we're following it. Yeah One of us may die I see the fear in Brandon's eyes it continues to grow he's not saying much anymore He's pretty confident when we came in here, but now he's just quietly dying inside watching Evan and James pick his poison teenage laxative So this is okay, so this is great We're getting in the mind of teenagers, so it is really there is no plan There is no blueprint living in the moment. Yeah, literally you just go to a store to stay like whoa Follow the tip of my finger, okay? It's the most sugary one beef jerky cool One one just one grab they grab this one one for me, and have to fight So what are you guys thinking? I think this pretty good. This looks good working up your appetite. I'm glad it's working up someone's appetite Yeah, sorry, I was I'm in a daze right now I think I'm just getting mentally prepared to consume all this, but I think we're ready So thank you guys for helping us out for shopping for us already. I don't think so either Doritos burritos spicy hot cheetos make your insides like needles and your anus break or peedles To get a better understanding of the subject I'm gonna do it a deep dive into what makes teens stand out in today's society if I'm gonna emulate it I have to understand it first Okay after hours of research and now my algorithm thinking I'm interested in teenage boys I think I have a better handle on what I need to do to look like a modern teenager Whoa, whoa, whoa messy. No, no. So the first thing I need to do is get a haircut and for this I'm gonna need some help so I'm recruiting my girlfriend Michaela. Are you up for the challenge? Yeah, I am But how are we cutting it? Have you ever cut hair before? No? Well, it's gonna be a mold great I Don't know if this is a bad sign or not, but Michaela is currently watching tutorials on the how to cut hair What don't you go to the hairdresser and they're watching videos Oh Fresh out of the shower and this is the final result of Michaela cut my hair and I got to be honest I don't know if she did an amazing job or a horrible job But either way, I think it looks pre spot-on. So I guess in that way she did an awesome job But now that I got the haircut it's time to get the clothes Okay, we are at the hottest trendiest place every teen shops at Walmart And teens heard me say that there would probably be one word they would use for that Cringe, but hey, we're gonna see what works, you know, it is so funny because me and Hudson We grew up in the late 90s early 2000s as teens and all the same stuff That we grew up with this teens is popular now Dragon balls the corn. I mean granted. We are at Walmart so I don't know how hip this place is but Gotta be honest. I'm I'm feeling pretty hip right now Marty I'm already getting into it. This is it the transformation is starting to happen right in front of your eyes So that was it. I think it is a very successful shopping spree. I got some slides I got some what I call threads and I'm gonna check out Pre-workout No cap red Oh Yeah pure processed sugars I can feel the red 40 it's making this way right towards my heart. That's this thing right here So tired So tired You're looking good brah that's real solid form brah Yeah, you're gonna hit a new PR Yeah, brah, bro, you got this bra How's the hair it's fire yeah, okay nice I Know in the process of trying to look like a teenager I don't think any teens really has hair like that but It looks like a way people see this This is like AI's version of a teenager. Yeah, that's what is a teenager into AI. This is what it would come out with Yeah, yeah the worst kind of AI Bruh Is that red 40 it's a damn red 40 it's it's it's it's it's painting my skin This is this is just a reminder us just doing this right now looking like this and working out like this Is it makes me think that if we were flying them all when we were teenagers it probably wouldn't be Much different actually looks worse. Yeah, because there was no sense of irony or tongue-in-cheek. Yeah You've taken broccoli hair to another level I Think we're about done I think we've outstayed our welcome. It's only been about five minutes It's gonna we say another five minutes and we're gonna be like tarred and feathered I'm liking this way more than I should Swipe left swipe down front yellow back brown Broccoli head 90s drip dry scoop four hits and let the pump rip Walk with a lip because a sponge by pimp red 40 artificial just like I like my intelligence I go rhythm pop on my mouth a doom scrolling down bet no cap brain right This is legit right here It's too deep bra. It's too deep You don't want to hurt yourself bra. There we go knees caving in 16th of a squat Dude has the best squat form Rounded back this is good Checking all the boxes and we're not even making fun of anyone but ourselves now this was our form Yeah, I think I feel like teens now are probably more educated than ever Honestly, you see a lot of teenagers now. I mean they're miles ahead of what we were. Yeah, especially in the gym. So Oh, yeah Oh, bro feeling swole You know all that bad form and short range of motion kind of made me work up my appetite And thankfully evident james recommended the perfect place for us to go eat the way to go is killer burger Gotta get that Piece of candy pockets burn the tongue y'all y'all brah east of riz like the braman noodles cause it a noodle looks like a noodle Bra they wanted your riz bra. Peanut butter bacon burger This is the first time that's the american way of saying heart attack I mean, I love all those three things. So why not just combine them all all black And luxury Look at that. Yeah, there's your peanut butter Thanks to teenagers now we know. Yep. We're about to try it ready That's dope What? No, I don't know. That's fine. That's fire No cap. I know the perfect thing to wash is down with My hand I'm texting the boy with the emojis of sin We actually took our um Translator. Yeah, she's actually back here make yourself known Hey, yeah, there you go. So she's with us at all times constantly referencing the internet to make sure that we're doing this right now It slaps the burger slaps bruh it slaps i'm bodying this burger i'm gonna body it my muscles are cooked Gas I'm gonna have gas. I gotta say this burger is gonna give me gas. I'm gonna bring up the reality How do you like the new look is it cringe Kind of do I have a little bit of riz? Yes. Nice Apologies to brandon, but I could not do the hair anymore, but what I am doing. I'm still busting through this food This thing is finished and I thought I would show you really quick just how much sugar is in this thing So we have six servings of 46 grams of sugar I'm gonna go ahead and put a waist scale down measure this thing just to show you Exactly how much there is and here we go I drank Literally a cup of sugar a little bit more actually because I finished off the gatorade as well. I'm feeling Something I don't know exactly what it is, but it ain't good And I think this is a perfect time to segue into our sponsor who made this video possible David I saw an angel in the marble and carved until I set him free Rigorously perfected protein 28 grams protein 150 calories zero grams sugar meet David your protein bar idealized The optimal protein for the optimal form The most effective portable protein on this planet David Enjoy free shipping on your first order try David today David protein bars Cool cool cool groovy epic lit dig it sick fire far out awesome goat bread benjamins bag hip chill Vibe right on true that no cap cat dude bra heavy random Sus out of sight tight flex charm game Riz Everyone can do the dough when I'm getting money. Yeah, I'm gonna get some oh and they can lie Who that we that who that we that who that take a picture baby? Let me step back Bruh My stomach is feeling pretty sick right now because I have just been Overloading it with insane amount of calories and especially sugar. I am currently on my last meal Which is the ramen bowl here? I'm still trying to finish the Cheetos and my dr. Pepper But I have totaled my calories I've eaten today And it is shocking. I've had five thousand five hundred and forty Calories or at least I will once I finish all this Uh started with the pop tarts this morning was three hundred and seventy calories eight grams of fat 71 grams of carbs and four grams of protein went onto the burger Which was 1500 calories now, I'm including the fries. I'm not sure how much they were but probably around 600 calories Cheetos once I finished this bag that is 2,400 in calories 225 grams of carbs 15 grams of protein And 165 grams of fat the soda right here is 900 calories containing 240 grams of sugar And this dinner is three hundred and seventy calories 13 grams of fat 57 grams of carb rate hydrates and seven grams of protein so This is a lot and I think it all just comes down to being a teenager. You just want convenience. You want something that tastes good Um, I know for myself. I didn't cook a lot when I was uh when I was a teenager Ramen noodles definitely was a thing frozen corn dogs soda was huge So it's really just whatever tastes good and is easy And it has definitely been easy today whoo but not easy on my stomach and I've just I've felt pretty at this point right now. I feel pretty lethargic I think it's just these overload of carbohydrates, but I am gonna wrap this up. I don't know It might take me a while to finish these two. I'm gonna I'm gonna finish this bowl right now. I'm trying to um Do a two for one deal and top it off with a little bit of these Cheetos But brah My stomach is not it's it's an L I'm feeling my stomach is taking an L right now messy do do piece of candy pockets burn the tongue yum yum brah Easter eggs like the ramen noodles cause it a noodle looks like a noodle wow wow Sweet sweet dextrose The teenage experiment is over. I want to take this moment to apologize to everyone who had to experience seeing us in public Yeah, and so I think now I'm gonna get my hair back to normal and you need to start to stress Like myself Gen Z have fun while you still can Gen a is right behind you ready to take your place and they're gonna look at you and be like oh god You will be the new boomers soon. Yeah, you will be the zoomers So embrace this moment while you can enjoy it and until next time stay buff Intelligence Thank you very much. This has been confessions of a former teenager