We quit alcohol. Here's what happened. But before we begin, we just want to let you guys know that we just released our cookbook. It is over 200 pages, 100 plus recipes. It's in full color. You can either get the physical book or a PDF. We are super proud of this. So, make sure you go over to www.buffduds.us to pick up yours today. Now, on to the video. Yeah. In recent years, many different months have been devoted to abstaining from alcohol. Sober October, Dry January, and more. It's a practice that actually dates back to 1942 when [music] Finland enacted Sober January as part of its war effort against the Soviet Union. Well, we're not going to be fighting a war, but we are going to be abstaining [music] from alcohol for 30 days in order to see what difference it makes. The reasons for abstaining from alcohol can vary [music] greatly from person to person, whether it be addiction, religious, or health reasons. But for us, two dudes who typically [music] only drink on the weekend, we're going to be doing it for fitness purposes to see [music] how it affects our sleep, our energy, our skin, our weight, and our wallets. So, we've got our 30-day calendars printed out, and it's time to go. I'll see you next weekend. Wish us luck. Oh, man. Come on. I remember my first protein shake. Is that beer? It's protein. Beer flavor. What? Introducing Buff Dudes Protein. Beer flavor. This ain't [music] your dad's protein. This is daddy protein. With over 40 g of protein per serving and zero [music] alcohol. Had a hard day at the gym? Grab yourself a Buff Dude's protein beer flavor. Hell yeah. It is Sunday on weekend 1. I've survived Friday and Saturday with no drinking. And it feels a little strange only because it's been so customary for so many years. Usually, I'm working towards those days when I feel like, hey, I deserve a couple beers. I've worked all week long. This is kind of my reward. So, that part of it feels a little strange for me. But one thing that I'm already [music] very happy with is the unnecessary eating. I have a really big problem that as soon as I drink, I get really hungry. I've basically had it ever [music] since that I've ever started drinking in that I'll have a couple drinks, all of a sudden I get an [music] insatiable urge to have the munchies and usually it just doesn't stop. I can have a couple thousand extra calories. That can end up to be a really bad thing. And there's a few different reasons [music] why. One of them being that our body uses the three macronutrients, carbohydrates, fat, and protein [music] for energy. But we can also use ethanol, the type of alcohol found in alcoholic beverages as [music] an additional energy source. We process ethanol in the liver, and because it's so toxic to humans in high amounts, the liver prioritizes [music] breaking down ethanol into byproducts that can be used or flushed out of the body. As that's happening, it actually starts to turn off or slow down the metabolism of other energy sources, especially fat. So, when we drink alcohol, we get in the way of the liver converting fat into energy, and that fat gets stored in our cells instead. This effect is minor with moderate consumption of alcohol, like one beer, one glass of wine, or 1 ounce of heavier alcohol. But if you have more than two drinks in an hour, your blood [music] alcohol content begins to creep up and that's when you start to see a change in your metabolism [music] happening. Compounding that is the fact that alcohol is an energy dense nutrient. Each gram of alcohol contains 7 calories versus four calories per [music] gram of proteins or carbohydrates. So a standard drink contains approximately [music] 14 g or 100 calories of alcohol as well as additional calories from carbohydrates. So, now that we have that quick explanation out of the way, you can see why my additional eating can be a really [music] bad thing. Not only am I having multiple thousands of unnecessary calories, a lot of it is [music] also being stored as energy or basically going right to my gut. So, that's a really bad habit that took me years to break. [music] I'd be really good during the week and then on Friday and Saturday, I'd have a whole bunch of dense beers. Being from Oregon, it'd usually be IPAs [music] with a lot of nuts or chips and salsa, things of that nature. And I was really surprised how much I could backslide over the course of just 3 days. So, I'm already very happy that that's not taking place this weekend. I've got to say that's been the biggest benefit so far. And um it's been a little tough because like I said, it's been such a habit. It's a little hard not to kind of have that reward in a way at the end of the week. But I have survived weekend one and now I'm going to go rolling into weekend two. We need to teach daddy to eat in moderation. Yeah. What am I doing? I look dead. Worse. You're in kind of a purgatory. You've drank so much that your sleeping patterns thrown off and now you're tossing and turning. Well, how many did I drink? [music] 15. That's it. Damn. Now what am I doing? Not much. You're hung over and you're [music] wasting the entire next day. God, I was supposed to work out. I was supposed to meal plan. You didn't do any [music] of that. Wow. Only thing you did do is spend 45 minutes on the toilet after those 17 chalupas you had last night. Oh no. Hungover shits. Hungover [music] shits. [\h__\h] Well, now what are we looking at? Well, it's you looking at yourself in the mirror. This is after your night of drinking. You're red. You're dehydrated. You're bloated. You're sweaty. You're really do not smell very good. Your hair looks a lot Okay, I got it. Yeah, thank you. So, this is the effects of alcohol, huh? Yeah, pretty much. I'm really happy that I have a guardian angel like you watching [music] out for me. Anytime. So, do you see everything? Yeah, like everything though. I mean, I'm your guardian angel. I see [music] everything you do. Even last Tuesday. Yeah, I saw [music] that. Sorry. You should be cuz that was [\h__\h] [laughter] disgusting. So, we are at the end of week number two. It is Sunday today and I feel like I need to tell a little bit of a story to get my perspective on this whole alcohol thing. You know, when I was younger, I was in my early 20s. I was taking my training very seriously and I decided to abstain from alcohol consumption for a few reasons. Number one, um [music] it was a choice because I wanted to make sure it wouldn't inhibit my training or performance, which I look back at that time and kind of [music] realize that that was a big part of my success is because I would have [music] the willpower to be able to say no, which of course is very difficult when you're in your early 20s. just reached that drinking age. [music] It's legal, go out to the bars and everything. I was roommates with my brother and her cousin and we had a bunch of friends. We do construction during the week. [music] Everyone would want to go out, have fun, party, um, drink like crazy. And I didn't, you know, I was the designated driver. So, I was very popular still cuz everyone wanted to use me as basically the Uber [music] cuz Uber didn't exist, which I was fine with. You know, I really enjoyed that. And it was funny being there [music] with everyone else drinking, having fun. I really didn't feel like I was missing out. And I felt like I could even have more fun [music] because of course the next day I felt awesome. I was ready to go work out. I was ready to do cardio. My meals were all on point in my food and calories and everything where everyone else drank whole night. They spent a lot of money as well at the bar which I didn't cuz I was just having water. And then they went out to eat a bunch of Taco Bell, you know, afterward which I didn't. So [music] I saw the benefits of not drinking which I really appreciate at a younger age. And also [music] building that willpower because as you think willpower is definitely much like a muscle. if you don't practice, if you don't do it that much, um it's going [music] to be hard to use. You know, it's gonna be hard to contract. So, that was an amazing teaching tool when I was younger. Now, of course, that I'm a little bit older, you know, you get into a habit. Um, [music] you know, you start drinking a little bit more in the weekends, but also maybe a little bit during the week, too, because much like junk food that you can keep in your cupboards [music] or your fridge, alcohol is the same way. I'll have beers in my fridge or maybe some hard alcohol in my cupboard and it's really easy to just grab it or mix a drink and enjoy it either on the weekends or the weekday because it's just there. Maybe you have a long day, you're like, I want to relax. I want a drink or two or maybe even three. All of a sudden, you get nice and tired. You feel good. You're watching a TV show, whatever it is, and you want another one. You want another one until you just pass out. So, it's really easy to get into that habit, unfortunately. So, [music] that's why I really appreciate this challenge. Of course, you look at dry January, [music] sober October. It's really cool to see people participating in things like that cuz it's a great reminder and it's a great way to use your willpower to make sure that it's always there uh under your control and it's not controlling you. So, uh I'm very excited about this challenge. It's halfway in and I'm looking forward to completing the rest of the couple weeks. [music] Excuse me, sister. Oh, bro. Who are you? I'm alcohol. Oh god. [sighs] How you doing? Ethanol number 153. Hey, that's me. Oh, wa wa. Wait a second. She's carbs. She's first. She got the number 112. Hey, I got the priority fastass. But that's not fair. I have like 800 calories debt to pay. That's on you, sister. I'll see to you later. [laughter] Forget that guy. Hey, I know this great place called the Love Handle. I think we should go there. Let's do it. It is weekend number three for me. It's Sunday. I've survived for three weeks so far. And in week number one, I talked a little bit about all my unnecessary calories. And for week number three, I want to talk about another benefit I've experienced from abstaining from alcohol, and that is better sleep and feeling much more rested [music] and recovered in the mornings. All throughout 2020, me and Brandon did live workout sessions on our Buff Dudes workouts channel. A lot of you followed along, were really happy, super motivating for [music] us. And one thing that I struggled with is on Friday nights, I would have a few beers, maybe have a few snacks, [music] and then very first thing Saturday morning, I had to be up. I had to be with it. And when you're teaching a live class, you got to be in the moment cuz it can be a little stressful. And I noticed a little sluggishness the first couple weeks, the first couple months that I was doing it. But as soon as I began to abstain from alcohol on Friday night, Saturday morning, I was ready to go. I felt really rested. [music] My muscles felt very refreshed as opposed to feeling very slow and sluggish and [music] I got a really good night's sleep because I get very affected um when I drink alcohol. I'm usually waking up multiple times. Uh it's also duretic so I'm also taking a lot of trips to the bathroom and I don't really experience that [music] going into week three. So no more 100 bathroom trips. I'm getting a great [music] night's sleep and I'm feeling good to go Saturday morning, which has been a great thing. So, this I would have to say so far is probably the thing that I enjoy most. Um, I do miss the snacking a little bit in addition [music] to the beers, but I love the feeling of feeling rested and recovered. So, week number three is down. This has been a huge benefit so far, and I've only got one week left. Yeah. Weekend number four is coming to a close and this challenge is almost over. And I have to be honest, this has been a little bit more difficult than I originally thought it would be. You know, looking at yourself as a casual drinker, you're thinking, "Ah, it's easy to cut something out." But, you know, when I go out to dinner with my girlfriend or maybe hang out with my family or [music] friends and watching them consume alcohol, it's very easy to want to join in. I mean, it looks fun. It looks delicious. [music] It's a mental game and you have to flex that willpower muscle and you have to remind yourself why you're doing it in the first place. For me, it's a physical and mental aspect of what it can do to you. Of course, the physical being [music] how it makes you feel, how it impairs your performance, but also amount of extra calories that you can be having when you drink [music] alcohol. And not only through the alcohol itself, but also maybe some of the junk food you have after drinking alcohol. Now, I did a quick calculation of the [music] amount of calories I might have been ingesting if I'd been drinking throughout the month. I would usually consume light [music] beers. Let's say six um on Friday and Saturday. So, 12 every weekend. 48 total. That's close to 5,000 extra calories through light beer alone over this [music] month. But I'd usually have maybe a couple shots of whiskey too throughout the weekend. So, eight shots total throughout these four weeks. That'd be an extra close,000 calories. So, it's close to 6,000 extra calories that [music] I'd be having in this month through alcohol, which really doesn't do a lot for your body. I mean, it's not like it's an energy source your [music] body craves or needs to perform better. And then on top of the extra calories you have in the alcohol, [music] let's say you have a bunch of junk food, could be up 8 10,000 extra calories throughout the month. And that can be extremely detrimental [music] to your physique. Um, but also the the mental health too because you see your body not, you know, becoming or [music] doing what you wanted to do and you're not reaching your goals and all of a sudden you just want to say, "Fuck it." You know, I'm done. I I can't achieve my goals. But really, [music] you don't realize how much you're setting yourself back by something as simple as [music] alcohol consumption. Um, and you know, this isn't one thing to say that you can't have it. You know, I think it's just moderation. And I feel um this is a big reminder to me how important moderation is. So all in all, feeling pretty good and it's been a hell of a challenge. [music] It's a little bit past week number four. I've survived my no alcohol for 30 days challenge and I have a few different thoughts. Uh number one is I did start to drink some zero alcohol beer over the course of the 30 days because I really do just like the taste of beer. And I have to say, I have tried some alcoholic beverages now [music] that my 30 days are over and something very strange happened that's never happened to me before is that I can actually taste the alcohol in the drinks. So that was a little weird and to be honest, I didn't really like it. It It just felt a little unnecessary. So that's something that I never even really thought about that I've experienced after having done this challenge. And although I've had a few drinks in the meantime, I really got to say even though I'm a moderate [music] drinker, I might even reduce my alcohol a bit more because some of the benefits were absolutely amazing. My sleep, [music] um, feeling very rested in the mornings, and of course reducing my urge to snack. Those, I would say, were the three biggest benefits I've experienced. So, I'll probably stay drinking socially. Sometimes it's nice. you're out with friends, you want to have a drink, so you have one. But as far as um feeling the urge to have a drink every single Friday and Saturday night as a reward, I think those days are probably going to be a little bit less than they used to be because I [music] really love getting up early Saturday morning, working out with you who do do our live workouts alongside us, and [music] that feels really great. So, it's been a very interesting experience. Um, I would recommend those of you who haven't done it, just give it a shot. It's just 30 days, you know, and I got to say 30 days is not going to fix all your problems. I have to say once again, we're casual drinkers. We just did it for [music] fitness purposes. Um, everyone has their own reasons, but like anything, it's a marathon, not a sprint. So, don't expect to go drive for [music] 30 days is going to solve all your problems. but it is going to give you a look into maybe what your life would be like if you abstained for an even longer period of time. So, I enjoyed it a lot and until next time, [snorts] stay safe. Hope you enjoy this New Year's and [music] stay buff. So, the 4 weeks are done and the challenge is over and I'm really happy we did something like this cuz it allowed me to rediscover the benefits from going alcohol-free. I felt like my sleep was better, so I had more energy [music] throughout the day, which in turn made my workouts a little bit better. My nutrition was all on point because I wasn't really having all those extra calories from the beer, the alcohol, and maybe the extra food I would have because of that. So, something as simple as cutting alcohol out uh really reverberated through uh the rest of the week, and I really appreciate that and love that. So, I would definitely recommend trying this challenge out for yourself if you haven't already because I know for myself it made a huge difference and I really appreciate doing this. I'll probably do this challenge again sometime in the near future. So, hopefully you guys enjoyed this episode. I know I did. Let us know if you want to see other challenges in the future. And as always, stay buff. Yeah.