 I got that dog in me. I got that dog in me. Roo-roof-roof-roof-roof-roof-roof-roof. You call it boy kibble?! I say keep it simple, diet ridden with your lack of alpha male grizzle. Boy kibble. It's real. And it's taking the world by storm. But why? I thought it was people actually eating dog food. But there is a lot more to it. In fact, supposedly, it's one of the best muscle-building fat-loss diets out there. But is that true? and what is boy kibble? Well, with claims like that, we just had to try it out for ourselves. So that's exactly what we're going to be doing. Let's head to the grocery store and grab ourselves some boy kibble. You call me neutered? I call you a much better scuba. So we're in the boy kibble aisle. Where's the boy kibble aisle? Well, it's the dog food section. That is where this diet basically originated from, and that's what we're using inspiration. And now having looked at the dog food section, this all looks extremely delicious. I am liking our options here. I mean, this sounds delicious, and it looks delicious too. I mean, look at this. Bacon in steak flavor, real chicken, lamb, and fava bean. Oh, I mean, who doesn't like some lamb and fava beans? Dogs have a good. We're about to find out how good they have it because we're basically going to use the same ingredients you'll find in dog food for our own meals and see what it's like. So I'm just wondering, is it safe for a buff dude to eat dog food? I mean, your biceps might be strong, but your stomach still deserves real food. It kind of looks like dog food. Kind of like a tube of meat. It's perfect. There's a few things to take in consideration because a lot of times, you know, we bite like onion, maybe garlic. Yeah. Those are deadly for dogs. So seeing how this is boy kibble, we got to avoid those. So it is very simple. The meat, the potatoes, rice, not a lot of flair. And we're going to be wrapping it up with some broccoli. So we got everything now. We got the veggies. We got the carbs. We got the proteins. Now it's time to make ourselves some boy kibble. You call this food slop? It's extra moist. The juicy kind you clean up with a bucket and a mop. Okay. So I just made it home from the grocery store with my boy kibble ingredients. Super easy mix. We got some beef, broccoli, and sweet potatoes. And I went with ground beef and ground turkey. And I also grabbed a bunch of canned vegetables. So I'm getting my greens, my proteins, and some complex carbs. You don't really need much more than this. And the reason being is you cook in bulk. You don't have to think about it because it's only a few ingredients. And it is very inexpensive. And it kind of cracks me up because there's always that stereotype of healthy food is expensive. This is about as cheap as it gets, but then you'll have a lot of people complain, well, it doesn't taste good, or it's too plain. You know, for someone that wants to gain muscle in the gym, since this is primarily protein-based, that's the main macronutrient, and it has a lot of it, that's really perfect. If you want to gain muscle, gain strength. So another reason why it's probably become pretty popular. It cracks me up sometimes when the mainstream tries to put a spin on something that is really just an age-old way of eating. Another food trend Americans are eating up on social media. It's raising questions about whether food fads like this are really about nourishment, or if it's slapping a label on age-old gender tropes. But I've seen many women eat just like this because really, it's just meal prep. It was never the boy kibble diet. Now that it's that, it's getting a little bit more pressed, getting a little bit more of that, you know, trending nature about it. But I have to say, it's not a bad diet. In just 30 minutes, the boy kibble is done, and I have enough food for five separate lunches or dinners. So I would consider that a great value. And again, the price was really good as well. And now, it is the most important part because I have two critics who are going to let me know if this is indeed worthy of the boy kibble name. I have my two critics ready. They are very patient, as you can see. They're going to eat this, and they're going to let me know if this lives up to the boy kibble name. Are you both ready? You're doing great. Okay, go ahead. Do you mind if I have a piece? Mmm, that is tasty. Just meat, veggies, and sweet potatoes. Easy, affordable, and delicious. At least in their eyes and mine. All right, so here is the taste test. I have actual dog kibble, and I have the boy kibble. So I'm going to try the dog kibble first. Very dry. Pretty tasteless. Although it's not horrible. I could survive off it for sure. Now it's time to try the boy kibble. Mmm. Very moist. Wow. Pretty flavorful. Not too bad. I think I would choose the boy kibble. Your girlfriend called. She said she'd lick up every drop. My boy kibble. We call it boy kibble. We survived boy kibble. We did. And you know what? Honestly, it wasn't a lot different than what we have eaten in the past. It's just a new name on an old diet. That's usually what happens. Yeah. It's not as fun, though. See, that's the thing. If you call it meal prep, if you call it whatever, it's just... If you just call it beef and veggies, you know, I mean, that's not going to do as well. If you title it, like, boy kibble, this is dog food for humans. And now I'm already hearing it called human kibble to get everyone involved. It's not just for boys anymore. Now it's for all human consumption. But it's a diet that some people find boring. Some people, of course, that's how the name was spawned, boy kibble like dog food. But I think it's amazing. I think it works great. You know, the claims saying that it's some of the best or one of the best diets to gain muscle, lose fat, or lose weight. Those claims, I think, are true in a lot of ways because it is a very strict regimen and meal. You prepare your meals so everything's laid out in front of you and you can stay very consistent with it. So that's kind of the rules of good nutrition right there. It's cost effective. You're having the same exact calories and macros every single day across every single meal. So it's never varied. And that's a lot of the times the problem with like a diet or just eating in general. Maybe you'll have a lot of calories one day, not enough the next. With this, you're just having the exact same thing. So boring, but extremely effective. Absolutely. So I would say boy kibble, weird name, old diet, and we're really the OG boy kibbles. Yeah. Yeah. So. Hence the music video in the beginning. Yeah. That was shot in 1998. It really was. That was the origin of boy kibble. We finally released it. We've been sitting on it for all these years. Yeah. And now we. It's out. Yep. Sorry. Basically. And until next time, we'll see you for the next weird diet experiment. Yeah. Stay tuned. I run with the dog dog. You live with the tenacity of caring, losing elasticity. Call it superior bobacity. You wouldn't understand my grand mastery. Some call it raw. I call it boy kibble. And I like it raw dog. You call me neutered. I call you a best strength goober. Eat over price. Crap. You're over hurt on the Reddit computer. I go to the pound dog to get the real good shit. The kind you suck up without a fork to get jacked and ripped. And it's called boy kibble.