 With everything going on in the world, things are evolving, things are evolving, and the same can be said for fitness. With many seeking alternatives to the traditional commercial gym, there has been an explosion in home workout equipment. Today, two buff dudes will be reviewing some of the craziest modern fitness equipment so you don't have to. We covered 1940s exercises a few months back, and someone gave us a great suggestion, and they said, why don't we do modern fitness equipment? So that's exactly what we did. We went online, we grabbed some of the top-selling items, and here we are. And I gotta say, some of these look kind of dangerous. We're gonna review these things, and they're the first time we've ever seen them. We're gonna be giving them a shot. Here we go. Yeah! First on our list is the CHOP-Fit Functional Trainer System, portable at-home gym, workout equipment, strength training, home and exercise workouts for men and women, great for cardio training, crossfit, and core abs, home fitness. From the actual product description, It is the only home equipment fitness tool you will ever need. Weighing around four pounds, one reviewer says there is nothing like it. Yeah! This looks cool. It looks very... It's a little lighter than I thought it would be. Actually looking at it, I thought it'd be a little bit heavier, but... Yeah, I mean, doing a lot of chopping motions. You are gonna love this one. It just... I can't explain it. There's something about this one that is... It is fun, but I gotta say, it's a little lighter than I thought it would be. Yeah. It's kind of like maybe if I was 12, I would've loved this thing. Oh yeah. It might be a lot of damage in the house if you're 12 years old with that thing. My parents would've hated me with this thing. I would've literally went up to my parents in their sleep. Okay, that sounds really bad. But I mean, could you imagine a little 12-year-old standing over, you open your eyes, and you're like, CHOP-IT! It's time to get CHOP-FIT! What kind of exercise could we do with this one? A lot of chopping. That's true. A lot of chopping. You get some delts, some lats. You have to do a lot of, you know, some twisting movements. You get your core. I'm subconsciously... I don't want to go like this every time you do. It's just mainly upper body, I would say. Just a lot of swinging. One-handed feels a little bit better. Could definitely get pretty... You know? It just needs to be heavier, I think. Yeah. It just doesn't do it. Yeah. That'd be my review. What's the verdict? Presentation, cool. Yeah? Very cool. Yeah. I like the presentation. But a little light. I would say... It needs to be like a barbarian mall that you see in like a video game, you know, where it's like this huge. Oh, yeah. And then... Then that... Oh, yeah. I'd say it's three out of five stars. Nice. The Portable Home Gym Bow. From the actual product description. Our resistant band system is your great helper when doing exercise. Do not wait anymore. Just buy it and enjoy sport and sweat. What top reviewers are saying about this product. Great, but slightly bad. First we had an axe, and now sticking with the pacifistic... Like a killer routine. We have a bow. It looks like a bow. I'm a little nervous because if that thing unsnaps, you know, that is a little... Yeah, I'm going to step away from there. They give a wide range, which is good. You got a lot of different resistances. I'm assuming that you can do different exercises. We step on here. You can do some curls. Very nice. Just like so. Maybe some squats. I don't think so. I don't think it's going to stretch that much. I would be afraid that these would break, but you can do maybe upright rows. You can do kind of like a RDL or even deadlift. Go all the way down. It seems like just not... Again, not enough tension. No. There's not a lot of tension in these. Rating on the rainbow. Rainbow bow. Oh, man. I mean, from just this little bit we've seen and used, two out of five. The wrist and forearm developer strengthener Home Gym Gear. From the actual product description. Get bigger and bulkier arm with the wrist and forearm developer. Build your catching ability, your stick handling, and your ball control with this fitness gear. What top reviewers say about the product, just buy it. What other reviewers say, do not buy it. That is a look that is very intense. It is. If a man was holding that and going like this and looking at you, you'd run. Yeah. Why are all these fitness tools, they have a slightly aggressive edge to them. Oh, yeah. First we got an axe, now a bow, now a roguable cop jerk-off. This is like something you'd find in a Goodwill or something. That is totally a U-shot find. I mean, if as a kid, if I was like... Like Dan! Oh, man, I'd have to listen to him and be like, this is so awesome. It's like a laser... I'm thinking maybe that's who orders everything off this online. It's just a whole bunch of 10-year-olds who are like, that's how you work out. Yeah. It is actually... It feels cool doing it. But it's a little wonky. I mean, if you want strong wrists, then here you go. Rating. The 10-year-old me, I would give that 5 out of 5. Oh, my God. Yeah, definitely. But the me now... It's just too specific. Yeah. You just have a dumbbell or barbell to do the same thing. It's so specific. You can't really increase... It doesn't really increase the resistance that much. 3 out of 5. I would give it 2. Okay. 2 1⁄2. Whole rope resistant machine bands, fitness equipment, home gym equipment, three kinds resistant, weight, portable, exercise, band movement, full body. Whew. From the actual product description. Suitable for various places, including gym, office, and ho... Who? Ho? Hoem. Yes, that's right. Suitable for the hoem. The powerful suction cups can be mounted on a smooth surface until the fixation is firm to start burning fat. This is a very interesting tool. I've got to give props to whoever thought of this one. It's a suction cup cable machine. You're kidding. I'm not kidding you. I'm suctioning a cup cable machine. I'm not kidding you. So you suck it to the ground, and you pray to God that sucker doesn't come up. It doesn't come out while you're put. Because this seems heavy. I mean, if this thing unsucked, I mean, it could really knock a buck. There's one thing you do want to have keep sucking. Oh, there we go. Wow. I mean, I like where they're going with this. This is pretty innovative. But the resistance is zero. Pretty much. The suction cup, you're not quite sure how long it's going to last. It's going to come off and have this thing come whoopie in the face or somewhere else, maybe. The ambition, I would say five out of five. Because this is very ambitious. I like where their head was at. But as far as the actual tool itself. The execution. Two. Yeah. And I'm going to have to hand another one out. Because that's what this is. Absolutely. The hydraulic power twister adjustable arm strength training twister gym strength training bar for professional strength training home fitness exercise. From the actual product description. It never deform, break, or hurt people. You could adjust the resistance power exactly fit your strength. What top reviewers are saying about this product. Great workout device. Good piece of garbage. What the hell? Whoa. Damn. That's cool. This is a hydraulic chest press. Which actually looks like a torque bow. I know. From Gears of War. I like that resistance. So my question is, is it only for this? Yes. Yes. Items get really specific on mine. If you want to get a... Yeah. It's pretty much a small chest. You know, I mean, I was thinking maybe you could do... Well, you can kind of like do curls. A little bit. It's a little awkward. You're not really getting it for the workout itself. You're getting it because it looks cool. I feel like there needs to be two systems. There needs to be the way it looks. Visual rating and then what it does. The way it works. The way it works, I would say two out of five. Visuals though, I would give this thing a six out of five. Yeah. Oh, definitely. And finally, the last fitness related item on our list. It tops multiple bestseller categories and is the biggest seller in all of sports. Beating out dumbbells, barbells, kettlebells, and all other fitness equipment. It is the tummy control, slimming, booty, leggings, workout, running, butt lift, tights, famous TikTok leggings, high waist, booty bubble lifting, butt lifting, anti-cellulite workout, leggings, running tights. From the actual product description. What if there was a magical way to make your backside look banging without doing a single squat? Well, it's possible. Brazilian booty enhanced, sexy butt lift, push up, high waisted, anti-cellulite leggings cover all flaws. Brazilian boost leggings are crafted with non-cellulite material. It gives your butt a streamlined look like a juicy peach and you'll have an emoji booty instantly. What top reviewers are saying about the product. TikTok lied. I was betrayed by a TikTok. These make my butt look like a pancake and I actually have a butt, so don't be fooled by the TikTok. These ain't it, honey. Dear Lord, one day my daughter might go out in public wearing these. And down with the thickness? Wah! You may be asking yourself, Hudson, you're wearing women's booty pants. But no! You need to be censored. This is for men as well. It is. It's unisex. Oh. This is the best-selling fitness item on Amazon. Why? Exactly. Why? Who's buying this? Us! I'm trying to keep me on it. I don't even want to look at those things. And you know, I've got to be honest, it's got like this sweet Batman. I was going to say, it almost looks like Predator skin. It does. It's pretty sweet. You know, now that I think about it, I'm like, this is like what Thor and Batman uses in the movies. It's true. It's more for cosplay, I would say. Totally cosplay. It's booty pants. So the next time you see a superhero, this is what they're wearing. Something is back there that's trying to make my booty juicier, and I don't like the feeling. It's making it juicy. Yeah. Against your will. I want the juiciness to stop. There you go. The best-selling sports item on Amazon. I'm wearing it. You're violated. I feel violated. We're all violated. No, I'm violated because I'm like, this is it? I was thinking there's something going to be cool. Yeah. But it's not a dumbbell. It's not a power rack. It's booty juicy pear-shaped. Ass pants. Yeah. That's what it is. So there you go. These are a collection of ratings. Ratings? You got ratings. I'm going to let you guys know. You leave us the rating on this one. And I guess until next time, I'm going to take a long, cold shower. Stay ball. Oh, yeah. I'm your worst fitness nightmare. I actually have my own worst fitness nightmare. Oh, God. I'm sorry. If you had to see that. Get me out of this.