 Solid foods are terrifying, and the fitness industry has been lying to you about whole foods. Based upon new scientific studies, here is exactly why you should be switching to liquids. Solid food creates what bio-hackers call gastric drag. Your body has to work to break down a steak. But liquid? It bypasses the stomach's turbulence and mainline's nutrients straight into the bloodstream. It's not just eating, it's a nutritional injection. Life began in the ocean and we are 70% water. Eating solid foods is fighting against our own natural biology. Fitness influencers may lie, but evolution doesn't. So to demonstrate the raw power of the liquid protocol, I have prepared a classic testosterone-boosting breakfast. Eggs, avocado, toast, and, to help blend it all together, some searing hot black coffee. Now let's optimize it. Brown goo, the color of efficiency, the sludge of success. Bottoms up for buff dudes. Okay, that was absolutely horrific. And all the science stuff I said, total bullshit. But it just goes to show you that you cannot believe every single bio-hack you hear on the internet. But having said that, the liquid diet, believe it or not, does have its benefits. And me and Brandon are going to find out exactly what those are. So today we are going liquid diet only. I got breakfast out of the way. Let's see if it's going to benefit us or maybe drive us insane. So the liquid meal challenge is underway and I wanted to take this time to go into a little bit of a backstory into my experience with making liquid meals. Now specifically for me, it was like masking or shakes. I was around 17, 18 years old and I introduced them about three to four times a day, feeding them inside my normal major meals with whole foods. Now the reason I did that is, well there's a couple reasons why I did that. Number one, I had no idea how to cook. So at that age, I would probably have my mom make my meals or maybe just throw something together that was very, very simple. So in order to get more calories and more food in, nothing is easier than just to throw a bunch of stuff inside a blender and hit and go. And when it really came down to it, the second reason was because it's just such a huge time saver. And I want to go into how much of a time saver it is by comparing the time it takes to make a normal breakfast and how much time it takes to make a liquid meal. For the solid food breakfast, I'm making a basic meal with eggs, toast, ham and some sliced apples. So nothing too time consuming. And for the liquid meal, I'm throwing in some milk, half a cup oatmeal, a few tablespoons of peanut butter and some protein powder. Making sure I'm having a well-rounded meal with fats, proteins and carbs. And that's time. Two minutes and 40 seconds. And time. That was almost exactly 12 minutes to make breakfast. So there we go. It took just about 12 minutes for a full normal whole food breakfast and two minutes and 40 seconds for a liquid meal. But the food I made didn't go to waste. Michaela's going to be able to enjoy it. Meanwhile, I get to enjoy my nice liquid meal. Now there's another huge benefit of making a liquid meal is you can have it on the go. The convenience of a liquid meal. Man, I sure am hungry right now. Thankfully, I have a liquid meal readily available. And it's tasty too. The only bad thing is the longer the workout goes on the warmer the skits and it's not so tasty after that. I'm going to have to get a cup of that. Oh, Jay, huh? Yeah. It's, gotta say, it's not the most enjoyable drinking a warm, thick shake. It is pump-fuel though. I'm just glad I'm not doing legs. I'm probably bowing chunks right now. Meal one down. Brandon made a good point that liquid diets can be excellent for efficiency. But he is approaching this challenge like a logical, level-headed human being. You grew up watching action movies in the 80s and 90s. You notice a really weird pattern. The tough guy main character never sits down for a nice meal. He throws cold pizza, raw eggs, beer, and whatever else is on the counter into a blender. It was Hollywood's way of saying, this guy is on the edge. He's too busy fighting crime to chew. So I'm approaching lunch like a divorce detective in a 1991 action thriller. I've got 48 hours to solve the case. A captain breathing down my neck and a liver that hates me. I don't have time for flavor and texture. I need the I don't give a shit shake. That smells, that smells like the 1980s. I'm just gonna drink it straight out of here because I have a feeling that's the way they would have preferred it. If it looks a little vomitous, it tastes a little vomitous as well. I'm going for it. Okay. You're not telling me those guys who are all like 6% body fat was actually drinking this thing. But I just did. Yeah. It is meal number two for me and it's gonna be more of a post-workout dessert. There is a delicious and easy way to make your own soft serve ice cream. Oh, it takes. Here's some frozen bananas. And thankfully I have some right here. So we have all the ingredients right here, the frozen bananas and the milk. And that's pretty much all you need. But there is a very simple liquid meal hack that I used to do all the time. And that's to throw a protein bar directly into the blender here to add extra protein and flavor. And thankfully we have David protein bars to help out with this part with multiple delicious flavors. Amazing macros including a whopping 28 grams of protein. David protein bar is exactly what I need to give this liquid meal a special touch. Now this is damn good. If you've never given a shot, definitely try it out. It's like this liquefied creamy ice cream with little chunks of protein bar. And I mean, it's, you're definitely gonna get addicted and probably get a brain freeze because you drink it so fast. But I just want to say thank you to David protein bars for helping to make this possible. Now they're normally eaten regularly as a solid, but hey, goes to show you, you can pretty much liquefy anything. And if it's something like David protein bars, well, then it's going to taste damn good. So if you'll excuse me, I'm going to finish liquid meal number two. One of the side effects. How you feeling? I'm feeling like an 80s burnout action hero right now. I bet they kind of smell like one too. I'm sure I do. My stomach is feeling something different. And we're not done yet. No, we're not because we have to finish it off with the most iconic liquid meal of all time. Ready? You know, I think you got the short end of the stick on this challenge. I feel like it. Yeah. I mean, I got to eat good tasting food this whole time. And you know, honestly, if you want to blend your food, if you want to have the liquid meals, well, there's definitely a good way to do it. But I think Hudson there's also a bad way to do it. As you can see. So that's what you need sometimes. You need to show the good, but you also need to show the bad. Yeah. My 80s burnout action hero days are over. It was quick, better to burn out than to fade away. Oh hell yeah. So I'm about to burn out the toilet and until next time, stay buff.