Hey Buff Dudes and Girls, Quite the video title isn't it? Well.....That's because 2017 has been quite the year so far and we don't make a lot of personal videos, so I figured I would update all of you on what's  going on As you may have known we finished up our bulking plan a couple of months back it was a lot of fun, it was the most ambitious thing me and Brandon have done to date we took a teenage buddy of ours and when he was through it, he gained about 10 pounds which was amazing especially considering he hadn't done a lot of gym work in the past so it was a lot of fun to take him through it we gained weight in the process as well In the meantime we moved up to Oregon to stay with our parents setting up the drone It was quite the experience SWING IT!! SWING IT!! SWING IT!! and we plan on following that up with a cutting book which we are working on now, we want to release it in November of this year we want to have on of YOU go through the plan with us, there will be more details on that later but we just want someone who has followed our work in the past, who is really motivated to make a life change we feel like it could be a lot of fun but moving closer to the title of the video, In addition to wrapping up the bulking plan in the may of this year, I became a BUFF husband YEAHH! I married my girlfriend of 2 years, we had a small ceremony in Washington it was a great time,  the whole BUFF family attended and shortly thereafter, I guess I just couldn't contain myself because me and Aiga..my wife, are having a BUFF BABY!! YEAHHH The new genereation of BUFF dudes are on their way So lot of new experiences for me, its been very busy, lot more new experiences coming up as I'm sure and I hope to take that experience as a husband and a father onto this channel But..don't worry we are all ways going to stay BUFF DUDES, and we're always gonna keep it BUFF DUDES STYLE!!!! So what else have we been up to and what do we plan on doing.. a lot of people asked us this question all the time and I don't blame you at all Where the HELL is Dragon Ball B?? It's been in VFX hell for about the last year, we wrapped up in September of 2016 we have some awesome people working on it Mark Jobe who you may remember from  our animated episode he's doing a hell of a lot of work on it, in addition to some great guys called SpaceToad it's one of the best videos we've ever done but we wanna take care and time with it because we want to overwhelm you, as opposed to underwhelm you so here's a few clips from it......it's on it's way, believe me and we'll be very excited when we can finally release it It's IMPOSSIBLE...with this planet's gravitational pull, this bench gotta be at least over...........9000!!!!!!!! and this next exercise is gonna be OFF THE CHARTS, farewell brother, YOU'RE FINISHED!! In addition to that, we just wrapped up BUFF DUDES and the Goblet of Gains It was our collaboration with Bodybuilding.com and MUSCLETECH , it's a nine episode series we shot it over a period of a week in Boise, Idaho a couple of moths back, we're really excited about it, Brandon built a custom 9 week plan to go along with the video series and...just being fans of Bodybuilding.com and MUSCLETECH growing up as kids, it was a real treat for us to be able to do it with them They're a great group of guys, they really put their all into this project and they were so cool to see the vision of BUFF DUDES that we've had for...going on for 5 years now really realized in this series, so if you get a chance check it out Link is in the description, it's a free plan Let us know what you think of it cause we're really proud of it and now since the Goblet of Gains project is wrapped up, we're pretty much going to spend the rest of 2017 working on that cutting book, wrapping up Dragon Ball B we've got some other big projects lined up with GEARMARK who helped us out with Gym wildlife and 7 styles of fitness it's gonna be videos very much along the line of those 2 past videos and....we're just gonna keep trying to have much fun as we can bringing entertaining educational content the only thing BUFF DUDES  know how to do...... other than ya know, working out and eating a lot of course so.....look out for all that cool stuff on the horizon Dragon Ball B, the cutting book, some other cool projects and of course....BUFF BABIES!! so until the next time..you know what to do STAY BUFF!!!!