Step inside the gym and you're going to see a lot of people performing different exercises. Chances are, a lot of those people are going to be performing them wrong. That's why we compiled a list of seven exercises that have the most common form fails, and we're going to be showing you a what not to do when performing these exercises. We're going to be showing you how to do them wrong so that way you know how to do them right. Number one on the list is going to be the squat. Now, there's a few issues you can run into when performing the squat. Number one is going to be knees turning inward. When you're going down with that weight and you're pressing it back up, those knees are going to slightly turn inward and that's a bad thing. So, what you want to do is make sure you push those knees to the outside position as you're performing that full range of motion. And you're going to feel a lot more stable when doing so. Number two is going to be rounding of the back. Make sure that back is nice and straight and rigid. Keep that core nice and tight throughout that full range of motion. And again, you'll feel a lot more stable when doing so. Also, it's going to be coming up on the toes when performing the squat. And this is usually the case because you're not using your hips properly. So, make sure you push those hips nice and far back like you're sitting down in a chair. And make sure those heels are anchored nice and firm in the floor. Exercise number two on the list is going to be deadlifts. Now, you'll run into some of the same problems on deadlifts as you do on squats. And this is a good example because number one is going to be rounding of the back. What you want to do is keep that back nice and rigid. that range of motion on the deadlift. It's going to be very important cuz doing deadlifts like any other big exercise, you can possibly hurt your lower back. and that's what you don't want. Another one's going to be letting your shoulders pull forward. You want to keep that shoulders nice and tight and far back and contracted. And this is really going to help with straightening the back, too. So, it's a good thing to remember. Also, it's going to be chin too high. A lot of people when they're deadlifting, they're pulling their chin up first. Like someone has a hook in it and they're yanking them up. And that's what you don't want. You want a nice neutral chin. And that again is going to help with keeping a spine nice and straight and rigid. So, make sure you remember those three and you'll be good. Number three on the list this is going to be the bench press. Number one problem you'll see is a lot of times people lift their hips up off the bench as they're pressing that heavy weight. Make sure you place those hips nice and firmly on the bench as you go through that full range of motion. Speaking of full range of motion, that's another big issue when people have during bench press. They're bringing it down a couple inches and then pressing it back up. That's not going to be doing a lot other than just really working the front delts and triceps. Make sure you come all the way down, hit that sternum, and press all the way up to the top position. Number three is going to be keep those scapula retracted all the way back. Some people leave those shoulders loose and you can get big-time injury from that. So, squeeze those shoulders back as you're performing the bench press. Pull-ups are coming in at number four. This one you'll see a lot of people getting some momentum in these. They're actually becoming quite popular in some circles of the fitness world, but you don't want to do that. If you really want to work the lats properly, you're going to have a nice slow pace. pull up all the way to the top position where your chin comes above the bar and then slowly let it down to the bottom position. No momentum. Also, you'll see a lot of people make the mistake of just doing arm pull-ups. So, they're not actually retracting the scapula back and depressing the shoulder blades. So, that way you get that full contraction of the lats. They're really just working their arms through the range of motion. And that brings us to range of motion. a lot of people you'll see is not be able to bring their chin above the bar and get that full contraction of all the muscles at the top position and slowly let it down to the bottom position. Range of motion, it's an important thing. Number five on the list is going to be curls. And for such a simple exercise and an isolation exercise, there's a lot of wrong things that can happen. And if you look around the gym, a lot of dudes will be doing it wrong as well. And some of the things you'll see is range of motion. They'll keep their elbows bent almost in a 90° angle and just use their shoulder to bring that weight up to the top position. So you want to make sure you get the full flexion of the elbow joint. Bring it all the way down to the bottom position. Flex it, squeeze the biceps to the top position, and then let it down to the bottom position. And that's when you get the full benefit of this simple isolation exercise to build those guns. Another thing you'll see is momentum. You do not want momentum in any exercise, at least the ones that you're trying to isolate a muscle group. So what you want to do is get a nice slow tempo as you're going through the bicep curl. Coming in at number six is going to be the push-ups. a very common bodyweight exercise that pretty much anyone has performed or at least tried to perform in their time. But what you'll see a lot of times is people performing it wrong because their core is not strong enough to keep that plank position. So as they're performing the push-up, their hips are dipping down. It's putting a lot of pressure on that lower back. So make sure you tighten up that core and keep that nice rigid spine throughout the full range of motion. Four range of motion. Here it is again. A lot of times people don't let their scapula retract properly as they're bringing it down to the bottom position. retract your scapula back as you lower yourself down just like you would a bench press. That way you'll get the full benefit of the exercise as you push yourself to the top position and get that full range of motion. Come all the way down and press yourself all the way up to the top position and you'll get the full benefit of the push-ups. Number seven is going to be crunches. A lot of times you'll see people make the mistake by trying to keep their spine straight throughout this range of motion. And a lot of times that's what you do want to do in exercise. But in this one you want to make sure you flex the spine. and flexing the spine is keeping it from straight to flexed or bent. So, that's going to really engage that core throughout the range of motion. Now, the range of motion isn't really that big in the crunches, and you want to get a nice crunch and then let it down, but flexing the spine is really going to help engage it. A lot of times you also see people put their hands behind their head and pull themselves up to the top position of the crunch and that's not what you want either because it just gives you a little neck pain during it and you're not really performing properly because the core is not engaging while you're doing it. You're mainly just using your arms and some momentum too. So make sure you don't do those two things and you'll have a six-pack in no time with proper eating and consistency and sleep and watching Buff Dudes videos. All right, dudes and girls, that wraps up our top seven list of exercise that have the most common form fails. Did we miss any? Make sure you let us know in the comments below. And as always, stay buff. Oh no, form fail. There we go.