 Nowtrtrine, Nowaktrine, Nowaktrine, Nowaktrine, Nowaktrine, Nowaktrine, Nowaktrine, Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowaktrine Nowak Or even a Big Bang Theory. I have to believe something. You tell me the whole thing is all based on science. But in order for me to believe any of what you said, I have to believe this statement. It is not grounded in anything except for some presupposition. Our president is a quote-unquote Christian. Many people back him up and think that a lot of these things are perfectly okay because this is a God-fearing man. The biggest problem with Christianity is Christians. Here we go. Yeah. Question number one. I like to be called Coach Ben, but I guess in this realm I have to switch gears and have to go Pastor Ben. Yeah. Father Ben's okay too except my kids. I'm not really a father. Not in the sense of the religious aspect. Sorry. Go ahead. You have something for me. Father's Catholicism. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think there might be some other flavors that subscribe to that moniker, but not me. If there is a God, why would he allow evil to be around? Well, this is a tough podcast. Just like hops in his car and gets out of here. But when one, there is a God. Two, there is evil. Absolutely. And so I think that's the real problem, you know, that so many people see. It's one that I wrestle with a little bit because I wish there were other ways. But God is supposed to be able to control all, be all, do all, right? And then so if there's a God or let's say that God is here or there or right here in front of us. Yeah. With me. If he has the ability to wipe out evil, why would he allow it to exist? In that question in particular, I'd say it'd be more because if he wiped out evil, he'd eliminate all of us. And he wants to leave room. There's got to be capacity for evil if there is capacity for faith and an opportunity for us to respond. Yeah. There is a duality that exists there. And we think we see that oftentimes even exampled in our lives, you know, with if you're going to open your heart to somebody, they can also take your heart and run it through the mud. You know, but the opportunity for something good, the opportunity for relationship exists because there's the opportunity of the other as well. And so that's the way God did it. And he allows for evil. He has dealt with it. But as Wes Huff says, it's a not now reality where it's true and he is going to deal with it and he's going to get rid of it. And the Bible promises that. But it's not right now. The way we deal with it now is by having faith in Christ and allowing us to actually see God for who he is in the midst of this evil. And oftentimes evil in our lives, the things that are evil in our lives are actually meant to produce good within us. That is the testing of our faith, which is actually just quoting a Bible verse there. But the tested genuine fear of faith is oftentimes only tested in hard times. If everything was good and you're like, oh, I believe in this. I've got millions of dollars. I'm never sick. I never age. My kids don't go off to the military or to war and nobody dies. I'll take that too. Like everybody would take that. Nobody would ever say. You know, it's not that impressive to say I have faith if there's no actually alternative option. I don't know. So the problem of evil exists because people exist and because God wants the capacity for true love to exist. And he wants an opportunity for true relationship to exist. And is that maybe what's meant that we're like born with sin? Because it's hard to like look at it like a little baby and think that that baby has sin. Yeah, it is. Not yet is to your question, but yet it is hard to look at a baby and see like a little sinner. Right. Like the sinner. Like that's like oftentimes what we've been labeled. God get you to church right away. Yeah, exactly. Like if we don't get you to church soon, you're just going to catch on fire right here. You know, but God initially started all of this knowing that we were going to sin, but he started all of it with an opportunity of perfection and right relationship with him where we get to walk in the garden with God. You know, we got to have fellowship with him. We get to see him and talk to him. But even in that man's free will decided to go against God's decree, which was so small. It was so small of all the decrees. It was just like, don't eat of this tree. You can do anything else. But I'm hungry. But don't eat of that tree. And we do it, you know. And I say we, but put yourself in the same shoes. What has God told you? What has your own conscience told you not to do that you've done anyway? Like we do this kind of thing all the time. We, we co-sign on Adam's original sin with our own behavior. And so that nature has been passed down from generation to generation. So when I look at a baby, I go as close to perfection as it is. There is still sin. Something yet to be redeemed within that baby. Right? Something that just is going to miss the mark if not tethered to a faith in Jesus Christ. But outside, I'm not talking about that, that baby is a rotten, lying, murderous, you know, individual in practice. But positionally, they are sinful, i.e. falling short of the standard. You know, in our last podcast towards the end, you were talking about how you went to Hawaii and you spoke a little bit on Alcoholics Anonymous meeting, right? What is it about faith and developing a faith in God that is so powerful for those who are struggling with addiction specifically? Because it's a big part of the process within that program. And it's something that helps a lot of people not turn back to those former addictions. It's really easy to say, stop drinking. And the person's like, I love drinking. That's what they do. It covers any pain they have. It might give them the only joy that they have. It is a habitual thing. And we love habits. We're creatures of habit. So it's now become even ingrained from that perspective. So they love it. To say somebody stop loving something and not replace it with a higher love is very, very challenging to do. Like, stop power lifting. Okay, I'll stop power lifting if I can body build. You got to find the other high. Right? Yeah. Stop body building. I'll stop body building if I can do CrossFit. Stop CrossFit. I'll stop CrossFit if I can do jujitsu. Right? You have to have something. And so what we're saying to the alcoholic, what I'm saying to somebody who loves any sin that's kind of got them gripped, pornography, whatever, you have to replace that with something else. And you could replace it with just jujitsu. And that may help you in this life. But it doesn't help you in eternity. And so instead of replacing pornography or jujitsu with the next high, replace it with the ultimate and then let everything else trickle down after that. Right? Love God first. And then live your life. I think that is part of Alcoholics Anonymous, right? Right. It's like rule number one basically is to believe in a higher power. Higher power. Exactly. Yep. Yeah, it's interesting because maybe it is like kind of just getting the base root of or at least maybe in that guy's practice of whoever created these rules for Alcoholics Anonymous. Maybe that guy just thought like this is the root. Yeah. And so that's rule number one. Yeah. And I think I don't like to put words in people's mouth, but if you said the name of the book for Alcoholics Anonymous, I would know what it was. But the initial person who started it was of the Christian faith. But I believe the higher power came in as a way of letting it be more accessible and seeing that this is maybe a way of towards transformation that will lead to then greater transformation into more of a Christian worldview, not just a AA worldview. Yeah, it seems like a belief in a higher power. Or you kind of get to turn over, I guess, some of your issues, some of your internal battle with yourself. And I guess in some way, not completely blame yourself since all of us have conflict. I think it's very clear. Like every single person has conflict in their life. And so maybe in that sense, it's allowing you to not feel so exhausted with the fact that you have this burning conflict within you. Yeah, that blame. That's a good word. The Bible calls it shame. Right? We have shame. Like so Christ isn't as redeem us from our sin, but also from our shame. Those things that we've struggled with and we realize, oh, I carry so much weight because of what I've done or who I am or maybe even just who I'm not. And, you know, I'm not as smart or as intelligent or as brilliant or as high aptitude as a leader as my parents always thought I would be. And I didn't measure up. And God's like, I take care of all of that. And so I think that the higher power, I would just try to point people towards the highest power of the higher powers. Right? The God of God. So I think King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, and that'd be the God of the Bible. How did you get into being a pastor? Yeah. So I've been a coach for a long time. Right? I've been running my own gym. I help at-risk youth. I've been involved in church because of my very real faith of the reality that I'm trying constantly to get closer to God. I want to grow as a disciple of Christ. It is my highest pursuit. I had a guy who came into my gym about four years ago, five years ago. And he said, actually, it was just after COVID. So it was five years ago. And he said that he found out I was a Christian. And I found out he was a pastor. And he said, we should go out to breakfast. And I said, sure, let's go to breakfast. I like food. I still eat food, you know, lots of it. And we went and sat down. And he said, you know, have you ever thought about vocational ministry? Because I've watched how you can carry yourself within the gym. It's not just as a coach. You are constantly trying to pour into people's life. You're trying to get to know them. You want to hear their problems. You want to give them solutions. And my solutions always have that Christian angle to them, you know. And he said, because you're sort of pastoring already, you know. And I said, I would love to. But I'm almost 40 years old at the time. I don't. I don't have a seminary background. Like I went to school for this stuff. But there was a part of me. And even within me, there is a part of me that sees myself as a pastor. And he goes, yeah, I'd love to work with you if it worked out. And I was like, whoa. And I've told people this in the past. But my heart felt like it was singing when I heard him say that. Like it just resonated with me in a way that nothing has in a very, very long time. And I'm not a super emotional guy. I've become more and more emotional. But when my emotions start to get involved along with my mindset, I start to go, hmm. God, are you trying to tell me something? You know, are you speaking to me in a way that is special? And so I went home and told my wife. She goes, well, you should probably tell our current pastor that you're considering this, you know, and that you're praying about it. And then from there, we end up leaving the church we were at to go and start serving at this other church and then became an executive pastor, which is just somebody who's kind of coordinating the ins and outs of church, maybe calling the quarterback, you know, somebody who's calling shots for who goes where and who does what, just making sure ministries are in place, you know, who's teaching the children and who's teaching the youth and who's on sound that day. So sort of the less spiritual things. And then he felt like I was decent at that. And then I stepped into the interim pastor role when he stepped away and went to serve another ministry in Holland, actually, at 50 something years old. He decided to uproot from the church he had planted for 20 years. Left a young, maybe not so young, but a young in the ministry guy in charge. And so I've been there for the last, I've been there since September as the interim lead pastor. And it looks like I'm moving towards the dropping the interim and becoming just the lead pastor as a, as a whole, but God still knows the answer to that one. So we'll see. But for now, I'm just doing my job and that's preaching the word and developing the leaders around me. How does that feel? Does it feel like, uh, does it feel like a pretty big responsibility? Huge, huge. Yeah. It's, it's a huge responsibility because for 2000 years, the church has, has run and has held to certain core beliefs, you know? And in some ways I've always thought of myself as more of a pioneer, uh, within fitness, uh, with what I do and the way I did it through my CrossFit career. But as a pastor, I feel more like a steward where I've taken something that's really amazing. And my job is to do what I can to amplify that and get it into many people's hands as I can and someday to give it to someone else. Right. And so I want to make sure what I give them is something that is true. Um, it is historically, uh, uh, congruent with what the church has believed for 2000 and beyond the years and has the transforming power that, that it, that it has had in my life and will continue to have as long as this world exists the way it does and Christ doesn't come back. You know, curious, man. Um, and then this is a broader type of idea, but you know, our, our president is a quote unquote Christian. Um, and it's, I think it's, can be tough for people who are Christian to, um, kind of, uh, have a level of support for a person who uses the faith, weaponizes the Christian faith, um, uses it at the backbone has so much messaging, uh, while many people back him up and think that a lot of these things are perfectly okay because this is a God fearing man and some people can be more critical. So my curiosity is how do you, as a pastor, as a leader, um, how do you reconcile that with people that you talk to about some of this stuff? Because again, it's like president's a man of the Christian faith. Who's again, things he's putting forward are he's using the Bible to bolster it. So how do you see that? That's really tough. I know. It is. It's really tough. Yeah. Just curious what you're thinking about. No, the reason there's, there's some real difficulty with that because the areas where our president is not in alignment with the Bible, I would say are absolutely wrong, you know, and I don't know all those areas. I'm not up to speed on everything that's happening right now. I know that politically we're hitting another fever pitch with everything that's happening with ice and immigration. Yeah. Um, and where's the love and all that? Where is, you know, and, and how is this being navigated? But the biggest problem with Christianity is Christians because we, we, we infuse some of that old self in all the time. It's so hard to not be the, the, the power hungry, the lover of praise of men, the lustful, the angry, the prideful person that, that sort of served us pretty well in some areas, some areas. And then to hear that God's like, Hey, consider others better than yourself, right? Um, treat others the way you want to be treated. Uh, the suffering you're going through is actually for good. And, you know, instead we just, we're like, we want to not be like that, you know, not to pick and choose. Yeah. It really is to take the Bible, the whole Bible. Cause I can tell you, I don't, I take the whole Bible and I go, yes, that is all right. And then you look at my life and you go, and you did not get that right. And so I am also the problem, right? Donald Trump is not the problem. He is one of the problems. You know, I am one of the problems with the faith because for me, he's going to come up and they're going to go, Hey, I remember you. I remember you, you, you cut me off on the freeway or you said something inappropriate here, or you stole from me or, or something, right? Like I'm going to something like that. And I'm going to go, I know, I know. And I'm so sorry. It's not who I want to be. There is a huge element of that that's in me still. And I'm working it out. And that's the really tough part for a lot of people. Like, I don't want to faith with people who are just walking around hypocrites and you put on this mask. So you almost have to live this really transparent life where you go, I screwed up again. I screwed up again. I screwed up again. God's really good, but I screwed up again. But if you started to say, God's so good, you know, and using him to, as a cosigner on your behavior and that behavior does not line up with the word, with the Bible. And honestly, with what most people kind of know intuitively to be a good person, it looks really bad, you know, but it's also really hard just to, just to be basically naked in front of everybody and go, this is what I did wrong. This is who I am. You know, um, I yelled at my wife this day, or I, I, I was mean to my kids, you know, or I struggle with pornography and I can't put it down. Like you just, and then you're just like, but I'm supposed to be this president or pastor or just good person or coach or, or whoever. And so I think that the hardest part is really that transparency becomes so challenging because it's the only thing that will actually save, um, what people perceive Christianity to be, you know, but it has to be done, but you cannot really do that because then somebody will ask you a really, really polarizing question. Like, you know, what do you think of immigration? You know, should we be deporting these people? Is it good that they separate those kids from their, from their parents? And you go like, no, actually none of this should have happened in the first place. Do you know that we should have never actually had to deal with this? We should have just believed God when he said, don't eat of that tree, you know? And we should, we should have thanked him for a beautiful world where we could actually literally be naked and walk around and just be happy and enjoy what he made for us in our fellowship with him. But we didn't. And so now we have these answers and you can't answer it like, well, do you think they should go back to Mexico or to wherever they're on asylum from? And, you know, and it's such a hard question to answer. A lot of it happens in the first place because of beliefs, like you're living over here and I'm living over here. And I, I go, no, I don't want you over here because you believe something different than me. So I'm going to stay over on this side and you got to stay over there or we're going to fight. Yeah. Yeah. That's kind of what happens a lot of times. Right. And then, and that's the whole thing. And I don't know, I don't know all the answers for that stuff. Of course. You know? So when I'm preaching, right, what I regularly do, I try, because we lost Charlie Kirk in September, right? He was assassinated. The amount of people who knew about that was so huge. And people come to church looking for an answer on why things like this happen. But in saying the answer, you also can frustrate a lot of other people who didn't agree with Charlie Kirk's political beliefs, right? So you try to talk about the bigger picture that we're going around and killing people because they have different beliefs than us. And they go, well, then are you saying that it's okay to believe like Charlie Kirk? And you're like, I'm not trying to say anything except for that people are killing other people for what they're thinking. Yeah. You know? And they go, well, thoughts are destructive. Yes, sore bullets. Right? And we decided to shoot somebody. Right? And some people are saying good and applauding that. You know? And so you try to figure out how am I going to navigate this with scripture? How do you love your neighbor as yourself and God first? You know? And so there's a lot of questions out there that feel almost unanswerable when you look at them like that. So Donald Trump, is he a Christian? I don't know. It's crazy because to become a Christian, you just have to say, I believe essentially. Right? And I don't mean just with the mouth. You have to believe it in your heart. As the Romans 10, nine says, right? If you confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that Jesus Christ is Lord, you'll be saved. It doesn't say what you do. It doesn't talk about what you, it doesn't talk about any of that stuff. It says, this is how you get saved. A heart belief that manifests itself in what you proclaim. That's honestly, it's a pretty low bar. It's a pretty accessible bar. I should say it doesn't work. So I don't have to work for like six, eight months, clean my life up, get rid of this, get rid of that and go do these few good things. I just have to come to a place in my heart where I'm done wrestling with the problem of evil and, and, and the hypocrisy of Christians and of everybody else in every other religion. Right. And I can just say, I believe you can say it, but it's got to be in the heart. Right. And you got to, that's got to come from somewhere. And so it's a very interesting situation, you know? Yeah. These topics are, are, they are really difficult to tackle, but we do have a playbook at least. Right. Yeah. We do. It gives you a, gives you some instruction. Some of what you talked about when I went to go see you at church, at your church, um, you were mentioning, uh, almost like this idea of, because it was something you heard on a podcast, a Sean Ryan podcast, I believe. And somebody mentioned, why bother? Why bother trying to be so good? Right. Like, why not just, you know, a step on people's throats a little bit, you know, ruffle some feathers here and there and not really give a shit, make your money, do your thing your own way. Don't really worry about some hurt feelings of some of these people and just keep cranking forward until you make it, then you make it. And then at some point, uh, believe in your heart, say it out loud. And, uh, overnight become a Christian when you kind of had this dark past, because there are a lot of people that have dark paths. And my own experience of being at church when I was young, I was really surprised when I started to figure out, cause this is like 13 or something. And I was like, Oh, so many of these people here have been like broken. And that's how they, not everybody, but a lot of them, that's how they kind of ended up there. And I was like, that's really interesting. But anyway, you can live that life and then you could still make it to the promised land. It kind of sounds like, so what, what, what are your thoughts on that? I thought that, um, the answer to that question that was given on the Sean Ryan podcast was, was pretty good. I think that if you want that answer, you can go listen to Sean Ryan, but I think that there's another aspect to it, right? So we talked about, we've talked about kids and then we've talked about our own kids. I would like to have answers for the people who I love, who, who are in my orbit on a regular basis and who are nearby me. I would like to have real answers for them, for what to believe and what is true. Now I don't want to force them to believe, but if I am convinced that, that on the other side of life and death, uh, or on the other side of life is death and is as eternity with, with Christ in a place called heaven or eternity without him in a place called hell. I want to be able to give those answers and that direction to my kids. I want to be able to give it to my friends and actually want to give it to anybody who I happen to rub shoulders with. So a big part of the reason why I think we need to change the way we live is because of the model that it shows other people. It also confirms within us that, that our faith is real. You know, it's been tested that the genuineness of our faith has been tested through walking through this really challenging life where things just want to pull on you and, and, uh, to get you to renounce that or to pay more of this or just whatever it is, you know? And so for me, I really want to have that because I believe that people could drop dead at any time, right? I, I, I love the fact that I've had a long time with my kids up to this point. The reality is I could lose one of them very easily. You know, there's like this much blood, you lose this much blood and you're dead. You know, there's a lot of ways to lose that much blood, you know? And when you have four little treasures that you care a lot about, you start going like, I want to make sure that they know the truth. And that's what the Bible is. The Bible is truth. And we are, get to that place where we get to, and people go, I don't believe it's truth. That's okay for you to believe that, but you will deal with the ramifications of that. And if the goal is to just to get ahead, the reality is getting ahead in this life and being rich or wealthy or a playboy or a millionaire or whatever it is in this life is so small in comparison to what eternity is. Eternity by definition is much longer than the 50. Well, let's say here, how old are you and Sema? 33. 33 to a hundred years that we're going to get, right? Guaranteed you got to 33, right? Who knows if you get more, but like eternity is way longer than that. I feel like my life, I'm 43, went by already. I feel like I could snap my fingers and it's just like, that's how long I've had so far. So I probably get double that. I probably get one more and then I'm gone. So for me, I look at this and go, why would I live for, as a Christian? I want to live as a way that it reflects what I'm really focusing on and that's eternity. That's my relationship with God. That's my relationship in eternity with him, being able to worship him and, and, and love him and enjoy actually redeemed, right relationship with him. Like we were supposed to have in the garden. And so that's, that's why I think it matters the way we live because otherwise who are you going to bring with you? People like, oh, you're, you're living for self and then you want to, your ticket into heaven. Why, why would God even want that from you? You know, now there are certain people I think that that actually happens out of ignorance. I don't think necessarily we get to do that at a decision and go, you know, I know Jesus is Lord. I believe it. I see it. And I'm just going to pretend that doesn't exist. Do all the bad stuff I can do. And in the very end, I'll go, yes, Lord, that's using him as a tool, right? That's not seeing him as Lord and savior. That's seeing you as Lord and savior, right? And you hold all the keys and God's like, no, you don't hold any of the keys. I do. Right. So interesting. I love all this stuff. Um, what are like, what are some of the things that people come to you with? And do you send like, not, you don't have to share anything personal, but I'm just saying like in, in, uh, in modern times of what happened with Charlie Kirk and all this stuff being released on the Epstein files and all this stuff being released on social media and kind of the ugliness and even people mentioning evil and like, uh, satanic rituals and like, there's some crazy stuff that's come out of this super crazy. Yeah. Epstein stuff. Do people at church, do they share that with you? Do they say, Hey, I really got a lot of concern over, I'm seeing all this stuff and my kids are seeing all this stuff. And do they come to you with some of that stuff? They do. Yeah. I get to hear a lot of that. I had a mom come to me and she got two little girls and they're at school and their school was doing a walkout and a, a protest for ice. I think this was a couple of weeks ago and in support of immigrants, I believe. I think it's how the protest, I think it was a statewide thing. I think a lot of schools did it and she tends to lean that way politically as well. She's a Christian, but she leans towards this, this, um, this position where she believes that, that ice has gone too far. Our government is overreaching and she is trying to get her kids to support a right position. And so she comes to me and she goes, I don't know what to do. I don't know if I should have them walk out of class and be a part of this protest. I don't know if I should have them not do that. I don't know the right answer. And here I am. I've been a pastor for about five minutes and I'm like, well, God doesn't say explicitly what to do in this situation other than to pray, ask for discernment and wisdom and guidance to see what action might allow you to show that you love God more than anything else. And we had a couple of back and forths and she said, well, I decided not to have them walk out even though she's sympathetic towards immigrants and does not like what ice did, but she didn't like the demonstration. She didn't like that. She didn't like that, that, that it was sort of a, here, this is what you do. This is what happened. And here we protest. She feels like the solution was much bigger than that and more nuanced than just protesting. And so I said, okay, praise the Lord. Cause I didn't have to tell her what to do. You know, I didn't, I just said, Hey, do what you think is best, you know? And, and she's asking me like, you know, sort of like, what would you do? And I'm like, it doesn't matter what I would do. I'm not in that situation. I homeschool my kids for a reason, you know, but I think that there's, it's, it's challenging. And then you get people all the time. I have people who are friends of mine because I still run a gym. I have 250 members at my gym and they have all kinds of different lifestyles. And some of them, um, decided that they love somebody of the same gender, right? They're practicing gay lifestyle. And they ask me, is that accepted in your church? And I have to talk to them. I say, it is accepted in my church. Right. What I mean by that is you're accepted. You're a sinner just like me. Now is the, the practice of homosexuality, sexuality encouraged in scripture? Absolutely not. It's actually condemned in scripture. So are many other things that I've done, right? And being able to have a relationship enough with people to tell them that and go, Hey, do you love Jesus? Let him deal with the rest, right? When I get to those portions of scripture, will I talk about them? Yep. Will it offend you and ruffle your feathers? Probably. But I can't shy away from those things and neither can you, you have to hear those things too. And then you have to justify them and say, well, the Bible is dated in that portion or it's wrong in that portion. And I'm right. And you have to live with that. But there's so many things that people bring, bring to me, you know, and then I have people who are, this is happens all the time. People are really great Christians. That's what I say, air quotes, because what does that even mean? But we overlook heterosexual relationships living together all the time, even within the church. People like, Oh, well, at least it's not a homosexual marriage. Like it's, it's like this sin, we start grading it. You know, there's a lot of hypocrisy. Like we were talking about Donald Trump, right down to your local church. You know, it's like, what is sin? How about this? How we just say what sin is because the Bible says it. We all admit that we're sinners and we screw up and we need a savior and we're being transformed from one level of glory to another, which is what the Bible says, right? Redeemed. I come with a whole lot of baggage. And then God starts to work these things out of me, right? Are you welcome as he's working these things out of you? Absolutely. Are you welcome to, um, to influence people for that? We, we start to draw some, some protective guidelines on the health of the flock. When certain things begin to happen more, uh, overtly or without repentance type thing, but when they are struggles or a part of your life that you're dealing with and trying to get ahold of, it's indifferent. So I get asked a lot of questions. One's I'd rather not have to answer honestly. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I think, um, a lot of people struggle with the idea of having, uh, a true level of faith in Christianity. Cause like, you know, as you were speaking outside, um, there are, there's a feeling of people who are Christian where they're like, Oh yeah, I just know there's, there's just like, it's like, I don't need to see, I don't need to have a level of proof for deep scientific proof. Like I just know I have this faith and I have this, uh, understanding and I just know. Right. So for you, what gives you that level of confidence? Cause I'm, I anticipate that there's really nothing anyone can come up and say to you or try to, you know, argue with you to make you believe otherwise. So, so what is that for you? Right. Well, it's really tough now because I feel like I truly, I know I have a personal relationship with Christ. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it'd be like somebody telling me that you don't exist. Yeah. I'd be like, okay. Yeah. You know, and then they'd be like, he really doesn't, you know, and, um, it would just be, it's just so hard, like you said. But when I look at it, I look at scripture and I see the hundreds of prophecies of Jesus before he ever came around written hundreds of years beforehand. And I have at least a little bit of, of actual evidence, what I would call evidence. Some people won't like that as evidence. They go, those prophecies can be interpreted a different way and you know, whatever. But when somebody is going to be born of a virgin in a one particular town, it says this 600 years beforehand. Like to me, that's a, you know, there's a bunch of prophecies just like that. So that helps. Um, there's the amount of old Testament manuscripts that talk about and I see that. And then I see the transforming power of him in my life and other people's lives. It's, it's really hard for me to come off of that and go, well, let's look at this from a more scientific perspective. From a scientific perspective, we could explain all these things away in this particular way. But then when you look at those, whether it be the big bang theory, you know, if we're talking about like where everything came from, there's so many holes in the big bang theory. It's not even funny. You know, it's like, well, who created the big bang? Like bang from what? Like there, there's still an idea of an uncaused first cause that what do I have to do in order to believe it? I have to have faith. If I'm going to believe in Darwinian evolution or even a big bang theory, that's not attached directly to Darwinian evolution. I have to believe something. And for me, I'd much rather put my faith in a God that I know and to what I can hold in my hand than just like everything looks really, really good. And this uncaused first cause is this philosophical statement. You tell me the whole thing is all based on science, but in order for me to believe any of what you said, I have to believe this statement that is not grounded in anything except for some presupposition. This philosophical in nature, I think it's, it's not scientifically proven. It just must be because the other things are. How's that any different than what I'm doing? I will never go to a doctor ever again about my general health. All they want to do is put you on pills. Really well said there by Dana White. Couldn't agree with him more. A lot of us are trying to get jacked and tan. A lot of us just want to look good, feel good. And a lot of the symptoms that we might acquire as we get older, some of the things that we might have, uh, high cholesterol or these various things. It's amazing to have somebody looking at your blood work as you're going through the process, as you're trying to become a better athlete, somebody that knows what they're doing. They can look at your cholesterol. They can look at the various markers that you have and they can kind of see where you're at and they can help guide you through that. And there's a few aspects too, where it's like, yes, I mean, no, no shades of doctors, but a lot of times they do want to just stick you on medication. A lot of times there is supplementation that can help with this. Uh, Merrick health, these patient care coordinators are going to also look at the way you're living your lifestyle. Cause there's a lot of things you might be doing that. If you just adjust that boom, you could be at the right levels, including working with your testosterone. And there's so many people that I know that are looking for, they're like, Hey, should I do that? They're very curious. Um, and they think that testosterone is going to all of a sudden kind of turn them into the Hulk, but that's not really what happens. It can be something that can be really great for your health because, uh, you can just basically live your life a little stronger, just like you were maybe in your twenties and thirties. And this is the last thing to keep in mind, guys, when you get your blood work done at a hospital, they're just looking at like these minimum levels at Merrick health. They try to bring you up to ideal levels for everything you're working with. Whereas if you go into a hospital and you have a 300 nanograms per deciliter of test, you're good, bro. Even though you're probably feeling like shit at Merrick health, they're going to try to figure out what's like things you can do in terms of your lifestyle. And if you're a candidate, potentially TRT. So these are things to pay attention to, to get you to your best self. And what I love about it is a little bit of the back and forth that you get with the patient care coordinator. They're dissecting your blood work. It's not like, uh, if you just get this email back and it's just like, Hey, try these five things. Somebody is actually on the phone with you going over every step and what you should do. Sometimes it's supplementation. Sometimes it's TRT. And sometimes it's simply just some lifestyle habit changes. All right, guys, if you want to get your blood work checked and also get professional help from people who are going to be able to get you towards your best levels, that's Merrick health.com and use code power project for 10%. Right. And then I see the transforming power of God in my life and what he saved me from the addictions he saved me from. Yeah. Right. The person who I was, I go, Oh, you really are a redeeming God. You really are who you've said you are all along. And I just stepped in a place where I could see it. Do you, and actually in this, uh, nowadays, uh, maybe it's just like, I notice a lot of, um, there's a lot of men in fitness who are, whether they're becoming Christians, they're new dads and becoming Christians or people who are doing a lot of stuff in fitness are now talking more about Christianity. Um, why do you think that might be something that's becoming a more of a proclivity now? I think there's two reasons probably one is more trendy. So people feel like there's a level at which they can talk about it because it's more of a trend. Yeah. Uh, it's more accepted. And I think sometimes within the fitness space, the goal is to say something new. And so Christianity, even though it's old is sort of new right now. Yeah. So I think there's a, the unfortunate reality of that, but I'm not necessarily saying that all people who do it for that reason are in this horrible place or anything like that. But I also think that there is something happening in the world. There is a shift starting to happen in the world where, I mean, politicians, which were used to be kind of, um, sequestered from the rest of the world and sort of unknown are now becoming more known. The, the, through Epstein files and through, uh, investigative reporting and through social media and leaks and whistleblowers, right? Hollywood is becoming more and more fractured because like, what are we gonna do with movies now with streaming and with YouTube and with different things? I think even with social media, right? There's, there's so many things happening where the world is shifting and our footing isn't as sure as we'd like it to be. And what you're finding is people are trying to figure out like, what is the thing that I can stand on? And what's happening now is I think men, because right, uh, uh, good times create weak men, right? Weak men create hard times, hard times create strong men. And I think we're, we've gone through some hard times because we let a lot of things slide. We let a lot of things go. And I think people are seeing some hard times and they're trying to find something they can grab ahold of that actually is going to matter. And it's going to stand in the hard times. Money's not really all that important. You know, relationships are important and family's important, but what are you going to give them? You know? And I think there's people who want to have real answers out there. And I think that you look at the different religions of the world and you get to do that as a human being with agency. You get to look and see like, am I going to lean into the Buddhist religion or into Islamic faith or the Christian faith? And I think a lot of people within the, within fitness are in the Western world and positionally are in a good place to be able to see Christianity first. They're also able to see the fruits of Christianity. And they're also seeing some of the fruits of some of the other religions and what those things have done around the world. So I think there's a lot of men out there in particular who are going, gosh, there's a lot of weight on my shoulders right now because there's nothing I can just, I can bank on and I need something I can bank on. And so I think that it's, I think there's a resurgence of people who are realizing that by ourselves, we're not as awesome as we'd like to make everybody believe that we are. And so reaching out to an awesome God is a natural by-product, I guess, for, for many people. I think a lot of people have been, you know, trying to, you know, better themselves and trying to advance and trying to, you know, I guess, you know, make money, make a living for themselves, provide for their family and all these different things. And then they get to this point where they're kind of like at the end of that. And I think Derek Wolf is an example, former NFL player. He recently posted on his social media, he got, got baptized. Joe Rogan's been talking about this, guys like Sean Ryan, people that are already sort of secure in their life and they feel like they already kind of made it, but they spent like a whole life, you know, searching for these things, searching for particular things. And then they weren't able to maybe find exactly what they were looking for. And I think now maybe they're finding some of that in going to church and exploring faith. I agree. I think that's a huge part of it. I think that you get everything you want and you realize you still have something missing and you start exploring your faith. You start exploring the spiritual dynamic of who you are. There's not much return. We were talking about return on investment when it comes to certain types of exercise. There's not much return on trying to make more money or trying to get more followers or trying to, you know what I mean? For some of these guys, they've already got it all. They don't need, what's another hundred thousand followers for them or what's another a hundred thousand dollars for them? And they go, oh, I need to lean somewhere where there's going to be some ROI for me. And I'm like, I'm spiritually bankrupt. And so I start looking somewhere else and then you start filling that in and go, wow, that's what I was missing. I thought it was the money. I'd actually give all the money to have this. You need to pop out of here? I do, but it's a good podcast. Yeah. I'm just going to continue to chat with him just a little bit. We'll catch you later, buddy. See you in Zima. I said something to piss him off. Yeah. Oh, you got him really upset. He can't wait till my arm's better and he could tap me out. Yeah. It was great going to your church and it's just really cool to see like, uh, it's just fun to see friends make progress. You know, I've, I've known you for probably like 20 years. Yeah. Almost. I think. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Probably 20, 19, 20 years. So I probably met you when you were 22 or 23. Um, and I'm older than you, but not, not like a crazy amount older than you, but, um, you know, seeing you mature and seeing you like you didn't have, you had no kids, no kids. Yeah. You know, when I met you, um, and you were someone of faith, uh, when I met you, um, but not anything close to kind of where you're at now. Yeah. So I've seen the maturity in you, even without you and I haven't had like real deep personal conversation about, um, really some of the stuff that you alluded to on the show. Um, but I've, I've kind of seen it in you. I can almost like feel it, uh, coming off of you. Um, and, and it's really cool to see. And it was amazing to see you, uh, you know, at your church being a pastor. And I know that that's something that you've been, um, I think it's been something that you've been maybe seeking out before you ever even became it. Yeah. Uh, and it was just, yeah, it was awesome experience to see you doing that. Yeah. Thank you. I mean, we've, we haven't known each other for a while, 23, 23. I think I was when it was a body construction zone. Yeah. Yeah. Walked in there and you only have, and we've talked about this, but you only have so long to make some friends that you can know for a long time, you know? And if I meet somebody tomorrow after 20 years, I've known them for 20 years, but I've known you for 40, right? You know? And so it feels really special. And so you have to take time to, I think, hang on to relationships is part of the reason why I'm a relationship guy, you know? And I say, I wouldn't sell for money. I wouldn't sell for, you know, notoriety. I would only sacrifice a relationship for a higher relationship if I had to. And thankfully the people I put in my circle, I don't have to do that. Right. Nobody's like, Oh, you're friends with Mark Bell. No, you can't be friends with me. Like, Hey, well, sorry. I've known him for 20 years. So, you know, it is what it is. Um, I had an opportunity to do that with money. I had an opportunity to trade money for some number with a couple of different couple of commas in it, which is a lot of money. And I didn't do it, you know, because my relationships are actually where I feel the richest, you know? And so it actually warms me and tickles me a little bit to be able to talk to somebody I've known for a while about the relationship that actually matters to me even more, right? Which is my relationship with God. And so I, I enjoy talking about my relationship with God with people. I have no trouble bringing my relationship with God into the gym. Uh, I tend to be the same person wherever I go. I don't have a persona that I turn on in one spot or turn on in another spot, especially around people I know. If I don't know you, I may dial down and be a little bit more reserved, but for the most part, I'm just the same guy wherever I go. And I get to, to chat about this stuff and it feels good. And watching mature maturity happen to me is because I'm being drug along by you and some of the other relationships that I have in my life that of guys who are also maturing and progressing in their respective ways. And so, you know, I kind of, I'm always looking around to the left or the right, you know, if I'm in a room with you and I'm going like, do I belong in this room with, with, with Mark? Like he's just, he's done so well in so many different areas and he's, he's, he's built himself up and his mind works in such a unique and magnificent way. And I start, I start pondering that and I go, well, wait a second. I have to, I have to remind myself that Mark texts me, Mark asked me to be on the show and he's really is my friend. And, and, and we really do have something in common and we really have some differences, but I really belong here, you know? So there's a lot, there's a lot to the relationship, you know, that, that goes both ways. Um, yeah, I, I saw, um, another thing I was just, uh, thinking about recently because when I left your church, uh, my son and I had a lot of conversation on, on the drive home and you'll be happy to know it was all church stuff. Uh, and, um, my son was great. You know, he, he, uh, I think he, you know, he needed, he needed to go through his own, you know, stuff to figure out, uh, exactly where he wants to land with, uh, how religious he gets or whatever, whatever it might be. But, um, he was taking notes as you were, as you were speaking. And then we got talking about certain things and he was able to like quote a bunch of stuff in the Bible. And like, I was just like, I don't understand. Like he just, where did that come from? Yeah, he just has. And I know, I know that, uh, my dad used to take him to church and my dad is, is very, uh, is religious and stuff like that. And my, my parents, my, my mom was very religious too. Um, and so he has some of that background, some of that experience, but the stuff that he was just, that he just knew was amazing. And then the words that he was using was even more funny to me because he was talking about like quotes from God, which is interesting because, uh, that's a, that's a weird way to word it. Cause they don't usually talk about like a quote from, from God, um, or from Jesus rather. And, uh, one of the ones he brought up, uh, to me was, uh, why have you forsaken me when he's on, on the cross? And we just, we talked about that a little bit and about like, you know, how much, you know, how much pain he was in. Um, and it was just, I don't know, it was just an interesting conversation, but, um, what are some of your interpretations of, uh, you know, Jesus dying on the cross and like kind of how he died and, and, and what he was trying to, I guess, convey, what he's trying to communicate. Yeah. So there's a word called atonement, right? It's called atonement. There's a word atonement. And it's basically that, that Christ was our atonement on the cross for, for our sins. So he took our place, right? He, there's a, there is a payment for sin that needs to be paid. And in the old Testament, we used to take an animal to our high priest and then they would, we put our hands on it and then they would, they would kill it because blood was necessary for that. And because sin demands payment. But the thing was, is that would always have to come every year. And the high priest also not a perfect person. And so what the true high priest is, that is Jesus actually took off his robe and put himself on the cross and he took our place. So we, there is no sacrifice better than the perfect son of God. God himself comes down in human form and he puts himself on the cross and pays the debt that we could never pay. No matter how many animals we slaughter, no matter how many times we say, I need forgiveness, we couldn't bridge that gap. And God did that. And so he was reaching back into the old Testament, right? The, the, the thousands of years of human history where God overlooks sin on the basis of an animal sacrifice, which was an imperfect system, but it was perfect in the way that it pointed to Christ actually doing it for real. And then now we looked back to the cross. And so that's what that is. Now, in terms of how he died, right? He was crucified. So he had nails put through his, his hands or his wrists and his feet, and he would have died of asphyxiation. That is suffocation. Uh, you need to push down on the nails that are in your feet, um, in order to take a breath. Cause what's happening is you're starting to sag and your muscles are going limp. You can imagine your muscles don't work the same way, uh, when there's a nail through them, a spike through them. Uh, it doesn't work so well if you've been beaten, you know, it doesn't work so well if you've been, uh, been cut up by a crown of thorns and have blood running through your eyes and your family looking at you, right? All the things, all the gross, gross and hard things that Jesus went through. But then it says that Jesus gave up his spirit, right? Which is when he died. And so the idea is that God's conveying to us that he didn't let the world kill him. He actually gave up his life for the world. And then three days later, he rose again. Proving that he had victory over sin and death. So when somebody goes, I don't know if I should put my faith in Christ. Can he really save me from this impending, uh, train that's just coming at me at full steam ahead that's called death. And he could say, yeah, you can, because he already conquered death once and he proved it. And then he rose and he ascended into heaven and he'll come back again for his church. And if he doesn't come back before you die, uh, he says, when you die, just like you did the thief on the cross today, you'll be with me in paradise. And then some point he'll come back and he'll rapture the whole church and take all of his people with him. And the church is a preserving influence on the world. Uh, the ones who are carrying the message for the people who don't believe. Cause my goal, my goal is still for you to hear what I'm saying and go, Ben, Ben might be right, but let me just go to you, God, and say, God, are you right? And then have you have your own epiphany with God? Like, I don't want you to have to ride my coattails into heaven. You know, start looking at all the dumb things I've done, right? And go, I'm not riding his coattails. I'll find somebody else, maybe Ryan or, or somebody else, you know, but yeah, that's still the goal. But at some point he'll, he'll remove the church as one last act, excuse me, of love. So that when people go, why did this happen? He goes, that was God. God really could do that. Wow. And then you have another chance still, because you still have breath in your lungs. To, to believe in God and go, Oh God really must be who he says he is. A third of the world's population left or, you know, whatever. So these are, these are the end times and how things kind of wrap up in eternity. And there's still some, some people who have speculation around that. Cause we have illustrative words and we don't have in predictive words. We don't have like perfect, you know, viewpoint of what, what all happens with that. But yeah, I just wonder if someone was to come back, you know, or if someone claimed to come back, how would we, how would we know? You know, how would we, uh, cause in this day and age we have like AI, uh, we have people lying to us about all kinds of different things. There's a lot of coverups and it'd just be, it would be, uh, I know that there's, I know the Bible has guidance and I know that the Bible has, uh, it probably tells you many different things that are, that are going to happen when, uh, he rises again. Right. Yeah. Yeah. When he, when he, when he, uh, when he comes back, yeah, he won't need, he doesn't need to rise. He will actually come and ascend, you know, or descend, excuse me again. Yeah. And I mean, there's going to be all kinds of ways and the Bible does give us clues throughout, uh, various books within the new Testament, uh, specifically in the book of Revelation about the details of his coming and the timing of his coming. Um, what within the timing, what, what the signs of the seat of the season will look like. Mention anything about him having an Instagram or anything like that? Not yet. Not yet. No, but there are some people, um, who, you know, have tried to predict it on social media. Uh, but that's one thing. If somebody says, hey, it's going to be this date for sure. You pretty much know they're lying because the Bible says that you won't know the day or the hour in which the son of man returns. So you think like, Hey, Jesus is going to come back in, you know, 2030 on December 14th. And I tried to build a platform off that. I, somebody should not give me a platform for that because I'm actually misusing scripture. So. Yeah. We live in some, some crazy times, but I think, uh, how did, how do you help your kids, uh, navigate some of this stuff? Have your, have your children ever kind of come to you and gotten to deep conversation about like other religions. Um, and like, uh, something I always kind of wondered in my own head, um, was like, I just grew up in a different area and believe in a different God. Like it doesn't seem like it would be so wrong. Yeah. I think I try to preempt that question actually a little bit. I, I don't wait for it to come up in my kids. A lot of things that I want them to know. I'm more proactive in the way I, I approach it. You know, I don't say, I don't wait for them to come up and go, you know, anyway, I don't make an example right now, but I don't wait for them to do that. I actually go to them, uh, homeless people. You know, sometimes we drive around Sacramento. There's a lot of homeless people and, and kids who love their home and their bedroom and things like that. Dad, why is that person homeless? You know, why don't you give them money? Isn't there someplace they can go? You know, those types of questions can kind of put you on your heels a little bit if you're not ready. And so you kind of get out in front of them a little bit as a dad. And so, uh, I try to do that with religions. And so my gym is across from a, um, Islamic temple mosque. And so we see a lot of people going for prayer at different times throughout the day on a very regular basis, you know, and my kids know, I talked to them about what they believe. And I talked to them about why we as Christians don't believe those things, you know, why the certain things fly in the face of what the Bible would say is true. And some people would find as peacemakers, they'd find more commonalities between the two and go, look how they, you can kind of believe both and see the good from both. And, and, and I've decided not to go that route with my kids. I've decided not to say, Hey, every religion has something beautiful about it. And that's what we really need to hone in on. I decided not to do that. I said, Hey, there's truth. There's absolute truth. And you can trust God and you can trust his word. And if it contradicts the Bible, if anybody preaches to you, any other gospel in any other name, it's actually not true. And they go, why the Bible says so one day they're going to look at the Bible and go, so if the Bible is wrong, then everything I was taught is wrong too. And I will say yes. And so I want them to know that, like, I want them to know that, that our faith hinges. It's either a hundred percent right or a hundred percent. Yeah. Either, either get rid of it. Right. Or, or, or believe it, you know, don't, don't pick and choose, you know, based on how you feel. Um, and so that's why I tell them. And I tell them that there are people in other parts of the world who don't have the advantage of growing up in a Christian home. You have a very unique place here in America with our family. Um, and so take that message into the world, whether it be across the street or into, you know, Kathmandu, you know, into Nepal and, and, and share the gospel with those people because they may have an idea about who God is that is wrong. And you want to show them what is true. And that kind of language is very, very hard and divisive for people because they go, well, that's the only language I have for God. It's the only language I've ever known for God. And God has said many times in his word, he, he, he, um, he's not far from man, you know, he is, he's near and people can find him, you know, if they're looking. And so I think that Romans 10, it talks about how can someone believe unless they hear and how can someone hear unless there's somebody who preaches, how beautiful are the feet of those who carry the good news. Right. And so it's, it's beautiful for them to go. So I don't really know what happens to the person in Nepal who only has one specific book and is devout and loves and does all those things. Like, is there a God's grace that covers that and says they were truly seeking me, but this was the only thing that they could find in their resource world. And even for me talking like that, some Christians would go, wow, I can't believe he's so soft on that. You should say that they know they are going to hell. Right. And some people look at me and they go, how could you even wonder if that would, there would be grace to cover that? Of course there there's grace that covers that. I mean, I don't know where that line is. You know, I just don't know. So for that reason, it motivates me more to proclaim the gospel wherever I am so that people can hear who the true God is of the Bible. And I guess maybe you just sort of, uh, stay more concerned with your own relationship with God. That's the only thing you can do. Not worry too much about other people's. Maybe you share here and there appropriately to help get the word spread. And so it has to start with you, right? It has to start with you. And even the Bible says you have to take the log out of your own eye before you go remove the speck out of your brother's eye. Right. So yes, it is self-focus is what you should do is you should, you should be working on your relationship with God. But from that, there is a very real outworking, you know, of that. And it spreads into the people around you. And sometimes it's met with a, with a closed door and sometimes met with a cracked door and sometimes it's an open door, you know, but you still, you still go, you still go, you still do what you have to do. And you still are transparent. Like we were talking about with Encima before he left, you know, it's just being really transparent about your own shortcomings. Talk about what, you know, talk about what you see and let the Holy Spirit and let God do the rest. Cause I'm not going to get it right every time. Probably listen to this podcast back in a little bit and be like, Oh, I probably should have said this, you know, like I'm just not going to get it right every time, but God knows my heart. He knows your heart. He knows that he can take these words and make them what they need to be in order to meet people where they're at, you know? And my job is to tell the truth as best I can. I'm just not perfect. And you have a gym where you work with at-risk kids and, um, you also, uh, you have them doing fitness, right? And then you're also preaching. Was that sort of, yeah. I think for, for that environment, what I like to say is I'm, I'm sharing, you know, I'm sharing. And that's really what I'm doing is I'm, it is preaching, but it's the degree of which is not what most people would think. It's, it starts much more with conversation, trying to hear them and what they believe and their background, you know, because they, nobody ever wants to hear from these kids. They're not ever, but a lot of times people don't want to hear from kids. They don't want to hear from at-risk youth. They don't want to hear from a kid who's been to juvenile hall multiple times. I remember people arguing so much back and forth about, uh, what should happen with school, uh, during the COVID situation. And, uh, I was like, did anyone, I asked my son, I was like, anybody ask you guys? That's funny. Yeah. He's like, no, no. Like, of course not. Right. Yeah. Why would we? They don't want to hear from the kids. Exactly. And that's, that's sort of what we're, we're dealing with a lot of times when we're dealing, especially with the kids from the group home, because they're just told to go here, sleep here. Oh, we're moving you from this home to this home. You need to hit a certain level or you drop below a certain level. So you need to go to this tier home or this tier home and, you know, and, or you have to go back to juvenile hall. And so there's, there's a lot of that. And so I spent a lot of my time trying to get to know them, you know, and from there hear what they have to say. Of course, I'm going to prompt the topic, the topic for them. I'm going to make sure I say, Hey, what do you think about the word commitment? You know, and they tell me and you start to hear because you bring a word like that to a kid who's having no, we ever commit to him at all. And you're gonna get all kinds of things like commitment. Maybe they're committed to finishing out their sentence. Maybe commitment, something they don't like at all. And they tell you, and then you tell them your experience and commitments. You're just sharing two, two people, two souls in the universe who, who are listening to each other communicate about what a single word means for a few minutes. And then you get to go back and you get to look at scripture and say, Hey, here's a book older than both of us combined, been around for a really long time. And people have hated it for the last 2000 years. They burned more Bibles. They've killed more people for it. And yet it's still here. We have access to it on our phones. And here's what it says about commitment or honor or love, right? Pain, suffering. Here's what it says on these things, finishing, completeness, whatever, you know, and you get to break it open and then go, now you get to receive something that's bigger than the judge who sentenced you to six months in juvenile hall or your mom who left you, decided she didn't want to be a mom anymore. But like, you can see what God says about you or says about that topic. And it has really transforming power. You know, it's really cool. And we have kids, we have a kid, one kid right now who was with us for about two years. Every week he'd come in and work out with us. And now he comes to the gym as a, as an adult. He's 18 years old. He's graduated from the group homes. He's in a continuing education or continuing continuation program that allows him to go to school. He's going to a junior college here locally. And we have a staff member, a volunteer staff member who goes and drives 20 minutes out of his way, each way to pick this kid up and bring him into the gym. Oh, how cool. Yeah. And we still don't charge him, right? Because he doesn't have those resources, but we want to show him, Hey, now that you're here, we have this kind of buffer zone where we, we, if you were part of our overcome project, we're going to take care of you in the gym as well, because we want you to network. The people who are involved in fitness at the CrossFit level, the Iron Mile level who pay $150 minimum to be there a month are the same people who are going to have connections for them for jobs. The same people are going to have connections with them to network them with somebody else who can maybe hire them somewhere. And then also have the right mindset. These, the minds that these kids need to develop, that they show up here every day and do something hard, even though they can go home, watch TV and eat bonbons, but they're here. And so we put them in that same environment. Yeah. That's freaking awesome. Yeah. Yeah. Um, how long have you had that for? Just before COVID maybe seven years now. Yeah. It wasn't a nonprofit for a really long time. And it was just my wife and I doing it. We didn't have volunteers. We just, we would do it because we loved it. We would do it because we felt it was our calling to do that. And it was banning leaves shirt, leaves shirt, the lead pastor and founder of a, of a church, a ministry called Jesus culture. And I had lunch with him and he goes, man, he's like, you really should do something with this. You should make this something, a nonprofit where people could support you, a nonprofit where people could get involved and something that has legs sort of beyond you. And cause, and he has a heart for, for the foster care program. He has a heart for orphans. The reality is I think there's something like 60,000, uh, orphans in California. And that means that if every church in California, cause there's about 60,000 churches adopted one kid, there would be no need for the foster care system. Right? So we've talked about these things a lot, him and I. And so how do we fill in the gap so that kids are getting taken care of? Where can people find you? Uh, the overcome project is actually a really strange website cause the overcome project.com was taken. So we have the overcome proj stop at the J.org and people can go there and see what we're doing with the overcome project. You can find me at restoration life in Sacramento. Oh, there it is right there. Um, you guys can send us a message. We'd love to have you. If you, if you're one of those people who love to serve others through prayer. Uh, and if you are a prayer person, you know what I'm talking about. Uh, there's people who pray for things that are way out in the future, but they're trying to pray that they come sooner. My dad was praying that I go to church and I ended up at your church. That's pretty cool. Yeah. You sent me that message and I was just, I was, it actually made me feel I was warm and fuzzy as your dad probably did. I was like, wow. Okay. That's cool. Uh, and if you want to support us financially, uh, there's a way to donate on there. Um, we're just, we have volunteer staff right now and, and, and a couple of these kids are great. Um, and, and even if you are in the Sacramento area and you think you want to help volunteer, um, and coach some of these kids, that would be awesome. And then restoration life on Sundays is where you're going to find me is Sunday morning teaching publicly proclaiming the word of God. That kid right there on the left is not an overcome kid. That's an over kid competition. That is my son, but he's an overcome kid. He for sure is because he's part of the program. In fact, he coaches now. Oh, that's cool. Yeah. Some of our kids classes. And so he's really, really great. Um, but yeah, that's where you guys can find me. Great having you on the show today. I really appreciate it. Thank you, brother. I appreciate it. Strength is never a weakness. Weakness is never a strength. Catch you guys later. Bye.