 your health is your greatest wealth. If you want to give advice, you have to show up and bring value to somebody. Most people think there's some hidden, like, there's something behind it, you know? And next thing you know, you're full-time and you've got equity and your life's changed. I created my destiny. Wasn't it one of the fastest growing companies? It was a second fastest growing company in the United States. Our R&D department is bigger than probably any Kellogg's or any of these big food companies. I was kind of in a twilight zone and I had, it's called The Widowmaker, it's my left descending, had 85% blockage. All right, we're here today with Bruce Cardenas. Bruce, thanks for being on the show here today. We're at Legendary Foods. Don't mind that, we just brought some snacks. Yeah, exactly, just in case we get hungry. But no, I'm excited to talk to you, because a lot of people may have met you at trade shows and all these different things over the years. And you've always been someone who has been fired up and excited. And you're somebody that when I see you, I get excited, I start to smile. Oh, that's great. Well, because you're like that, you bring that energy to people. And I think that when you were with Quest for a long time and now you're with Legendary, and it's always funny because people are like, hey, is that guy the owner? And I'm always just like, yeah, I just say, yeah, because it's just easier. Easier than explaining. To kind of do that sometimes. But what has been your role over the years and sort of how did it even happen? You know, I was living a great life and had the bodyguard business, as you know, was quite successful. And I've always been involved in law enforcement. And I met Shannon in the gym. And as I say, became fast gym acquaintances. And a couple weeks later, I was at the Ellie Fitness Expo, which by the way, we were just there. And I stumbled across their little crappy booth in all the way, the back of six foot table, with horrible branding. And there's Shannon and Ron, I recognized them in the gym and these other guys and oh, you have a protein bar company. And I took a couple bars and I saw her a couple weeks later in the gym and said, those bars are phenomenal. And as you know, we grew up on some pretty bad bars. And then she proceeded to talk for 40 minutes about how excited she was. And she made them all in her kitchen and her husband had the business sense to make it a business. And after her talking with such excitement and energy, like she was literally like a super foodie. And I've never talked to anyone about food like that. And Shannon has a lot of energy, a lot of energy and a lot of passion for what she did. We, we, none of us would be here if it wasn't for Shannon. And I had this moment, I said, you know what, I don't know if I could help you, but I'm doing security at a big celebrity golf tournament. And maybe I can get some bars to the PR people. I can't give it to talent. That started our relationship. The next day she dropped off like three boxes, three like little boxes of bars for that tournament. What, what's something that maybe a younger person who's trying to, you know, just start a career or land, you know, land a job or maybe they want to be an entrepreneur. What is something they think you think they can kind of grab from that story? Because in that story that you just told, there wasn't really any mention of like a job. There wasn't really any mention of like money. It was like, Hey, I actually like these two. Maybe I can help. And you were just offering help, offering assistance. Correct. Now that's in my DNA. And I know if you want to give advice, show up and bring value to somebody. You know, a lot of people say, Oh, you, you, that was unique. I, you know, big companies don't do that. Yeah, they do. You can, you can show up at any big company, a music brand, a food brand to say, I want to come here and work as an intern for free. When people hear free. Oh, okay. This person is stupid enough to do it. Yeah, sure. Hang out. And that's like we, this our philosophy here, Ron says, come hang out. Tell everyone, come hang out, check it out. You want to work in R and D. You want to work in bio shift. But most people think there's some hidden, like there's something behind it, you know, and, and next thing you know, you're full time and you got equity and your life's changed. But people aren't willing to, they first need to know, I need to pay check. I need to be guaranteed. Most people, right? I'm out of college. I need to guarantee paycheck. And I say, listen, go work as a barista in the morning and then come hang out for free. That is interesting point that you bring up because I think you have to be maybe in a spot where you can be a little bit more carefree with your time. Yeah. I mean, listen, we got a pair of bills, right? Right. But sometimes people can't get past that. I need a nine to five, but what about after five o'clock? Start that side hustle, go volunteer. You know what I mean? There's always opportunities. Right. But I created my destiny. That's, that's, I think that's a good perspective to have. What do you think are some of the key ingredients to quest and now legendary with how much success? Because it's one thing, you know, to have, you know, some protein powders. It's another thing to have supplement companies. We see some companies do some great things. But quest, I believe was sold for a billion dollars. And now legendary seems like it's on track to even surpass what quest was doing. It probably will. And I think early on, I think, listen, there's a lot of factors. Obviously, taste and texture got us into the arena. And then as there's luck in timing, there was nothing out there before that. Fast forward five years into the quest journey, people were knocking us off, making them Kirkland, you know, Costco made their own version. But we were the first with the taste to texture ingredients and people flipped it over and said, oh, fairly clean. And I think so a lot of those factors. And then it was just a matter of, by the way, I remind people that want to start a food company. It was not easy at the beginning. I remember working my first NPC show bodybuild show at Ron and, hey, would you like a protein bar? Are you kidding me? Like, I don't want another protein bar. And, you know, that was that's how we were treated when we first started protein bars at the time. They're not only did it not taste good, but they were basically bad for you bad for you. So initially there was no people. Oh, you guys. Yeah, you had all the success. No, we didn't. We got kicked in the teeth a few times. I guess I should correct myself. Is that they weren't necessarily bad for you. They weren't great for physique athletes that wanted to that are getting judged on their aesthetics. Sure. Because the calories were too high. Yeah, they had glycerin and things. And that was one unique thing about us when when Ron, we took the dough, if you want to call it to the manufacturer, they said, we can't make this because you need to add, you know, liquid agave or glycerin or anything. And our point was we didn't want to do that. So that's another thing we were very unique low carb, high protein, gluten free. Yeah, there was never a bar. They're they're they're actually still it's still rare to see bars that are similar to the original quest bar. Yeah, correct. And now it's a, you know, secondary. But so we we created that culture and this and I'll be honest with you, we created they were rabbit fans like loyal to a core. And all of a sudden, I didn't even know what celiac disease was when I for when I and so all of a sudden someone wrote from this community, hey, we have celiac disease and we can eat your product. The obese community. Hey, I've had gastric bypass and I'm able to eat your bars because I'm able to digest them. And all of a sudden I say it like this, we went from really being a protein bar company to a mission based company. Like people are literally saying you've changed my life. I lost 40 pounds by eating your bars instead of agadas, you know. Did you see the very beginning? Did you see like the to the company? Like were you there at the beginning beginning when the company was maybe just barely successful or not really? I think I think the first why I was hanging out. I think we had three million in sales, but I wasn't there when Ron and Shannon and the guys were making them in the commissary rolling them out. But I was there early on. What was that like? Like it must have been crazy to see it go from, you know, for three million to 30 million is a big deal. And then 30 million to like 300 million. It's like, holy crap. Yeah, I think the peak was maybe 440 million in five years. And wasn't it one of the fastest growing companies? It was a second fastest growing company in the United States. The irony of it was the first number one company they were based in El Segundo as well. They made kids educational iPads and they went out of business the next year. So I think kind of tongue in cheek. We were number one because they went out of business, but it's kind of crazy, right? And being part of this for so long, you've been someone that loves lifting weights. You've been a physical person for a long time. You were a Marine. You own your own security company. What's the physical culture like here? Because it seems like almost everybody here is into training to some degree of some sort. Almost everyone, even in the Quest days, I'm going to have you say as you scale and get more and more employees, not everyone's going to be. Most of the guys, all the R&D guys are workout hardcore, whether it did parkour back in the day or crossfit or bodybuilding or fitness. Everyone's been pretty active here. And then recently you lost how much weight? Gosh, 55 pounds, all from food. I mean, I've been down this road. I mean, like you have been in this game for a long time. I knew what I was supposed to do, but I wasn't doing it. Yeah, what do you think that disconnect is? Because it's not like there's a lack of information out there, especially with YouTube. Yeah. I just, you know, we rationalize bad behavior. I really do believe that. And I got into a rut. I mean, I was still big and I carried myself well, but it was a turning point. I was speaking at an event and afterwards someone sent me some pictures and I literally said, who's that fat dude up on stage? I'm looking saying, oh my God, you're wearing a double X sweatshirt. And I said, I can't post that on Instagram. I started becoming like a bikini girl. Like, oh, I don't have a good angle. And then my friend, Carl, who on Sunfair. These angles are terrible. These clothes suck. I don't know. I'm not that big. And then my friend Carl said, hey, listen, when you try my meal prep, because I asked three things. It's crazy. I tell people this, there's no secret to this. He said, weigh yourself every morning and take a picture of the scale and send it to me. Eat only what's in the cooler and drink a gallon of water a day. And when I would send him pictures a couple of days ago, he's usually drinking enough water today. And I realized how important water is to now. Because sometimes you think you drink a lot of water and maybe it's only a liter or two liter. Now I do like, but and I followed that and it just started coming off. And I realized there was no magic to this. There really wasn't. It's just eat what you're supposed to eat. And I was, I wasn't starving. First couple of days you did it, was it hard? First couple of days, it's like, wait, when's my first snap coming? It's 1130. And the only thing I did, I haven't had an artificial, but I love Diet Coke. I don't, but I only drink black ice coffee and water. Right. And I'm fine. That's a, it's interesting to be able to like, you know, turn it all around. And, but I think that, I think sometimes, because there'll be a point where you're going to be in between that, right? There'll be a point where you're going to start to eat more normal foods, right? And I am now, yeah, for sure. And like, here's the best analogy and it is, and I've gone off the rails. I had, you know, Super Bowl party or Christmas Eve or whatever. He said, the key thing is what happens is you have a cheat meal. And then the next day, oh, let's have a piece of cake. Oh, it's just a little snack. Oh, it's a, he goes, just get right back on track. The cheat meal turns into the cheat week. Cheat week. And next thing, you know, you're up 10 pounds and well, I'll get back on track eventually. And so I just, if I have a cheat and, and by the way, it's interesting how your body becomes conditioned to clean food. When I do have, like I go to Mexican food the next day, I've wake up and I feel like, God, my face is, you feel like you're, you feel your fingers and feet are swollen. And I think, God, if I ate like this all the time, now wonder people are not healthy, but we're all deserve it. I love pizza, but I'll go, I'll just get right back on track. You mentioned artificial sweeteners and stuff like that. And I find this whole topic to be really fascinating. I think sometimes people get caught up in the minutia, they get caught up in these kind of smaller details. And sometimes people are like, Hey, you know, that legendary stuff, that's processed food. But I think what Ron's doing and what you guys are doing here is actually opening up everyone's eyes to the possibility that technology and the flavoring that we can do with some of these foods could potentially turn a lot of people around. 100%. And I always say it like this. Any of these Quest bars, any of these product legendary foods, it's a healthier option then. Right. You're on the go. I'd rather have a 20 gram pastry than a regular cookie or whatever. It's a nice, it's a nice bump. Like it's a nice hit. And I feel like I've had regular Kellogg's Pop Darts. I mean, ours are delicious. And so it's an option. And when people will start preaching from the pulpit about, you know, I don't, it's really weird talking about, I used to always say when I was in the Marine Corps, you can't talk about politics and religion. Now I find you can't talk about nutrition without someone coming down your throat. Right. Oh, you got this sweetener. I said, that pin drop, that's the least you need to worry about. What about the vaping you're doing or what about the drugs you're doing? And you're worried about a pin drop of some kind of sweetener. No, the alcohol I'm drinking on the weekend. Yeah, that's not affecting my liver, but that's Succolos or that treat. Sweetener. So it's all relative. And I don't, I don't get up on a pulpit about it. If it's not great, it's not for everyone. I will tell you this, eat real food. That's your best option in life. But when I'm at the airport, I'll grab a couple of bars or if I'm traveling, I have a box of these in my, in my, you know, What are some things you've learned? Because I've seen you in action. I've seen you at Gold's Gym. I've seen you around celebrities and around some high level people. And you have an interesting way about you where you're able to get the product to somebody and you kind of make it seem like not a big deal, but you do mention a couple of things about it and you kind of make it quick and easy. And you talk kind of quick and you just, like you put it, like here, this is going to change your life. Microwave that for 10, 15 seconds. Talk to you later. You really like it a lot. And then you try to leave them alone because those people, like, if we're honest, a lot of these people are getting hit up all the time, but you're just trying to get someone to just try it. I literally, and I tell people this, if you have a food item or any kind of product, you want to get people saying, Gold's Gym was really my success. I would go to Gold's Gym on a Saturday morning. That's where me and my brother met you. Yeah. And, you know, I have my, my gym bag and, oh, hey, Mark, check this out. And I'd say hi and keep walking. And then you come track me down an hour late. Hey, I just tried that product. Like, who are you? Oh, no, I'll talk to you later. Me and my brother, like, we got to find this Bruce guy. Yeah, yeah. We need more of these bars. I do that all the time. Well, I literally will walk by and just drop a product on someone's gym bag and then go later on. Hey, did you leave that? I said, I don't know. Someone did. I've never been that intrusive guy, like, hey, please, here's a product and please post for me. It's not, it's the first rule of fight club. I don't want people to talk about us. Yeah. And you guys aren't really big on, I mean, you guys are huge on social media, but again, you have an interesting way that you guys run that as well, where it's very passive. It's like, hey, you know what? Because I think that you guys are of the belief, and correct me if I'm wrong, but you guys are of the belief, these products taste really F and good. And people probably are going to post about it if they enjoy it. So I'm just going to give it to them, give them the opportunity to try it, and let them decide. That's our philosophy. And there's, I don't like when brands send me, sometimes brands send me a parallel. Hey, can you post about it? I don't know. I'll see if I like it. It's truly genuine, and there's been some very big names like that would literally, I would send them product, and the assistant would call us, hey, what can we do for yoga? Nothing. And next thing you know, they're doing some posts, which I didn't ask them. I'll even push back to, no, no, no, please don't talk about it. And they do it. And they do it because they enjoy it, or they like it. I've heard that this place, legendary, I've heard that it only has one problem. What's that? And the one problem is keeping up with sales. Being able to manufacture enough product. And now, and now you guys have your own plant and everything. So I'm sure that that's getting more and more taken care of. We have our own plant. But you guys don't, I don't think you spend any, well, I shouldn't say you don't spend any money on marketing. You guys don't, at least my understanding is you guys don't do any paid advertisement at the moment. Limited, yeah. If anything, I think most of our money goes to R&D research and development, and our R&D department is bigger than probably any Kellogg's or any of these big food companies. Because those other companies, they just have a recipe, it set it for decades. We are constantly, I tell people, if you try a doughnut today, it'll be a different formula in six months. Because we're always looking for the next best quality of everything to make it, you know, more enjoyable. So we're always changing. That's why we have such a big R&D department. I'll communicate with Ron Pena, the owner. And I'll text him here and there and say, oh man, the last thing at doughnuts, that was really good. He's like, that's nothing. Where do you try the new ones that are coming out next week? As you know, if Ron sees you eating a doughnut, he'll grab the pack and say, well, wait, that was two months ago. He'll have you messaging, sending people product. Yeah. What are some things you learn from being around someone like Ron Pena? He is a unique individual. I personally have never met anybody quite like him. I don't think I've met anybody. There's maybe a couple other friends that I can think of that maybe put in a similar category. But how well versed he is on so many different topics. He's in really good shape. He's got a lot of money. He's figured out business. He's figured out a lot of things really well. He is someone I've learned over these years. It doesn't matter the subject matter. He knows more than the person he's talking to. And it could be a dentist. It could be a chiropractor. It could be a nutritionist. And he'll say, so tell me about this dental thing. And he'll know things. I'm thinking, how does he know about dentistry? And he knows everything. He's well-read. He's well-educated. And he's a bit of a subob in certain ways. And including the medical field. He knows more about medicine than all of us combine here. And that's why we're putting all this energy into medicine. But and on top of that, he keeps me. He keeps me like I wake up in the morning and I'm motivated. He's not a guy who's like, what have you done for me lately? He's more like, what are we doing together? What are we doing to make this a better place? You know, it's a different kind of culture and environment. Yeah, I think he just has a crazy knowledge base because he reads all the time. Ferocious. It seems like he, I mean, even if I text him, he might not get back to me for three or four days. Yeah, yeah. You know, because I think it's not on his, his, his phone and messing around on his phone is not unnecessarily his to-do list. Yeah, exactly. It's very unique. I mean, I've learned so much. I personally, I'm not super structured that way. No, no, no. You know, it seemed like it seemed like he's real structured with his day because he's, you know, has his phone pinging all the time going in the different media. And his true calling is R&D. He, he, he loves it. And that's where he really likes to focus on. The other stuff is, you know, who cares about running a business? Honestly, it's the R&D that's going to make us become a phenomenal company. You guys just came out with the macaroni and cheese and that's like flooring everybody. It's, it's, I've never been a mac and cheese guy, but I gotta tell you, I'm a mac and cheese guy now. And I've compared him now with the, you know, craft and all the others. And you got 47 grams of protein in a cup. I mean, that's insane. And now we have a lot of, we have a little some competition going on our ambassadors that are making their own recipes, some without cheese, you know, making casseroles and chef rush, who you know, was here last week, made a, a lobster congon, concoction. So we're doing a lot of cool things. Are his arms still like that big? Yeah. I think 23 natural. Yeah. It's insane. Yeah. But it does like 2000 push-ups or something. Something ridiculous. But yeah, I think mac and cheese is just the beginning of, of, of another food line that people are like, wow, I say we legendary talk about any new stuff or is that a kind of under wraps for now? Because we're only going out to a couple of people on the show. So we have some cool who the heck's watching this thing. I know I'm just watching this. I would just say this, some really innovative things. I say this quest was really cool things. Legendary is much more relatable. Protein pastries, pop darts, sweet rolls, you know, I see. Donuts who has not, I mean, to me, when I eat those donuts, it just reminds me when I was a kid, those little sleeve of hostess donuts or whatever. And now mac and cheese, which is an American staple. And we have other things coming out that are right in line with all relatable food items. Come on. Was, was your grandfather or your grandpa or your mom like who was, who in your family was driven the way that you're driven? Because you were telling me you already worked out today. Yeah. You seem like you're very driven person. Yeah. Yeah. My dad. Okay. My dad, my dad, he, he was a Vietnam, that a combat veteran and I grew up, he had been burned a lot in the military, second and third, he burns and he had tremendous work ethic. And I think he was really about providing for five of us. It was really an integral part of his life. I say it best back then you'd be called a workaholic. Now you're an entrepreneur. Like he worked, he was worked as like an electrical contractor, but then he started a Boy Scout troop. And I got to tell you something. When you're, when you're a kid, you don't appreciate what's going on, right? Where your dad, your dad's not that cool, right? But all my friends wanted to hang out at my house with my dad. And we would go repelling, cave dwelling, you know, splunking. How cool. Canoe trips for a week and hiking in the Appalachian Mountains. And we make our own like beef jerking or, you know, boil it and wrap. And so I, he was almost like a modern day jocco back then, but I didn't appreciate it until, you know, later on. But so he taught me everything about, you know, we didn't have a lot of money, but they call it like a Renaissance man or something. Renaissance man. He even said to me one time, because, you know, I remember this very clearly. I'm like, you know, my buddies were starting to get dirt bikes, you know, and I, and he's like, you want one, don't you? Of course he goes, listen, if you come up with half the money, I'll match it. He didn't know this. I had a paper out. And he knew I had a paper out, but I saved every, I had like a can. And the next morning I came down and said, here's the, here's the half my money. He's like, you see, you have it. And he, I don't even know that I don't know how stressful it was on me. He came up with half and I bought my first dirt bike, but that, but he taught me lessons like, you know, nothing's free. Like you want to, you want something you got to, you got to contribute to that cause, you know, we weren't rich. So do you think a lot of that background and a lot of the stuff, do you think a lot of that background kind of led you to be able to have the security company that you had? Cause you know, I see pictures of you with everyone from Ronald Reagan to Arnold. So I mean, I wasn't wired that way. I mean, I knew, I knew early on it's a word I call now a servant leader. I think when I went in the Marine Corps, I finally true my, I found my why and purpose, you know, serving the country and providing protection. And, and then when I became a cop, I was like, this is really my calling. I really do enjoy serving other people, protection, serving. And it's an even the bodyguard thing. I really, I, I'm okay being behind the scenes. I mean, a lot of those photos were taken by paparazzi when we're coming out. I didn't have any iPhones then. I've always been good at kind of behind the scenes, but serving other people. Even now, like I like, I like serving our community or our new, yeah, you were a LAPD for a long time. Yeah, I'm still a reserve of the sheriffs. Yeah. Almost 30 years. I will never go to a doctor ever again about my general health. All they want to do is put you on pills. Really well said there by Dana White. Couldn't agree with him more. A lot of us are just trying to get jacked and tan. A lot of us just want to look good, feel good. And a lot of the symptoms that we might acquire as we get older, some of the things that we might have, high cholesterol or these various things. It's amazing to have somebody looking at your blood work as you're going through the process, as you're trying to become a better athlete, somebody that knows what they're doing. They can look at your cholesterol. They can look at the various markers that you have, and they can kind of see where you're at and they can help guide you through that. And there's a few aspects too where it's like, yes, I mean, no, no shade to doctors, but a lot of times they do want to just stick you on medication. A lot of times there is supplementation that can help with this. Merrick Health, these patient care coordinators, are going to also look at the way you're living your lifestyle because there's a lot of things you might be doing that if you just adjust that, boom, you could be at the right levels, including working with your testosterone. And there's so many people that I know that are looking for, they're like, hey, should I do that? They're very curious. And they think that testosterone is going to all of a sudden kind of turn them into the hope. But that's not really what happens. It can be something that can be really great for your health because you can just basically live your life a little stronger, just like you were maybe in your 20s and 30s. And this is the last thing to keep in mind, guys, when you get your blood work done at a hospital, they're just looking at like these minimum levels that Merrick Health, they try to bring you up to ideal levels for everything you're working with. Whereas if you go into a hospital and you have 300 nanograms per deciliter of test, you're good, bro, even though you're probably feeling like shit. And Merrick Health, they're going to try to figure out what type of things you're going to do in terms of your lifestyle. And if you're a candidate, potentially TRT. So these are things to pay attention to to get you to your best self. And what I love about it is a little bit of the back and forth that you get with the patient care coordinator, they're dissecting your blood work. It's not like you just get this email back and it's just like, hey, try these five things. Somebody's actually on the phone with you going over every step and what you should do. Sometimes it's supplementation. Sometimes it's TRT. And sometimes it's simply just some lifestyle habit changes. All right, guys, if you want to get your blood work checked and also get professional help from people who are going to be able to get you towards your best levels, head to MerrickHealth.com and use code POWERproject for 10% off any panel of your choice. How difficult was it for you in the beginning to communicate with people when you were going to get a gig, you know, potentially protecting some of these people that are, you know, of really high stature, high studies? Well, I got a lot of referrals. I got my, I had my first, I worked for retired Beverly Hills cop who hired, I ran into him, I'd taken a report from him as a cop and he said, you seem like a really personable guy, Bruce. He goes, I own the security company, maybe you want to work at nights or weekends. And I started doing that. And after about six months, I had this moment and I said, I want to start my own business. I could do this. And I started and I talked, I called a couple of my friends who had some level of success in their own, one, I had a transport of the machine company. He said, Oh, great. And all of a sudden, my phone started ringing. And he referred me that Mariah carries the world and Courtney loves and, and I found I didn't have to really talk a lot because security business is all about actions. They're not, they don't want you to be seen. And I was very, I was a very logistical coordinator. So getting people in and out of situations, getting in and out of restaurants and wedding venues without being seen. So I really became a, a methodical thinker and what they needed. It's not so much, I wasn't a 300 pound guy at the door of the club, you know, I was more like, let's get in and out of here with no hassles and problems. And it became my expertise. Do you think you learned a lot from those people like just being a fly on the wall and probably hearing some conversations and stuff they have 100% I mean, listen, I've one thing I tell everyone because I think people get enamored with social media and TMZ and oh my God, look at them. They all have the same problems. I say this, they all put the pants on the same way. They all have they all have their own crisis, if anything, magnified in life. And while oh yeah, but he's rich, he's worth five, you know, 50 million dollars, they have their own problems, their own depression, their own alcoholism. I've taken three well known celebrities to rehab. One died, you know, after going multiple times. So my point is, as much as people think they live a whole home life, sometimes life is great being where you are, you know, don't think someone else has it better. What does what does your lifting look like now? What's your, what's your, you know, compared to maybe when you were younger? What's your age? It's BC before Christ. So when I was younger, yeah, I was all about the heavyweight, the Olympic bar with the you're still strong. We worked out together. But even now, like, and I hammer strength was my is my favorite the plates and all the now I'm almost all cables or machines that have cables. Is that just because of joints and so on, just feel now I feel like at my age, I'm maintaining no injuries. And I'm and I'm getting, you know, everything's working. That's good. And I'm leaner and I just found I'm in and out faster. You know, before I've even my training partners four years ago, with Bruce, we're like on our 22nd set of chest. Well, yeah, we did decline incline cable dumbbells. Now it's like, let's do four sets or five sets and move on to triceps or something. Yeah, just just get a little bit of work. Yeah, a little touch it. But I love it. I mean, it's, if I missed the gym for a day, it's a little like, Oh, wow, some part of my day is not, not, not, not clear, you know, and you kind of work out like a bodybuilder, right? Like kind of shorter rest interval, yeah, I do. I try and go three or four sets of 10. Yeah, I know you go higher reps, 10s the lowest, sometimes I go 15 reps, you know. And is there a big difference between when you were, you know, in your 20s and stuff with how you feel when you're working out or I feel, you know, it's crazy. I feel the best I've ever felt. Besides, obviously, you know, I have some hard issues with some calcification, but I feel the best I've ever felt because I'm lighter. And I just feel good. Let's talk about that for a second. Yeah, calcification. I think that's a good spot. I think one thing I would say about just youth is that it seems like when you're younger, it doesn't seem like you really have to work for or work at it as much. Yeah. And as you get older, it's like, it's a little bit of a, almost like a full time job. Kind of taking care of yourself on a day to day basis. Like maintaining a vehicle, a car, I think, check oil today. When you're wiper down because it really feel like that's why I got my blood every three months tested. I feel like it changed that much. Even though insurance doesn't cover and that's why people only get it done once a year. I feel it's important because you're, all of a sudden I went, oh, my cratny levels were a little high or this and it happens overnight. So so you're getting your blood work done. And then how'd you find out about having a, I think you had a surgery or something like that at some point? Which I this 10 years ago, 10 years ago, because it was a Super Bowl 10 years ago, Ron said, Hey guys, I'm going to have a cardiologist, a cardiologist come in with their team to do some like just basic testing in one of our offices. I said, Yeah, let me check it out. I've never been a cardiologist and did the basic EKG, the carotid like you were doing here. And the interesting thing is he found nothing. He said, but you know, you're not the youngest kind of company wanting to come in for more testing. No reason. He just said, maybe you should come in. So I went three tests later. They found I had 10% of my heart was not getting blood. He didn't know why they went in an angiogram, which is running the wire through your wrist. And I was kind of in the Twilight Zone and I had, it's called the widow maker, it's my left descending had 85% blockage. So they put a stint in. Now that was 10 years ago. What test, what test did they run? It wasn't a calcium scan, right? Well, that the time they have that it was basically a, you know, they put the imaging. I see, I see, okay. But my point is it wasn't for Ron being a forward thinker 10 years ago, hey, we're nutrition guys, but I think I'm going to bring this team and just to check us out. So that was 10 years ago. Now fast forward to this past year. They now, the clearly test, which you're familiar with, the imaging of your heart, they sent me and I have a similar problem in a different area, 70% blockage. And my calcification score is off the charts highest that they've read. So it's a little alarming. The good news is, and honestly, because of once again, because of Ron forward thinking and John's led you, you know, the doctor, I'm on a protocol and, and but once  andxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx But they don't know because their doctor said they have a clean bill of health because they checked out their blood pressure Right, so a lot of people are you know, it's an it's I know it's a number one killer, but it's up there Taking taking care of your own health is yeah, it's it can be expensive and it can be frustrating. It could be annoying But it is something that People need to try to get done. I I tell people this it's it's I Just wrapped up my book It's almost done and I and I added the last chapter and the publishers I what are you talking about? I said I need to add a final chapter and it's really called Your health is your greatest wealth after I did this transformation and what I'm dealing with my heart You know, you see guys it does Matt 40 56 year old there. They have might have tremendous success and they dropped dead You don't get to enjoy the the next a couple decades. So right tell me more about your book The book is called lead with value self-doubt caused me not to write a book But you know, Pedro's cool Ian absolutely good friend of mine mentor I spent the day with him several years ago. We worked out and had lunch. He's motivating. So oh my god he's great to hang out talk about a success coming here as an immigrant and He didn't speak English. So we spent the day together. He said Bruce. You got to write a book I said nah, he goes everyone on earth has a book in them Even if your mom buys it, you know, like one fan. He goes you might have seven books. I go that's bullshit He goes look what what LAPD Marine Corps body guard. What whoa? Yeah, you have forest gump style Yeah, box of chocolate. So I it's done So it's called lead with value and one of my themes is and hence how quest happened You know bringing people bringing others value with no expectations in return and I really when I was helping them Even run to this day It's always a laugh whenever I tell people a story after nine months of helping, you know, the team get brought Ron took me to lunch and said hey, ma'am. We're stealing from you You're bringing us all this value and we're doing nothing in return and I said but I get free protein bars He's like I think you're worth more than protein. I was like I thought I had a good deal and But my point is that's what the books about bringing value, of course my life's lessons and things that you know barely I had to go to summer school to get my high school diploma things that failures I had but also hey I If a dumb kid from New Jersey can kind of have some level of success I this book is for the kid that's in the middle of nowhere thinking God. I'm stuck in this town I don't want to do and whether the Marine Corps got me to where I am and you know, whatever it takes to become That next level is the opportunities are there my son went to summer school and I just remember being like oh This will fix him like he'll go it'll go to these it'll go to the class during the summer when his friends are doing other stuff And he'll be annoyed but then he went to summer school when he loved it. Yeah, so he went the next year too Yeah, I went to summer school. I hated it But my mom had finally a frank conversation said Bruce if you don't get your diploma, you're not gonna become a cop I don't Bruce you're not gonna become a cop. You need your diploma. So I had to but yeah When's the book come out and I think in three we're gonna have a launch part. I'll bring you down I think that'd be great. It meant end of March. Yeah And now I have another book already lined up and where will people be able to get it Amazon stuff Amazon all those places I was gonna get I'll do the let me just put on Amazon and then once again Pedro's like if you're gonna do it do it right Let's let's get some PR behind it and we do a little podcast tour You know with some key people and promote it a little bit I know that you guys are working on trying to get more people here for testing and sometimes some of the testing slots are Full but let's plug that a little bit so that people can yeah for sure So it's the bioshift research foundation and I think you find that online We're looking for men and women over 50 for sure and a lot of women and women of color you'd be surprised how many people and I think I Think we're educated people know that people die of heart disease in cancer But I don't think they want to they don't think about it like it's not me and one thing I found from this testing we found What you look like on the outside has no Nothing to do what's an insight we have some guys here You know we had people come through here obese and their pipes are clean like a baby And we have people that are doing iron man's and have calcification so Don't think because your body mass is a certain weight night That doesn't mean inside is not working for it properly So I encourage you if it's not us go get checked out the good news with us we pay for everything so it's free Awesome. Thank you so much. Thank you really appreciate it. Yeah strength is never weakness weakness never strength catch you guys later Bye