 we're operating under the assumption that the body is this static mechanism. That is absolutely 100% not true. In a system that is a balance-based system that is always seeking its equilibrium, when you get over time, you don't get a straight line. You get a curve. The primary reason I think the sugar diet works, like, primary top of the list is just glycolysis. I hate when people are delivering things with absolute certainty. You know, it's become a bit of a grift in our industry now. The closer we are to nature, the more optimized our body is. All right, so it wasn't that long ago. I was messing around with the sugar diet. That's right. And you're the guy that I like to go to, to reference for all different types of diets, all different types of foods, and how they break down the body. So what are some of your thoughts on the sugar diet? A lot of thoughts on it, man. High level, I think that it does bring something near to the table. I think that it does something people haven't really thought about. So that's great. I think it could be a very effective kind of short-term adjunct, short-term insertion. And I think we needed many of those we can get. And I think that it brings up a lot of unacknowledged aspects of diet and nutrition that are missing. That it kind of unknowingly gets itself into. And I would categorize like probably two or three main things. One would be the impact of diet on immune cell metabolism. And that's a real big deal, I think, with the sugar diet. And we'll dive into that. I'm just trying to give the high level. Yeah. That's a big deal. That's a real big deal. And then the other would be the long-term, there are unacknowledged, in my opinion, unacknowledged long-term patterns that result over a lifetime from diet incursions. And they're not even acknowledged or talked about. And I think the sugar diet kind of like, it's a good entree into talking about those things because they're not even known. They're not talked about. And that gets into our ideas about what the body is. Could you explain a little bit further on what you mean? Are you basically saying that this short-term keto diet that somebody might do, or this short-term thing that they might do, and short terms, I guess we've got to define it, right? But just say short term, someone plays with a diet for three months and they occasionally go back to it. Are you speculating that even though it seems short and sweet, there might be some ramifications we're not thinking about? Well, there could be good, there could be bad, but there's an underlying big idea. And it's not really understood. If I explain this to you, it's going to seem perfectly sensible. It's going to make a lot of sense. And it's just not even in the picture of diet. And it's this, that we're operating under the assumption that the body is this static mechanism. And so you throw something at it, and then you get this response. And then you continue to throw it, and you'll always get that response. So that's what I would call the static mechanism of diet. Like we think the body's static. That is absolutely 100% not true. Yeah. And even some stuff that we know from, say, something like massage manipulation, it's been said that if you poke a finger or something at a spot on your forearm, that every single time that you tap the arm, even if you use the same amount of pressure, that the fascia and the muscle tissue is responding slightly differently every single time. Really? I didn't know that. It may contact. So there's just a lot of weird stuff like that in the human body that I agree it's not accounted for. And we don't, just because you put in 40 grams of carbohydrates doesn't mean that you're going to get the result of 40 grams of whatever those particular carbohydrates were, depending on the type of carbohydrates they are, depending on the type of person, depending on probably the time of year, depending on how much sunlight somebody's getting. I mean, it just, we can uncover so many things and it might be small. But like as you're pointing out, if we start to think about over a lifetime, these, the way the body reacts could end up being either problematic, it could end up being on the good side, but it is a, it's a long, it's a long road that we have that we have. We're looking at. Yeah. So, and this is to my mind, like this is like so foundational, so important, such a big deal, like it kind of needs a big hammer to hammer it out. And it's, it's simply this, we think it's static, but it's not what it is. Like if you, if we really look at what the body is, it is a set of variables that are chasing an equilibrium. And that equilibrium is dynamic, meaning that, you know, I just think of a seesaw, you load one end and then there's a shift, and then you load the other end and there's a shift. And because that's what the body is, it's a system with variables chasing a dynamic equilibrium. That sounds like a bunch of big words and I don't want it because this is so important. I want to dynamic balance that falls within a particular range because it's a balance, but the balance has a little bit up, a little bit down, right? But you start to get outside of that is when things can start to get a little, and we can load variables on, on different ends of the seesaw, you know, whatever you want to load in there. And there's always going to be some kind of reaction. And so over time, there are different forces at work. There's, there's things can accumulate, things can degrade, I think degradation, things can attenuate, there's all kinds of forces at work. So what we get then over time is in a system that is a balance based system that is always seeking its equilibrium, what you get over time is you don't get a straight line, you get a curve, that curve can be good, it could be bad, but that is the most accurate way to characterize where bodies work over time. So as it comes to like, you know, let's say the sugar diet or, you know, fat loss is in way, we just think that it's this static mechanism and it's always going to do the same thing, you input A, you get B. And probably some of the most knowledgeable people in the world or this would be like competitive bodybuilders now in their 50s and 60s, because they've actually been down that road. They've been down the road of like umpteen weight cuts and umpteen, you know, and very often they'll tell you like, I think they're different now, it doesn't work the same as the way it used to, you hear that a lot. And all that just points to this underlying missing meta framework for diet that there's a lifetime roadmap and you're going to do these things and then they can create shifts, sometimes good, sometimes bad, but so that takes us out of the whole thing of like, you know, is keto good, you know, is carnivore bad, it takes us out of that and it just takes us to tell me how to lose weight, man. Yeah, right. So that's, I don't know if I ever told you my story on that, but when I first started doing this full time, like back in 2006, I wanted to do kind of what I'm doing now, but I didn't have the right words for it and I called it longevity based fitness and I was just trying to publish good content and try a dumb name. Look at how many people use that. I was just trying to speak the truth and what I quickly found is nobody cared. Nobody cared. Nobody cared. All they wanted was, yeah, I just want to lose 10 pounds. Just tell me how those 10 pounds. They didn't give a crap what you had. No. So all that, no, they didn't. No. So all that to say just that it's a big picture getting back to the sugar diet thing that it brings up this discussion of kind of like, you know, you go on this thing and it worked. It worked. Oh my gosh, that's amazing. It worked. And I started this off by saying, yeah, I think it introduces something new. I think it could be effective, but I think also there's a bigger discussion of the long term. So yeah, and worked for what and for how long, you know, did it work to get you to was the goal to get a certain body fat percentage? Was there a particular performance marker that you were looking for and you were able to hit that? Well, then maybe to the individual, maybe it was worth it and maybe it's worth some of the potential risks. But in your opinion, what are some of the, because we've had you on the show many times and you've said repeatedly, you haven't changed your stance. Your stance is the same. You haven't changed you. You like to personally change your diet and have the people that follow your plan. They do many different styles of nutrition all the way to the point where I've heard you say, you know, tomorrow's like an anti-cancer day. Yeah. Well, who the heck talks that way? I never heard and that's what intrigued me when we first started communicating. I was like, I've never heard anybody talk like this guy. This is super interesting. But you wouldn't necessarily say that keto is bad or this is bad or this is this way. But what you would say is that if I do this for this period of time, it will put this amount of pressure on this system and it could allow me to go down the road that I want to go down. Maybe, and maybe I get to offset some of the negatives and I get to go towards some of that equilibrium that you're talking about. Yeah. Let's take like, either we could take either carnivore or sugar. Either one is an example and I'll just take one thing, one variable. So one of the reasons I would say like that the sugar diet, well, the primary reason I think the sugar diet works, like primary top of the list is just glycolysis. So you're giving more substrate for glycolysis and glycolysis will get you lean. Like the more glycolysis that's going on, you're going to lean up. Cancer patients know that and makes you lean. Okay. But along with that, you're feeding the gut and you're feeding the gut like food and substrate. So you're going to advantage some species, disadvantage others. And then it just depends on the variation of the sugar diet you're doing. Now you're leaning more fruit, you know, are you more in that direction or are you more kind of pure sugar? That's going to steer a different taxa in the gut. Okay. So you're going to see like this sort of short-term benefit, like you're going to drop fat, you know, for a number of different reasons we can talk about. But then what happens long-term is if you keep, if you keep down that road, you're creating shifts in the gut taxa that eventually can lead to maybe some routes that we don't want. Okay. Just by virtue of feeding certain groups of bacteria and then you're just giving them what they need to multiply. End up with like an overgrowth. Um, I would overgrowth of some sort. Yeah. Not so much that, but you could, um, one, like the big one, it really is just looking at what happens within immune cells. So the way to steer immune cells is sugars. And the metabolism within immune cells is this, I would say it's probably, if you were going to look at one thing that's missing in diet, like a specific thing, like a specific mechanism, it's the metabolism within immune cells because it has a disproportionate effect on the rest of the body. So, and that could be good. It could be bad. You couldn't, so immune cells are extremely sensitive to sugar because they rely on glycolysis. And when I say sugar, what I mean is like table sugar, like sucrose. And they have a particular isoform of the, um, insulin receptor. Okay. And so by advantaging immune cells through sugars, you can get different effects. So for example, you could take menos, which is one type of sugar. And then you could take sucrose, which is another, and have completely different effects on populations of immune cells. One of them is beneficial, like by feeding manos to immune cells, you're going to get these really beneficial effects in terms of immune cell type, population, um, types of regulatory C cells, they're going to, they're going to kind of line up in the right direction. You feed them sucrose and you're going to get the opposite. And it's just through the metabolism that takes place within immune cells. And the reason it's disproportionately weighted is because immune cells are attractive by their very nature. They're designed to proliferate and attract other cells. And they do this through inflammatory signals and all other types of like mechanisms. And so depending on the tissue, when you are feeding specific types of sugars to immune cells, you're going to get these very specific outcomes. And it may not show initially. Okay. But then over time, you can sort of get an imbalanced population of maybe the wrong types of immune cells. Just through sugar. Have you heard some people talk about this idea of like bio energetics, like this idea of just kind of a fancy way of saying, let's not necessarily go on a diet. And that's, let's not necessarily just take calories down right off the bat. Let's maybe explore some other things. And what I think the sugar diet brings to light is the potential that we could burn an extra five, 600, maybe even more calories just by the type of food that we eat. And I believe it was the boost in FGF 21. I believe to be responsible for some of this. And we also saw there's some research and I don't know how much repeatable research they've had. I don't know how many studies have been done on this, but there's been a few that have shown that, you know, even going the route of fat can cause something similar where you get this extra four to 600 calories to 400, 600 calories to play with, which is really interesting. I haven't personally heard that many people talk about nutrition that way. Although I think people have been trying to communicate about that in a particular way for a long time when you talk to bodybuilding coaches, you're like, oh no, 16 weeks out, you know, our calorie counts up here. And we're only going to really drop the calories way down. We get about six weeks out and things like that. And I think that maybe the general public and people don't necessarily know that the metabolism is a moving target. But if we just like plummet the calories down, then everything kind of slows down a little bit. We burn a little bit less. And we, but we can train our body to burn a little bit more kind of on that topic. And in that vein, how can somebody or is it even advantageous for somebody to get themselves in a better position where they can burn carbohydrates a little bit more efficiently? Do you even think that's a route that someone should bother to go down? Well, to your point, I think the specific food matters a whole lot. So this gets into, or rather the specific type of carbohydrate matters a lot. And this just gets into like, we're clashing paradigms now. So I'll just give everyone a just quick example. If you, if I was on a lower lower carb diet for a while, you said, Hey, tomorrow in the next couple days, or I want you to drink a bunch of orange juice and get in some good training, have, you know, a little bit of orange juice here and there throughout the day, you know, drink a whole quart of orange juice or something like that. Right. It's an extra X amount of carbohydrates that I'd have every single day. And you could say, Hey, how the pumps in the gym and how's this going, how's that going, where lights are going out? Maybe maybe we need some movement in here to get the lights going back. Yeah, maybe just we'll get the lights back. I thought they were there we go. Yeah, I thought they were dimming. I was like, I was in my mind. It's kind of cool. It's kind of cool. Now it's not cool. Yeah, yeah. No, it's too dark. A little mood lighting. It's too moody. As I was saying with, with, uh, you know, sugar. So if I'm drinking a bunch of orange juice, you might say, Hey, you know, how are your pumps? And I might not, I might say, Hey, I, I'm not really noticing big difference. So let's get rid of the orange juice. Why don't you try potatoes and try some rice? Now I'm going to, you know, because, you know, some of my belief is, and some of what I understand about these different carbohydrates is that there's more. Um, you're going to maybe store some of that fructose in the liver when you're talking about fruit juice as opposed to, I guess, having glucose from the potato or from the rice, which might be stored in the muscle cells and, and which has been utilized by bodybuilders traditionally, not that bodybuilders haven't, they do drink some juice here and there. Uh, but normally it's like kind of in smaller amounts and they're, they're carbohydrate sources, almost always potatoes and rice. Yeah. I mean, I think that, um, I mean, there's a lot of things there. Let me just rapid fire a few things here. Um, so, uh, differences between, um, fructose metabolism and sugar metabolism. Uh, there's some really interesting new research that has demonstrated that, uh, fructose from whole fruit never reaches the liver. It's actually metabolized in the gut. So it brings up the question, well, what about from fruit juice? I don't know. We don't know 100%. No, maybe possibly, you know, so, so the stage that we're at where we still don't know some stuff, you know, I'm more at the stage now. I don't know anything really. Um, that's so true. Um, but yeah, so that's interesting. Um, so, so, so just, just the differences between types of fructose sources. So apparently there's a massive difference between whole fruit and possibly juice, although there's some decent research that shows you get mostly similar effects from fruit juice. I think as long as it's in sort of like normal amounts, where you're not like mainlining massive amounts of it, because then you override the capacity of the gut to simply metabolize that. Um, and then with whole fruit, you're getting all of the, essentially, what, what amount to cofactors you're getting all of the different like, you know, phenols and, enzymes and all this stuff. So very different with whole fruit. Um, but then another, I just think that, um, you know, how do we know what's true? I think one of the best sources of truth is just what people have done for 40, 50 years and kind of figured out. Um, and so when you see like really good bodybuilders who have just been able to reliably reproduce results, whether or not they're on steroids, you know, they've kind of figured something out. And so those carbohydrate sources that you're talking about, they just tend to work really well, you know, and then that's, that's just the bottom line. Um, but to your question, I think, you know, shifting metabolism through carbohydrate source, yeah, um, it's a very real thing. And what that does is we're up against two different paradigms. One of them is the new one and it's really not known and the other is the old one. And the other one is, is a religious belief. So the one that's the religious belief is the one that's tied to the first law of thermodynamics. And this is just sort of a really quick, interesting intellectual exercise. So there's the calories of calorie paradigm. And that's based on the idea that we're talking about thermodynamics, like the first law of thermodynamics. And it's based on that that's baked in science. How dare you? How dare you contradict that? You know, how dare you? Um, but, but if you actually read the papers in this world, there's a really robust discussion going on between two different factions. Um, on one side, you've got Kevin Hall. Um, the other side, you have some other dudes. And what they, to me, the other side is a little bit more convincing. And what they've shown is that it's not about thermodynamic energy, the way calories are utilized. It's about mass. It's about when mass changes, specifically the conversion of fat into CO2 and water. Okay. So you're losing fat that way. And it's, it's a way of explaining energy balance that is not based on the first law of thermodynamics, based on the second conservation of mass. And all I'll say on that is I've actually read through these papers and there's these big, long pages of equations that very few people could understand. And it just suffices to say that there's actually a healthy debate on this between people that, that's all they do is look at this kind of stuff. And it's not settled. It's, they go back and forth with their papers and one side goes, ha, respond to that. And the other side comes back with, ha, we got this. So there's a robust, healthy debate. And the answer really is, and on top of that, I'll add, there's some new research that has shown, I wrote about this in my last book, that the, the mitochondria seem to be able to throttle ATP production decoupled from input. In other words, we have this idea that, you know, a certain amount of substrate comes in and you get a certain amount of ATP coming out and it's fixed. There's some evidence, that's not true, that depending on the need of the cell and the tissue, they can use different gradients and throttle ATP outputs. You have the same input, but now you're getting seven times the ATP. Okay. So all I'm saying is that there's reason to believe this, that the religious idea that calories are calorie may not be true. Do we know for certain? I don't know. I'm just saying that there's a really good debate that that might not be true. So to your point, you know, what about, can we, can we in some way throttle metabolism by the very specific foods that we're taking in? There's probably pretty good reason to think that might be true. So when it comes to, when it comes to somebody believing that they are sort of curing themselves of pre-diabetes, diabetes, just dysfunction around consuming carbohydrate, and then they go in this, like, they dive into this like tunnel where they just go keto, war on carbs and they just say, I'm not going to eat any carbs are the problem because the carbs are manipulating my insulin, manipulating my glucose levels. And I'm just not going to, but I think maybe what people are missing, and you can add to this, maybe what people are missing is that they're not really correcting anything. Getting rid of the carbohydrates might be a good practice, especially for a little while, see how your body responds and see how you're feeling from all that. But once you start to maybe add some carbohydrates back in, it might be a great opportunity right there to get your body to start to react to those carbohydrates the way that the human body is meant to be able to react to those human, to those carbohydrates by being able to clear them out efficiently. What are kind of your thoughts there? Like if, if somebody's, because I think that's why that's the selling point for the keto diet and the selling point by Ben Bickman and some other people, they just say, we're just, we're just going to completely go this opposite direction where we don't have to really deal with insulin. And to me, it sounds like you're just kind of sweeping things under the rug. You're not addressing the actual issue potentially. I mean, look, I don't claim to be to be all and all of the knowledge source for this, but I find that pretty astonishing from a couple of perspectives. One is that, and I don't, first of all, I hate certainty. I hate when people are delivering things with absolute certainty. It's become a bit of a grift in our industry now. And it's, it's like whenever I see certainty ramped through the roof, I'm like, yeah, back up. But I think there's something that we can speak with a reasonable degree of like, we probably shouldn't ignore this is the way I would put it. And it's that insulin seems to work in a family of hormones. Okay. And all of them, all of them need regular stimulation. So that's, you've got insulin, that needs, let's just say, regular fine tuning through carbohydrates and very specific types of carbohydrates that fine tune insulin. And, and like just looking at pulse crops, like if you go when you look at like different types of legumes, and there are scientific studies taking black bean versus like red beans versus like soybeans, and then just showing literally like the different effects on different parameters like this one increases P bar gamma, this one increases lipolysis, this one decreases insulin sensitivity. And so you can see that these different types of just carbohydrates have wildly different effects on parameters that affect insulin sensitivity. So, so we can say, okay, yeah, you can make a really good case, you need to stimulate insulin on a regular basis. And what happens when you don't by eliminating carbohydrates, we see the reverse happen. You see, you actually get that you're fasting glucose, you see lots of cases where it tends to increase. But then the other side of that is adiponectin. So adiponectin is a fat hormone, it sensitizes insulin does a lot of other things. I got to interrupt for a second. Pay attention to these words that Joel was saying, because it'd be like five, six, seven years from now when people start to catch on and speak the same language you're speaking now. It's happened a bunch of times on the podcast already. So tell me a little, tell people. All right, I know, I appreciate that. There's adiponectin. So adiponectin is maybe the forgotten insulin hormone. And it may be, it's as important as the GLP ones, because it affects so many things, it affects muscle. Like when you look at old age and sarcopenia, there's all this really great research on like, whoa, you need adiponectin because it ox is a binding element between muscle fibers. And when you start to lose that, you can't get you can't gain muscle. It's not the whole picture, but it's in the picture. So adiponectin is really important. Adiponectin is stimulated by certain types of foods, and it needs to be in the picture. Then you have GIP, GLP-1, the ingredients. And those you make a really good case that, well, you know, you're animal based, like, I hate that term, but your, your meats and your fats and your animal products really do a good job with that. Okay, great. Then you have glucagon and fasting and your and your meats do that. So just by looking at the, the, oh, and then on top of all that, you have the microbiome. So the microbiome works in concert with these hormones to help fine tune them. So now we have this picture of insulin sensitivity and health ultimately, because you cannot have health without insulin sensitivity. It's impossible. Okay. So long-term health and insulin sensitivity go together. And then when you break that down, okay, well, we've got a family of hormones here and the microbiome, and then you just reverse engineer, how do we hit all these? And you come up with a very diverse diet just by, just by asking the insulin question. And what you see, I would say more often than not, long-term by the omission of a key variable in there, which is carbohydrates, particularly insulin sensitizing carbohydrates, you see the microbiome go the wrong direction. You see insulin sensitivity go the wrong direction. You just see that there's an incomplete picture. So that's what I would offer. What are a few good ways to help insulin sensitivity minus the exercise side of things? I think most people know that, but you know, and that's a great area of expertise for you as well. But mainly on the diet side, what are some strategies that people can utilize? Well, big picture is variety. So I just think that we have all accepted this idea that the master programmer of human optimization is nature. Okay. Like we've all kind of subconsciously or consciously bought into that, because I think it's true. I do think it's true. And the closer we are to nature, the more optimized our body is and the farther we are from nature, the more sick our body is. So that's not too hard to get your arms around. It doesn't matter what camp you're in. Like, okay, I'll go with that. So when you look at the dietary aspects of nature, what you find is that nature just forces you into these patterns where, you know, everything is sort of unpredictable. Like you'll, you'll, you'll have a micro season of something like, oh yeah, we killed a buck, man, we're going to eat for two weeks really good, you know, and then, you know, after that, no game for a while, we're eating these other things I didn't really want to eat, but we're going to eat them anyway. And so, so nature forces variety and diversity and variety diversity are very standard. I mean, I've talked about this ad nauseam, but variety and diversity are not the enemy. They're actually essential in the picture. So big picture is diversity. And then subset of that is just, you can look at different categories and each has their own benefit. So berries and all these phenol containing, you know, foods, they have their place, they sensitize certain aspects of insulin function, they fine tune the microbiome at the same time. So they're very good for insulin sensitivity. They down regulate some of the enzymes needed to absorb carbs, they even help you pass carbs through. Then you look at, you look at resistant starches like, you know, your potatoes and rices and things like that. And they have their own benefit and they seem to do the similar things. They help the microbiome, they help insulin sensitivity in different aspects. And there's there's even good research on this, you can look at like, you know, resistance, resistant starches and their impact on insulin sensitivity. Then there are the leafy greens and, you know, things that stimulate nitric oxide, which is kind of essential for insulin sensitivity. And it's a key player in the way insulin works. So you can't ignore those either. Then there's dairy. Dairy is incredible for sensitizing insulin. It has lots and lots of benefits. And then complementary to all that are all of the, you know, your meats and animal products, which stimulate the other family of hormones. So all this stuff works together is what I would argue. Man, how do I get ripped? You're 61 years old and you're staying in great shape. And I saw you running on the treadmill the other day. That looked awesome. And I hope that you're able to make a good complete comeback. Cause I know your Achilles was bothering you for a while and stuff like that. What are some things that when you're, because you, because you kind of circled the wagon so many times with nutrition, you've done every style of diet. I believe you've done nearly every style of diet and you've kind of combed over all this research over the years. What are some, like what are some dos and don'ts that are maybe in your head? I know that they change from like day to day and they change seasonally for you. I know that you make these like small changes, but are there some like, are there maybe like three steadfast rules that you've had that really are standing the test of time and you feel really comfortable about doing almost on a daily basis? Or is it, or is it  so varied with you that you're always moving it around a little bit. Well, so I think you kind of actually hit on one just by the nature of your question. So the big one is just, and this is just me, in my opinion, but I think that the, as an industry, the entire industry is set in the wrong direction with respect to one thing, and it's the idea of daily. If you actually think about it, like daily is inherently going to imbalance the seesaw. I don't care what it is. You're doing anything daily. If what we're talking about is a system that is dynamic and you're doing the same thing all the time, then you're loading up one end of the seesaw. I'm really going to get 40 grams of fiber every day. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Where if you actually take a tick time and just look at how things work, rhythmic pulses are actually how things work. So in nature, you're going to get pulses of things, like rhythmic pulses, like, you know, oh, we had a few days where this is all we could find and we ate that. It was like a pulse. Okay, well, it turns out, tick the immune system, the immune system responds best to rhythmic pulses of things. So what rhythmic pulses do, and by that I just mean the big bucket of rhythms, like, so not necessarily doing the same thing all the time. I have a rhythm, but I'm not doing the same thing. And what that rhythm does is keep balance. So like in my case, you know, I have a very simple pattern where I'm eating like kind of foraging foods, lower protein one day, and then feasting foods, higher protein the other day with a little fast. That's basically it. Okay, but it's just not the same thing every day. That's all. All right, Mark, you're getting leaner and leaner, but you always enjoy the food you're eating. So how are you doing it? I got a secret, man. It's called Good Life Protein. Okay, tell me about that. I've been doing some Good Life Protein. You know, we've been talking on this show for a really long time of certified Pete Montee's beef, and you can get that under the umbrella of Good Life Proteins, which also has chicken breast, chicken thighs, sausage, shrimp, scallops, all kinds of different fish, salmon, tilapia. The website has nearly any kind of meat that you can think of lamb is another one that comes to mind. And so I've been utilizing and kind of using some different strategy kind of depending on the way that I'm eating. So if I'm doing a keto diet, I'll eat more fat, and that's where I might get the sausage and I might get their 80, 20 grass fed, grass finished ground beef. I might get bacon. And there's other days where I kind of do a little bit more bodybuilder style where the fat is, you know, might be like 40 grams or something like that. And then I'll have some of the leaner cuts of the certified Pete Montee's beef. This is one of the reasons why like neither of us find it hard to stay in shape because we're always enjoying the food we're eating. And protein, you talk about protein leverage at all, all the time. It's satiating helps you feel full. I look forward to every meal and I can surf and turf, you know, cook up some, you know, chicken thighs or something like that and have some shrimp with it or I could have some steak. I would say, you know, the steak, it keeps going back and forth for me on my favorite. So it's hard for me to lock one down, but I really love the bovette steaks. Yeah. And I also love the rib eyes as well. You can't go wrong with the rib eyes. So guys, if you guys want to get your hands on some really good meat, you can at the GoodLifeProteins.com and use code POWER for 20% off any purchases made on the website. Or you can use code POWERproject to get an extra 5% off if you subscribe and save to any meats that are a recurring purchase. This is the best meat in the world. So that is probably number one. This is not the same thing every day and that's the opposite of the entire industry, which is, you know, your daily antioxidant, whatever it is you're doing daily. And I think that's actually the enemy. So that would be my number one that I can think of. So you have some days where you're manipulating how much fat you're consuming. Is that kind of via almost how much protein you're consuming because of the convenience of protein and fat usually showing up together in nature? Yeah. Well, just me personally, my vector is protein. So I have, and this is contrary to the industry, I just have a low protein day a couple times a week. So usually two to three days where I have a low protein day. And how low for you being 210 pounds or 225 or whatever you are? I'm not really counting grams. I'm just kind of eating Adlabitim, but it's more, so it's higher carbohydrate. Higher carbohydrate moderate fat, kind of what you would find foraging in nature. So it's hard to get. You and I are similar in this way. I don't really count anything. So it makes it hard for the audience to sometimes follow along with what I'm saying because I'm like, yeah, high, low, and I don't define it sometimes. Yeah, but it's by feel. 100% by feel, yeah. You're probably most likely quite a bit under 200 grams of protein on these lower protein days. Maybe only at like 100. I think potentially I think sometimes, yeah. But probably not at 50 grams. I don't know. I don't know. I mean, I just go by, I go meal to meal by both my bodies telling me, and if hunger is coming up too much, that's not good. So I'll have more protein with it. But I'm just, big picture, I'm just trying to kind of get close as possible to mimicking if I were in nature and just kind of eating foraging foods for a day. And that's contrary to kind of the, what most people are doing where it's, no dude, you need X amount of protein every single day. Protein is that, that's contrary to that. But there's other variables that matter. And one is just simply how fast you're using up the body, your cellular machinery, how many growth pulses you're pushing down your cellular pathways over a lifetime. And so I'm just sort of slowing up the pulses of IGF-1 and all the growth pathways, M-Torn, all that. I'm just slowing that up three days a week. That's what I'm doing. What matters to me is more longevity than muscle. You told me some really interesting things over the years, like that you fasted a lot and you fasted way too much. Yeah. And that you did certain things and the end result in the long run, not the short term, but in the long run, it made your body composition worse. Oh yeah, yeah. And that's a really interesting thing that people, like so, if somebody's working towards something, like I want to really work towards this over the next three years. Maybe that's great to have that goal, but maybe you should think about what are the years after that going to look like? Because you end up in these situations where you end up with and then what? Because as you and I have been talking, I remember you saying, I think at one point you were saying you were like 8% body fat and you were holding like a tremendous amount of muscle mass on your body. And then it's like, if you are, if some people out there that are listening are really starving their body of what their body wants to do. Like if you are really hungry daily and you're like, damn, I'm just really hungry. Why not just examine that a little bit rather than kind of having this half way eating disorder thing that might be going on in the background? Why not just think about it a little bit more and say, you know what, I probably just need to go through a different phase. I probably need to like change things up. So maybe they're not changing stuff up quite the way you are with the frequency, but maybe just kind of get on board with like, let me go through some waves of stuff for two, three weeks at a time. And kind of mix things up a little bit. Yeah, I would totally agree with that. I think it's tough when those hunger signals hit people. They change who somebody is, almost like a drug. You know, my oldest brother, you know, some people are like, oh, how was he? It's like, man, it was hard to tell because he ended up taking so many drugs that changed who he was. But we see that a lot too with even with nutrition. You'll see that somebody had all these good intentions to do these things for themselves. They told other people, you know, I'm doing this this year. I'm going to do this this way. And then there they are, you know, 930 p.m. 10 p.m. ordering ordering Dordash or whatever it is. It's like they turn into a almost completely different person and those hunger pulses hit. And maybe they could circumvent that whole thing just by having a nice breakfast. Gosh, just by relaxing a little bit. Have a freaking pancake or something, right? Yes. So prior to Reda and all these GLP ones that are, you know, everybody's on right now, I had a protocol which was for that, which was so hyperphasia is runaway hunger. And it's not unless you've ever experienced it, you wouldn't. It's not what you're thinking it is. It's not like I'm hungry and ate a meal and I was satisfied. It's I ate a huge meal and now I'm hungrier and then another big meal and I'm hungrier. You know, so hyperphasia is like this, the brains and the guts connection to telling you, okay, we're good. That kind of gets broken. And for me, I can't really fast long term anymore because I did it too much years ago. And I get this insane hyperphasia. If I go like, if I try and do like, you know, there's, I even tried as an experiment a little while back and I just tried. Well, I'll just, I'll just see what it's like eating every other day. I'll just because, you know, I know people are trying that. So I'll try it. I got this crazy hyperphasia from that, like, and it was like, so I would have like 2000 calories and then I would just be starving. And I'd wait like two hours and I should be good, right? And I'm starving. So that's a long term dysregulation of the brain's circuitry that's telling me like, and we're not going to let you go hungry anymore. Sorry, you've done your lifetime allotment of that. But so I used to have this protocol. I still have it, but it's with all these GP ones, you don't need it really. But and it basically was, okay, so you're going to have, we're going to correct all this in one day. You're going to have a massive breakfast. It's going to be, you know, probably two, three grams of protein per kilogram of body weight. And then we have a massive amount of carbohydrates, like four or 500 grams of carbohydrates and a bunch of fat. I had a real go. So exciting. I remember you talked about this previously too, but this is amazing. Well, I had a real go viral off that and the comments were hysterical. They were like, oh, how brilliant. Eat a big meal and you're not hungry. And I was like, okay, Einstein, this is not hunger. This is hyperphasia. But along with that, you had to jack a ton of vitamin D and a few other goodies like right right around breakfast time. And the research is finally caught up to you on that, by the way. Yeah. Yeah. So when it's all about resetting the brains like super cosmetic. How much vitamin D? Massive like 50,000 I use. Yeah. With vitamin K. And in one day you could reset hyperphasia from that. So and the funny thing is I'm actually dealing with this right now with someone where like they want to make a change. And they're in these really bad habits. And so I'm like, okay, all right. So here's what we're going to do. We're going to invert all this where you're eating huge amount in the morning, but I'm not hungry in the morning. I know we're going to fix that. Okay. And I'm fixing that just through a reverse fast where they stop eating it too. And so what happens is by about eight o'clock at night, they're out of their mind. Insane for like I need to eat and eat. And so my response is, yeah, I get that. So have some have some jello. Just get something in your stomach and then go to bed. That's the thing. Well, what I started to really figure out is that the other component with this is just horrible. It's just horrifically bad habits, which is stand up late watching TV and then munching and the dopamine hit or rather the serotonin hit you get from that. And that's like, it's this whole thing is not just one thing. It's the whole collection together of like the way that, you know, if you have a real job and you're stressed out of your mind during the day, then the way that you're dealing with that is through television and food later at night. And that's how you spin down all that stress, get your serotonin up. There are so many people caught in that cycle and the biology only goes so far. Like, like I can say, okay, we're going to make these shifts here and do this and do that. And that will correct a lot of the biology, but then the other piece of it is just pure psychological. Like, you got to go to bed early. Stop watching television. Like, you know, do what super successful people do, you know, go to bed early and blah, blah, blah and all that. Sorry, kind of ram like that. You know, it's tough because we're addicted and it's easy to get into that hamster wheel. There's some people, you know, I have a friend that owns a coffee shop and he explains to the people at work there. He says, you know, hey, you know, make sure you're patient, make sure you're really kind to every single person because some people, they don't have anybody. And man, you hear that, you're like, oh my God, that's brutal. And then so sometimes here we are preaching about like your diet, you know, but meanwhile somebody had A-50 hour work week and they don't have someone that loves their cares for them. They don't have a family. They don't have maybe some of the dynamics or maybe they're just in a phase in their life where they don't have some of those dynamics. And so they're kind of relying on these foods, video games, porn, whatever else, you know, insert there just to try to cope with their day to day. And it makes it very difficult. And then they end up, you know, going down this rabbit hole of kind of eating these junk foods. They don't want to eat the junk food. They don't. They are what most people are aware of some of the information that's out there or they're at least aware that there's tons of information on YouTube, tons of information on podcasts, on nutrition, health, fitness. But sometimes people are at phases in their life where they don't have really, it sounds lame or sounds like an excuse, but they don't have the energy to look at a food label. They don't, they don't, they're just not, they're not quite there at that, in that moment. And I think that sometimes we forget as we are sharing this information that there's so many different levels. There's, you know, people that are listening to this that maybe they are on their path to be the next Thomas DeLauer, right? And there's maybe people on their path that are listening to this that haven't really heard a lot of the stuff that we've communicated about today. So I think, you know, try to have grace for people. And it, along with people, you know, working on the standard health that we talk about, you know, being able to like go for a little jog or being able to walk or run or have some mobility. I know you talked quite a bit about flexibility, which I think is great. And have some of these health practices with food. But man, we forget about our connection and how powerful that is, you know, to hear that somebody, the only person they kind of communicate with all day is the barista at the coffee shop. It kind of sucks. Yeah, I think about this a lot of late. I think about a lot because this is, you know, this is the most compelling point in all of history that we're in right now. And I think that's what it is with the introduction of all this stuff so fast and all this stuff and dopamine scrolling and, you know, all that. And there are things that are, things that are just, I think a lot about kind of people that are not in the fit for a living space and the anxiety the average person is under is off the charts. And it's underappreciated because there's just so many unspoken variables that go into maintaining a gig. It's, it's there's just all this social pressure to go and show up somewhere and, you know, kind of like just, you know, step through the hoops and be available and do all this. And of course, all this anxiety and creates all this pressure and eliminates all of these things that we think that we kind of take for granted, like, you know, what you need to do this, you need to do that. And it's like, you know, I understand, man, it's like that window for me looks like this because of the pressure I'm under blah, blah, blah. And so that, so you see a lot of what we see now from that, which is just wanting to get stressed down. And there's all these readily available ways to do it, which is screens and, you know, food. And the thing that's in the middle of all this that's being lost is just to deeply like connect with someone, like to be heard to be seen or really connect. And it's getting harder and harder because I just see this all the time, like, wherever we go, whatever we do, you know, there's always a screen and it just creates this third party that is taking away from like, you know, getting to something. Right. And it's just, we're just kind of in the shallows all the time, you know, we're just kind of lingering in the, in the shallow water all the time. And it's, I mean, there's just so much going on right now. I think that humans in general are up against that have never happened before that it's really tough to quantify and keep up with, but you hit it with connection. I mean, it's like probably the number one longevity factor is just being connected to people. Where could people find you? Where can find your books? Where can they find your teachings, your courses and all that's good stuff? Oh, just Instagram, real Joel Green and I have an AI now, which is cool. It's a, oh yeah, yeah, it's cool. It's called Joel GPT. Just go to my Instagram and just click on the link tree and there's my GPT and it will tell you everything I would. I have to check that out because I've had Joel GPT for a long time. By being friends with you. So it's been great to be able to ask you questions or send you a reel and say, Hey, what do you think of this? But I'll have to actually give that a shot. That sounds really neat. Thanks for coming on the show. Appreciate it. And we're going to do a few more episodes with Joel. So everybody check those out too. Cool. Strength is never a weakness. Weakness never strength. Catch you guys later. Bye.