 It's not about what you're doing in the current decade that you're in, it's about the results that you end up with the following decade. My focus is my relative strength. So I'm really working on high-volume calisthenic strength, hangs, pull-ups, different types of push-ups in different positions. I want people to understand we're not abandoning strength, we're just practicing some new stuff. I still squat, I still bench, I still do deadlift. People get older, they become clumsier. When it comes to having to grab something or bend to do something, there's a level of apprehension before having to do it. People forget that coordination is trainable, and building coordination outside of your sport can actually give you ideas and different movement that you can resort to within your sport. Hey, you know what? Before we start talking about athleticism and movement and all this cool stuff that we're working on, being able to react to stuff, we should talk a little bit about strength for just a moment, because I think that's what the show is based on, right? Brian, wasn't there a crazy video of some guy doing some deadlift thing? Was it this guy? Strongly. You sent this video. Yeah, this guy does some wild stuff. It's a 25-pound knee-jump. Yeah, this guy does some really crazy stuff with lifting and sprinting and stuff. Just broken apple in half with his finger. Drunk finger. And then he's running like, I don't know, 23 or something miles an hour, 25 miles an hour. It's pretty nuts. Wow. To be able to have some wheels like that. Yeah. This guy grabbed my attention from, he's obviously wearing like a slingshot type thing. 765. A slingshot knockoff. Yeah. This guy caught my attention because he ran 100 meters and he did like a 10-something. He did like under 11 seconds. That's impressive. And I was like, what the f... Like who is this dude? So I don't understand what's going on here. What's the guy's name? Quinn Stott. Yeah. I am Quinn Stott on Instagram. This is going on all over the place on the internet and it's just... It's interesting, right? You got these people that can do these... He's Brad Casabari, but with real weights. Incredible feats of strength, incredible feats of speed. 444. Wow. And I guess before guys like this, all we had was... Really was Larry Wills, kind of like the first guy. And Larry doesn't do like... He's not like on a unicycle. Well, in Martin too. Oh, Larry and Bradley were doing... Yeah, Bradley also does the athletic stuff. Yeah. Yeah, he can jump. He jumps over shit and all kinds of stuff like that. I saw Hapthor too. He's getting all fired up and he's getting ready to pull some big weight. My son was asking me about the deadlift record and he's like, I wonder what the capacity is for deadlift. And he was like, it's kind of weird that you can deadlift more than you can squat. So that's... It's interesting, but you only kind of can because the deadlifts that Hapthor does and that the strongman guys do are usually with straps. We haven't really seen anybody lift the kind of weights that these guys are lifting without straps, although there are a couple sumo pullers that are starting to pull 1,030, 1,000 plus. And even in competition, I think we had Griggs or Biggs or Riggs. Well, maybe his name was Dan Griggs. Oh, Dan, yeah. Dan Griggs. Okay, there you go. Dan Griggs, I think he did like 1,041 or something. Sumo pull. Anyway, it's just interesting. And Hapthor, he's getting all ready for another legendary world record deadlift. And he recently did like a 500 pound deadlift where he was lifting the... What's that thing? It's on Instagram. He's lifting to the left. Yeah, this lift right here. This is pretty... Oh, maybe it's not that. He did a... Oh, Rolling Thunder. Oh, yeah. He did a Rolling Thunder with like 500 pounds. So that's just a single hand thing that he picked up. I'm just ridiculous. Anyway, what I wanted to ask you was what amount or percentage would you say of your training is still devoted to strength? I want people to understand like we're not abandoning strength. We're just practicing some new stuff. And I know you do the sandbags and stuff. I'm still squat, I still bench, I still do deadlift. Just do various versions of them normally than what you may have seen me do previously. But what's going on with you? Yeah, yeah. I guess when it comes to this part of my training, my focus is my relative strength. So I'm really working on high volume calisthenic strength, hangs, pull-ups, different types of push-ups in different positions, being able to handle my own body weight in a high-level way. Seems like you've gotten a lot better at that. Yeah. Handling your own body weight. Even just watching you do like Pogo hops and stuff, you just look way more comfortable. Yeah, yeah. It's getting better. Like Ryan will see right there, like I think... Actually, even that second video is not a bad example or the first video, whichever. But I'll use the clubs, I'll use the sled, I'll touch the sandbag. If I want to do power-type movements, I'll just do fast sandbag cleans and I'll treat that as my power-type movement because I feel like it also does transition well to the type of positions you have to get your body in as a grappler. I also like that with the sandbag because the way you organize your body will be a little bit different from rep to rep because the bag shifts around a bit. But my big goal as far as resistance is being able to just handle my body weight in a much easier way. I want to do some of that high-level calisthenic stuff, but it progresses so slowly. It's the one frustrating thing about it. If I was just focusing on increasing weight on the barbell or machine stuff, that stuff can increase so quickly. Yeah, you singularly focus on it for like 12 weeks, maybe eat a little bit more food and it goes up. Absolutely. I mean, it's not always that simple, especially when you get to the real high levels, but that's the gist of it. Yeah, yeah. But my relative strength, and I was actually... I was looking at a... Just maybe even seeing if I can get a membership at like Pipeworks or something and add in a little bit of bouldering into kind of like my practice just because it's... I sent you that video, right? I don't know if you watched it. I did. But you'll notice like that guy... I don't know if his name is... Is it Magnus Mitbow or whatever on YouTube? Magnus Anything is great, by the way. Magnus Anything is a strong human being. But there's this guy on YouTube. He has... Yeah, I think it's Magnus Mitbow. You'll see him go against and do like strength feats with guys like Larry Wills with other individuals. And there's this other guy who went into a strongman competition onto the grip side of things and dig like... I think he was able to beat all the other... Like a majority of those guys, even though he was much lighter, because the nature of what they do in bouldering and climbing has you leveraging your body against grips that challenge your hands in many different ways that a barbell just doesn't challenge. When you're lifting a barbell or dumbbells or machines, you have these perfect grips. It's very symmetrical. But when you're having to climb, the amount of stress you're putting on different aspects of your hands and fingers develops this level of strength and tendon strength that can transfer well to so many things, including like grappling. But I want to try to improve that strength at my body weight. What an interesting thing too, because I realize, you know, you go to a rock climbing gym and there's only so many walls or whatever, only so many configurations probably, and they probably can switch them around or something that I'm not aware of. But probably a little similar to Jiu-Jitsu where you need to be a couple moves ahead, right? Because if you start climbing this way, you might start climbing like up and back and trying to do some maneuver that you're not even ready for or capable of. So you got to kind of look above and look around and pay attention like, oh, I can go for that one. Okay, this one's going to lead me to that one. And then all the different shapes and stuff. People that climb rocks, man, are insanely strong. The endurance that it takes. So like you go to a rock climbing gym and you're like on a wall, right? You're just like there, which is cool. But normally you're like packing in, you know, you're hauling some stuff with you because you probably have equipment. You probably have water. So you're driving somewhere or not driving somewhere, walking somewhere for probably several miles just to get there. And then the way back, there's a little bit of a haul too. So very interesting sport. And a lot of times you observe what great strength to weight ratios these people have. So for people that have kids, you know, rock climbing would be a really good sport. Gymnastics, ballet, any sort of dance or ice skating, figure skating, all those kinds of things where you really have to, you know, use your body could be really good practices. I think the other sports, unfortunately, like when it comes to anybody that has young children, when it comes to like basketball or when it comes to baseball, they're not skilled enough to actually play the sport yet. Like the ball just goes flying and then the kid just like runs the bases and like no one really learns much of anything. And same thing with basketball, they dribble off their foot or they go the wrong way. It's all cute and stuff, but they're not really getting in like work. And I think that it's important to put your child in something that they care about, something that they like. But if you have the opportunity when they're really young, kind of force them, like kick their butt into trying some of these other things. Because I think this would be great. How cool would it be to have a little base of gymnastics and a little base of rock climbing from the time you're two or three? Dude, absolutely. Be sick. Absolutely. And again, it's just like, I mean, in this sense, you know, you kind of need the environment, you need a bouldering club or whatever to be able to go do that. But again, it's just like it's you and rocks, right? Or you know, if you're just getting into like a lot of the calisthenics stuff, it could be you in the ground or you in a hanging bar, but there's so much there. And I mean, admittedly, like I'm 250. So this is going to, it gets that much harder because I'm heavy at this. So I'm not expecting to be at like Magnus' level. And of course, he spent a lot of his life doing this. So like that's, but I know that the proficiency that I'm going to continue to build with my relative strength will play a big role in improving myself as a grappler and improving my strength as I age. And you know, the barbell is don't get me wrong, the barbell is great, but it's not, there's what I'm going to get from it isn't going to be anything compared to what I'm going to get from these types of skills. You still grab like a, I don't know, say like a heavy kettlebell or or yeah, I mean, and try to like, you know, press it overhead, like just see a, hey, I have a little proficiency to do this. So, you know, six or eight times. Yeah. Like if I ever have the opportunity, like in here in the bench, I'll just like, I just hop on the bench. I mean, I just did that right now too. Right. Um, I have the, uh, trap bar at my place too. So at least maybe once a week or maybe once every week and a half, I'll put on some low, maybe 400 plus pounds on there and just like get it up a few times just to send myself the signal of like, neurologically push this. Yeah. Right. And I still have like the heavy sandbags are still there. So those things are still heavy, but having the capacity to do it, although it's like, it's not the, it's not the thing I'm progressing. That's a pull up a video. I saw John Heck pick up the 350. Did you see that? Oh yeah. Yeah. The 350 pound sandbag. Yeah. Yeah. I saw that. Bring that clip up for a second just cause he's a monster and it, what I liked about it was the way that he was afterwards. Like he just, it's like he got into a fight. Yeah. You know, like he got, it's like he got into a grappling match. You know what? The other John hack. The, uh, oh yeah. Hack. Yeah. Although that John could do a 350 pound bag as well. Yeah. Yeah. It's just, um, it's really cool to learn, learn some of these different, uh, different things. Just trying to figure out how to like manage that bad boy. The bag is so dang big. Mm hmm. Shit. He's strong the way he got underneath it. He just like, he just lifted that. Like there was no. He didn't really do anything crazy to pick it up. Yeah. Um, something I wanted to mention that's, uh, not, well, maybe it's a little bit more impressive than what John hack just did is what I just did, which is I just walked around the block with a 20 pound weighted vest, but the entire time I did not let my heel touch the ground. I was on my toes. Oh, there you go. Yeah. So just another way to like get yourself. I'm kidding. Obviously about that part, but like just something to like, uh, I'm like, well, this is kind of strengthening my calves and this and then by the time I got done, my feet were kind of tired. Mm hmm. No, it's again, it's, I think, well, that's one of the cool things about like this stuff. You can give yourself easy inputs, whatever. Um, and having a weighted vest like that. Again, if somebody takes that and they do that, maybe on a daily basis, along with some other things, how much stronger those feet going to get. You know what I mean? So yeah, that's sick. We got some videos we want to share with you guys is showing you some different variations of stuff that you can do. Um, I don't know, just to get your reaction time better. Like we've talked about this many times on this podcast about how the gym typically when you're dealing with most of the stuff in the gym, there's not a lot of reaction to much of anything and there's, there's coordination. Um, there's coordination for sure, but it's different than limited. It's limited. Yeah. Yeah. There's some limited. So you follow this girl and what does she, she got going on here? Yeah. Yeah. So like you can see her, you know, we were just talking about not doing anything that forces you to react, but tennis balls. A little shout out to Edo Portale when he came here, tennis balls are an easy tool that you can use to like improve that. And I think especially again, you don't even have, I don't think this is just important for athletes, but just for human beings, people get older, they become clumsier. They lose the ability to react to things quickly when it comes to having to grab something or bends to do something. There's a level of apprehension before having to do it. Um, or not reacting at all, which I mean, when you think about it, if you're going to slip and potentially fall, if you have better reaction speed, how much quicker are you going to be to be to organize your body in a way that's going to be able to handle that ground impact better? Right? We don't have to worry about that now though, because they make a device that will react to the ground in seconds flat. We were saying it. No. So is it a device you wear? Yeah. It's like a wearable. Oh my God. And what, which is great for elderly folks that maybe already got hurt, right? It's like an airbag. That's what it's for, but it looks funny. Yeah. I don't know if you can try to find it, Ryan, but it's a, yeah, it's like air it's like airbag clothing for like the elderly, I guess. And maybe you'd find it on, you might be able to find it on YouTube. Honestly, that's a great... I saw this guy like kind of messing with it. He kept like falling and he'd stand up and he'd fall and you just like almost bounce right back up. Have you seen the Nike's that actually will walk faster? They're like motorized and shoes or whatever. That's pretty badass. Let's let's see this real quick Ryan's pretty dead on with pulling stuff up. I don't know how he does it. Oh my goodness. Oh, yeah. Oh Yeah, yeah, there it is. Oh, can you rewind and play that again, please? Oh By the way, we're not making fun of old people Mark best utilizes air this is what's funny to protect seniors from hip head neck and shoulders fractures and other injuries caused by fall seniors fuck I want that with 3d motion sensors. Why are they gonna have to walk the rest of home like that? Like all bubbled up. Yeah They're trying to like push it back down. So like not all embarrassed. Yeah. No, that's actually amazing You're walking walking back Like you're in like a little costume, but before you need, you know the bubble bag Doing doing things that will like improve your ability It's a great name your ability to like to react to stuff Um and though those tennis balls are a quick and easy thing like one thing we were doing it earlier today One thing I like to do at home is in between stuff I'll literally just throw the ball at the wall with my right hand throw the ball at the wall with my left hand having to Pay attention to the balls of my eyes pay attention to where it's going react to those types of things You'd be surprised with where you are now versus where you are in a few months if you just add that into your movement practice They talk a lot about you know all-timers and these different things that we can run into that are super unfortunate as as you age and maybe as you Read less and maybe as you do things less. You're not practicing stuff as much Maybe you don't feel good Maybe so you're you know on the couch and you're not doing as much as you used to and you have G-generation of all kinds of stuff your hips your back your eyes everything starts to maybe go a little bit It's nice to know that there's a wide variety of things to do I hear people talk often about like crossword puzzles. I hear people talking about doing puzzles I hear people talk about just just reading you know reading a book and getting into some sunlight and stuff And I'm like shit man. Those are all things. I don't really like to do for me, right? But what are things that I'd like to do? There is some science there is some research showing that you know when you go from the left side of your body the right side of your body that you're getting these Coordination so like I like the rope flow. I Like messing around with juggling probably gonna take me a minute to learn how to juggle but I'm Throwing the balls up in the air and I'm catching them and I'm rotating them one way and I'm rotating them the other way I can see where the deficiencies are like sometimes in my left. It just feels really weird Even what we're doing today like throwing with my left you're like, okay Well, that just feels so on coordinate so bad and so weird But it's it's unpracticed but also within that even small bit of us doing it You were feeling and noticing improvement. You were not really like while doing it. Yeah, and it feels great and it feels Rewarding and then you start to find other stuff. That's fun to do So that's why we explore all these things is so that you can land on something maybe for some of you listening Maybe you like crosswords and maybe that's something you'll You'll mess with I've actually been thinking about it. I'm like, you know next time I travel That's what I should do is just get a bunch of crossword puzzles because they have them at the airport We put an app on your phone unless you don't want to use your phone for it. That's true There's tons of those tons of ways to do some of this stuff. Yeah There's a video of Victor Wendin Yama. It's Yeah, let's play this one. I so by the way this this coach is Chong shea a secretive athleticism one thing about Chong that I'm just like is He you know, he talks about faster driven athletes and he's very anti Anti-resistance training with the focus on muscle building which I think is like just to It's it goes too far in one direction because I think you even use Chris Bumstead as an example showing like look at this This is what? Muscle focus training where it gets you but it's like you're like to an extent you to be multi-millionaire and you have energy drinks at 7-eleven Doesn't sound like a bad gig to me. Yeah, but it's just like he has a point when you take it too far because you see You kind of see what happens to people that that's the only focus but then you also see people that manage to You know do it along with the other stuff in their athletics and it doesn't seem to be a detriment So it's one of those things where just be mindful because he has a lot of great stuff I've learned stuff from his content, but I do think that he's He's deep in the fascia and demonizing muscle for yeah, I don't know Well, maybe some people are giving up some things when they Work on training their muscles, you know, maybe myself maybe Bumstead maybe Matt Wenning, you know, but when I hear Matt Wenning talk about he's kind of like sometimes he'll mention Who's still Lifting hard who's still pushing hard who still has the ability to push hard and when I think about that I'm like man, he's got a good point because I know how many lifters or were at West Side I saw all those other guys and a lot of them aren't participating in really much of anything anymore much less You know doing some of the same things they were doing before But the list is is really short. I can think okay, there's Matt Wenning and he's still training and still doing it And still doing it at a pretty high level. I do realize we can say okay Well, maybe Matt Wenning is not the most mobile person in the world But I don't know if that's something that he's really that interested in. I don't know if he really likes it Stan efforting is another person that comes mind Stan is still very capable. I know he's making fun of himself because he's like I don't think I can bench 405 anymore Which by the way, he could still bench 405 it's just a matter of him practicing it a little bit Yeah, but That's the something that we have to keep in mind We can't always just like pass judgment on somebody and say oh look at this person They're not able to do this thing. Maybe they don't give a shit about that Like maybe for them in the moment that they're in in their life. They just don't really Care now if it's leading to heart disease and if it's leading to diabetes or something like that That's when you can say okay. Well, I think what this person is doing is just unsafe not smart Yeah, they keep getting injured and they just keep participating the same thing over and over again It's probably time, you know, maybe they should try to find something else That they that has that same crossover of something that interests them but something that's maybe healthier decision. Yeah It should become a football player at seven feet four One be is juggling the ball like he is one of the Brazilian footballers But we all know what one be's foot looks like he has the special hyperarquivascular structure with the prominence of anti-artybiotendants and the flexor tendons what this means is the foot to glues connection is Extremely strong. It doesn't matter if the individual possess big muscles or not when you develop this type of foot to glues connection You can control the body in the coordinated way think of tensegrity as Strengths and struts if you don't have the necessary tension built into your body through the fascia chain You're not going to be able to coordinate the movement Well, just like an instrument like a violin or piano You need to be finely tuned same as our body if you want to be better at moving in a coordinated fashion And pain-free you have to look into fashion You have to train barefoot one be You know uh cream abdull jabbar is somebody that also Embraced a lot of this He was somebody that was doing a lot of things outside of basketball. He was doing martial arts I don't know how much training he did with bruce lee, but Um, there's a lot of photos of them together. They did movies together and stuff like that And I know that he trained in martial arts and worked on like these high kicks and all these different things and so You know, I would say with someone like wim bin yana who is just like so insanely tall That no one in the world has any clue what it's like to be him other than maybe somebody like cream abdull jabbar. Yeah So he's just trying I bet you that you know He's just trying to figure out ways of like just managing a body. That's that big and that tall, you know But at the same time managing yes, but I don't think I don't think you've seen many bigs that have been as like limber as wim bin yama I've never seen that for all thing, you know, I mean like I mean shoot kareem wasn't amazing He he was actually yeah, he was an amazing mover too um, but It's cool that Wemby's like embraces these different skills because like you'll see wemby There's a video of him in one of after you got injured. I believe last year You saw videos of him in like china doing some stuff with like chinese martial artists, right? You see them doing just a bunch of different things and I think that the the big thing to take away is that wemby seems to be like Strengthening his movement vocabulary, you know like Maybe he played socrace and when he was a kid and he already knew how to juggle who knows maybe maybe not But he does seem to be developing Different skills and different aspects of coordination. I think we like you people forget especially within the fitness crowd people forget that like Coordination is trainable and building coordination outside of your sport can actually give you ideas and different different Movement that you can resort to within your sport He's got to realize within basketball If you're just a if you're a basketball player within grappling or if you're a soccer player There are certain movements that most people are going to be doing within their sport and you won't touch other ranges or types of movement So if you want to become someone who moves better Which means that within your sport you're gonna have more options if if the demand is there You might have to do different practices to give yourself that That stimulus right right so it's like It's one of those things I think we even saw wemby like he kicked a basketball out of a hoop and you know We have a guy who we know who's done that before too To your point, you know Some of the movements that he was doing right there where he was like blocking the shots from the other Person when he was doing martial arts He kept having to take one leg and put it back behind him And that's the exact position That all of the modern day All the modern day Uh achilles tears happen in is when somebody has to do that quick step back with their foot Uh and so like he as you you pointed out really well that he's practicing something in another sport Uh that is that is he can take over into basketball and utilize and then plus it looks like he's having fun Yeah, man. I think it's like where he's blocking uh In the beginning of this when he's blocking the shots from the other guy. Mm-hmm You'll probably see it there. I think it's the other video. Oh, yeah. Yeah, it might be a different video I got you going back and forth on a lot of different videos at one time Yeah, see that back leg see how he has to keep kind of pushing that leg back like that That's the exact same thing that happened to kiddle this weekend where he tore his achilles Obviously, he had another football player tackling him at the same time, which isn't helpful But you're going to build strong ligaments and tendons And you're learning a new skill set. So maybe it's nice that he knows how to handle himself I mean there's fights on the court sometimes and who the hell knows what could happen So the the the cool the reason why I think this is like cool for people to think about Is because let's say that you're not a women yaman, but you're not a pro basketball player But you're someone who you know, you want to enjoy movement as you get older, right? Um, as you you know as you learn new patterns of movement We do know that you do neuro patterns in the brain increase like you you'll develop different patterning because you learn different things and for some reason within Uh sports training you always hear coaches say, okay, you know if you want and I get it coaches like athletes have limited time Yeah, I think athletes have more time than these coaches give them credit for But it's like your sport and your training and that should be what you do if you really want to be a complete athlete But like let's think about this the athlete has learned their sport. Well, they're going to keep training their sport It's it's like we act like people cannot learn more than what their Specific thing is right. It's it's one of those things like for example juggling or Aspects of dance if somebody wants to do that or when yama going to fucking Train with monks and learning different movement patterns there. How's that going to affect him now? When he moves on to the court and he's having to play against somebody What now different movement options does he have? With the body of another human being because of what he managed to learn there, right? It's it's it's one of those things that athletes will can get smarter and do get smarter when they're exposed to different things I'd love to see him play that thing right there kicking the ball out of the hoop Kadorziani right kadorziani did a lot of that. I think the cool thing is When you if you guys if you knew our podcast, maybe you haven't seen the video we did with kadorziani Who was like the first professional dunker? He can still dunk I think right now You see him right there doing some of this seven postures movements with modell beckham jr. He He The ground is a big part of his movement practice So you'll see in the video we did with him and then his content like a lot of the movements are Based off of using the ground as something to help the body get into positions that it currently can't handle I've never seen a foot move like kadorz foot. Mm-hmm the way that I mean, that's the way your foot is supposed to move Should he's got full capacity, but it was really unbelievable and a lot of it comes from the stretching on the floor Absolutely, but not even just the the static aspects of the stretching. It's the movement  in and out of the position with the level of control. You see the flexibility of Wemby in the video where he was doing the squat and moving it out of the position. Let's say he finds himself in a compromised position in a game. Let's say he goes up for a dunk and somebody pushes him and then he lands weird and lands in a long position. He has control over it. He doesn't just tweak or injure something there or maybe something that would be a huge injury for something else is a minor tweak for him because he's exposed his body to that position and he has level of control over it. That's why this stuff can, for everybody, the floor is a great place to be comfortable and build a level of proficiency. Yeah, these athletes, they're going to extreme lengths to try to make sure that their career lasts longer. But for yourself, for people just listening, you have a career as well. Whether it's your career as a dad or a mom or whether it's your career in terms of just like your lifting career, you might not think much of your lifting career. You might not think like you're a pro or something like that, but it still is something that you enjoy doing and you want to try to keep full capacity of that for as long as possible. I'm not saying that you have to do calisthenics and plios and you have to do all these things in order to be able to go and enjoy most of the stuff that's at the gym. But I think that you'll come out the other side. It's not about what you're doing in the current decade that you're in. It's about the results that you end up with the following decade. Whatever you're doing in your 30s is going to start to show up in your 40s. Whatever you're doing in your 40s, you start to show up in your 50s and so on. Those things, they do carry through as well. The stuff you did from your 20s will still show up in your 50s, but if you were being irresponsible, if you were drinking, if you were doing like A, blast and cruise, that wasn't the most optimal thing, if you're on to it now, then you're unraveling and you're undoing some of those things and you're giving yourself a better shot to be better in the upcoming years and in the next generation that you get to. Because everyone can kind of say like, oh, that sounds like it's a little harder. We can agree that from 30 to 40, if someone turns 40, you're like, oh yeah, I bet you it is a little bit more difficult when you turn 40. For me, having gone through my 40s, I didn't really think it was that big of a thing, but I'm like, oh yeah, I wonder, for me, I'm like 10 years from now, I'm thinking like, man, my 60s, that sounds like it might start to get pretty challenging. To try to spin all these plates for so long and to try to keep all these things going for a long time. It doesn't feel like they're unnatural to me. They feel like they're fun, they're exciting, especially some of the stuff that I've been discovering more recently. It feels like stuff that is fulfilling, it feels like I'm having fun along the way with getting better, but as I age, certain things that are more like just in your day to day, they become amplified and they're more important. So I never really thought about getting out of the car, right? But now, I'm not necessarily there at this moment, like I get out of the car fine, but I don't want to ever have that be something that I'm really thinking about. So I want to keep my legs strong, I want to keep my mobility good enough to get in and out of a car, good enough to do the things that I like to do, and I would like to improve it a little bit because there are certain things in a day that are, they take me longer than I would like, or there's certain, like I'd like to be able to just be able to get on the ground at any time and get back up very easily. I can do that most of the time, but sometimes I'm very sore and I'm like, oh my gosh, I don't want to get on the ground, I don't want to do some of the things that we see Kador doing in the video. Every year that passes, that shit can get harder and harder, it's going to get worse and worse if you're not doing anything about it. And that's the way I see it. So I'm, personally for myself, I'm trying to just stay ahead of it all. And for those of you who might be in like a similar boat with like the ground where it's just like, oh God, it's like it takes a bit to want to get down there and do anything. That's why I think it's good at having tools that are kind of close to the ground that will allow you to do some things like having a sandbag, even though a sandbag is something you can lift, it's also something that you can like sit on. It's something you can put your knee on and like sit in somewhat of a say as a position rather than being all the way on the ground and being on top of your knees. Can you put like your shin on the sandbag and then sit down, sit back on the knee and then come up from those positions, right? You can regress these positions onto something slightly higher so it doesn't end up being so such such such an investment, right? Higher or softer. You got the go mat from Rogue Fitness. You have bolsters that they utilize in yoga, yoga mats. And then I recently have bought these things. They're kind of like more for your kitchen. There's these like little like runner type things and they're just like, I don't know, like rubbery. Do we have anything here that's like that? Maybe, oh yeah, maybe these like these mats right here. It's like that, but it's much longer. Yeah. And then like I actually stretch on that while I'm watching TV and it's just always there. It's actually like almost it's behind my couch. Yeah. Then I also bought something. I haven't blown it up yet, but it's I think it's called an airsoft. An airsoft mattress or something like that. And that one I'm putting in my home gym for stretching and mobility and movement. So it's supposed to be something that when I hit up Corey Schlesinger about I was like, is there something that's like soft that encourages like stretching and moving? He goes, oh yeah. He's like, get the airsoft and whatever the hell it was called. Is it like it's a tool that's specifically for that? Or is it a tool that he said that he said he travels with it and then you just blow the thing up and he says his players like the second that they get on it, they like start jumping around. They start moving around. I'm like, that's exactly what I'm looking for. Something that kind of encouraged. I have a trampoline, you know, but something that encourages you to like jump and want to move around and roll around on it. You know, something super soft like these jiu-jitsu mats and stuff. Those are cool, but they're even a little hard. Yeah, yeah, they can be. They can be. Yeah. That's actually, you know, it's funny you mentioned the rebounder, the trampoline. I like to like, because I'll usually have that sitting there while I'm working. So I like to sit on that when I work too. It's I probably feels good. Kind of almost like a stretch a bit because it's almost like kind of sitting on the ground except it has a little bit of give. So I'll sit in different positions on top of the rebounder. And it's just, it's just one of those things. If you have the opportunity to try to get, I'll say this, I think it can be simple for a majority of people to have a goal of doing maybe five minutes. And it doesn't mean you have to do movements and work and pushups, et cetera. Just spend five minutes on the ground if you can, right? And then if it's more than that, it's more than that. But I think a lot of people can start to add that in and then increase that time over time because like Kedor's, a lot of what Kedor does in the Southern postures, it's literally your body and the ground. Just try to lay down on the ground instead of the couch. Just try that here and there. It's not going to feel good. You know, the first couple of times you do it, it's not going to feel good, but you get used to it. And over time, you get more and more proficient at it. And you can get a lot of great mobility work in just while you're, you're not even trying to get mobility work. And I'm not even saying like sit there and stretch while you're watching TV, which is something you could also do. But you're literally just relaxing and you're relaxing in positions that are going to help you to become more mobile over time. And shout out to the hunker and stool, another tool that like will allow you to kind of sit in a, say deep, like in a squat type position, knees bent, et cetera. But over time, like you can sit in SESA on that thing, SESA being your knees underneath you. It's, it's, it's a really versatile tool, which I think is something that can like, again, improve, improve your ability to get closer and closer to the ground while not making it feel and seem like something impossible. I have my hunker and stool against the wall. And it's perfect for me there because then I can kind of, and I can move myself into a bunch of different positions from there too, which is nice. Yeah. These things make a difference. And it's like, it's one of those things really take it seriously to start building it now, because if, if you don't, it's one of those things where it's just going to get harder and harder to want to build that habit. And then you're one of those older individuals who like the ground is scary. It's like, it's far away from you. And it's, it's, it's like a scary thing. You don't want that to be the case. When Binyana, he's been injured here in there, right? He got injured once. Um, it was a blood clot. Actually, it was, I think there was a blood clot in his shoulder. The season last season, I think. Yeah. Yeah. Last season, there was a blood clot on the shoulder that took him out for that happened early in the early in the season. I think it was a little bit of a naughty, angular. I told you so a moment. I think, uh, he got hurt like earlier this season and he's been hurt a little bit. But I think that like, um, injuries in sport are massively high, especially for like basketball and football, right? Yeah. Um, and, and we could say, Hey, look, I think some of the guys are being trained improperly is probably true, right? Probably fair conjecture, right? But, um, with basketball, you end up with like, it's not even necessarily like yatoria Achilles, like that does happen. People tear ACLs and all this stuff happens. Right. Yeah. But you don't have any pads on. You're just getting like elbowed and like, they just get like completely messed up here and there. So they missed some games here and there. And I think Wemby has missed some games with various injuries. Um, and then people like, Oh, see, he's hyper mobile. You know, he's, he's got too much of a capacity to move, uh, which again, uh, sounds fair, like, yeah, somebody maybe moves a little too much. Their body is a little bit too supple. But at the same time, like I mentioned earlier, who else knows about playing basketball at seven foot six? Really nobody, like he's the only guy like, like, run, like this is a, this is an experiment almost, and he's still growing. Like my understanding, and maybe Ryan, you can look it up, but I think he's grown since he's been in the NBA, like a couple inches. So he hasn't even like fully grown into it. And he kind of looks that way. He was on the court. He moves, uh, in an interesting way that sort of looks, uh, looks almost slow, looks almost, uh, like on coordinated, but then still is somehow way ahead of everybody, then he scores. And you're like, I wasn't expecting that because it just looks so different because he's a foot taller than everybody. Yeah. There's leverage. Like he has, his wingspan is something ridiculous. His height is something ridiculous. It's, it's literally watching an alien play the sport. That's why his nickname, I think is the alien. I'm not sure, but I think it's like something around there. Let's see. It says rookie season. He was listed at seven three and he's currently seven five and some people even believe he's taller than that. I think he could be as tall as seven foot seven. I have to see one of this guy's games. I have to go to a game that won Benyamisen because like I've gone to some basketball games recently and like those guys are monsters. You know, but from like France or something. Yeah. He's, he's from France. He's France. Well, I mean, he's, uh, I think his, uh, ethnicity is Congolese. So, uh, his family's from Congo, but he was raised in France. What's his, any idea of like his, like, how did he like basketball in France? I don't really hear about that a lot. Like, oh, that's all France is like, it's popular. Big deal. Okay. Yeah. Basketball in France is popular. Um, I think Kobe was what in Italy, Italy, Europe in general. I guess it's pretty popular. Oh yeah. European basketball is super popular. Shoot, you guys, Yolkic, Donchic, yeah, like, and a lot of people come out of there. Um, but you know, the, the conjecture around his injuries, uh, it's, I mean, I think we were just talking about it, man. The, like athletes in sport, athletes in sport put their bodies through a lot. Yeah. You know what I mean? It's some things. Yeah. Some things could be the fashion and some things could be his tools, too flexible. But then again, like these dudes are putting their body through hard training, hard competition, like having to have their bodies act against other people who you don't know how they're going to, you don't know what they're going to do or how dirty they might be in a specific game. You know what I mean? So constantly things are happening to these athletes where it's a flux, which is why I like, I think it's just kind of, I don't know. It's, it's great for people to make conjecture. But when, uh, when coaches try to make these absolute statements, like it's this, it's that it's like, ah, dog. Yeah. Come on. He's over seven feet tall. The guy's playing against a seven feet tall people, wings, spans and arms and legs are flying around all over the place as they're like diving for a ball. Yeah. It's like kind of hard to tell exactly what the issue is. I guess, you know, something that does make sense to me is like, okay, he seems like he's thin, you know, he, for his structure, for how, for how big he is and stuff, his legs seem thin. I mean, I get what you're saying, but he's like, for the length of those. I'm sure. Yeah. He's just a muscle. Yeah. Yeah. But my point is being like, as somebody that loves to lift, I love strength training. I'm like thinking in my head, maybe, and I have no idea. I don't train athletes like that. Maybe some just traditional lifting would maybe put a little bit of size on the structure. I don't know if that would be a mistake because maybe he'd be super heavy, but maybe if he just did some traditional lifting, maybe his body would stiffen up a little bit and thicken up a little bit. And maybe that would make him more robust, but that's just like a hypothesis. Yeah. I mean, maybe that's the thing. I think that's one of the cool things about a sport like basketball is you see a lot of different types of bodies. Um, you know, like, uh, I think, uh, Dennis Schroeder, who's on the Kings is six one, uh, but he looks quite jacked, you know, but like the thing is, is like to, to do what these guys do in terms of the, how high you need to be able to jump, how spring you need to be able to be, there is, you, if you're going to put on that type of muscle, right? You also need to be able to have the power to purge, to project it, right? Because the heavier you get, the harder it is going to be to jump high and the more, the more ground reaction force you have to be able to handle when you hit the ground. So it's one of those things where, you know, and being that heavy or not being that heavy, but being, being that tall for him, it's one of those things where like, if you put on more muscle, it just has to do it slowly and make sure that his movement ability is maintained as it's done. Cause that's one of the reasons why I think a lot of people are kind of wary on just like putting on muscle. Yeah. What is he weighing right now? Any idea? Shoot. I don't know. Let's look it up. But like, so if he, you know, um, I agree with you, like him, just weighing more like might not be a great idea because he just has more shit to deal with even, even, you know, and then he'll have to be stronger to be able to deal with being heavier, but, um, there is a way to do it. It's two 36. Yeah. So like maybe him weighing two 56. Maybe it's not a great idea, especially if he did it fairly quickly. It looks like a lot, you know, he looks like he does a lot of exercises and activities to really keep himself feeling good. And with strength coaches and stuff, I mean, that's a big part of their, he's using the skier, but he can barely like use it because he's way too tall for it. Um, but that's their job is to assist these guys and help these guys to feel good, not just them have like an awesome workout that's like leading to them getting stronger, but it's about them feeling good for the season. They have an 82 game season. If they don't make the playoffs and they could have a, you know, closer to a hundred games in a season, if they make the playoffs. So a lot of activity and there's not a ton of time to like really make giant changes in the offseason and stuff. Yeah. And only the only time where you're going to be able to put on a like extra mass, it's going to be in your offseason, especially for this caliber of player. And some of it's going to come off during the season every time. Yeah. Yeah. But maybe you gain a little bit of weight intentionally. I don't know. I just love thinking about being fat, maybe. Maybe that's just me. Yeah. But that's the thing. It's like, I, I do, I do get it. I do agree with Chong. Like even, even like for myself, you know, I think that, um, I think that like my peak, I guess my peak ability to jump in the fastest that I would be would be me at like two 20, 225, right? Um, but I'm 250 and no matter how little I eat or if I eat more, I just gain weight. It's like, this is my weight until age starts kicking in, you know what I mean? And I'm kind of excited for that to happen. Um, but I do think that there definitely can be a detriment to over indexing on hypertrophy for if your intent is being a sport athlete, meaning not a lifting athlete, but, uh, uh, an athlete that's doing grappling or an athlete that's doing, you know, field sport or whatever over indexing on hypertrophy. Is that being a singular goal? Is there is going to, there can be detriment to it. Um, but that's why again, I think it should be. I think it's as important as all these other things as important as coordination. It's as important as your ability to be fairly mobile and have ownership over different bodily positions. I think all these things are equally important, but on the strength side, we, we just think about hypertrophy as like hypertrophy and like, um, you know, strength as being like the two biggest vectors. Well, hypertrophy and like one of the issues with strength is like, it's usually referred to as strength in the weight room. Yes. And then we're like, well, yeah, I don't know. Like it definitely is useful. Um, but useful for what and what are you, what's the goal? Like, what are you trying to do? You know, I was having a, so I'm once the Rockets game and I'm friends and like friends out with one of their players, Steve and Adams. And after the game, he was talking to me about how like sometimes he could feel players when he's like, um, in the key and has, cause we were, I was talking about push hands and then you talk about when he's in the key, having to put his hand against people, like he can feel their tension. So like sometimes he'll put his hand right, right underneath their armpit softly, so they don't think it's a threat. And then once he needs to move them, he can find wherever they are and then he can like move them very quickly. But he says it's so much easier to like move the guys who like tend to over it. Like, you know, they tend because that's just kind of how they operate when they're lifting and in a bunch of other areas that like it's easy to move tense people and I've noticed it in grappling. The it's easy to move grapplers that tend to be very, very tense. And sometimes, sometimes that tension can come from like the over focusing too much on force and being tense to create force that now when you need to do something that requires level of fluidity and force, you can't access that fluidity as well. So that's one of the things that's like, it's, it's, it's, you got to find, if you're an athlete, you got to find that happy medium between being tension when you need to be tense, but being kind of gumby and fluid and like able to move well when you need that capacity, you know, they're, they're equally as important. But if you're so tense all the time, that, that will tire you out because you're using a lot of muscular like effort. Um, and you're just an easier, you're easier to deal with it away. I think a lot of, I think some of this can be learned from some jumping, just from some simple jumping, not like jumping is going to make you like crazy strong or anything, but it could definitely make you stronger. But by practicing some jumping and then practicing how you're landing and what direction you're facing, you know, like, so you can jump up onto something and that's great. And you can jump down for something and that's great. But you can also like, as you're coming down, you can start to face a different direction or as you go to jump back up, you can face another direction or you can, you can jump and try like a 360 and then land and squat jump and land on one foot. Exactly. And these, these are the things that you can do. Exactly. And these, these coordination's, they, they, they make you figure out a way to be explosive and strong and soft and supple all kind of rolled into one. Yes. And when you sprint, that's something that I really like about sprinting is yeah, I could probably go out and like just muscle out a sprint. And if I don't get hurt, I could probably like, I don't know, run decently fast and people be like, Hey, but I'm not trying to like just run fast one time. I'm trying to make myself faster over time. And I want to be able to relax in the sprint and it's going to take time. It's going to take a long time because for me in my head, what my body's connected to is, okay, if you want to run faster than we need to like, just switch it into another gear, right? And I, at the moment that gear is just using like all like power. It's not, it's not using any grace. It's not using any fluidity. It's not using any of the other components that are responsible for speed. Speed is, there is a lot of strength, a lot of power, there's a lot of force development that's involved in it. But if you think about, you can watch, you know, some of the high level sprinters, it looks like they go pretty fucking crazy, but in the beginning, it's in the beginning of the race, right? When they're in acceleration, their arms are going crazy, like their whole body's going pretty crazy. And then it just looks like they just coast the rest of the way, like they turn the engine on, they got the RPMs sky high and now they're funneling that energy through, just keep it, keep it going smoothly. They have an amazing and beautiful way. Even a Chikari Richardson with the way that she's able, like she's able to somehow, she's kind of tense through like her arms. There's like a chain of tension somewhere, but then she's like totally relaxed somewhere, you know, in other places of her body. It's just really amazing to watch. Yeah. Yeah. That's the thing. It's like finding that mix. If you're interested in it, but understanding that it's not, you know, it's, it's not, it's not mythical. It's like, it is a capacity that you can build and it's capacity that you can get worse at if you focus on certain forms of training as your only form of training. You know what I mean? Exactly. So you ever seen some of those videos of Chikari Richardson when she's young, when she's no, I've seen nothing when she was younger. Oh dude. Yeah. Ryan will find a couple, couple shots. She's like training. She's like six, seven years old, flying. Oh my gosh. Absolutely flying. She's like, uh, yeah, must have started, must have started pretty young. I'd be able to find like a little montage. This is her in high school. Oh, cool. See how far ahead she's going to be from all these other kids. Oh, there she is. Oh shit. There she is. Okay. Yeah. The other girl started out really well too. Yeah. But then they all got completely dusted. Finishing 10 seconds behind her. Wow. Yeah. No, that's the thing, man. Are you doing some stuff with some sprints? Yeah, still do. You know, like a hill that's not too far from your, like a field that you go to, right? Yeah, it's close. And something I actually just started doing two, a few weeks back. Um, I'm sorry, I tweaked my back, but I'm going to get back to it. There's a, there's my, there's my house. And then that like there's a kind of a round about that. My goal is just to keep, keep running it under 57 seconds. Right. So, um, I think it might be close to 400. If it's not close to 400, but my goal is just to slowly have that, that, that times gets slower and slower and slower. That's a great practice, by the way, just running for 45 seconds to like a minute. Yeah. Yeah. It's nasty. Yeah. It can be real nasty. Yeah. So like, yeah, no, it's not, it's not a track, but it's like, it is around that like seems like it's going to be either close to 400. And my goal is just to make that run feel, feel easy. Like I'm putting in effort, but I want it just to feel easy. And I want to get a bit faster over time. Um, and it's a good distance. Like I like, I like running that distance. So, um, yeah, I guess that's her. Yeah, this is her. Oh, that's her. Yeah. Oh my goodness. She wasn't that nuts. I mean, I don't know how old she is in that video, but she's like a little girl. She's running with a little parachute on her back. That's so cute. Be like, oh, you're so cute. And then she's like, yeah. Oh my goodness. That's awesome. I've never run with the parachute before. That looks, that looks like it's fun. Me neither. I've run with a sled behind me. That feels pretty good. Sprinting with the sled feels neat. That's dumb. Oh my God. That's dumb. That's got to feel good to like, she got to be a boy to be, um, yeah, to be, I mean, I don't want to take, take away from her how much she's worked because you see her working like at such a young age, but to like be like a quote unquote phenom like that's got to feel awesome. Like everybody knows who you are and you're 10 and you're just destroying everybody and then you go out and you destroy everybody again and again in the Olympics and the world championships. Amazing athlete. Yeah. But I think one thing, uh, you know, it's because I think that some of the, sometimes this stuff gets people super excited to like sprint, et cetera. But just, just realize like you're your body, especially if you haven't done much of this stuff, her body is like supremely. Developed to handle high ground reaction force. Because one reason why these athletes are so fast is cause they can strike the ground hard as fuck and funnel that energy through their body. Yep. Cause their bones are developed, their tendons are developed. So you realize like you can't just do this quickly. You know what I mean? Like you have to, you have to get used to those stressors and your body has to adapt and make tissues to be able to handle more and more stress. So that's important. Yeah. I went to the track a couple of days ago and did some sprints and it felt pretty good, but just the flat surface is hard for me. It's just, uh, I have to be careful. I could hurt myself so easily. You know, it feels like I'm strong enough to just like contract my hamstrings or something and just like blow them off. You know, but so it's like, there's one area of me that's like strong and there's another area of me of like that I'm like weak. And basically when it comes to sprinting, right? Yeah. Um, and so for me, I have to.  and, basically, beyond a hill a little bit more. That's what I've learned over the past couple weeks, is when I got hurt on the treadmill, I slightly pulled a hamstring on the treadmill, that was at a lower level too. We're early on level three or something in terms of the grade, and I was going 14 miles an hour, and that got me a little bit. We did a lot of sprints that day too, so I think fatigue might have got me. But going to the track the other day, I was like, this feels pretty good, but I still don't feel like I'm fully ready to do a lot of workouts flat on the track. I sprinted on the beach the other day, but that was more like running. I wasn't able to really pick up a lot of speed, so instead I worked on fundamentals. I just worked on trying to drive the knees up, pick the feet up, just little stuff like that. Then when I run, it's going to look clunkier because I'm not running fast enough for it to look maybe the same way as people may have seen me run so far on the treadmill because you're running slower, it's just going to look a little different, and I'm trying to drive my arms and drive my knees and stuff like that. But it's fun. I probably did about six or seven of these for the day, and it's a decent distance. It was probably 60, 70 yards, something like that. It felt good. Barefoot on the sand. In the sun, all of it. All right, strength is never weakness. Weakness is never strength. Catch you guys later. Bye.