 WARNING! inBililil-3Bil-3Bil-3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3B3 Keep watching. Nice you shoot, man. Nice you shoot. Come on, man. Let's go, Andy. Let's go. You're really going up again. You were sad. Let's go. Let's go. There you go. Let's go. Do you mind if I squeeze the sun in? Go ahead. All right, cool. Can you do it? I've never used this machine before. Yeah. This looks cool. There you go. There you go. Let's go, man. You know what we forgot? The biceps. 88. We got some. We got some in this one. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go, man. I just looked up. Yeah. Yeah. Come on. Come on. Give it to me. Come on. We need those. Yeah. We need those. Yeah. Big triceps. Let's go. Big triceps. Let's go, baby. Let's go. Big triceps. Give it to me. Yeah. Come on. Yeah. Let's go. Give it to me. Let's go. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Yeah. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Oh, he's sinking. Yeah. Big triceps. Let's go. Big triceps. Yeah. Give it to me. Let's go. Yeah. There you go. Yeah. Come on. Let's go. All right. Yeah. Good work. How does that feel on your elbow? Um, actually, usually these are kind of tough on me, but this one's all right. Yeah, it hurt my elbow pretty bad. Basically, I had to be up here. I tried to do what you're doing and it hurt less for me at first. That's why it sunk in there. Yeah. And then it hurt less. It's too far away. So now I heard something about your competing with Andrea Shaw. I have been for the last four years. Yeah. What? Okay. So you've been in the Olympia then? Yeah. Three times. Three times. It's been my fourth year. What did you place? Second place. Oh, shit. From my first, second, and third second place. But where are you from? Ohio. Toedo. Oh, shit. Yeah. I actually beat her at the Rising Phoenix last year. I'm the only woman that's ever beat her. Well, that's fucking awesome. Meet you. Thank you. Yeah. I've known Andrea for years. Yeah. She's awesome. She's a really nice lady. Yeah. She's got it going on. Now, you're not doing, you're offseason then, huh? I am for the next six weeks. Okay. Well, they also eliminated the Women's Bodybuilding World Championship. So that's a huge, huge hit. Hold up. So it's just the Olympia this year. That's so unfair. Thank you, man. That's so unfair. I wasn't right for about a week. Yeah, that's a rough. I'm the last one that will ever exist. That fucked with me. I'm like, I won't have a chance to defend it. I was the defendant. But we went through this before with, they took it away. They made Irish retire. Yeah. And then Jake brought it back. Yeah, he's the man. He's done a lot for us. So. He put millions of his own money into it. So I can't cheat him. They took away the Masters Olympia. But then they brought it back. Yeah. So we never know what they're going to do. I was, like, I was trying to compete 212, but I was, I was always so light. Then they increased the classic cutoff. So now I'm actually fit into classic mathematically. So I have no choice to do classic because every year there's less and less 212 shows. So it's like, they've got their popular divisions and they've got their less popular divisions. And that's what they do is they just eliminate people's positions. Yeah. And it hurts. Yeah. It hurts. I think you're the first person that's actually, like, commiserated with me on it. You know? To be like, oh, that sucks. There's one last show. I'm like, you don't know what that meant to me. No. That was my life's work. My life's work. You know? We literally completely changed our bodies to fit some judges' opinions on what we're supposed to look like. This is extreme body modification. Right. You know? Yeah. That's tribal shit. Hey, you next. Go, go, go. Last one. We just added a dime. Go, go. Yeah. That's what you're talking about. Get it. Make them try something first. What's funny is I saw you on stage. I was at the Olympia. I watched Andrea, which means I saw you up there. I just didn't recognize you. Yeah. It's so different. I'm going to go back and re-watch. I'll be right there. We always look so different on stage than we do in the offseason. We always look so different when we're on stage in the offseason. I can't gain weight to see my life. I can't gain weight to see my life be there. Oh, I was hoping you had a trick for me. No. That's what I'm saying. I have to do classic because I can't fit in. When you said you couldn't get into the two on two, I'm like, oh, you know what it's like. I mean, I competed 212 at 175 pounds and I didn't come in last. And then I came in at a 176 and a 212 and didn't come in last. So I beat somebody. But this, now my cut off is 177. So now I'm going to be at the top of my class. So classic. The biggest of the class. The biggest of the class. And you have to actually manage it because if you're one pound over, then you're bugged. You're bugged. Well, I'm actually, I'm 5'4.1. So I get five extra pounds. So by height. Right. What's it, 10 pounds per inch or five? It's, it's, it's, my height is five pounds per inch. When you're tall, it's 10 pounds per inch. So. Me versus Andrea. It's 40 pounds. I'm lying to myself and I'm telling myself my cut off is 177. It's really 182. So that I make sure I make 177 and then I can fill into rather than having to cut down. Oh no. I mean by the time you get to your show, like, by the time you're flying, you're probably already cutting your vegetables and second head cones. But who knows? Like I've never had to weigh in anything. It's in bodybuilding. At least for them. They don't care what you weigh. They don't care how tall you are. I mean, they'll separate us by height, but not, not that much. Cause there's only 16 of us. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Come on. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. Let's go. With cameras, I'm doing 40 reps. There's no way. I don't even know how many reps I've got. I've got 40 reps with it. It, every rep hurt. It was like straight to anal with rubber glue and broken glass. It was not comfortable. It seems that we've done the social media opportunity thing. We got the, I had a heart-to-heart with Angie, but now I'm getting in the way of her workout. I met everybody. It makes sense since I'm not doing arms. I did that yesterday. I should just do my normal workout. Now, my normal workout is something different, but what I did yesterday was pretty good. So what I'm thinking is we could kind of do something very similar to what we did last time we were here two days ago and just play it by ear. Yeah, let's just get into it. Jeff, what's up, Jeff, man? How are you doing? Come here. It's been a bit, hasn't it? Yeah. That's Pittsburgh last time we traded. You were my first person I ever got to win a national show. Right, right, right. In 2012, Masters Nationals. Right, Arnold. I've never been more proud of anyone my whole life. You were the best soldier I've ever had. I think I still am today. Yeah. Well, what body, well, I was going to hit some, a little bit of back, a little bit of chest, and a little bit of shoulders. Yeah, yeah. Because I do upper-lower split now. Oh, yeah. I go upper, then arms and legs. Upper, then arms and legs. Yeah. And they're doing arms, so I don't want to jump in with them. They're ready. It's a little too much commotion. I hear you, yeah. I'm too much of an introvert. I feel like I'm in Vegas when I'm over there. But I... We're going to get together. Get a session in time, you know? I'm going to be here once a week. Yeah. So every... But I'm maybe... I'm tentatively. Maybe next Wednesday. Yeah, yeah. All right, give me a hug. Oh, yeah. I miss you. I'll have you take a peek at me, Tom. All right. See what you think. Well, we can do it today. We got the posing room. Yeah, yeah. So before you leave, grab me. We'll go in on the posing room, and you can show me how a real IFBB pro men's physique, classic physique can do it. Next Wednesday, let's shoot for it. Okay, buddy? Yeah, sounds good. All right, man. I'll touch you. It's going to be a lot of this for the next month. I'm going to go, and I'm going to prepare my gym bag for some real working out. It hasn't even been 12 hours. I did arms and legs until 3 in the morning. So I've had one meal. Actually, I've had a protein shake, some fried rice, and another protein shake, and that's all I've had. What I was going to do is grab one of their pre-mades, or there's a taco place where you can only order in Mexican. Me and Jeff used to eat there after every workout for like a year. Dude, that was so neat seeing Jeff here again. I love Jeff. What's the last time you saw in it? 2001. I had just done the Texas Pro, and Aaron was in the ICU dying of brain cancer, and he told me to go see Nate Meade win the North American, and I was afraid if I left he'd die, and he did. Heck, Heck, Heck, Heck, Heck, Heck, Heck, Heck, Heck, Heck, Heck, Heck, Heck, Heck Heck, Heck Heck, Heck Heck, Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck Heck so I wonder if it's apparent to the audience what I'm doing or if it just looks like I'm squirming. As I was doing it, I wasn't feeling it in my lower lats. I was feeling it in different parts of my back. So I was with my calf. I lowered the seat a little bit more and I sat down on it. But to sit down on it, I had to lean back to feel my lats. If I put my chest up against the chest support, I got all upper back. Like, depending if I push with my heels or if I push through my calves, what I found worked best was putting my knees on the metal bar with that and that all the way at the bottom, sticking my chest up, and like I was doing a rear double bicep pose. Just going like this. And that was, I'm basically doing a rear double bicep with this using the D handles to make it a neutral grip so I don't get too much original torque on my forearms. and that's not even a reverse. so Good morning. Thank you. Thank you. For new exercises, I go up a category. So for lats, I usually go 12, like 10 to 12. So if it's a new exercise, 12 to 15 is perfect. You always want to go lighter with new equipment. You can always go heavier, but if you go too heavy and you tear something, you're out for months. So for lats, I'm going to go up a category. Oh. Boom. So I don't know if you saw what I just did there. Not that. This is too long. So I twisted it so it's shorter. Now it's tight enough to bring it closer and get more lats. And I set it up. The way I twisted it, I had to do internal rotation rather than external rotation. So I triple disadvantaged the lats to make it so much more of a lat exercise. And you got to see it in real time. It's like when there's water in a bottle and a raven comes and drops pebbles in the bottle until eventually can drink the water. You just saw that happen. So people talk about how smart animals are. Humans are just animals that have the illusion of free will and conscious mind. This one's interesting because I don't know if you lean back in it or if you lean forward in it. You got to get a hole in the ass with shorts. Yeah, I know. Oh, good. That happened just now. Oh, that happened? Yeah. Yeah. It's the only shorts I brought, too. Oh. Notice I'm doing this with one hand. That's why it's taking so long. I am the only person I've ever met who can do that kind of shit. Everyone else needs help to do these VersaGrups. I've been, what do you call it, training people for 30 years almost in person. At least 20. No one can put straps on. No. No. Oh. Oh. Oh. I know there's this machinemist right here. It's right here. Right here. This has to make the final cut. this is a perfect example of oh my god my estrogen is high i'm gonna take uh some primo to crush my estrogen my joints hurt i'm gonna take deca for my joints oh my god my prolactin is high i'm gonna take caber for my prolactin rather than just walking over to this and say here's the tested mask machine perfect in every way not so perfect we just switched from high test low mass to high mass low test there we go turn my thumb so Oh my God. Much better. You got it. I love you getting all this on camera. Cause no one's going to believe this shit if I say see it. Oh, right there. Oh, right there. Oh, Tino. Tino. What's your favorite lat machine in here? Probably the high, so the high low handle that I under. Underhand? I love that one. Yeah. That one's my favorite. That's probably my favorite one. That was what I was going to do next. This I just saw him, all the big time power lifters in here. He brought this in and I was like, I'll take an extra lat machine. What I found was when I grabbed the handle and I pulled it the right way, it's pulling you all the way back. So it's more upper back. So by turning around, I'm able to get more lats. But then this hurts my thumb because of the angle. So I took this D handle and then the D handle was so long that it was stretching out, so I twist it. Yeah, man. A little stretch to make it work. Yep. Ooh, right there. Oh. Yep. Oh. Yeah. Right there. It's frustrating for a lot of people. It's like you meet a new woman, right? There's some things you like. There's some things you don't. So some people make do with what they like and they just make do with what they don't and they end up getting tendon problems and joint issues. I try to come up with a compromise so that nobody's, everyone gets what they want. So in this case, if I put my hand completely supinated, it's gonna hurt my forearm. If I do it completely neutral, it's gonna hurt my knuckle. If I do it this finger here and this finger here, I can control lat pull, bicep pull. If that way, if the bicep starts failing, I can lift off the bicep and it'll do lat. No matter how much weight I put on this, it just doesn't feel heavy enough. I'm not even using my strips. I feel like I've done three work sets on that and none on this yet. It might be that the machine is so light, you have to do one hand and you go five right, five left, five right, five left, five right, five left, and then you do both hands to get a whole set. But at that point, why aren't you just doing pull-ups? Well, that's why. It only goes up to 100 pounds. It's not very heavy. That's the problem why I'm like, spent four fucking sets on this trying to find where the work weight is. I thought I was jumping 20 pounds each time. I'm jumping like five pounds each time. But, but, my dumb ass, the first thing I did when I walked in the room was I did the heavy extensions with the ice-cold tricep and undid all the progress I made with the tricep getting better just to show off and try to keep up. And now I've got some pussified. I did triceps like 12 hours ago and it was perfect. I come in here and I fuck up. It didn't hurt, like it wasn't a pop. I didn't hurt my elbow, but it was so cold and dry. It was too dry to start with that exercise. I've used that machine before and my elbow doesn't like it. Anything that really isolates a long head really good, it hurts my elbow, which means it's a great machine. I'm not knocking the machine. I just shouldn't have went into it cold and done 40 reps with it. But because we hit back so hard on Tuesday, this Thursday back workout shouldn't matter that much. Again, this is not how you lift weights. You have a proper program. But since I'm learning the gym, this is recon. This isn't tactical. I'm just gathering intel. How much does this machine affect the muscle? How much of a pump do I get? And how much weight do I use? I'll actually program it all later, later. How much does this machine affect the muscle? How much does it work? How much does it work? How much does it work? How much does it work? How much does it work? How much does it work? How much does it work? so it has to be the last thing I do or it's got to be one arm out of curiosity nope can't budget so I got to do one arm on this machine this is a one arm machine oh so I tried that machine five different ways it was okay for bilateral I came over here tried this machine found that it worked one arm reverse really good switched to two arm reverse felt great except for I could do the whole stack for 16 so it's too light then I went back to one arm one arm is much better so of the eight or nine different permutations I just tried I have now mastered a way to hit the hardest to reach part of my body which is my lower lat with perfect perfection so rather than going to another machine and taking more time because it's already almost four o'clock and the doors of the concert open at six and we got an hour in there at least I'm basically ready to just do one more set of this the right way and then hit some chest middle doubts and rid outs I had to find the perfect setting so that it was no elbow no um pack on this side no wrist on this side no wrist on this side so now I've got it figured out I could have probably went a little deeper but if I went deeper on this side I'd feel something right there and I'd feel something right here I want it I went to the safest floor not the bottom floor I'm gonna call an audible rather than doing a back offset she's not even doing a third set because I got 10 with two plates last time but it was before back this time I got 12 with one and a half plates and I'm pooped maybe I'm not taking long enough a rest I'm gonna go hydrate more I only put two scoops of battle meat in because I knew there's gonna be a short workout whoa she's got a log book is that black dahlia? it is black dahlia I believe it was May 20 May 31st is that black dahlia? it is black dahlia is that black dahlia? it is black dahlia I believe it was May 20 May 31st 2022 is when Trevor committed suicide black dahlia murder is the biggest metal band to ever make it out of Detroit and I used to also train Trevor's cousin Katie so I never got to meet Trevor but I always wanted to uh yeah oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh oh! oh closer on your right side and one inch further apart on your left side if you use your thumbs as a guide to the where the end of the bar is and you even out your two hands your left shoulder won't hurt anymore it won't be better today but it'll be better in two weeks so I'm sure like that you can never use this shit I'm a dumbass I know it's embarrassing now go go in there now wrap it around now yeah and if you check this out put your fingers that's his rear delt and that's his middle delt and you want him to feel both of them now protract that shoulder out push it away from me as far as it'll go now come out and now you're getting more rear delt that way yeah my pleasure man oh so Oh God This album Was the first album that they got Brandon Ellis From Arsis We've been listening to Black Dolly Murder And almost one song from each of their albums Unhollowed, Nocturne, Miasma The Ritual Defloriate Nightbringers And then That's what this is, is Nightbringers right now I missed one in the middle, one of the good ones Ritual They picked up Alan Cassidy On Everblack And then the next album, this one, was Brandon Ellis As a guitar player Do you mind if I squeeze this head in with you? I just want to compare the two devices Yeah, no, alright I'm good Okay I'm like You're competing You're doing your thing Well I'm always competing So it's not like It's just another Wednesday for me Want to see Want to see Want to see Want to see Want to see Want to see Want to see This way yeah now it helps with your grip there we go What's up Luke right I'm done here I've got one set there and I'm done for this I usually go 15 to 20 yeah but at your age you could probably get away with going heavier yeah right yeah I'm trying to like I wrestled like I'll wrestle by 150 and I'm trying to like yeah 165 lean you want me to go okay go bro one two three four five six seven eight nine seven eight ten seven twelve thirteen one two yeah yeah thank you for giving me your turn harley I appreciate it so I'll pick some of these are great for everything except for deadlifting use a canvas for deadlifting these are better for everything else all right cool huh what the death grips I meant the Arnold there's Versagrips yeah views card RP my guess was helping to have more money for his Lamborghinis but I like the death grip since it's got the skull yeah so it's on brand for me oh yeah yeah nice to meet you Harley so my YouTube channel there's a playlist I actually fill out my playlist unlike everyone else go to the how to cut playlist how to cut yeah and then from there you can ask questions in the comments I will see them all right all right all right see you later buddy yeah I'm like I'm like fucking sorry I'm fucking shit he's like photo putting on the ring when I was like I will see your comments it's like put out put the ring on bitch put the ring on let's see how fast the Nazgul will find you I'm gonna run out to my car get my protein and my rice cakes do you want to just head back to our right this is my second day my third time here within a month and now it's like my knees completely good as new after one day from just this glutathione yeah vitamins and glutathione and yeah pretty much vitamins amino acids glutathione on Tuesday we did a pre-workout had an awesome workout today I came in here feeling like shit had a mediocre workout and then we're getting this done and there's this big concert tonight like three of my favorite bands are coming to town and I never go to concerts so we're trying to arrange to get at least one meal in the doors open in an hour but there's nine bands and I only care about the last three yeah I mean if you go to one of those concerts your eardrums are shot after the third opening act great news I am now partnered with Talon wellness Talon wellness will be able to provide you your medication so you get your consult with me I will review the blood work you got through m&m labs and Talon will be the HRT clinic that will get you your medication delivered to your home so there's nothing that changes on your part all you do the same thing you get the consult with me link is in the description box and I take care of everything it's just that now it is now a different HRT clinic and the lab process is going to be even smoother the prices will also be lower than they were with the previous HRT company so this is all good for everyone you'll love it click the link in the description box to set up your consult today and on with the show