 die BUN die, All right, let's go. So we're doing the rear delts first because everybody has shit rear delts. So you always want to start with rear delts first. So I'm using a cuff to take my hand out of it. I'm getting the angle lined up with the way the delt actually fires, closer to a 45 degree. I'm turning my body away, bracing my core, posterior pelvic tilt, external rotation of the humerus, pushing away, and I get to get a ton of rid out while I protract the scapula. So again, the toes are pointing away from the cable, cables about 45 degree angles, bracing the core, posterior pelvic tilt, traction with the right hamstring, protraction of the scapula, external rotation of the humerus. So this exercise is contradictory and counterintuitive to what you'd think. A dumbbell exerts no force at the bottom and exerts a ton of force at the top, the opposite of what you want. So logically you'd want the cable by your knees and you'd want to pull out like this so that the cable forms a 90 degree angle with your wrist. At the bottom, the cable is a 90 degree angle with your wrist at the bottom. So you'd want to pull out like this and the cable forms a 90 degree angle with your wrist at the bottom to exert maximal force in the stretch position. But for some reason when you do that, the delt doesn't turn on. So what I've got to do is create a 15 degree angle between my torso and my arm by leaning out almost. And that now lets the middle delt turn on at that 15 degree part. This first 15 degrees is supraspinatus. That's how you tear your rotator cuff. This, with a slow control tempo, not doing this shit, not doing this shit. We're not trying to get the biggest range of motion. We're just trying to grow the middle delt. It's like a 45 degree range of motion. So it's super counterintuitive and you just gotta fuck around and find out basically. So if I was to do this, I'm getting all trap. And if I do that, it's all front delt. Trap frontal, that's called a scapation. That's on a lateral raise. This is a lateral raise. And if I'm trying to scrape the floor with my fingertips. Then I'm digging out that middle dowel. This one, this is the matrix lateral raise machine. Aside from the prime, this is one of my favorites because it's got this flat pad. It doesn't have that roller shit. So most of these machines, if you look, there's this slack. Okay? So there's two reasons why I like to use unilateral, not bilateral. For one thing, so you got these two dots here. And they're supposed to line up with your shoulders. Now, a lot of people, they think this is your shoulder. That's not. That's where your medial belt cap is. You want to find your acromeon and you come down from there. And the greatest part here, you meet those two lines. This is my shoulder right in here. It's not out here. So you want to line this up with where your acromeon is and just beneath it, where the glenarohumeral joint is or the shoulder joint, right? That's where our hinge is. It's not out here. You want the fulcrum here. Here's the other problem. What's the distance between these points from my elbow to my wrist? I think my elbow to my wrist is narrower than my clavicle. So this is too narrow, most likely for me. For those two reasons, the slack and the fact that it's narrow, I like to just do them one arm at a time. Remember when I was talking about lining our shoulders up with the dots? So the Y axis is controlled by the seat. So if you're underneath here and it feels like it's really hard to get it to the top, then it's you're too low. If it feels like it's really heavy off the bottom and then it's really uncomfortable to get it to the top, then your seat's too high. If it feels right, your seat's just right. Goldilocks. I'm doing right arm. So I'm going to come in here. So this foot plants. This foot is almost wedged in. So I can wedge in. Or if I need extra bracing, I can do this. All right. So I'm doing right arm. So elbow comes down. Palm goes here. And then I've got it wedged from here to here. It's the bone supporting it, not the muscle. So I don't have to worry about getting tired. So I could come out like this. Or I could do this. But this is the most comfortable. You just have to remember to square your chest up with the pad. Don't let yourself angle out or you'll get too much front though. All right. We're going to do the left arm. There you go. It's locked in. I'm pinching with my adductor on the right side and my ham on the left side and my ham on the right. The middle raises kind of suck because right now gravity is pulling down, right? So there's no force acting on that delt. This is all superspinated anyway. The middle delt kicks in here. Middle delt carries it up to here. It's trap up there, right? So how do we load this three-way dumbbell to make it work right? This. Now this is an extra special bench. We could use any incline bench, right? So notice now we got about a 45 degrees force acting on this. Right here, we've got about maximal force where the muscle's the strongest. And then as we get towards the top where the muscle's weaker, it gets lighter. We can even come across the body like this and do rear delts. You could do rear delts for 10 or 20 reps and then switch and do middle delts. And a lot of people think I do this because I like metal. It's true. I like metal. But when you hold the dumbbell like this with those two fingers, it's middle delts. If you grab the dumbbell like this with the pinky, it's rear delt. And if you're going to have a dumbbell like this, it's front delt. So right here. So from out here to the side. Oh. Oh. So that's my honorable mention for people who don't have a Metrix lateral race, who don't have great cable equipment. If all you have is dumbbells, you can still work the middle delt. As everything I do, unilateral is better than bilateral in almost all cases. Again, I want to emphasize this. The middle delts recover really fucking fast. Really fucking fast. Like within 24, 36 hours or completely recovered. If you're doing like four or five sets. Something reasonable. That means you could really do iT4 or five, maybe even six times a week. People will say, well, I don't want to do that for triceps. You're going to get in the way by pressing. True. But what the fuck does a middle delt do? Middle delt doesn't do a goddamn thing. It just is the coolest looking muscle on a dude's body. Doesn't do a goddamn thing. So you can tren it every fucking day. No matter how sore it is, it's not going to get in the way your chest workout. It doesn't get in the way your back workout. It doesn't get in the way your leg workout. It doesn't get in the way an arm workout. You can just do every day is middle delt day. You can put them at the end if it's not a priority or first if it's a priority. Start with one set a day, then go to two sets a day. If two sets a day you're not sore, go to three sets a day. If you start getting sore, back it up. I'd rather do two sets every day than three sets every other day. I'd rather do three sets every day than four sets every other day. Right? It's just more per week. I hope you enjoyed my favorite delt exercises. I wasn't clear about this before. I do the rear delts first for most people because most people need more rear delts than anything else. Then middle delts. And then I don't even have to worry about front delts and vertical pressing because all my pressings incline anyway. So my front delt more works than my upper chest. I certainly don't want bigger front delts until my upper chest exceeds my front delts. Or at least they're balanced. Most of you are like, well, I don't have that problem. Believe me, you do. You don't have to do vertical. You don't have to do front raises. We rarely need to isolate something that's not a weak point. Almost always compound exercises are the way to go. Obviously for middle delts, it's only a isolation exercise body part. There's almost no compound movements that can safely hit the middle delt. So these are my favorites. I'll let you go home. Bye.