 Warning! Annotionazionazion, Jag Agrionazion, Jagionazion, Jagionazion, Jagionazion, Jagionazion, Yes. Hello. I'm a part of that. I'm a person. Entered into grad school. All opinions I say are my own. That being said, I'm excited to be on. And you sent me down a giant rabbit hole, which was actually very fun for me. So I'm very excited to tell them about it. So let's talk about your trip first. Okay. Let's talk about it. So tell me about Italy. I had a trip with my family to Sicily, which my nonna is originally from there. It was very fun. We went to one or two gyms, not much, but it was pretty cool. And yeah, I mean, we went to a salt flat thing, ate some good food. And it was mainly a family trip. So it was like a lot of family stuff. We visited her hometown, which was really sweet. And I barely relearned some of my Italian. Oh, okay. I want you to tell me off with swear words in Italian. Oh, I don't know any swear words. I know. Oh, man. I don't even remember. Fucking El Molto Bono. I don't remember. That was terrible. Yeah. That was terrible. It was horrible. I could be like, te for gulo. I can say at least a couple things in Spanish. I mean, not in Spanish, in Italian. I can say ciao, arrivederci. I know a little Chinese. I don't know much Italian. So. I try to teach myself Chinese, Mandarin. It is the most logical language ever. It is the best language. It's so nice. Like they actually, they don't call pygmy. Like they call pygmy, pygmy. They don't call it pork. Right. It's stupid. There's cow. And they don't have plural. So there's two pig, four pig, six pig. And then like there's shadow box and there's a shadow. Then there's shadow box. So like a shadow is a movie screen. Shadow box is a TV. And then there's a computer is called an electric brain. Mm-hmm. And then one of the, my favorite, and you might not like this, is that their symbol for wife is like a pig. And then a pig and a symbol for a pig in a house is happiness. And the symbol of two pigs in a house is unhappiness. I don't know. I have a dark sense of humor, so I don't care. Okay. But what was I going to say? Yeah, no. What is it? The parts of the word in Chinese always make so much sense. Like, have you ever seen the word for forest? It literally looks like a forest. It's so intuitive. And then you also have like actual counting. It's like one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten. And then it's ten, one, ten, two. Mm-hmm. It's so much more intuitive than English. And then instead of January, February, March, it's month one, month two, month three. It's freaking intuitive. It's such a good language. And maybe we'll all be speaking it one day. And everyone will. I think that's part of the reason why they're so smart is their language just makes so much more sense. Their brains develop better. I wouldn't be surprised. Someone's going to call me racist. I know it. It's just a matter of time. I'm going to send you this picture, too. This is going to be comparative pictures of. You'll understand as soon as you look at it. Actually, I can just send it to you. Dang. I didn't realize how much of a tail Nandrolone had. Yeah, it depends. Well, it depends if it's the undecanoate means 11 carbons. So NPP has a short one. Then there's cipionate has eight carbons. Then there's undecanoate. So the longer the ester. I like to use long esters daily so that the levels reach a very high stable level and there's no fluctuations. But the picture I sent you, it shows like the domain binding domain. Or I think what the DC. And then there's a ligand binding domain. Oh, it's a DNA binding domain and the ligand binding domain. And they're using the glucocorticoid receptor as a basic example. So it's 100% homologous with itself. But if you look at the mineral corticoid receptor, you see the picture I just sent you? Okay. See how it's 57? So there's 57% homology between the glucocorticoid and the mineral corticoid. Which means... Yeah. Yeah. So that if you have enough glucocorticoid, so if you have enough cortisol, you're going to hold water. Which is why people think they get bigger on tests than other drugs. It's because it drives up their glucocorticoid pathway. It gets shut down. And then there's deoxycorticosterone, which is 11 times stronger. So then it binds to the mineral corticoid receptor. So when they think that test makes them grow more muscle, they just are holding more water. And then you can see the DNA binding domain is different for each of these. They're closer. Now, if we look at the androgen receptor compared to the progesterone receptor, they're both 55% equal with the glucocorticoid receptor. Now, what we don't have is a chart that starts with the androgen receptor. We also see that the estrogen receptor is the least similar to the glucocorticoid receptor. So based on this, with direct action, that estrogen is going to have the least amount of anti-inflammatory effect. But there's going to be – and then – so unfortunately, I don't have the complete picture to where you could change these around and compare them. But as you can see, there's some overlap between the androgen receptor and the estrogen receptor. If you have enough androgens, some of them are going to bind to the estrogen receptor. If you have enough progesterones, eventually they're going to bind to the androgen receptors. That's why the first generation of birth control pills were progesterone pills were causing virilization in women, is they have this flood of progesterones, so they're binding to these unoccupied and highly sensitive androgen receptors. That being said, I don't actually – I looked mainly into the interactions between progesterone and estrogen. So I don't know much. From what I've read, I'm going to be totally real with everybody on here. I just dug into this today. So if I'm super unnaturally quiet, it's probably because I'm either typing or I literally have no idea what to say. But that being said, from what I've read, the progesterone receptor is not like – it doesn't have a super high binding affinity for other receptors. It's mainly binding to progesterone, but it does bind to other receptors sometimes. And I'm sure it probably would bind to more receptors if you have more progesterone. So that's like my two cents behind it. But, yeah, I know more about estrogen and progesterone. Right. And, yeah, I mean, I obviously didn't call you on here to embarrass you because of how you dragged me over the coals and embarrassed me on my channel all the time. This isn't revenge. It's that I can't find anybody who knows shit to talk to. So I'm going to teach you what I know so that you're able to then get smarter and use that information. You're like a living AI, which would make you actual intelligence, which would still be an AI. It's organic. You're an OI. You're organic intelligence rather than artificial. All right. So – I appreciate it. I actually really enjoyed learning more about – learning more about all of this today because I've been meaning to get more into learning about hormones. And I have, like, no good knowledge. Well, you, like, have – you have a body. So it's like – and you have these organs like uteruses and ovaries and breasts and you don't want to get cancer. So let's figure out how to prevent this shit now while we can. And then selfishly you won't get these things and we can altruistically stop other women from getting these things. Because I'm not impressed with the job other people are doing, frankly. Like, if women are handled as poorly as men are, then we have to do it because if we ain't going to do it, no one else is going to do it. So when we look at this, my model is – and I talked about this on Dave Tate's podcast and I forced you to watch it. So I – not my best angle. But basically there is a progesterone beta receptor and a progesterone alpha receptor. And the main function of progesterone alpha is a shorter form and it seems to have inhibitory effect on progesterone beta. And so progesterone beta receptor is the main functional progesterone receptor, whereas alpha is just an inhibitory. Kind of like we've got adrenal – like alpha 1 versus alpha 2. The point of alpha 2 is kind of just to mute alpha 1 in fat cells. Also, I guess something to mention is it's – progesterone in general is regulated very similarly to the estrogen receptor where they're both intracellular receptors. They both bind to HSP 90 and 70 proteins with – well, when they're unligended. So when it binds to progesterone, you're going to get a number of either homodimers or heterodimers. And I'm assuming if you get a heterodimer, you're probably – specifically a heterodimer with progesterone receptor beta and progesterone receptor alpha, you probably are going to have more of an inhibitory effect or a different expression of genes. So that's like the general idea. And I'm sure there's other external things that are enacting on like the expression of progesterone receptor alpha versus beta. Right. Cool. So I'm going to try to summarize what you just said to make sure people understand. So when you've got the progesterone receptor, it floats around in the cytosol just like the androgen receptor does. And it doesn't do shit. But it's basically sitting on a couch and then when that couch bumps into another couch and becomes like a love seat, if it's an alpha and a beta, then they're just on the love seat and they're busy. They're not going to do shit except for sit there together. They kind of cancel out. But the premise is that if a progesterone beta receptor binds progesterone, that's when it gets off its ass and starts getting to work inside the cell. And so we're going to try to figure out what this progesterone beta receptor is going to do to the breast first. And if we have time, we'll go over the endometrium. That's the lining of the uterus for men because I don't think very many men know what an endometrium is. Wait, just to clarify one thing. I believe it's HSP 90 and HSP 70, which would be sitting there on the couch with PRB, A and PRB. Oh, my God. PRB and PRA. Sorry. So it's like it's more like they sit there on the couch with another protein and their buddy. And then when progesterone comes down, it like kicks off their buddy. Oh, I see. And then PRA and PRB, they have different actions. And I believe it's probably been updated since then. But it's not just like like PRA doesn't necessarily inhibit transcriptional activity of PRB. It just has like different kind of expression, if that makes sense. Right. What I was reading on more recent stuff is that depending on the context, like for instance, epithelial cells are different than parenchymal cells, which is different from actually cancer cells. So depending on the cell type and what phase of the cell maturation it's in, whether it's a new epithelial cell or an old epithelial cell, also that all factors into whether PRB, when it's bound to progesterone, so the bound progesterone beta receptor that basically are functional unit of progesterone, whether it does an inhibition on estrogen receptor alpha or whether it actually modulates it in a nondescript way. But it seems that the only thing that's clear to me is that when estrogen's high, progesterone helps stop the breast tissue from growing too much. Now, whether or not that works that way in cancer cells is a different story. So from what I was reading, because I was looking at non-cancer cells in that very last study that I sent over, it was like, what was it? Oh, let me just read it. Well, probably they use like a cancer cell line, but like generally speaking, in mammalian cells, that's like how it is. So domains of the progesterone receptor interact with the estrogen receptor and are required for progesterone activation. Let me just quickly see what cell type they use. Let's see. Approximately 5% to 6% of progesterone receptor alpha or beta can bind to estrogen receptor alpha. Let me just make sure I said that right. It's progesterone receptor beta and alpha, 5% to 6% bind to estrogen receptor alpha. Okay. I said that correctly. Now, the specific part where it binds on estrogen receptor alpha is the ligand binding domain. So that's why it has the inhibitory effect. Okay. Let me stop you right there. All right. Nice. I know you're on a roll. I'm so sorry, but I know that they're getting lost. So basically, the part of the estrogen receptor where estrogen docks, that's where the PRB that's activated binds. So it just straight blocks the receptor the way tamoxifen would. Although that's a bad example because tamoxifen actually has metabolites. But this population thinks that tamoxifen works. Really, it's how relaxifen works. So it's like basically PRB bound works like a CIRM right on estrogen receptor alpha. It's a competitive inhibitor, not an allosteric inhibitor. Is this correct? I believe it works as an inhibitor in multiple different ways, not just competitive. So it could also work in allosteric. I'm like genuinely not entirely sure how this all works. But PRBA and PR... Oh, my God. I keep saying PRBA. PRA or progesterone receptor alpha and beta both appear to have almost equal affinity to estrogen receptor alpha. So it's not just like progesterone receptor beta. They appear to be pretty equal. And that's probably because the binding domain that is on the progesterone receptor that binds to the estrogen receptor isn't an area on the progesterone receptor that is virtually identical between both of the isoforms. Okay. If I guess for simplicity of sake, isoforms are just like... So the exons. The exons are the same. So there's exons and introns, and it's the same basic coding for the progesterone receptor. It's just a different combination of exons that makes the PRA and the PRB. But the half of the molecule that is what binds to estrogen receptor alpha is identical between PRA and PRB. They're virtually the same. There is one different part. I believe it's like AF2 or something on PRB, but we don't really fully understand from what I've read. Granted, if somebody sends me some other paper after this and is like, hey, you were wrong, I'm like... Oh, please, God. Please, God, for once, rather than just asking me how much D-ball you can take or whether you really have to drink water, if one of these fucking comments was an actually useful thing proving us wrong so that we could learn this, and then because when we do a follow-up video, because we're not getting to the bottom of it today, is that we do want to actually learn this isn't trying to get you to not use mass pee. This isn't me trying to get you to do your shots every day. This isn't me trying to even influence you away from Decker or Tren. This is me trying to figure out exactly how the progesterone receptor causes gyno so that I can show you definitive evidence why Nandrolone class fucking sucks. But if I'm wrong and we find out that Tren is as good as I think it is at growing IGF-1, then I'll build a sleep formula so we can sleep through Tren. We can all do Tren. We can all have brain damage. But I'm pretty confident by the end of this, by the time we don't get to this today, we'll find out that the progesterone beta receptor inhibition results in a lack of estrogen beta receptors receptors in the brain resulting in brain inflammation. And that's why Tren can upregulate IGF-1 but causes brain inflammation and brain damage and why Decker actually causes breasts to get bigger, not smaller. I know I cut to the end because I knew I was losing you guys because you guys are only good for about 11 minutes and we're 20 minutes in. All right. I'm going to give you the floor again, Ella. I'm sorry for stealing the mic. Oh, no, that's all good. Half of that went right over my head, so that's fine. It'll be okay. Because you've got to convince that if you're trying to sell someone a car, you know what I mean? It's like if you're talking about like it's like if you're trying to sell someone a car, you've got to show the dude how fast it goes and how loud the engine is. If you're trying to sell a woman a house, if you're trying to sell a couple a house, you have to show the woman how big the windows are and how much light gets in the room, right? So like we're all talking about the basement and what type of atoms are found in the basement of the house. But we're going to lose the audience if they don't realize that this is a building that they can live in or shouldn't live in. So we're talking about the estrogen receptor alpha being either competitively or allosterically inhibited by the homologous ligand domain of the progesterone receptor, which renders its alpha or beta status irrelevant. So progesterone receptor alpha and progesterone receptor beta can both inhibit estrogen receptor alpha. Now, from what you were telling me earlier, and I'm just going by what you said because I had enough digging to do with the, what was it, the estrogen receptor alpha and progesterone receptor interactions because that was finding that one study was a bitch and a half. Thank you. We all appreciate all men on earth, 4 billion people. And of that 4 million steroid users appreciate you digging today for their benefit because none of us, and I mean, none of us want to grow boobs. Estrogen receptor alpha can have like an inhibitory effect on estrogen receptor beta, particularly when both receptors are present in a cell and hormone levels are particularly low. So that being said, I'm pretty sure hormone levels are not particularly low. So I'm not entirely sure if that is exactly what's going on. Obviously, there is some sort of transcriptional thing going on. Transcriptional being just like your cells reading off your genes and causing things to happen in your body, i.e. growing breasts. Something is going on in the mix here that is causing proliferation. And I know that progesterone, when it's activated by actual progesterone, it does activate the MAPK pathway. So it's, or at least it can. And there are like estrogen and progesterone, both can impact growth genes. So things that cause growth. So let me slow down. So what you're saying is progesterone doesn't stop breasts from growing. It makes breasts grow. From what I'm reading, but this isn't breast cancer. So like. Right. That's what I was noticing. I noticed in breast cancer, that's what happens. But in normal tissue, if someone's got a really high estrogen, then progesterone inhibits the growth. So if a guy's got way too much estrogen, then the progesterone receptor would slow down or inhibit gyno formation. So a progesterone blocker or a weak agonist of progesterone might allow that high estrogen to cause the breast to grow. Well, that being said, I don't think it's just in cancer because I just, I'm literally looking it up on the spot. But progesterone may also play a role in breast growth, particularly during pregnancy, apparently. So, and I'm just reading off of like random PubMed articles, but this is like just what I'm generally finding. So if it does occur in healthy states, that could also be a potential thing going on. Well, so that brings us to another point because of now nandrolone and progesterone. Nandrolone and Trenbolone are both associated with prolactin. That erectile dysfunction is associated with DECA. A lot of people call it DECA-DIC. And the idea is that through prolactin, it causes phosphodiesterase, which allows blood out of the penis. And the way that Viagra and the Phil class of drugs work is their phosphodiesterase inhibitors. They keep the blood trapped in the penis. It also keeps it trapped in the muscles, which is why guys use Viagra before they work out. Or they use Cialis before they, all the times that they train, keeps your blood vessels dilated, gives you better pumps, et cetera. But the thing is, is instead of using Viagra to counteract the prolactin that's caused, they're using KABUR and bromipraxiline and bromocryptine, which I work on the D2 pathway as Parkinson's medications. But it's the same pathway you get with schizophrenia. So I don't like them playing with schizophrenia to prevent them from having impotence when there's drugs for impotence. But if we could get them to stop using the nandrolones in the first place, they might not have the elevated prolactin. So they wouldn't need to have anti-impotence drugs. So the question then is, what do we know about the correlation between pregnancy and prolactin? Well, prolactin is the hormone for milk to be released from the breast. Well, yeah. Combine that with progesterone. You got a perfect little couple of demons causing dyna panacea. And I guess also just to double down on that, when you were talking about the whole PDE inhibitors, because I love PDE inhibitors so much. Tell me why you love PDE inhibitors so much. Well, I work with them on a daily basis. We use PDE inhibitors for cardiomyocytes for heart research. So it's a big part of what helps to modulate your heart to function, because the inhibitors, they're secondary messenger modulators. Secondary messengers play a direct role in whether or not your veins are big or small. And depending on which PDE you use, you can cause veins to become big or small in different parts of your body. Can I stop you right there? I want to point out to people that this did not start as a dick drug, that originally it was designed for pulmonary hypertension, and that it just happened to give erections so much that there's more of a dick market than a saving life market, so that the company decided to repurpose it for dicks and not lungs. And so lots of people are dead, but then there's old dicks have hard odds. I remember. And I guess another fun fact, the first PDE inhibitor we've ever found was caffeine. Interesting. All right, so let me ask you this. With Viagra, I get good pumps. With Tadalafil, I get a lower back pump that's excruciatingly painful and sinus congestion. And other people have experienced this too. It's supposed to be they're the same drug with just different half-lives. They're not the same drug. It is completely different effects in me. So you said some of the PDE inhibitors work on different body parts in different ways. I would love to know this because I know that, for instance, admetine sulfate dilates vessels. They upregulate the nitric oxide synthase in the capillaries in the muscles, but they decrease it in the brain so that the blood goes to your muscles, not your brain. So you don't get a headache. You get a pump. And so I was wondering if that's the same thing with these different fills, if one of the fills goes to the muscle and the other fill goes to my sinuses. Okay. So from what I read about PDE5, because I'm more birthed in PDE4 and PDE9 and some other PDE inhibitors. Okay. So PDE5 is specific for Levitra. And I'm asking, is it just one class that PDE5 is the one I'm talking about and that there are other PDE inhibitors? Or is it like Tadafil is PDE5 and Sidenafil is PDE4? So Sidenafil and Tadalafil both are really potent PDE5 inhibitors that can interact with PDE8. More than likely, maybe because of the longer half-life, it's having more of an opportunity to interact with PDE8. Is PDE8 sinuses? Is that the reason? Well, let me look that up because I don't know. Let's see. PDE8 regulates secondary. Yeah, probably is that. I mean, it regulates airway smooth muscle cells. So if you're having like congestion and stuff like that, that might be the thing going on there. What's funny is I could use three milligrams, three milligrams of Tadalafil for three days. I'm blowing snot bubbles. I could use 100 milligrams of Viagra and I've got a great pump and there's no problems. It's crazy how different the potency is because a lot of these guys, they don't understand that. They don't understand the concept of potency versus efficacy. And that's a big topic of the channel that I struggle with daily. I mean, PDE inhibitors are pretty, I find PDE, like just phosphatidosterozymes, I'm so fascinating. But let me see if I can find that Warren Stapp pearls article because that was really good. And it talked all about like different types of, it had like a big graph where it was like the PDE enzyme and then what organ it was like acting on. I'm having such a hard time finding it. Let's see. I had it such a long time ago. Well, we could, we could circle back to this later because we originally were talking about progesterone receptor inhibiting or upregulating estrogen receptor. Was there other data points you had to validate or invalidate my idea that the weak binding affinity, the 20 binding affinity of nandrolone for the progesterone receptor was the culprit for why it upregulates instead of downregulates breast tissue growth. I mean, it probably could be one of the reasons why, when we're talking about binding affinity, because I'm not a pharmacologist, but by binding affinity is that like it binds to it and it holds on really tightly or binds to it and it just like, it only wants to bind to it. Because I feel like there's different kinds of like ways to talk about binding, because if it's binding to androgen receptors, because it does have a really high androgen receptor affinity. Yeah, it's got a 1.54. Nandrolone is a 1.54, whereas testosterone is a 1. It's the gold standard. Nandrolone has a 1.54, so it binds way stronger than testosterone does. And testosterone has no binding affinity to progesterone, but nandrolone has a strong, has a very, very, very mild binding affinity to the progesterone receptor. The theory is that the magnitude of the binding affinity is also correlated, not a 1.0 correlation, but there is a correlation to signal transduction. And that thus with a 0.2 correlation for binding affinity to progesterone, that it would have such a low transduction effect. It's almost functioning like an antagonist because it's sending a virtually a null signal. And that prevents the progesterone from binding a progesterone receptor and then prevents the inhibition of the progesterone receptor on the ERA, which would then allow the estrogen to bind to the ERA and allow Garnier to develop. This is just my theory. I mean, there's no proof of this because they don't take dudes, put on them a really shitty cycle, have them eat Crisco, and then have them work out for 12 months and see who has the biggest boobs. They don't do that. So there's no way to know for sure how to really fuck this up because you could reverse engineer an experiment by like, what would be the worst thing you could do to get gyno? And then test that and then start eliminating pieces from it from each leg of the experiment. But that's unethical. Yeah. I mean, the only thing that I'm like thinking about is like how, like what kind of binding is going on? Because again, I'm not a pharmacologist. So excuse my non-specific language here, but if it's, if the progesterone receptor is binding to Nandrolone with like the, what was it? The, the score of 20 or like point, what is it? Oh, the progesterone receptor binding affinity of 20. Yeah. Binding affinity of 20. And even though Trent has technically a higher binding affinity of 74. 74. Yeah. If we're looking at like androgen receptor affinity in junction to that, and Nandrolone is holding on to the androgen receptor really tightly and you have a crap ton of Nandrolone in your system. Then you have a lot of Nandrolone binding to AR, but you only have oh so many AR. Right. You flood the system with too much Nandrolone and it's going to have overflow to other receptors. Exactly. But because testosterone, oh my God, not testosterone, but because Tren, I guess you have a lower binding affinity and, but it's also extremely fucking potent. And then you're also having more growth at the Tren. You're lowering the dose there. So you're not really getting as much off target crap going on. Exactly. People don't run a thousand. Well, people do run a thousand milligrams of Tren, but people are much more likely to run 150 to 300 Tren. But there's lots of dumb motherfuckers run 500 DECA. So if you've seen some of my videos about this, I talk about like in the cutting phase, the safe dose of Tren is maybe four to seven milligrams a day. Anything more than that has been shown to cause brain damage. And you get most of the glucocorticoid inhibition from five milligrams. So you're getting the benefits without the drawbacks of a super low dose. Nobody wants to listen. They think if seven milligrams, good 700 milligrams is better. Then they can't sleep and then they get a domestic violence charge and then they miss their show. And then now with Nandrolone, I say like you could run maybe 10 milligrams to get the glucocorticoid inhibition and the collagen type one synthesis out of it. But don't run more because you get the brain damage. And it's also going to upregulate gyno. So I've noticed that as long as I run 20 milligrams of Nandrolone a day, there's no gyno. If I go up to 30 milligrams of Nandrolone a day, almost as if my estrogen is over 50 and I'm running more than 30 Nandrolone, I'll get gyno. And I went and intentionally had the glands cut out before I did the experiment to see how much can I tolerate. It still caused new tissue to grow. Yeah, I did prophylactic surgery for an experiment to see if it would work. And it didn't work. That is some crazy stuff. Someone needs to write a case report on you. That's insane. Well, there's just not enough bodybuilders to get any data. So if you really want to get to the bottom of the... Like right now, I'm running an experiment on DHB. I talked about Masturon so much that coincidentally, there's a Masturon E shortage. So everyone wants to know what they're supposed to use. So DHB works almost identical to Primo in structure. All it is is Primo is just methylated DHB. But Primo is an AI because it's got a double bond in the A ring at position one and two. EQ is also an aromatase inhibitor because it's got a double bond at position one, two. But it's their metabolites. It's not their parent hormone. So since DHB is structurally identical to Primo, it's just less liver toxic. I'm trying to see, is DHB going to cause an aromatase inhibitor effect? So I got my blood work done using a standard amount of test. And I know exactly how much estrogen I have, 75. Then at 10 days later, I'm going in, which would be tomorrow. I'm going to get the blood work drawn and find out, is the DHB lowering my estrogen? If so, how much? And if it's not, now the community has a substitute for the Masturon until the Masturon, till the tariff with China goes away and there's Masturon again. But right now it's like everyone's ran out of Primo and ran out of Masturon. So they don't know what to use. So I have to run experiments to find out what's actually the third best drug to use. So that's, I don't know when I went off the standard. I guess it was because I wanted to get my nipples cut off so I could find out how much DECA can I actually use and get away with it and see like, because for a lot of guys, if they compete, it's a lot cheaper just to get your gyno removed and then compete than it is to compete and lose. I mean, that sounds so painful to go through. It was so easy. It was the coolest. It was the coolest surgery. I did it when I was awake so I could save money. And I was just, and so I was just watching them and well, cause they numb it up and I was like, Oh, I miss that smell. It smells like bacon when they're like using the electrocardia and cutting through it. It really freaked out the surgeon cause she was a lady and she's like a prim and proper lady and she's not used to patients being doctors and being awake and making jokes about the smell of their own burning nipples. Oh man. Well, dude, I feel like, what is it? Anesthesia is kind of like time skipping. I don't like, it's so strange, but yeah. That's how you die. Like that's literally the only way to die in surgery is either that you bleed out completely. They stay, you were okay. Assuming you weren't already sick, assuming it's an elective procedure and you're going there completely healthy. The only way you die is if you bleed out completely and they don't stop the bleeding or the anesthesia kills you. So it's like, you're not fucking putting me under for anything. I want to be awake. If I can be awake through brain surgery, then I can, everybody can be awake. No. Unironically, typically people are awake for brain surgery. Right. That's my point. Cause you, yeah. Right. That being said, I don't mind being under. I don't really mind that much. So that's too scary. Giving someone that much control over your life. No way. I would rather fly the plane. That's like, let's see. One, two, three, four. Oh man. Wait, one, two. Are you counting how many ribs were removed? No. I'm counting how many surgeries. I've got two scars on my feet, but I'm not showing that. Okay. I had two bunionectomies, one rib surgery and all four wisdom teeth removed so far. And I have one surprise, not going to talk about surgery, potentially, but I don't know. So, yeah. So it's, I'll be under five times now in my life. That was like the most unenthusiastic thumbs up. That should be a meme. That should be the meme. It's like, I've got a surprise surgery. Like that. That would be the perfect meme. Dude, that. All right. So where are we going with this? So can we correlate progesterone with prolactin in pregnant and non-pregnant women? And then want to know where this gets even weirder? Ready? Ready? Ready? Remember how you told me that satellite cells just don't come poof out of thin air? Yeah. Somebody's trying to sell me on the idea that oxytocin causes an increase in satellite cells. So where does, where does oxytocin come from? Wait, which satellite cell? Hold on. But hold on. Before you ruin the joke, let me tell the joke. Okay. So where do you get oxytocin from? Someone. Nipple sucking and orgasms. So that the idea is that the only way you can grow more muscle cells after you get all your satellite cells used up is to have your nipples sucked or for you to have orgasms. And I have a feeling this is not true. So you have a way to replenish satellite cells. And that's just literally called replenishing satellite cells. Like, your satellite cells divide too. That's like how you're able to continue, like, donating satellite cells. And I'm assuming that at some point, like, maybe another kind of progenitor cell can play a role if you're young enough. But, like, I'm not one to speak on that part. But that being said, I don't think it's like, you don't, like, use up all your satellite cells and then, like, oxytocin increases them. No, it's your satellite cells go on. They keep on dividing. And then when they can no longer divide, that's called aging. Well, thanks, bitch. But my point is, is that I don't want to age anymore. I want my fucking satellite cells back. So you're the smart one. You got to find a way for me to regrow some satellite cells because these shoulders aren't getting any bigger. So we got to find a way. It doesn't have to be that I have my nipples sucked, but we have to find a way for me to grow some more satellite cells so I can get some bigger muscles. It's not negotiable. It's like, we're doing it. To be fair, there might be one way to potentially, like, glitch the system. Maybe if you took, like, other mesenchymal progenitors. And I was talking to Jackson about this. Like, if you can stimulate, like, if you can use stem cells from, like, I don't know. What is it? Like, you know how, like, you have, like, stem cells in your umbilical cord or some shit like that? Yeah. Yeah. If you can use, like, stem cells that are younger or you can use, like, skin stem cells, like, maybe you can probably reprogram them with, like, some cytokines and, like, differentiate them into a muscle-specific stem cell. But, like, that being said, we don't have that literature yet. So, all I need is to invent a time machine so I can go back 50 years and then cut my own umbilical cord and then teleport back with it to the future. And then I was able to grow me in a lab some muscle cells from the umbilical cord rather than just give my baby self a book with exactly how to train so that I use my satellite cells more efficiently. Well, I mean, to be fair, it's, like, you would have to do a lot of experimentation. From what I've seen with differentiating stem cells into specific cells and making tissue, like, that can be pretty difficult. But, honestly, it would be kind of cool if we could make, like, muscle transplants. So, like, if you have, like, a really crappy, like, I don't know, bicep, you can literally inject your own stem cells into where your body is and get new muscle. I need a right lat. What if we could turn your rib into my right lat? That would be awesome. Did you throw that out or did you keep that? Um, no. They kept that because it's, like, it's, like, the type of surgery I went under, it was, like, a Hansen something surgery. So, it's, like, a special surgery and only, like, two surgeons in the country can do it for, like, what I had. But it's, uh, it would be mainly specific to stem cells. So, you would have to take out, like, the specific stem cells and stuff there. Oh, I didn't take it. Bone marrow. Bone marrow. I didn't get the rib out. I got the cartilage out. So, I had. Oh, I misunderstood. I thought you actually had a rib removed, like Marilyn Manson. And I was just thought that was the coolest thing. And that, like, you would be able to take the marrow out and you just got a whole bunch of stem cells right there ready to go. Uh, no. I don't have undifferentiated pluripotent stem cells ready to go, unfortunately. I just have, I had way too long cartilage. That was my issue. So, what, here's something funny. I've got a stem cell story for you. So, I was in Turkey getting my hair redone. Yeah. And, and they're like, hey, do you want to add on stem cells? I'm like, sure. And they're like, it's a thousand euro. I'm like, okay, cool. And they're just, like, looking at each other. Like, they didn't think it'd be that easy of an upsell. Like, they just sold me some caramelized onions on my steak. But I was like, yeah, sure, whatever. I'm here. And then they're like, okay. And then they take me in this room. And this dude's there. And he's wearing, like, a nice dress clothes. Like, he's going to the club. And he had these gloves on. And he's hooking up. He's got this big tube with a hose. And I'm like, oh, what's that? And then he's like, no English. And I'm like, okay, cool. That's great. And then the nurse comes in. And she's just like, Todd, do you have a girlfriend? And I was like, no. And then she's like, that's good. And I was just like, okay. And I was like, so what's that for? She goes, oh, that's for the liposuction. I'm like, what liposuction? They're like, we have to get your stem cells. I'm like, from where? And I showed her my abs. And she's like, oh, shit. And then they're talking about it. I was like, can you get it from my glutes? They're like, I was like, then I'll have shredded glutes forever. And then they're like, no, because we don't want to hit the – actually, I love how they talk to me. They're like, there's something called the sciatic nerve. I'm like, oh, there is. And they're like, yeah, we don't want to hit it. I'm like, you think you're going to go through two feet worth of butt muscle and accidentally hit the sciatic nerve while taking a little bit of fat off of it? So I'm sitting there talking. And like, the dude doesn't speak a word of English. And then he's like, IFBB Pro. And I'm like, yeah. And then he's like, oh, so like that's all he knew in English was IFBB Pro. And so they did a liposuction around my abs that had no fat. And it took like a while. It was mostly just blood going up the tube because I'm watching everything. And I was like, yeah, that ain't fat. That's just blood. And so that's my stem cell story is how I had my stem cells harvested. They wouldn't take it from my love handle. They wouldn't take it from my ass. They had to take it from my abs that were already a six-pack. Oh, my God. That is one wild story. And also most of those cells are going to be what? Like progenitor cells for like fat cells. So what were they doing with that? They injected it in my scalp. Yeah, that was. Have you heard about that procedure? The TUE? No, I haven't. All right. So most people who use Primo will lose their hair because the Primo drives down estrogen. And then because there's nowhere for the testosterone to break down into, it has no choice but to break down to DHT. So then it converts into DHT inside the hair follicle by alpha reductase type one. Yeah, follicular DHT. And that causes a lot of hair loss. Right. Where everyone's taking finasteride, but that works on 5-alpha reductase type two, which is on the prostate. So they're taking prostate medication to prevent their hair from falling out, which has nothing to do with it. Right. And so when your hair falls, so basically what they do is they go through and they drill. Well, first what they do is they have you go face down and they inject lidocaine in your scalp. And it takes about an hour before the lidocaine kicks in. So most of the probodiboles who have had this done, they say this is the most painful thing they've ever had in their entire life. And then after about an hour of that, they start taking a drill and they drill out each and every hair follicle from the back of your head and the sides of your head. And then they put them on a table and then they drill them into the top of your head. And then they inject PRP and your fat cells for the stem cells. The total procedure is 12 hours long and you're awake the entire time. Oh my God. And the best part is nobody really speaks English and there's no doctor. So it's curious to know how exactly fat stem cells are working on hair follicles. I don't know either, but I just was like, I was like, if it's going to work, fuck it. I don't care because I didn't have time to look it up. It's just like, I had to make the decision right there. No, I'd be curious on the mechanism, but also if anybody is interested, I actually know a thing or two about like hair loss, like meds, just because Jackson was like struggling for a while. And he recently started noticing some pretty good growth. And he uses, I believe it's hymns. It's like a finasteride and finasteride. And hey, babe, Jackson, what do you use? Finasteride and what? Just bring them on the channel. Just bring them on. We'll we've never met after all this time. Jackson, come. Just summons him. It's like a 3% minoxidil and 0.something percent solution of finasteride. And he just squirts it on his head. So that works. I've been saying like orally taking finasteride probably ain't to go and injecting it probably ain't to go. But maybe injecting it. Sorry, not anything, but like topical. What I've been doing is, is I do the do test ride works on five alpha reductase, subtype two is type one and type three. And then I also use RU five, four, five, RU five, eight, eight, four, one. And then I also, and then it has ketoconazole in there. And it also has minoxidil at 10%. And then we put that all on there with GHK-Cu. And then you derma roll it. So you punch tiny holes in your scalp with this needle roller and you rub that shit in. And that actually helps too. Then I also go and I have this place called Brightesthetics. They, they do the derma roller, but they shoot electrical current through it and lasers. So you get electrical stimulation and laser treatment on your scalp to make your hair grow. Damn. That is a mighty hair. Right. And I'm like that with everything. Like people have no idea. They don't think I'm anal because I'm like, all you use is test GH mast. But when they understand what I went through in order to narrow the field down to those three safe drugs, that like, it'll all make sense. Like ethic. They're coming into the show 15 years later. Right. The first 15 years of this show was a lot worse. Like this is way cleaner, simpler of show that's going on. So it's better to like, if you're going to go like, Oh my God. So I have a client shall remain, shall remain completely nameless. But, um, they came to me and they wanted to run like multiple drugs all at one time. And I set them down instantaneously. Um, I think it's a good thing to make sure that you go in with simplicity first, add on, and then you slowly take away. Cause there's no need to be running everything on the fucking books. And I feel like that's like, just it's, it's how, it's how doctors prescribe. So it's, it makes sense. Like you go with the least amount that you need. You can up it if you really want to try something new, but if you can get it back down to the least amount needed. Right. And that's the point is start with a minimum of 20 testosterone and two units of GH titrate up until there's too much estrogen, then roll it back to the safe dose. And then there's a clean drug like masteron that neither upregulates nor downregulates estrogen quantity. Although there's some belief that in most people masteron is an allosteric inhibitor of estrogen receptor alpha, because there's no evidence that masteron binds to the ligand binding domain of the estrogen alpha receptor. So I've believed up until this point that whereas masteron was an inhibitor, an allosteric inhibitor of estrogen receptor alpha, that mandrelone was an allosteric activator of estrogen receptor alpha. But what I'm hearing from you from today is that my theory that the progesterone receptor may be an inhibitor of estrogen receptor alpha competitively, but the mandrelone is such a weak binding agent. It almost is an antagonist. So we're antagonizing the competitive inhibitor. So the progesterone works like a CIRM against estrogen receptor alpha, but that mandrelone is so weak of an activator. It works almost like an inhibitor of that CIRM. And that's in the healthy tissue, in the presence of excess estrogen, in the absence of cancer, in the absence of pregnancy. I mean, potentially. I, I, I, shit, shit. Half of that thing, half of the things you said went right over my head. Not going to lie. That being said, like what I generally, generally recommend is just like start off with TRTC if things are working out or not working out and then add in things as you need. But like, it's not, it's not necessary to like go crazy. Your population's also young. Yeah. So you don't need the growth hormone because you already have it. Yep. Right. So that makes total sense. Yeah. But, and I'm not saying the ocean. They don't really need testosterone either. Yeah. They don't. So, so it's almost the smart move would be using, and people are going to hate this. Mike Isretel went on record saying that the first cycle should be Anovar because it is the safest and easiest and there's low commitment. And it's not as scary. And people flipped out because there's no test base. It's not like this shit knocks out a hundred percent of your testosterone. It knocks out like 40, 50% of your testosterone. I mean, I will say just the reason why I recommend like TRT over Anovar is mainly because you can probably find better sources of it. If you really wanted to try, like you could probably lie to a doctor or something like that and get to actual TRT, which is probably arguably safer than going the dark route. But it depends on who you are and if you have a good source. Are you ready for me to ruin your world? Go ahead. All right. So I have a friend who's a respiratory therapist. I just saw him the other day. He sent Pfizer brand testosterone to get tested. It came back at 50% pure. The compound pharmacies are basically like underground labs. They're just made worse. Now, sure, there are some really shitty underground labs up there, but there are also underground labs that are better than any other pharmaceutical company. So, and then, like, maybe not like a compound pharmacy, but right. Okay. Like your PCP or something like that. Right. And that's what he, that's what he did. He got, he got sip from CVS, sent it to Europe to add it tested. And it was 50% pure. Oh, was it still good after being sent to Europe? It doesn't go bad like that. In fact, they don't expire. The oils will go rancid, but the actual, it won't crystallize out. Oh. Oh. Interesting. Well, we've been on for an hour. I don't want to take up any more of your time. Say hi to Jackson for me because I still haven't met him. But we have some digging to do because now that you've heard how much of a shit storm this is, you probably didn't realize how deep male breast issues and how it ties into the brain. And there's oxytocin and prolactin and their dick gets involved. And then they take Parkinson's medication, which gives them schizophrenia. Also, they can use the drugs that have the 1.54 binding affinity rather than the one binding affinity. Just because it's slightly more anabolic on paper, they're willing to do damage to their breast, their brain, and their dick. And it's like, we have to stop them. So we have to find a way to prove beyond a shadow of a doubt with your beautiful artwork. That's your cartoons that you do of how this shit works and why the DECA will then cause boobs and all the other downstream effects. I'll do a little bit more digging into the actual, like, how progesterone ends up causing the growth of breast tissue. Now that you bring up the prolactin part, I think that's also probably a good place to start. And I could probably bring that in there as well, taking the interaction between nandrolone, prolactin, and progesterone, and then grab that. So here's an input web. Ready? So if we drew a boob, all right, and then there's a bunch of receptors on the boob, and then there's going to be a plus or a minus, right? So DHT, androgen, thumbs down, makes the boob smaller, right? Estrogen beta makes the boob smaller. Estrogen alpha makes the boob bigger. Growth hormone makes the boob bigger. IGF-1 makes it bigger. Proactin makes the boob bigger. Oxytocin, I don't know. Progesterone alpha makes progesterone beta smaller. Progesterone beta sometimes makes the boob bigger, sometimes makes the boob smaller. And then DECA is an incomplete ligand, and TREND is an incomplete ligand. So those are all the puzzle pieces for us to solve our Agatha Christie mystery of who caused the growing boob. You're going to have to send me a little blurb of all of that. But no, that sounds like a pretty good place to start, and we're probably going to have to do more digging, definitely. It might take us six months. I mean, this is a big deal, because if we blow the lid off this, just like how you killed bulking, and that's why I called the episode Autopsy of Bulking, is that you prove beyond a shadow of a doubt gaining body fat is not necessary to grow muscle tissue. You want to know something really funny? I went into the entire video series, I guess, because now it's a video series. But I went into the entire, I guess, dissection of the whole bulking and cutting argument with a bias towards bulking and cutting. Because Jackson, for the longest time, got me to bulk for the first time in my entire life. And convinced me that it, quote unquote, worked. And it was like, so I went into that, like, research dive, biased into thinking that bulking and cutting worked. And I came out of it thinking that it doesn't. You mean you're like a true scientist? You actually proved the null hypothesis and didn't bury the data? Is that what you're saying? I don't do biased research dives. I do my best to, like, go into it as unbiased as I can. And when I did come out of it, like, even now when I look back at data, because I had a debate with another guy a while ago on bulking and cutting, and he sent me all of this data. One study I actually didn't see, but when I read through it, it's like 1% difference. Like, that's insignificant. That even is said in the literature. It's like, even though they were in a 500-calorie surplus, there was no significant increase in lean body mass. And he's, like, saying that it's because of this 1% difference. Right. And just because it's statistically significant doesn't make it clinically significant. Oh, it was insignificant. Oh, it was even statistically insignificant. Oh, man. And then, of course, like we talked about, you're causing adipocytes to multiply. So that means leptin at a given body fat total will be lower, which means gray linen will be higher. So you're permanently setting yourself up for obesity by bulking and cutting. But they can watch that episode. You proved it. And that's what makes you world famous is you murdered bulking. Not everyone's seen the body, but everyone who knows anything knows that you came through and murdered bulking. And you're so young that they're angry about it. Not only did a girl outsmart the whole world, but a young girl outsmarted the whole world. And so that's why I need your help. I need your help. We've got to figure out a way to stop gyno in its tracks and find out how responsible are the nandrolones. And not that I'm above it. I've used 1,400 DECA before a week. I've used 1,400 Tren a week. I've used 100 Tren, 110 methyltren, 1 Dimethyl Tren. I had a Tri-Tren blend that I made myself. I've used everything to do with nandrolone. I used nandrolone only for three years. I wouldn't even touch testosterone. I was like, fuck estrogen. Estrogen's worthless. All I need is nandrolone. I am completely on the other team just to show that I am not unwilling to admit that I was wrong and change sides. Like RFK Jr. and Tulsi Gabbard and Elon Musk. And every single person on our side has admitted they were wrong and changed sides. So this is going to be a long-term project for us. Thank you for coming on the show. How can they reach you and learn from you? You can reach me at Scientific Snitch on Instagram, TikTok, and or YouTube, which I've kind of abandoned almost. But I need to get back onto it. Yeah. Now, what about chemists? Tell us about chemists. Oh, the chemists. Right now, I'm in the middle of transferring over to another manufacturer. But you can currently buy out my current stock, which is the V-X-H-E-M-I-S-T. That's how it's spelled. The chemist with an X instead of a CH. So it's like the Chinese spelling of chemist. Yes. All right. Cool. And that is where they get lithium. That's your pre-workout, correct? Yeah. All right. Cool. Not actually lithium. Yeah. Quick. We got to work on your sales. You and me both have to learn how to do sales. All right. All right. All right. I'll talk to you later. Thanks for coming on the show. Of course. All right. Bye-bye. Great news. I am now partnered with Talon Wellness. Talon Wellness will be able to provide you your medication. So you get your consult with me. I will review the blood work you got through M&M Labs. And Talon will be the HRT clinic that will get you your medication delivered to your home. So there's nothing that changes on your part. All you do the same thing. You get the consult with me. Link is in the description box. And I take care of everything. It's just that now it is now a different HRT clinic. And the lab process is going to be even smoother. The prices will also be lower than they were with the previous HRT company. So this is all good for everyone. You'll love it. Click the link in the description box to set up your consult today. And on with the show.