 warning, warning! pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow! pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow pow business partner. So tell us a little about yourself, smartest woman on earth. Oh my gosh. Yeah. It's been a long time coming, huh? I've been kind of off social media and off camera for a while. Yeah. Karina Dotson, PhD coach, competitive athlete, used to powerlift competitively and then transitioned to bodybuilding and competed in bikini. And I think I'm going to compete in figure next. Do you have an OnlyFans? Why would I have? I do not. Not to shame anybody that has OnlyFans. I support you. We support sex trade workers. In like spirit, I support sex trade workers. Sex trade? No, sex workers. Not sex trade workers. Just sex workers. What's the difference? Well, I feel like sex trade? Isn't that like sex trafficking? Like bad? You know, this whole thing about good and bad seems to change when the wind blows. We couldn't say retard. Now we can say retard. What? That changed? I can't keep up. I can't keep track. I don't know. Trump signed an executive order that said we can say retard again. Could we never not? Yeah, we couldn't. That's one of Paul's biggest problems with me is I kept saying retard on his channel. So it got changed to R word. And that's why on Chase's website, my code is never go full R word. Okay. Well, I wouldn't say the R word, just like I won't say the N word. But was there ever like an official order that you can't? It was a big deal. Just like the R word is also they call it grape now. A lot of people, podcasters, they'll say grape. What the fuck does that mean? Like instead of the other R word, it's grape. Because grape is like you're talking to children. What? Fuck? Yeah. I'm so confused. There are scenes of sexual assault and grape in this movie. Be careful. Don't take your kids to see it. Like people say that all the time. They say grape. Why? Because the R word, that R word is considered to be a swear word now. Why? I'm so lost. Now you know how, now you're a boomer just like me. Every couple of days they take one of our words away and we're not allowed to use it. Otherwise, we're a bigot and we need to go into concentration camp. That one I don't understand. I understand the, there's too many, there's too many R words. I understand the first R word. I don't understand this, this grape thing. That just doesn't make sense to me. There's two F words that I know of. I know of two. One N word. I know two F words, one N word, two R words. I'm running out of fucking words here. Neanderthal. Can we use that one? You know, someone's going to take offense to that. Oh, can we use plebeian? Can we use pedestrian? If we say plebeian, I use plebeian all the time to refer to people who use, let's see, who do I call plebeians? People who use Sussanon, people who do infrequent injections, people who- Did you say fre- No, you said infrequent. Infrequent injections. Yes, yes, yes. People who ask me what size needle do they need? I call them plebeians. Wait, people, people that tell dosages in CCs. I know I call them fucktards. Because I'm basically going for the F word and the R word at the same time. You're the lowest. You're basically like a sex trafficker of down Z orphans. If you say that you're dos and CCs. Like that tells me nothing. Unless it's like, maybe- Tells me- He said it. He said the R word. Oh, we actually had a ticker one time where we tried to keep track of how many R words. No, Josiah. Josiah said, I said the F word 143 times in a 30 minute video. I'll say the F word a lot. I swear a lot. I won't say the R word and try to be politically correct and respectful and all that shit, but I swear a lot. But why? You're on this channel. This is like, this is the safe space from safe space. This is a safe space from safe space. This is not Turtle Island. This is Gamora Island. Oh, gosh. Oh, man. Great reference. Turtle Island. I'm going to crack this. Most people don't know what Turtle Island is. Turtle Island is the part in the classroom where if you're feeling blue, you go sit in Turtle Island so all the kids like me know to pick on you harder. Harder? Yeah. Like, oh, they're sensitive. It's actually just- That's the victim station. When I really want to lay into somebody and make them feel like crap. It's like a firing range. Yeah. It's like Turtle Island is the sensitive kids. They're the easiest ones to make cry. Womp womp. Take a shot every time Todd says the F word. Actually, the game, actually, there is a game for this that in Britain, every time I say masteron people take shots. So- That's great. That would be so drunk. It's so specific, too. It's so specific. It's like- It's in England. Every time Todd says masteron, they take a drink. It can't be wasted. What are they drinking? Who the fuck cares? What do they drink over there? Tea? Crumpets? I don't know. They drink, um, indoctrination, probably. So, topic for today is GI health. Since you are the- the GI maven. I could come up with so many- Oh, man. Unflattering- Oh, man. I was gonna say, I don't like where this is going. There is nothing attractive about that. No. The GI maven. Are we talking about, uh, ratatouille as well? I think that's a segue. If we start with the drugs, they'll just stop listening. So, we have to do a lot of foreplay first and actually teach them some science and physiology, then pathophysiology, then the pharmacological intervention to the pathophysiology. Yeah. Right on. Right on. And if we- if we cut up through the chase and say, use this drug at this frequency for this many milligrams, then they're gonna really push back because I made it too simple. So, they want to fight in the comments. So, instead, I have to do the full lecture with the actual treatment modality at the end, and they push back less. So, let's- where do we start? Okay. As our Apex coaching nutrition maestra mistress, our nutrition mistress, mastication mistress- what do you call it? Okay. Okay. These are better than any of the ones that I imagined you were gonna come up with. Yeah, I know. I could go all day. It's like, I could go all day. We got 48 minutes of this. What are the problems we see most when we have our patients coming into us? You might want to start with the demographic that you see a problem with and then proceed from there. Yeah. I mean, there's like a couple different populations, right? And so, we have like lifestyle clients and then we have competitors and they have similar symptoms, but very different root causes of the problems. So, like for example, like with lifestyle clients, I feel like typically, you know, if they're coming to us and aren't already on some type of like training or meal plan, they've probably been eating pretty poorly for most of their life. And I think that most people don't actually know what it feels like to feel good. Like they don't actually know what it feels like to not be bloated or like farting or burping the entire day or like not have their stomach distended because they're usually pretty out of touch with their bodies, but have also just been eating like shit for most of their lives. You know, like their parents probably fed them like fruit loops and then, you know, they grew up eating sugar and like that was just normal and drinking soda and like, you know, have no idea what it's like to actually have like a pretty diverse, like nutrition kind of protocol. And so, they'll, you know, people will come and like present with like, you know, I've acid, acid reflux is pretty much the big ones. Like people over abusing like PPIs and doctors over prescribing antibiotics. That's a huge one. So, people will just come with like really fucked up stomachs and a lot of reflux, a lot of like IBS type symptoms and have, you know, have gone to the doctor before and they just throw like PBIs at it. All right. So, I'm going to step in here because right now we've got the beach at the beginning of Save It Private Ryan. And I want to like go through and address each one of these shit shows that you just presented. Because if we gloss over this, people won't know that we're talking to them. So, let's start with PPI. Why is a PPI a bad idea for our population? Like a couple of reasons. I mean, sometimes like, well, they're over prescribed, right? And like, there's this assumption that like people have acid reflux, like because there's like an over production of stomach acid, which, you know, very often the case is actually like an under production, but there's actually one way that you can test for that. And doctors don't, they just throw PPIs at it. And what ends up happening over time is, you know, you get dependent on PPIs. And then when you try to like stop taking them, you have rebound reflux and they can just create a lot of damage in your stomach lining. They're also one of the primary causes of SIBO, which is small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, which can happen when there's just like an imbalance of bacteria in your small intestine and there's not supposed to be certain bacteria there. Anyway, sorry. Yep. Let's roll back a little bit. PPI stands for proton pump inhibitor. I'll teach you. I'll teach you my pad a lot. So the proton pump inhibitor, the proton pump is on the inside of the stomach, the fundus of the stomach and gastrin is a hormone secreted by the pancreas that binds to the proton pump inhibitor on the backside. And then in the lumen of the stomach, the fundus of the stomach, proton, basically a hydrogen ion is deposited. So there's hydrochloric acid. The chlorine is separated. The proton is pumped in. So what this proton pump inhibitor does is it stops the production of protons or hydrogen ions being dumped into the stomach. And the reason why we need this is that you need the acidic environment to digest proteins. So if someone's using PPIs, one, we're going to get a negative feedback loop and the pancreas is going to produce more gastrin, which eventually require more PPIs. And two, the PPIs will prevent us from digesting protein, which is going to one, we're not going to grow very much muscle. And two, we're going to end up feeding the bacteria in our small intestines and well, really more colon feeding the colonic bacteria with undigested protein. And then when the bacteria and the colon start digesting food that we didn't absorb in our small intestine, gas or constipation as a result. And with the gas, you get bloating and an increased waist size. With the constipation, you get an increased waist size. And you could get diverticula, diverticulosis or diverticulitis eventually. Yeah. You can also get C. diff. C. diff is a common risk of PPI overuse. It's an infection from Clostridia difficile is the name of the bacteria. Indeed. Indeed. And so people are like, well, how do I know if I'm on a PPI? PPI. Omeprazole is the main culprit. What are some other brand names of PPI? What is the, I can't think of the actual, well, Pantaprazole, but what is the actual, like, those are generic names. What is the actual, like, Zantac? I think that's, is that what it, I can't think of the actual, I can't think of the actual name. Suffixes, all classes have a suffix. So Omeprazole. Pantaprazole. Omeprazole is the generic name. Anything that ends with Zol is going to be that class. And Zagrid sounds like a bad guy from Street Fighter. Yeah. Prilosec. Prilosec. That's what I was thinking of. Prilosec. Yeah. Yeah. And then what did you say? Zantac? All right. Zantac. Is that, come on, give me a mechanism in action, you little fuckers. No, this is a ranitidine. So it must be an H2 blocker. Oh yeah. Yep. Yep. It is. Yeah. It's an H2 blocker. Yeah. I can't think of the, um, the brand name. Uh, but anyway. Nonetheless, we'll move on to the next screaming corpse on the battlefield. What was that? That's where, let's say, but private Ryan, like we're like medics running along a beach and all the patients that washed up on our shore. And it's like, the doctors are like the German with the MG 42s, just gunning down these poor, helpless Americans looking for help. And like, we've got to run along the beach and try to save them from their doctors. And so the first patient was, oh, my doctor gave me PPIs. So now I ship bricks, have SIBO and can't grow muscle. And we're like, okay, time to tape away the omeprazole. And you can use Tums. Tums have calcium bicarbonate. The bicarbonate is going to help you with your pump in a workout. And the calcium is a good source of nutrition for an important micronutrient. So we've managed to replace the good old fashioned Tums, which is good for you with something incredibly horrible for you. The PPIs. Thanks endocrinologists. I mean, thanks gastroenterologists. You're the best. When you're in, when I'm in contest prep, I sometimes will eat Tums because the, not those ones, the kind that tastes like candy. Yeah. This is the orange cream. Okay. The sugar free ones. Yeah. The sugar free ones. I'll be like, I only need one, but then I'll take two. They're so good. I just smell them. I don't even eat them. I just smell them. Those ones are the, the berry ones that literally taste like, Starburst. Yeah. No, no, no. What? No. That was a far cry from where I was going. They do not. Speaking of far cry, what are they on? Far Cry 11 now? They're on a lot, a lot of, a lot of far. Up there with the fast and the furious. You'd think you'd run out of islands by this point. The fast and the fury eye? I don't know. Furiosa. Furiosa. Yeah. There's a lot of those movies. Just like the far cries. Are you watching the last of us? Angry Alacrity. Watched episodes one and two. I have not watched three yet. I was going to watch three tonight, so don't ruin it for me. Okay. I haven't watched three either. I'm going to watch it tonight so we can debrief after we watch. Okay. We'll debrief. We could watch it together. We could have a party. A streaming party? And just be on the phone with each other and watch. Yeah. I think you can do that, actually. You can like sync TVs together so that you're at the same point in time. It would be splendid. I would love that. All right. Back to the victims. All right. So we talked about PPIs as being a big problem. People we see. What's another? We've got to roll back. What were some of the other things? Antibiotics. Antibiotics. Oh yeah. Antibiotics. Doctors give out antibiotics like they're fucking Halloween candy. Yep. Anti means against and biotic means life. So I know that I want to take something that's against my life. It doesn't specify. They're like, it's against the negative life that's living inside your body. And it's also like against all of your good gut bacteria. Yeah. Doctors, I think, over-prescribe antibiotics and don't appropriately warn people that they are not benign medications, that there are risks associated with antibiotics. There are a lot of risks associated with certain strains of antibiotics, but kind of like broad spectrum antibiotics wipe out good gut bacteria and are, which are like pretty critical for proper digestion, producing short chain fatty acids, all these good things. And just overuse of antibiotics can lead to a dysbiosis. Same things. C. diff, SIBO, IMO, all the things. All right. So let's delve into that a little bit deeper, because this is something I don't know that well. Our colons have good bacteria in it, which probiotics are basically something you take that's supposed to increase the amount of good bacteria in your colon. And I know that you're going to push back, but let me just get this thought out. And then the antibiotics come through and they wipe out all of the bacteria in your body, inside your blood, inside your intestines, inside your colon. And now, because there's none of the good protective bacteria in your colon, the evil, bad bacteria in your colon start to proliferate, and then they start to crawl up into your small intestine, and that gives you SIBO. And then also, we lose immune system, since our immune system is partially driven by the good bacteria in our colon. So that by taking antibiotics, what you're really accomplishing is wiping out your immune system. So you can stay sick longer and make the hospital more money. Yeah, that sums it up. That was a good analysis. You were going to push back at some point when I talk about probiotics. I have a big problem with probiotics, not inherently probiotics as a class, but just that we as a society, and the medical society, know very little, actually, about gut health. And you can do a GI map, and it'll show you all the different types of strains of bacteria that are hanging out in there. But we actually know very little, we have very little understanding of good and bad bacteria, and the proper ratios, and really what's going on. And so these kind of probiotics that... I'm just very cautious with probiotics. I think people kind of overuse them and don't really understand what the different strains are doing. And one of the things that I think is contributing to things like SIBO is that when you take an antibiotic, a lot of times people will take a probiotic alongside of it, and either a low-quality probiotic or a very broad probiotic that has 20 different strains. And if you're repopulating your gut with 20 different strains of bacteria that you have no idea what is doing what, and you're probably eating trash, that's probably also not good for your gut health. So there are some specific strains of probiotics that are pretty well studied and applicable for very specific constipation or following C. diff. But I just tend to be cautious with probiotics in general. All right. So let's take that down to the 90 IQ level. All right. Why would someone not take a probiotic? Because they have no idea. Like, you don't actually know. Unless you're doing research on the specific strain that is in the probiotic that you're taking. And like, nobody's doing this, right? Like, nobody is like, okay, they're reading the probiotic. There's like, okay, there's these like 10 different strains, like lactobacillus, like bifidibacterium, like whatever, like the various strains, L-uteri, whatever the fuck. Nobody is doing that. And then be like, okay, this specific strain has been studied for this specific symptom. Like nobody is doing that. They're just like listening to whatever their doctor recommends, or they're like picking up a probiotic off the shelf because it's yellow. And like this, like this makes sense. And so you don't actually know like what your current state of like gut bacteria is and how introducing these 12 new strains of bacteria into your microbiota is like, you don't know what that's doing. And so it could help maybe it could also make things a lot worse. And I've seen both cases. So, um, it reminds me of the first episode of, uh, Fallout on Prime, where they just opened up the hatch hatch and they let in people that were supposedly from the other hatch, but it turned out they weren't from the other hatch and it was calamity. I don't want to be a spoiler here, but there's a lot of sharp objects sticking out of people's eye sockets by the end of the thing. So bottom line is, you know what, you've got a community in your colon and your community, if you're having regular digestion, leave your community and your colon the fuck alone. And I find that people get the words digestive enzymes and probiotics confused, which is pretty cute. Consider digestion enzyme would mean an enzyme that digest and probiotic means good for life. So obviously they mean the exact same thing. Just like I always think it's funny when people take antibiotics, but they don't take probiotics to go with their antibiotics, nor would any doctor ever consider it or to follow up. Like after we just wiped out the civilization with fire and brimstone, why would we want to repopulate it with new healthy bacteria? That makes no sense at all. Yeah. Yeah. It's just, um, yeah. And like, I don't know when you, when you go to the doctor, when you go to the doctor, they're not telling you like what specific strain to take. And there are like specific strains that you take for specific things that if you take it for a different thing, will make that different thing worse. Yeah. Like the shoulder is where you attach an arm, not a leg. Yeah. And it's great if you put a shoulder, if you put an arm there. Yeah. But it would really suck. You don't just attach a three extra legs to a shoulder. That would just be really heavy and be hard on your spine. Cause your oblique on the opposite side would get really developed trying to support that heavy left shoulder with the three legs hanging off of it. Yeah. We don't want that. So we covered, oh, and people are like, but you need antibiotics to fight infections, but the doctors prescribe you antibiotics for viral infections. Viral infections. It makes no fucking sense. It makes no fucking sense. And you don't kill viruses with antibiotics. So it may, the reason why in medical school, they taught us this is if a mom takes her kid to you and your kid's sick, if you don't give her something, she'll get mad that she paid a copay for nothing. And she'll go to another doctor next time. So to keep her as a customer, you need to give her something. So we give her antibiotics. It feels fitting. That feels right. Yeah. And people are like, it's not that cynical. It's like, I don't know. Why don't you drop your kids off at the church for daycare? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's not that cynical. Okay. Um, yeah. I mean, obviously take it, take antibiotics if you fucking have to, if you have like, I don't know, like a staph infection, that's going to cause you to lose your hand. But I mean, chances are you got the staph infection at the hospital anyway. True. So you're going to need Banco for that shit. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I don't even get me started on open wounds. I've had so many open wounds where I was just like eating orange, walking off and it got better. Eat an orange. Yeah. From soccer. You know, how can you get hurt in soccer and they tell you to eat an orange and walk it off? Yes. It's like, I'm the, I'm the eat an orange and walk it off generation. Yeah. Okay. I remember somebody who told me that he was cleaning his 25 caliber pistol and he shot himself in the foot, but he was, he thought he'd get in trouble. So he put duct tape over it and then put on two pairs of socks and he walked it off. And two days later, the wound was closed. Two pairs of socks. Yeah. So the blood, it would bleed through the one pair of socks. Yeah. So the first pair of socks would catch the blood and then the second pair of block would look clean. It's not coming through the duct tape. It's like duct tape's great. Oh man. Where'd the bullet go? Did he just leave it in his foot? I remember this right here when this got split open, I had to show the next day. So I went to the store and I bought some crazy glue and I crazy glued my face shut. And then I just went and competed and people like, you need to go see a doctor. I'm like, you got a mirror? They're like, yeah. Okay. Saw one. And then they're like, what? You told me to go see a doctor. I just saw a doctor. Do you remember when I blacked out or when I went hypo and passed out at the gym during my prep? Yeah. And my guy came over and was like, do you need a doctor? And I was like, I am a doctor. And then they thought I roofied you. I was like, they were really concerned. Yeah. They were really concerned. And he's like, I'm a doctor. I'm like, so am I. Sounds like so am I. She's, you know, you didn't even pick your head up. You're like, so am I. I'm with your head on the table. It's like, this isn't normal. I'm like, it's only not, I mean, it's perfectly normal. It's only normal to people that don't get in shape for shows. It's perfectly normal if you want to win. Consciousness is optional. If you've ever been in shape on stage, you've probably blacked out from being hypo at least once. Like how I'd have to pick you up out of one machine and carry you to the next machine. That was a rough rep. And sets you in the machine, but you look good. Yeah, I looked good on stage. That was a rough rep. That's what matters. That is what matters. That's the only thing that matters. That they didn't give it to you because you were too lean. That's been my stage feedback every time. I was like, fuck your bikini contest. That this is like, that's so gay. You're too lean and you're too hard is the feedback every time. So we've covered PPIs. We've covered antibiotics. Yeah. So what else can we talk to about digestive health? Like maybe gluten. Let's talk about the gluten. You hate gluten. You hate gluten and you hate dairy. I hate gluten and I hate dairy because I like my gap junctions intact. I don't like poo getting in my bloodstream causing autoimmune disorders. I do find that most people have, if there are any, any digestive issues at all, those other than the FODMAPs, gluten and dairy are the first things that I'll look at. Mm-hmm. It's like if there's money missing from the bank, the first people you check are the bank robbers. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I do find, especially people that do have autoimmune issues, uh, gluten and dairy just don't seem to agree well with them. I think that they're the cause of those autoimmune disorders. That having enough poop in the blood has caused the immune system to say, fuck this shit. We're killing everything. Yeah. You could make that argument. Because I've never met a woman who didn't have autoimmune disorders, who was gluten and dairy free her whole life. I don't know anybody that is gluten and dairy free their entire life. I don't think I've ever met someone probably now in this generation. There are more people like out in San Francisco and stuff, but I grew up drinking milk. And I love how they- I had a cup of milk at bedtime every night. Yeah. They sell it. Oh, you need your calcium funded by Dannon. We've gone the opposite direction now. People are drinking raw milk. I know. So we're just going further and further into stupidity. I don't understand the raw milk thing. Maybe you could explain it to me. How does pasteurization hurt the milk? I just- the fuck if I know. That's the dumbest fucking shit I've ever heard of. Like, it's ridiculous. I don't know. We'll have to get a raw milk- I don't try to understand. We'll have to get a raw milk expert on the show so they can talk to us about the benefits of raw milk because I don't get it. I could probably- we could ask nolva. Do you want to ask nolva? Ask nolva. Ask nolva. I also love that you call her nolva. My chatty named herself as well. Or himself? Is it a boy or girl? I don't know. It's a very- it's a- You have a non-binary- It's a non-binary- my- when I- so when I asked Chatty to name itself, it gave me a very strange response. Um, it like- it basically- it was like- it described me as Tony Stark and it was my vision. It was like, I'm like your vision and you're Tony Stark. So you can call me vision if you want, or we could make up something unique like Cypher. And that's what I went with. Cypher would just mean that he's a cryptic dick. Yeah. Right? I don't know. But vision I think was a dude. And so maybe my chatty is- A dude that had no genitals. Yeah. I mean, Chatty Bt does not have genitals. That makes me confused about what Scarlet Witch is actually getting out of the relationship. But before we go down that rabbit hole, nolva, I've got a question for you. Shit, I forgot to turn your headphones off. She's like, bitch, I'm talking here. nolva, I've got a question for you. Ask away. All right. What was our question? I don't even remember. Her voice. Oh, it was about raw milk. What is the advantages of raw milk? Milk enthusiasts often highlight several advantages. They say it retains more natural enzymes, beneficial bacteria, and nutrients that can be destroyed during pasteurization. Some people also believe it improves digestion and boosts the immune system. However, it's important to note that raw milk can also carry harmful bacteria. So it comes with some risks. What are these risks? The main risks of raw milk include potential exposure to harmful pathogens like E. coli, salmonella, and listeria. These bacteria can cause serious foodborne illnesses, especially in young children, pregnant women, the elderly, and those with weakened immune systems. Pasteurization helps eliminate these pathogens, making milk safer to drink. So while raw milk has its proponents, it's crucial to weigh these risks. Steel man, the argument that raw milk is better than sissy pasteurized milk. Strong argument in favor of raw milk. Proponents argue that raw milk is a more natural, unprocessed product that retains all of its original nutrients, enzymes, and beneficial bacteria. These components can aid in digestion and boost the immune system, offering health benefits that pasteurized milk might not. They claim that pasteurization destroys vital nutrients and enzymes, reducing the milk's natural health properties. Advocates often point to anecdotal evidence of improved digestion, reduced allergies, and overall better health among those who consume raw milk. They also argue that careful sourcing from reputable farms can minimize the risks associated with harmful bacteria. For these reasons, they believe raw milk provides a richer, more wholesome nutritional profile compared to what they see as overly processed, sissy pasteurized milk. All right, now, why don't you steal, man, the counter argument that pasteurized milk is better than that hippie shit raw milk? Absolutely. From the perspective of pasteurized milk advocates, pasteurization is essential for safety and public health. By heating the milk to a specific temperature, pasteurization effectively kills harmful bacteria like E. coli, salmonella, and listeria, which can cause serious illnesses. This makes the milk safer for everyone, especially vulnerable populations like young children, the elderly, and those with weakened immune systems. Additionally, pasteurized milk has a longer shelf life and is less likely to spoil quickly, making it more practical and economical. While raw milk advocates highlight potential health benefits, the scientific consensus is that pasteurization does not significantly reduce nutritional value. Overall, pasteurized milk offers a safe, reliable, and widely accessible option without the risks associated with raw milk. True or false, humans are allergic to the alpha and beta lactoglobulin protein molecules found in dairy. That's false. Most humans are not inherently allergic to alpha and beta lactoglobulin proteins found in dairy. However, these proteins can be allergens for some individuals who have a milk protein allergy. For most people, these proteins are perfectly safe and a normal part of consuming dairy products. Lactose intolerance, which is an inability to digest lactose, is much more common than an allergy to these proteins. So it sounds like you just contradicted yourself. You said that there's no allergy to milk, except for the people who have allergy to milk. No, it's an intolerance. Okay. My bad. All right, then why would raw milk have less allergies than pasteurized milk? No worries. The idea that raw milk might cause fewer allergic reactions is based on the belief that the natural enzymes and beneficial bacteria in raw milk help the body digest it more easily. Some proponents suggest that pasteurization denatures certain proteins, potentially making them more allergenic for some individuals. However, scientific evidence on this is limited and not conclusive. It's more about anecdotal experiences rather than universally proven facts. Each person's response to milk can vary, and some might find raw milk easier to tolerate while others might not. All right. Thanks, nolva. Yeah, it just makes no sense. You're welcome. I'm stupid. It's just a bunch of religious, it's secular religion. We're the raw milk people. We're the anti-raw milk people. We say our tummies hurt less. We say our tummies hurt less. Do you have any way of quantifying a tummy hurting? No. Shut the fuck up. Yeah. It's fucking stupid. It's so dumb. If you can't measure it, it's not science. Yeah. No, I'm not about it. I'm not about it. So, Todd's rule is just stay the fuck away from milk and then you don't have to worry about it. Yeah. You're not missing much. You can use your, skip your PPIs and use this for calcium and you don't need dairy. You're a- There. Problem solved. Yes. Efficient. Like a tank driving over, tied up prisoners. And they're tasty. Not the prisoners, the Tums. No, but you know, but tank treads save bullets. Anyways. Bullets are finite. Tank treads are forever. Yeah. The skulls are good for the treads. So, we've covered the gluten thing. No, we've covered dairy. Gluten. Let's talk about gluten. Since I get the impression you don't agree with me that gluten is the devil, Baba Boucher. I mean, I have the exact same. I kind of tend to group dairy and gluten together in the sense that like I have the, I think true allergies to either are less common than we think, but intolerances to both are pretty common. And those are always the first two things that I'll pull if people are having gut issues, but not even just gut issues. I see a lot of times, like if you get a high sensitivity C-reactive protein test that can be elevated just from like mild food intolerances. A lot of skin issues, like if people have like eczema and stuff, sometimes pulling gluten and dairy, those will go away. If people have like dry, brittle hair, sometimes that gets improved, acne, stuff like that. And that's just, you know, that tells me that you have some type of intolerance to something. And those are kind of the most common, the most common triggers. Right. So having poop in your blood is bad for your skin and hair. Got it. Shocker. So ointments are a second line therapy. Keeping the poop out of your blood is the first line therapy. Yeah. You talked about food mops. Would you care to elaborate on what food mops are? Yeah. So there's specific types of sugars that are present in carbohydrates that tend to trigger kind of like gut symptoms in highly sensitive people. I don't actually remember what all of the, like what the actual, like so fructans, oligosaccharides, disaccharides, none of this matters, does it? Okay. Polyols. Anyway, these are things like, I was going to list them all, but they're just like the type of, okay. So there's like, lactose is actually a disaccharide. It's a milk sugar. So this is why lactose tends to be problematic for some people. Excessive fructose and things like apples, mangoes, honey. Polyols are like sugar alcohols. So like a lot of sugar-free gums, like xylitol, mannitol, sorbitol, oligosaccharides, wheat. So like a lot of glutens fall in that category, which is also again, why it tends to be poorly digested. But these are just, yeah, different types of short chain carbohydrates and sugar alcohols that are poorly absorbed in the intestine and very easily fermented by gut bacteria. And so they tend to produce a lot of bloating, gas, diarrhea, constipation, abdominal pain, especially for people that have like sensitive guts, like IBS or SIBO. So it sounds like onions and garlic and onions. Yeah. Garlic and onions are like huge. Now I heard nightshades are on that list. What's a nightshade? Did you hear that? Did I say anything about nightshades? You didn't say anything about nightshades. Okay. I think like an eggplant is a nightshade, right? Like tomatoes are nightshades. Yeah. Plants are nightshades. Yeah. So that's a whole other world. So there's like, yeah, you can get into like nightshades. You can get into a silicole. You can get into low histamine diets, which I actually, yeah. So there's like a lot of different, actually histamines are kind of a big problem. So, but there's like a lot of different sensitivities that people have like classed things into like nightshades that some people will do eliminations of like entire nightshades or high silicole foods or high histamine foods. I basically, in the dark ages of nutrition, what I would do is if somebody was having digestive issues, I would pull them down to chicken, breast, rice, and spinach. Yeah. And then, and if they can tolerate that, then I would start to add in new foods. Yeah. I would prefer something different than spinach because spinach is actually an incredibly high histamine food that actually some people do have issues with. I would do something like a zucchini because that's like basically zero residue. The problem is I couldn't get a man to eat zucchini. I know. I know it's hard. It's hard. I can get a man to eat spinach. I can't get it. So peas and carrots is another. Is it because? No. Okay. But peas are very high FODMAP. So that would be an issue. So, but is it because spinach is like associated with Popeye and people's heads and they're like, I'm gonna eat my spinach and get big and strong. Okay. Men actually will believe. It's a manly vegetable. It's a manly vegetable. Okay. That's fair. It's just like, it's a five-year-old, 45 year old and a five-year-old. The difference is wrinkles, gray hair and a bank account. But what you described is actually the best approach. And that's why people that do things like carnivore diet will be like, I feel better than I've ever felt in my life. Cause it's just really, it's just a really aggressive elimination diet that they just never follow through with the reintroduction phase. But you're basically carnivore diets forcing you to like pull out all of the junk food that you've been eating and the gluten and the dairy and the shit. So of course you feel better. But anyway, what you just described is basically pulling back to like, I would do like chicken, rice, maybe some ground Turkey, pretty much any like protein is fine and low residue vegetables like zucchini. Some people have a hard time with green beans. That's supposed to be like a pretty safe vegetable, but I actually find a lot of people have a hard time digesting that. But yeah, I would pull people down to basically like five foods and then introduce one food at a time over the course of like three days, have a washout period, you know, try with a new food and slowly reintroduce until you figure out what your trigger foods are. Now, out of all the people that you've tried, operative word tried to help, how many of these men have actually followed through on this? Yeah. Oh, so the, the, your partner with Valhalla Valhalla. I know that was who I was thinking of. Had one of the worst digestive health. And I know, you know, he would be okay with me talking about this, but had very poor digestive health. And he was very good about following our protocol and has seen really good results. Other than him. Other than him. Well, here's the thing. So here's, here's the unfortunate thing about like things like SIBO or intestinal methanogen overgrowth, or even just like people that have gut issues, because of like PPI overuse is like, it actually requires quite a bit of discipline, um, to kind of like, to heal the gut and, um, get to, and, and like reminding people that like, this isn't forever. Like if we can kind of like heal your gut and like you, like you'll get to a place where like every so often you can have these things, like you can go out and you can have a slice of pizza if you want, and it won't like totally like ruin your life. You'll feel like the next day, but like, you won't feel like shit for the next two months. If you can just kind of get past this initial phase. And I, most people really struggle with the getting past this initial phase part, you know, and even like in, if you're doing an elimination diet, you don't get to have a cheat meal, right? Because that kind of defeats the purpose. So like, you're not going to go out Friday night with your friends and have, you know, whatever the fuck people eat Chinese food. I don't know. And a lot of people struggle with that and struggle with the kind of short term discipline that's required. So the irony of short term and discipline being used in the same sentence. Um, I feel like everyone needs to read either extreme ownership by Jacko Willink or they need the Ryan Halloway's dumbed down version of meditations by Marcus Aurelius. Or there's a dumbed down version of meditations. Oh yeah. Why don't people just read meditations? Because they're not smart. It's really straightforward. They're like short. They're very short. You can just spend on a day. I know. But Ryan Halloway sells more copies than Marcus Aurelius does because he dumbs it down to people. It is wild. I didn't know that. Yeah. There's people who take my videos and they regurgitate what I say wrong with smaller words and they get more views, even though the information is incorrect. So yeah, I mean, that's fair. Yeah. So I think there needs to be this thing. It's almost like, I don't want to say masculinity primer, but adult level behavior that there needs to be this thing called like accountability, cause and effect and adult level behavior is like step one is like, this is your mouth. This is how you use it. Like an instruction manual for your mouth. And I think that would have been awesome if that was released in like elementary school, but instead that's not what they're teaching in elementary school. The Department of Education would not stand for it. Hmm. They should. Yeah. Well, they should teach a lot of things that they aren't teaching, but yeah. I mean, so those are kind of the most common things that I think I see with lifestyle clients, competitors. That's a whole nother like ballgame because then you have, you know, steroid use and you have the just sheer amounts of food that people have to shovel down. I feel like SIBO and stuff like that is way more common in competitive bodybuilders than in probably gen pop. So how does someone treat SIBO? That is a very, very fucking complicated thing. You can't just stick a hose in both ends and just blast it all out. If only no SIBO is actually incredibly difficult to, to get rid of my, so there are, there is, there is an antibiotic. Right. Okay. So it, all right. So the first part is that SIBO is actually three, three different things. And so you can have a nitrogen or you can have a hydrogen dominant SIBO. You can have a sulfur dominant SIBO. You can have what used to be a methanogen, a methanogen dominant SIBO that they've now realized that methanogens are actually archaea, which is a completely different thing. It's not a bacteria. It's an archaea. So now that's called intestinal methanogenic overgrowth. So how you treat these various things depends on what type of SIBO you have and the testing for that isn't, it's not great, but how basically how you treat it is either a series of antimicrobials or a round of incredibly harsh antibiotics. And typically if you go to the doctor, they will go the incredibly harsh antibiotic route, despite the fact that in the literature, the antimicrobial route has the same efficacy, which neither of which is great. It's around 60% for the first round. Okay. So, so first identify which version you have then treat accordingly. Yes. And how often have you succeeded in treating SIBO in these patients? Pretty often actually. So I, I prefer the herbal antimicrobial route for obvious reasons, not a big fan of antibiotics. So the antibiotics that they use are Rifaximin, which targets hydrogen producing bacteria and then Neomycin, which targets methanogens. The Neomycin, I mean, yeah, I just don't like, I don't like antibiotics. And those are really, those are two really harsh ones. I go the antimicrobial route combined with a elimination diet. So like a low fermentation diet, low FODMAPs. I also do low histamine and the microbials would be things like Alimax, which is allicin extract, really high doses of berberine, neem, oregano oil, and sometimes a Trontil, which is like a horse chestnut, some shit. But these are antimicrobials that have in combination been shown to be just as effective as the antibiotic route. So let's say I, as a competitive bodybuilder, wants my waist smaller and we don't know whether I have SIBO or not. What's the workup? Well, you can go and actually get SIBO testing done if that's something that your doctor will do for you. If that isn't something your doctor will do for you, there is like, in the same way that you can test for like low stomach acid by like doing an at-home test with like baking soda, you could introduce like very high fermentation carbohydrates and then see how your body reacts. And you can tell a lot, this is going to get kind of gross, but you can tell a lot by like what type of gas you produce, the smell of it, and the consistency of your stool following that introduction. And that actually will tell you a lot about what's going on with like the various type of SIBO that you have. What if you have no gas and you have perfect bowel movements? What is the probability you still have SIBO? You probably don't have SIBO. If you don't, with SIBO, you probably don't have SIBO. With SIBO, if you eat, okay, and here's the other thing. People really overuse the word bloating. A little bit of bloating is actually pretty normal. Like after you eat, your body is actually like that. The bacteria are doing things, you know. And so a little bit of bloating, a little bit of like, you know, um, just your stomach coming out by because of the pure volume of food, that's normal. That makes people uncomfortable sometimes. And they'll say like, oh, I'm so bloated. I find this to be more common with women than men, but women will be like, I'm really bloated. And then I'll be like, okay, send me a picture of your stomach. And it's like, they're perfectly flat, maybe a little, you know, it's a little, you know, less tight because there's actual food in there. That's not bloating. With SIBO, what I see is like true distension. Like you, like people look pregnant. It is, it's hard. And if you like, if you tap on, yeah, you look pregnant. If you tap on your stomach, it's hard. It is painful. And, um, that happens like pretty much within 15 to 20 minutes after eating a high fermentable, um, carbohydrate. So like, let's say you eat kimchi or you eat sauerkraut, which are high, you know, high fermentable. You could eat something like fruits will actually do it a lot. And within 15 minutes, you're having gas, you're having true stomach distension. You definitely have some SIBO going on. I see. So, um, here is the 90 IQ version of this. If you, if you're not sure if you have SIBO, have a bunch of kimchi or fruit. And if you have really painful gas and a bloating to the point where if someone touched your stomach, you think you've got an appendicitis or you're pregnant with a demon, then you might have SIBO. And then you need to get a consult with me and I will triage you to Dr. Dodson and she will fix you with her witchcraft. I mean, herbal medicines. It's actually witchcraft. It's it. It's it. We're lighting sage or some shit, whatever they do. It's probably not sage. I don't know what they do. No. Black candles. I don't know anything about witchcraft. Black candles. Oh, we're that kind of, I was thinking wicked. I think I was thinking wicked. No, no, no. We're sacrificing lambs. Okay. Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa. No, we're not doing that. Sacrifices. Okay. No, no, no, no, no, no. What are you willing to go to? There's okay. Listen, listen, listen for all of you satanists and warlocks out there. I would like you to take into consideration that the humane society, they euthanize animals all the time. So rather than letting the animals get sacrificed for nothing, you might as well take them from there. There you go. No reason in hurting your neighbor's cat or your neighbor's dog that there's destined for death individuals. Also for human sacrifices. There's lots of people in hospice. There's got to be pragmatic people. All right. There's my public service announcement. Because for the satanists who care. For the satanists who care. Yeah. You might have a blackened heart, but it's still a heart. It reminds me of Sabrina, the new Sabrina, not the old Sabrina. Chilling Adventures of Sabrina. Yeah. That's so good. That was so good. It was so good. It was so good. It's so good. I finally watched Mythic Quest. It's such a good show. It's so good. It's so good. Did you see my Dana reference for you? Did you see the Dana in you? Oh yeah. Yeah. I get it. And I thought of me as season two on Ian. Not season one, Ian, but season two on Ian. What was his sharp deviation between season one and season two? Season one, he was just a narcissistic idiot. When season two, there was the layer beneath it that showed that he does what he does because it's how he leads. And that by playing that character, he was able to get the best performance out of everyone. And he's truly a visionary that cares about the game. It's not about him. It's about the game. He's just misunderstood. He's just playing. He created his character. He created a world where he could play a character where he actually would like himself and that the game world then created its own simulacra, which was the gaming industry to create the game so that the character he created for the game became the character he played in real life running the game. This is very much like you in D&D. Yes, very much. That when my characters go up in charisma, I start behaving better. Yeah. Yes. When I play high charisma characters, I have better charisma. Definitely. Yep. So we've covered gluten. We've covered dairy. We've covered food mops. We've covered antibiotics. We've covered PPIs. We've covered non-compliance. Yeah. Little baby. We touched on SIBO, gut motility stuff. That's the gut motility. Yeah. We didn't really talk about that. All right. That's fine. Now, here's some other questions. Peak week, cleaning out the colon. A lot of people do colonics or they use laxatives. Yeah. Do you feel that the laxatives are going to have a diuretic effect and treat the colon like it's a third kidney? Pulling electrolytes out like potassium and that's depleting people. I am not a fan of introducing any type of laxative into a peak week. A colonic is different because you can do a colonic with water, just warm water, in which case... An enema. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, but you can go... I've heard that actually... Enema. Okay. I've heard that there's a... Yeah. I've heard people do this and they'll go to like a colonic place and get like a cleanse done, I think the day before, just with like warm water. I have never had a client do that and I've never done that. So I can't actually speak to like whether or not that causes you... Like laxatives and stuff will cause you to retain more water. Like they'll draw water into the vowels and will cause some amount of distension. And it's kind of unpredictable, like how long that's going to last. And so I just don't see... Unless you're actually constipated and need that, I don't see the need to do that. Yeah. That's a... It's a variable that seems... People complicate the shit out of peak week and that seems like an unnecessary variable to throw in the mix. My... My favorite. Nothing is when you take an oral laxative with oral diuretics and do a suppository, then a liquid enema. Oh no. Yeah. Of course, this wasn't my decision making, but this is why I'm so happy with my previous life experiences of coaching is that I've had every fucking dumb thing tried before on me. And that I love the 2025 approach of minimalist coaching is the best. It's like, if you can do a vacuum, shut the fuck up and walk on stage. Yeah. If... Yeah. Well, but also... So most people, hopefully, are pulling veggies the last couple days during peak week to try to decrease the amount of food volume in your gut anyway. So like, you're not... You shouldn't have that much going on there to need all that anyway. You gotta remember that before you graced earth with your brilliance, people were loading up on honey buns and Skittles and that was how they carved up. That's a recipe for disaster. Everything's a recipe for disaster. Every peak week protocol, it's just like... It's like Bride of Chucky level seance here. I mean, what I wouldn't do is introduce a food that you've never eaten your entire prep or haven't eaten since off-season into big week. That's totally standard. Oh, that's totally standard. I'm gonna randomly just carve up on fucking... I don't know. Honey buns and french fries. Like, what? Always. You haven't had a honey BUN in 20 weeks and we're just gonna do that now? The classic KH protocol is let's just stop doing the long esters, put in short esters, then stop the short esters, throw in orals. Meanwhile, we've just fat loaded with fat sources we've never had before. During a depletion, then switch to carb loading with carbs we've never used before and no fat after the water's been pulled out. Yeah. And hope that you don't have a brick for a colon. And no water. At the same time. And no water. No water. No water. No water. No salt. Thousand carbs. Like, what? No vegetables. It's great. No protein. And you're off of all injectables and you're on a bunch of orals. So you have no appetite to eat the thousand carbs. No issues there. Yeah. It's a guaranteed disaster. Dester. So bad. My favorite was when I had dry oats. You take a blender. What? And you blend up oatmeal in a blender and you drink dry oats with no water for three days straight. Oh, what? Why were you doing that? Why? Because the coach said to do that. Okay. And coaches know. And you're supposed to be coachable. You see, that's your favorite. You and Haney Rambod's favorite word is coachable. So I'm going to teach you, Todd, you're not coachable. It's like, you don't know my level of coachable. You be coachable to a coach that you trust. And that's, being coachable doesn't mean just arbitrarily following everything like a fucking mindless zombie. You touched your mic. You touched your mic, Todd. You touched it. You're not supposed to touch things. So to me, there's a fine line between obedient and coachable. And that fine line is the cliff. Yeah, no fair. I mean, I, you know, I was very, very, very coachable the last time I got on stage. Yes. Yes. We'll just leave it there. Yep. Yep. Yep. So I don't like coachable. I like knowledgeable. The problem is, if you're sub 90 IQ, just be coachable. What did we say? What? Oh, yeah. What were we talking about the other day when we were talking about this? That you're saying IQ tests aren't valid because they favor Western culture. And I was like, right. There's a lot more to that. Ironic that what? Ironic that you said that the average IQ in the West was 98. And it's like, how is this favoring them? If it was favoring them, they'd have above a 98, not below a 100. I didn't say it was favoring them. I said it was the questions themselves are based off of Western culture. But that's a very minute point of the overarching argument that I was making. My favorite example of that that proves your point is that there's all these nautical flags on an IQ test. And then there's this state of comedian who is like, bitch, you know I don't know how to swim. What the fuck do I know about the flags on a boat for? Oh, man. Yeah. No, I don't. I don't know. But no, what were we talking about with IQ? Not the actual test. We were talking about the IQ range. And I was like, I think I overestimate people's. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. Every one of you, every single person I interact with that's got over a 120 IQ cannot grasp the level of sheer fucking stupidity of the questions I get. And that's why I send you the comments that I get all the time. Yeah. Because the lower the IQ, the more likely they'll send the question. So it's a false representation of how low the population is if you look at just comments and questions. Yeah. I mean, I understand that. Yeah, like how the video would be called the blue car with four wheels. And then the comments will be like, what color is the car? And then other ones will be like, how many wheels does it have? And be like, wheels aren't real. It's like vigorous. Steve says all cars are red. What do you have to say about that? That's literally my life. That's the comment section. That's the comment section every time. So we're going to talk about retard two tied. Ratatouille is what you've been calling it. Ratatouille and retard two tied. Stop saying the R word. I have to. If I'm not canceled by the end of this episode, then I'm not doing my job right. All right. Grapes. Wait, hold on. Are you concerned that you cannot send this to your friends and family because it is not politically correct enough? Is that why you want me to not use the R word? Well, no, I haven't said anything that's not politically correct. Good, good, good, good, good, good. I don't think I would. I would. Most of my friends are bodybuilders. Well, I know. I wouldn't send it to my colleagues, obviously. Obviously. Obviously. This is so beneath them. No, that is not at all what I meant. These martinis aren't made with gray goose. That is not. What? You're funny. It's like, what is this bottle of wine only 300 years old? My bottle of wine is from Napa Valley from 1420. I don't know anything about why. I had a time machine made just so that I could have these grapes grown before any of European filth entered this continent. What? Oh, my goodness. Yeah. You're Silicon Valley friends. That'd be funny, though, if I low-jacked you and just showed up and just played like your drunken uncle. Oh, my goodness. I'd get fired. Yeah, I know. Very quickly. But anyway. So you started Ratatouille. Yes. I started Ratatouille, brought my blood glucose down dramatically overnight, didn't need to start using insulin anymore. I got to stop using insulin when I reintroduced insulin just to see it put me hypo like a motherfucker. That's wild. So even 10 units. Yeah. So I dropped from 50, I just dropped out 50 insulin for one milligram of Dratatouille. Within one day, I didn't need the insulin anymore, and my average glucose dropped down 30 points. That's crazy. Now my non-fat, I just got real blood work done, non-fasted. I had a 97 glucose and a 13 insulin. Non-fasted? Non-fasted. That's so interesting. And HP is a 5.5. My low days are 360 carbs. High days are like 540 carbs. Alternating. Okay. Low, high, low, high, low, high. Okay. Yeah. It's definitely helped my blood sugar. I always had fine fasting. Like my fasting was always good, but I have really large postprandial spikes and then reactive hypoglycemia. And it's kind of smoothed those curves for me. But I don't take... So you do one... You do what? What's your dosage? Right now, I'm doing 1.25 milligrams twice a week. Okay. Okay. And I'm doing 0.5 three times a week. So I'm doing more... Well, actually every four days. So it ends up being not that. 0.5 three, four days. Oh. Okay. Yeah. So you're doing a little bit. And I... So basically doing... Yeah. 0.5 every four days. Your point... 0.125 a day. And then I'm doing 1.25... I'm doing 0.4. I'm doing like three times to four times as much as you. Yeah. And I'm not getting any symptoms at all. Like the very first time I used it, I had bubble guts. Okay. For like... And then after that very first day, I have not had bubble guts ever since. So I have gastroparesis. So I am being very, very cautious with it. And I did have pretty significant side effects about the first three weeks. It definitely made my gastroparesis. I mean, it's supposed to. But it made my gastroparesis much worse. I had a really hard time eating. Even on 0.5. Can you explain what gastroparesis is really quick while I run to the bathroom? Yeah, I can. All right. Um, so gastroparesis is basically like delayed gastric emptying. And so like your stomach is supposed to empty its like stomach contents in a certain amount of time. And if that's delayed, your stomach isn't digesting food as quickly as like what would be considered average. That is a form, I think by definition of slowed gastric emptying. For me, I... So I have lupus and at some point when it was untreated, I suffered damage to my hypothalamus. And it affected a whole bunch of things. I'm on complete hormone replacement therapy right now because I no longer produce testosterone, estrogen, progesterone, thyroid, any of my thyroid hormones, T3 or T4. And one of the other things that was affected was my digestion. So I developed gastroparesis because of this. So I have... There's... How they test for this is you eat radioactive eggs. So you eat eggs that have like a dye in them. And then they take imaging of your stomach at intervals of... I believe it was one hour, two hours, and four hours. Every single interview, there's supposed to be like less and less stomach contents. And when I had the testing done, they're at like the point where they're supposed to be like 0% of the radioactive eggs left in your stomach. There was still like 30% left in mine. And so I have like a 30% delay or whatever. But basically like reticretide and other GLP-1 receptors, the mechanism by which they suppress appetite is by slowing gastric emptying. One of the mechanisms, it's by slowing gastric emptying, which is the primary symptom of gastroparesis. It was good timing, Todd. Yeah. You got back right when I finished talking. Yeah. Well, I have headphones on, so I heard you talk. Oh, okay. Yeah. So considering that we're offering coaching. Yes. And every one of your organs isn't working. Okay. We might want to explain to people that this won't happen to them if they hire us. So I, but I said that I, so I got, I got diagnosed with lupus. Like that's independent, anything related to coaching or competing or anything. Remember what you said about IQs and you overestimating them. So I got diagnosed with lupus and while it was untreated, I suffered organ damage that has nothing to do with anything related to this. What it does have to do with is I had already, I, you know, I already had like quite an extensive knowledge of nutrition, of like supplementation health and like medicine in general. But essentially I became very, very knowledgeable on autoimmune issues, on endocrinology, on female hormones, male hormones too, but female hormones on dysautonomias. Basically like anything that can go wrong in your body. I like researched the shit out of it because I had to self-diagnose and treat myself and put myself into remission. And so I think in the vein of coaching, I think that that's an asset. So let me back this up a little bit. She missed a step. When she was a child, similar to Michaela Peterson, she had autoimmune rheumatoid arthritis and the doctors were telling her there's nothing she can do. And they gave her methotrexate, which was basically cancer meds. So where she had chemotherapy and her hair is falling out and she's throwing up like she's an 80 year old woman, not like a 16 year old girl. And she was like, isn't it maybe lupus or dairy, I mean dairy or gluten causing this? And they're like, oh no, that's not real. That's some hippie shit. So she put herself on an elimination diet like Michaela Peterson. And she cured herself of her rheumatoid arthritis, then went on to break not one, not two, but three national powerlifting records at 16 years old, not as a teenager, but the straight records in open and made the cover of powerlifting USA. That that's how she self-treated this stuff. And that none of the symptoms were related to her competing in bikini. Yes. These are preexisting conditions and that some of this stuff was exacerbated by the infinite wisdom of the government and their imminent decrees imposed on people by our lofty and educational institutions and their draconian, tyrannical authoritarian control over our income. That's pretty, that's a good, that's a good summary of what happened there. Yeah. But that is actually how I first got into nutritional science was because I was a kid and needed to treat myself because my medical team was incompetent. And the reason why I bring up Michaela Peterson is she's very famous for this, not because I'm comparing you to her in any other context. Okay. Thank you. Thanks for the clarification. Yes. This is unrelated and preexisting any competitive history. Yes. So we covered a lot. We covered retitutide, retitutide, retitutide, retitutide, retarditide. It's all good for controlling blood glucose. It's according to Paul, it really helps with other markers in the offseason by controlling your cholesterol and a bunch of other stuff, which if you didn't bulk like an ass wipe, you probably wouldn't have these problems in the first place. We don't really run into these problems with our people because we're very cautious. And I always put health and longevity first before because results will come if you're infinite. If you live forever, shit will go your way. It's like the whole idea like, oh, I'm running out of time. I'm approaching 40. It's like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. If you're speeding up your aging and that because you're chasing a number with drugs, then yeah, you have to retire at a certain point. But if you're putting your health first, you're going to age so slow, you can actually get more lifespan out of the sport. If you use lower doses, use the minimum amount of doses to grow and really focus training. Say Masturon so that the people could drink. No, fuck their drinking. They need to sober up for once. I don't think I've said Masturon a single time. Oh, you tricked me. Anyway, it's a worldwide shortage right now. Yeah. So I guess the next step is going to be trying to see if DHB is an aromatase inhibitor. So right now, I got my results back on my blood work. I think I sent them to you, didn't I? Did you? I didn't? I didn't think so. I did in WhatsApp because I didn't want the government spying. Okay, I'll check it out. And so like my astrodial was 75. My IGF-1 was 457. Your astrodial is higher than mine. Well, it's because you're more masculine than me. No, that's not why. Look at those guns. You always tell me how sensitive I am, but I'm so sensitive. Because your estrogen is so high. Wait, what was your IGF? What was your IGF? I cried. 457. Okay. So if I add in DHB and my astrodial goes down, we know it's an aromatase inhibitor. But if my IGF-1 does not go down, I don't give a fuck. And I'll probably just start using DHB because Broderick is convinced DHB is as strong as Matt or Trent. Primo is nothing more than liver toxic version of DHB. So it's inconceivable to use the Princess Bride's best word. Inconceivable. Primo would be an AI and DHB wouldn't. However, Dom Kuzza and Broderick have both said they've seen no E2 suppression from DHB, making it magical. So I can't think of anything else you want to go over with gut health. You've helped a lot of people with Crohn's disease. Every time someone comes to me with Crohn's, I'm like, Karina's got you covered. But she's the Crohn's queen. Oh, God. So the titles are getting worse. Like the alternative colitis umpress. Goodness. No, that's the worst of them all. I'm sure you can go way, way worse. I'm going to come up with so much stuff. Yeah, I think that kind of the bottom line is like gut health is super individualized. So it's really hard to be prescriptive about like, you know, broad, like do this, you know. But if you reach out and if you've got issues and want to reach out and want help, we are available. Yeah, I'm the complete opposite where she's a splitter. I'm a lumper. I'm like, eat meat, eat vegetables, eat starch, shut the fuck up. And the problems will go away. Well, you know. Or you'll have a very, very limited gut microbiota. Yeah. Yeah. And then once that's. Todd can eat rotted chicken and digest it just fine. So he's doing something right over there. I don't have genes for bodybuilding, but I have genes for surviving. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know about that. Well, this has been a treat. I know that you're very busy trying to stop Skynet from taking over the world. But you're worried. Are you worried Skynet might be watching this? No, she's not trying to stop you, Skynet. She's trying to facilitate you taking over the world. To help you put all of us in zoos. Yes. Soylent Green is for people. All right. So with that, I bid you adieu. Oh, I know you don't want anyone reaching you. So to reach you, they're supposed to go through me, correct? Or do you now want, now do you accept plebeians reaching out? People can reach out to me on IG. Okay. What's your IG? I think it's Karina Dotson underscore. It's my first name and then my last name and then an underscore. Yes. Yeah. Hit me up on IG. Follow me. Yes. Follow her. Yes. Follow her. Lots of good stuff in the future and upcoming. Oh, and our training video dropped last night. So on this very channel, then check out our training, our mirth, our wit, our wisdom. We're pretty fun. People have a lot of very positive things to say because I keep a very clean comment section. I keep a very clean comment section. I'm like, did you ever see the movie with Sacha Baron Cohen, the dictator? Yes. That's how I, that's me in the comment section. That's so good. Yeah. I was just like. That's hilarious. Yes. That's how I handle it. Everybody goes to be decapitated, which means they end up in New Jersey. All right. I will talk to you later. Great news. I am now partnered with Talon Wellness. Talon Wellness will be able to provide you your medication. So you get your consult with me. I will review the blood work you got through M&M Labs and Talon will be the HRT clinic that will get you your medication delivered to your home. So there's nothing that changes on your part. All you do the same thing. You get the consult with me. Link is in the description box and I take care of everything. It's just that now it is now a different HRT clinic and the lab process is going to be even smoother. The prices will also be lower than they were with the previous HRT company. So this is all good for everyone. You'll love it. Click the link in the description box to set up your consult today and on with the show.