 Well, pfff, well, hello there, greetings, earthlings, before anyone asks me any question, I'll take this opportunity to bug the shit out of you with my supplement line, yay, so Battlemead, the new and improved Battlemead is ready for you, that we've got adult male sizes, I mean, blah, doses for adult males, doses for adult females, doses for adult females, doses for frost giants, and doses for gods, so depending on what you are, so depending on what you are, so depending on what you are, so depending on what you are, is how much you use, and I put the most expensive carbs on the fucking planet in here, that's why, that's why we have no margin, this is, this is the fastest carbs, they're like science-safe carbs, they go in your mouth, they make it your muscles, they're fucking awesome, they're called cluster dextrins, and I don't think anyone's using them anymore, I think John Meadows used to use them, I don't think they have them in granite products anymore, and then I put an EAAsblend that's super heavy on the Lucy, and this is on top of all the shit that was in the old Battlemead, so we got the glutamine, we got taurine, we got creatine, I put in stuff to pump, I'm hydroprime, I also have some glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agents, RALA, chromium, bandyl sulfate, and got sea salt, so that you've got the hydration, because hydration is fucking important, I mean, how are you going to get a pump without vibration, hydration, I can't even say hydration, I need to get hydrated, because I can't say hydration, of course, before that, you'd use the Fener's Fury pre-workout, which has a bunch of incredible shit in there, it's serving size is 18 grams, no, 37 grams, 37 grams is serving size, I got 11 grams of citrulline, it's the most citrulline on the planet, if you ever, if you're old enough, there's a movie called Spinal Tap, and they've got amps that go up to 11, so that's why I did it, I just, 10 was the most on the market, I was like, we need 11, because it's more, it's just like in the movie, and we got nitrosygene, which is expensive shit, vasodrive, AP, glycer size, yeah, I didn't spare any money, I basically made the most expensive products on the fucking planet, so enjoy, and I priced them in the normal, now everyone else's products are priced, in fact, I think this is cheaper than all the non-stim workouts, I wanted to bring you the best shit on the planet, at the cheapest price possible, and fuck the margins, let them die, oh, just got notification that my battle meet is on the way today, can't wait to try it, fuck yeah, POW MIA official, all right, blue sexually transmitted infection, what's up Dr. Todd, what's up dude, crazed MMA, my favorite, this is the updated version, yeah, yeah, the shit you ordered the other day, you're getting the new stuff, there is no old stuff going around, good intro formula, thanks man, yeah, I guess it makes sense, rather than me just sitting there bitching about something, it's, buy my shit, buy my shit, it's like, buy my cookbook, use truck builder, it's like, also, can you fix the tight issue yet, the light issue yet, oh, so I had the new camera guy, come over to my house, and he's like, you're right, it does look like the hangover, so I was like, there's no tiger though, but I think there is pee all over the bathroom wall, but he basically helped me move some shit around, so now we can see Vlad in the frame, say hi to Vlad, don't worry, he won't stab you from here, he's been turned to stone by a Gorgon, just started my second cycle today, 3.75 test, and 80 mast E daily, expecting no mood issues this time, I don't think you will get any, yeah, 500 tests would give you mood swings, especially if you do a 250, 250, all right, so we're off to a good start, yeah, that went really well the other day, that, a lot of people said that was their favorite live of all time, obviously, my mood is a big component of how enjoyable it is for everyone, I'm mad greater than Vlad, tone hat and clap hat, just like, shut the fuck up, he's got to go there, oh man, well, I mean, if you really want to go, get specific, Radu was a bad motherfucker too, Radu is the unsung hero, poor slave boy, forced into sodomy at an early age, dude, people don't know what we're talking about, check out either Dracula Untold, or Rise of the Ottoman Empire, seasons one and two, season two is specifically about Vlad, but without season one, you won't really appreciate my med, yeah, I was doing twice a week my first cycle, 250 Monday, 250 Thursday, nuked my estrogen several times with the Remed X, so I made progress, but felt like shit a lot of the time, right, I'll remember, I'll remember, so before I forget, new cool band, okay, so we have to build this band up, because they're not even on Spotify, like, they're ghetto as fuck, it's called Muggle Death Camp, it's extreme black metal, like old school 1980s Norwegian black metal, but they're from California, but they just made it sound like shit, but it's about killing people in the Harry Potter universe, so it's like, if the Death Eaters had a black metal band, that's Muggle Death Camp, and it's like, you know that they're poor, because they're only on band camp, but you can find there's at least a couple videos on YouTube, they're fucking amazing, even if you don't like black metal, it's such good black metal, it's kind of like ancient, like, it's almost like comedy parody of black metal, like if what we do in the shadows was a black metal band, that's Muggle Death Camp, all right, that was my, oh shit, we're losing you, look at all this crap flying by, okay, well, Dracula and Tilt was sick, wish they made a second one, well, because he was in modern day London with Mina, yeah, that would have worked, dude, that was so sad, the way his wife died, dude, I loved how he fucking couldn't control bats, like it was a VR gauntlet, like he could use a fucking swarm of bats, that was such a good Dracula movie, it's so good, Dracula and Tilt, it was so underrated, all right, yeah, seeing Paul on the live was a pretty badass surprise, he's a good dude, knows his shit, and I'm getting older, I look him for inspiration, is, okay, one thing I want to say, guys, when I talk about the bald priests worshipping at the altar of Primo, and that their religion is science, I'm not talking about Paul, he just happens to be bald, all right, Paul knows, Paul's humble enough to tell it like it is, but also not overextend his, what he's saying, yes, you did, I always think it's funny that the expression is catch, my man, all the best from Poland, okay, cool, thank you, and I think that's cool, you're from Poland, some of my favorite bands are from Poland, let's see, there's Decapitated, there's Behemoth, Vader I was listening to today, there's, Poland has some incredibly good black and death metal bands, and I know people are like, why do you rate the country based on its bands, it's like, because metal is my religion, it's like, nothing is more important than metal to me, it's like, I legit just finished Dracula Untold with my wife 10 minutes ago, free on YouTube now, that's, that's probably because they're trying to ride the Nosferatu wave, what'd your wife think of the Dracula Untold? I, it was such a good Dracula movie, yeah, these streams are the highlight of my way, oh, thanks, man, I appreciate that, the amount of stupid questions is just tremendous, okay, so it's that, I feel so bad when I lose my composure, because I get mean to one person, and then someone asks a semi-good question, and then it seems stupid, because I'm already pissed off, I, my intention is to just get off the live broadcast when I start becoming a dick, so like, just start voting me down, like I'm a gladiator that needs to be executed, I know, I know, this meant murder them, that means spare them, but we're going to pretend that this means get off the live, like, this is when it's time for me to get off the live, it's like, if I get a bunch of thumbs down, all right, ending first cycle at one gram test, mass primo after nine months, going to 250 tests, what to expect on dopamine and drive, have HDHG and up, and so here's what I think, I think that most of you guys have been brainwashed into thinking a bunch of nonsense, that's all nocebo, I'll tell you a story, I had a friend, and he was like, hey, I watched your video, and you talked about deca dick, I think I've got it, I was like, you've been using DECA for two years, you've been using DECA only for two years, you've never had deca dick before, he's like, no, but I've got it now, I was like, so you watched the video about deca dick, and now you have deca dick, and he's like, yeah, yeah, and I was like, did you tell your girlfriend about deca dick, and he's like, yeah, how'd you know, I was like, did she say, uh, your dick's not working, it must be the DECA, and then every time afterward, you tried to fuck her, your dick was soft, and he's like, yeah, I was like, guess what, the problem's not your dick, it's your girlfriend's a bitch, that your dick has like, got more dignity than you, he's just like, fuck this bitch, I'm not gonna get her off, and he just quits, is like, you can't put up with that shit, so what you gotta do is sit her down, I probably should not say this, and just say like, and say, let me ask you this, it's like, when she wants to have sex, does she just throw a fit, because you're not fucking her? Yeah, it's like, so she doesn't actually try to fuck you, she's just mad you're not fucking her, and then when you start to fuck her, she's kind of half interested, and then she complains that your dick's not hard, he's like, yeah, I was like, does she wear sweatpants, and have her hair back in a ponytail with no makeup on, and then he's like, yeah, dude, it's like, you know her, I'm like, yeah, because she's a bitch, and that's how bitches are, that if she really wanted your dick, she'd do her hair, she'd put some makeup on, she might wear lingerie, she'd come out and actually try to turn you on, and then your dick would be hard, so next time she bitches about your dick winning hard, it's like, I've got an idea, I'll go take some Viagra, and you could put some makeup on, that'll work for sure, that's all you got to say, she'll move out, I promise, it'll end it, and you'll get rid of her, that's exactly what happened, it's almost like I know exactly what I'm talking about, and people are like, this is horrible advice, Todd, the guy's girlfriend just left him, it's like, no, since then, he said, that is the happiest I've ever been, she was the worst girlfriend, you're right, I only stayed with her because she was hot, but she treated me like shit, and the relationship was horrible, so moral of the story is, hot shits are usually more difficult, all right, did you see Castlevania Nocturne, watch it, or woke it, so that's the funny thing, is that I got through three episodes of season one of Castlevania Nocturne, and it was so woke, I just couldn't do it, and then my friend, he was like, from my gaming group, he's like, okay, season two's really good, you guys should watch it, I was like, okay, I'll suffer through season one, because you said season two is good, and then my buddy Brad is like, nope, not gonna do it, season one was so horrible, I refuse to give it another chance, because the fucking normal Castlevania was so good, it was so good, that fight with Carmilla at the end, so like, people are like, oh, he's a chauvinist, he doesn't like women, he doesn't like woke stuff, the best scene of the normal Castlevania was Carmilla's fight, she was the baddest ass motherfucker, fuck Belmont, fuck the fight with death, fuck Alucard, and fuck Dracula, Carmilla was the baddest ass vampire, you know, the whole Castlevania series, and her fight was the best too, so it's like, if my favorite character is a girl, how is that sexist, doesn't make any sense to me, that death metal band reminds me of the cartoon back in the two, yeah, Death Clock, of course, yeah, fucking Death Clock's the shit, with Nathan Explosion, and Pickles, and Squizgar's Squiggle, and Toki Wartooth, yeah, of course, I mean, those are the best songs, everyone likes Death Clock, Deco Only for two years is insane, nah, dude, it's some good shit, I mean, if you want, if you don't use GH, there's no reason not to use Deco Only, also currently at one IU GH in the morning, and two I use GH at night before bed, I have some leftover MK-677 that I want to throw in, there's no point, yeah, there's no point, that's like saying I'm going to put some sunblock on under my wetsuit, you're not going to get a tan if you're wearing a wetsuit, all right, yes, yes, it was so good, it's like, I think it was season three, episode six, which one of those things where you memorize that shit, like the fucking Battle of the Bastards, it's a season six, episode eight or something, or the Decimation of the Lannister Army by Drogon, it's season seven, episode five, oh, retitutide causes liver to dump glycogen, intra-workout carbs would be essential, would a two-to-one honey dextrose work, or does the honey, so here's the thing, with your carbs intra-workout, you would want basically two carb sources for maximum absorption, usually dextrose and fructose, which can be achieved with sucrose, so, and so honey would fit that bill, so you could use honey intra-workout rather than just straight sugar, or straight dextrose, or high fructose corn syrup, although high fructose corn syrup is too, sometimes high fructose corn syrup can be up to 90% fructose, and only 10% dextrose, and I, my opinion is intra-workout carbs are the last carbs you sacrifice, even on prep, intra-workout carbs are the most important carbs you could possibly have all day, Trevor punching Dracula was hilarious though, punches has no effect on drag, he's like, oh, you must be a Belmont, oh, I watched a documentary on YouTube about the Belmont family, people are like, what, it's like, yeah, everyone's like, do you watch Vigorous Steve, it's like, I don't watch bodybuilding shit, and if I am gonna watch bodybuilding shit, it's gonna be by bodybuilders, I'm not gonna watch biohacking shit, I'm gonna watch shit about Warhammer, oh, and Josh, to answer your question, I finally found a fucking concise Warhammer for dummies synopsis, let me try to find the name of this channel, it was called like TNT Gaming, and it was a husband and wife watching this guy talk about it, and his name, I think it was like Briggles or something, I wanna see what, War of the Witch King, oh, that was gonna be cool, oh, I didn't fucking do it right, I didn't find him, oh, no, that sucks, maybe it's in my histories, people are like, I don't give a fuck about your bullshit, I wanna ask you about steroids, it's like, well, guess what, princess, all the steroids in the world aren't gonna make you as cool as if you fucking are into Warhammer, so get with the program, history, you all, all right, Warhammer 40k, it's called TNT Gaming, is the couple, but I don't know what the, here, this is the dude, and I don't know what the original video is, is called, but that's the dude, and they cover, here it is, Bricky, I was right, so every 40k, well, so his other video, that's the, the lore, is fucking amazing how simple he makes everything, Bricky's epic introduction into the Warhammer 40k, oh, it's called Bricky's introduction to Warhammer 40k lore, is such a good synopsis, I think anyone would be able to follow that, because he started 60 million years in the past and worked his way up to the future, and he didn't leave anything out, I've been starting in the middle and spiraling, like, oh, I'm gonna learn about the sea wolves, it's like, that's not, that's way too specific, I don't even know about the warp yet, Arbiter Ian, that's your favorite channel, okay, I'm so behind, oh, no, I'm not, okay, John is the bomb, what do you think about taking two IU of HGH and 25 micrograms of IGF-1, I've heard that you can take as much, I don't know, man, I don't think you're at the level where you need to be using IGF-1, it's like, are you an Olympian level bodybuilder, if the answer is no, don't even fuck with IGF-1, it's so low yield for the money, it's not even worth it, any IGF-1 your body's gonna be able to use, you can make out of GH, plus GH does other good things, okay, I like Vig, here's Steve, I just don't watch it, because I'm not interested in learning that stuff, like, I don't care about peptides, I don't care about SARMs, he's doing a film and TV Q&A, that's cool, he's really popular, I mean, I do think Steve has the best deep dive information, like, if I want to do, if I want to learn about something, I'm going to start watching a Vigorous Steve's video, and then I'm going to follow up with the PID, PMID links he puts in there, nothing more metal than, in grim darkness of the far future, there is only war, dude, so, one of my first albums was Realms of Chaos by Bolt Thrower, and it was such a stupid, so there is, I was in World History Class with Stacey Baranowski, and she was like, that looks cool, is that a, is that like a band, and she looked at the album cover, and it was just a bunch of space marine shooting, and I'm like, well, of course it's a, of course it's a band, what else would it be, it's a CD, and then she's like, well, it looks like a fucking video game, that's why, and I was like, you're right, that was really bad, that I acted as if you were dumb, you had a very good point, and it was a game, it was Warhammer 40k, that Games Workshop paid Bolt Thrower to do an album about the realms of chaos, and because they're a death metal band, it made total sense, right, before there was death metal, they were grindcore at the time, and they threw out the lyrics and wrote their own lyrics, but they were still, I think, Warhammer 40k fans, so the lyrics did fit really well, oh, Bricky messes up a lot, a lot, oh no, oh, so Josh is to the Warhammer universe, what I am to the steroid universe, that is like, he will not be pleased, all other people are flawed, it's like, you are not worthy of the Emperor's devouring your soul, it's like, any quick tips on controlling lipids on cycle, don't eat like shit, don't eat like shit, eat like an adult, like, actually be a responsible adult, and act like you've got a disease worse than cancer, and you have to eat correctly, or you're going to die, and if you don't know what that means, hire me, I will, me and Dr. Karina Dodson will do your diet, and you will live, Adeptus Ridiculous is the show to watch with Bricky, Adeptus Ridiculous, I'm just going to take a fucking picture of that, come here, Josh, you're beautiful, there I go, all right, Legion is, Ketikis, nothing wrong, all right, A read, if eating 550 carbs a day, gain phase, with 70 being two rice, and corn cakes, banana and jam, 30 minutes pre-workout, at 13, 15, would the amount of carbs in meal two, at 1130 matter, so you're, okay, so your prioritization, okay, so priority one carbs, or intra-workout carbs, priority two carbs, or post-workout carbs, priority three carbs, are pre-workout carbs, no other carbs are a priority, that should make up at least 50% of your carbs for the day, even on a gain phase, that way, if you were, I'm not saying you should, but if you were one of the people who uses insulin, then you would use insulin pre-workout, and possibly post-workout, and you'd use the IGF-1 deaths, in the muscle you're training intra-workout, not advocating that behavior, but, if you can't get the timing of the meals right, there's no point in using the drugs, all right, GC, have you lowered your gear, bro, looking youthful, no, actually, I increased my gear, and I did things to make myself look younger, just to slap everyone in the face, that was saying that gear makes you look older, because that's just nonsense, there's no rational explanation for that, does retitutide, but, if you meant that as a compliment, thank you very much, no, I just took my hat off, and I shaved my beard, does retitutide make sense as a fat loss agent, and should I be scared of losing muscle, I mean, no, I don't think it makes sense as a fat loss agent, I think people should just stick to their diet, and grow a pair, all right, have you lowered your gear, bro, look, nope, the most interesting part of 40k, is how well they built backwards into 30k, so basically, you have 12,000 years to learn, yeah, so, I'm going to go back, and answer this guy's question, some more, all right, so, Paul, likes the retitutide, he says that it's good for fixing people, who bulk, I'm putting words in his mouth, but basically, if you did it right, and out, after you were lean as fuck, from a cut, and you had perfect blood work, if you didn't use drugs, and eat food like an asshole, then you wouldn't have skewed lipids, or have skewed blood values, so you wouldn't have to use retitutide, instead of a mini cut, so, if you're a responsible adult, and you could eat like a fucking man, and not be a pig, and not be a dumbass, and use too much drugs, you would never need to use retitutide, so, to me, it's basically hitting the failed button, like you failed your offseason, so you need to use this drug, to, and then you're not disciplined enough, to mini cut, but it's like, if you were disciplined enough, to mini cut, you wouldn't have failed your offseason, so, I mean, it's just not, it's something for biohackers, not for bodybuilders, biohackers take too much pride, in themselves, to have to just fuck up, thanks man, now, I know that sounds judgmental, and it's like, well, I'm just trying to discourage people, from leaning on drugs, rather than just being men, and doing what they're supposed to do, and what you're supposed to do, is stick to your diet, and stick to your training, what are your beliefs, on Alcarn, and increasing androgen receptors, so, I found, when I said it, because I was saying it for a while, that increased androgen receptors, but I couldn't find the proof, I found it, it was, in my article, for Battlemead, on my website, there's references, in the bottom, and it's in there, that it, I found where it was, because I knew it was there, but even Chase didn't know, and he makes the stuff, he, everyone heard that increases, the resources, but never found the proof, I found the proof, the link is in the article, for the Battlemead, so, if you go to the Valhalla Labs website, under the write-up for Battlemead, there's links, in the, my write-up of Battlemead, for evidence, as to why I use those ingredients, to prove my points, and the one for L-carnitine, is the study, and I mean, I made Battlemead in 2014, so, that's an old ass study, but, just because it's old, doesn't mean it ain't true, yeah, the beard aged me 10 years, you know, I didn't like the beard, being gone, but I've gotten adjusted to it, there was so much, positive feedback, on the live, that I was like, all right, I mean, it's, I'm eating off diet, one meal, once a week, and staying locked in, the rest of the week, considering, eating like an adult, that's not, but that's not what I mean, like, I don't know, that the diet's perfect, you might think the diet's perfect, but I don't know, that the diet's perfect, so, watch my videos, with scientific snitch, and, almost all the things, that bodybuilders do, where they abuse drugs, and abuse food, trying to force gains, that's bad for your health, and that's when you would need, to use drugs, to fix it, like right at two tight, but if you didn't do that, if you just used enough drugs, to grow, and enough food, to grow, and no more, you should be way healthier, and you wouldn't need, right at two tight, why is there a belief, that using steroids, make you look older then, it's, why is there a belief, that Jesus's mom, was a virgin, is that people, just make shit up, and it lasts forever, and you never, and that because people, just believe, whatever they're told, and it doesn't have to, make any sense, that steroids, might make you look older, but this is the stupidity, why would taking less steroids, make you look younger, that's fucking retarded, once you've aged, you don't go back in time, that's dumb, so, it's like, it's really dumb, it's not even like, a little bit dumb, it's like insanely dumb, how would, once you've aged, you're not going to ever get younger, the time only goes one direction, all right, believe, better to sacrifice some carbs, to consume one avocado, 10 grams of chocolate, 10 grams mixed nuts, two tablespoons of olive oil, no, I think the only reason, why you'd ever add in fats, is because the amount of carbs, you're consuming, is causing you, to become insulin resistant, now adding fat, to the same amount of carbs, doesn't make you, less insulin resistant, you'd have to replace, the carbs with the fat, to change the insulin resistance, but fat still causes insulin, to get released, so, I'm not a big fan, you know, you're better off, even then, doing a Justin Harris cycle, where you've got, high days and low days, because you're less likely, to get insulin resistant, that way, personally, I find that's just too hard, to manage the high day, low day, it's a nightmare, I'd rather just eat, the same amount every day, same food, same amount, same times every day, the healthy foods, are always better, than statin, statin causes muscle tears, but hits good, also, what do you think, about the receptor sensitivity, there is no back and forth, with people, yeah, that receptor sensitivity, is fucking retarded, that no one, with a mind, believes that shit, that, now to be a little bit, less cruel, the, the, receptor sensitivity, thing is based off of, membrane bound, peptide receptors, receptors, those do get desensitized, like insulin sensitivity, but, cytosolic, anabolic, steroid receptors, are up regulated, not down regulated, by the presence of anabolics, you look like, a functional member of society, are you sure, you're not too bad, I definitely am not, a member of anything, I would not join, like what did, Oscar Wilde say, or was it Groucho Marx, it was probably, Oscar Wilde, then Groucho Marx, is that, I would never be, member of a group, that would have me, DBD, hey doc, are you gonna, put some Valhalla merch, swag up online, so there are shirts, on the Valhalla Labs, website, but they're, the original shirts, so new shirts, have not been made yet, but there will eventually be, also, what do you think, about recensors, okay, yeah, I, there's a double tap, double tap, cucked, by God, it's so true too, because here's, here's the funny thing, right, Hercules, everyone thinks, Hercules' mom, got banged by Zeus, Jesus, nobody thinks, Mary got banged, by God, it's just racist, what do you guys, got against Greek people, all right, I would check, the LDH on Staten, those things, almost killed me, yeah, so, between Josh, being a nurse, and me being a doctor, both of us, hate statins, I don't even think, there's any evidence, that they improve, morbidity, or mortality, I think they just, artificially lower, your LDL, on your blood work, it's like, you want to convince, your daughter, there's no monsters, under the bed, so you put a blindfold, on her, and then say, look under the bed, do you see any monsters, no, well, I guess there aren't any, that's pretty much how, a fucking statin works, all right, thank you, not experiencing any insulin, I'll see you on 46 grams, of fat, and higher carbs, good, does doing second cycle, at the same dose, give fewer effects, no, no, you don't have to upscale, the cycle, amount, it's based off of, the amount of muscle mass, you have not, your experience level, you can even use less, if you're going to be, training better, our, our ARAN, what, do the RLA, and badalamine do, yeah, I've done badalamine video, breakdown videos in the past, I'll do another one, so, the, off the top of my head, I don't know which, glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent, exactly does the same, which thing, that I believe the RALA, makes the, the cell membrane, more permeable, so that the insulin, receptor, and the GLUT4 transporter, can migrate, where they need to be faster, and then, one of them, facilitates, the GS, second messenger system, working better, one facilitates, the translation, and one facilitates, the transcription, and one facilitates, the migration of the GLUT4, to the cell membrane, that all four of them, work synergistically, because they work on different parts, of the pipeline, that increase the insulin sensitivity, thank you for that question, using super physiological amounts, of steroids, free organ system, including the skin, according to Chad GBT, okay, well, so, age, and growth, are technically, the same thing, because age is vague, there's vitality, and there's longevity, but when you grow things, the theory is, that because telomeres, are limited, that the more times, you cause, cell division, the more things, are going to die, well, not every tissue, divides anymore, so, the theory is, so, like the heart, the heart cells, aren't going to replicate, so they're not going to run out, of telomeres, so that's not, a logical argument, the same thing, with muscle cells, the muscle cells, aren't going to run out, of telomeres, now, the skin cells, they might, you might grow skin faster, but that doesn't make you older, that just means, you have more skin, on your face, so the skin might fold up, and it might cause you, to have more wrinkles, but you're not older, your birth date, doesn't go back, do you understand, what I'm saying, so you might look older, in the face, but, now, like if you look, at the trend twins, they look more masculine, men look more masculine, as they age, because as you age, the brow continues to grow, the ears continue to grow, the nose continues to grow, the jaw and the chin, continue to grow, but that isn't necessarily, a bad thing, you probably have heard, that women think, older men are sexy, it's not because they're old, it's because they're more, masculine looking, because the same dude, at 40 or 50, is going to have, a more masculine, bone structure, than he did at 20, assuming he had, a large amount, of anabolic steroids, now let's say, you have a baby face, a baby face, is usually a baby face, because they haven't, differentiated fully, into masculinity, it's almost like, they never really had puberty, then you give them steroids, as an adult, and they start going through, facial puberty, at a later age, so they start having, a more masculine face, I could, pull up pictures, of me, at like 25, 26, 27, and I look really young, I look, like people thought, my pictures for me, when I was 31, I was 18, nobody says, I look better, when I was 31, than I do now, because the bone structure, looks better, even if my skin, looks like it has more wrinkles, because I have more skin, on my face, androgens, directly could increase, oxidative stress, and inflammatory factors, that damage skin cells, they can also lead, to activation, of sebaceous glands, increase oil production, never had any oil, on my face, androgens, directly, can, increase, oxidative stress, can, there's the potential, and inflammatory factors, that damage skin cells, okay, but, it doesn't mean, that there will be inflammation, that this is, based on the assumption, that androgens, increase inflammation, that isn't necessarily true, all right, now, then, then, can also, can, lead to, not also, activates, can lead to, activation, of sebaceous glands, increasing oil production, okay, but here's the faulty logic, oily skin, ages slower, have you noticed, that like, black people, could be in their 50s, and they look, very young, whereas white women, in their 50s, have very dry skin, and it looks very wrinkled, the more oil, in the skin, the young, the less wrinkled, it gets, because it's thicker, and also, the oil, would cut down, on inflammation, so, and it's also, moisturizer, which would prevent, it from getting dry, which means, it'd be less inflamed, so, even this statement, is internally inconsistent, this was written, okay, chat ppt, repeated something, that a human wrote, and humans, are flawed, all right, how long, are you gonna, run your 10% off code, for your, on your website, I don't know, I didn't know, I had a 10% off code, on your website, so I'll probably, turn it off tomorrow, act now, all right, it's like, AI is keeping you small, bro, all right, high dose, HDH, hinder workouts, if you can't, grab the dumbbells, because your IGF one, is so high, yes, but you know, but that's pretty much it, got to get my nine hours in, and put this GH to work, glad to catch you alive, have a good one, see you later buddy, like when I'm on low calorie, 1900 calorie, the weight I perform, the same reps, I can't, that has nothing to do with, GH, that has to do with you being, low cal, if you're low cal, you're not going to be as strong, man, you're not going to be as strong, or have as much energy, overall, your total load volume, is going to decrease, if your food goes down, like my food came down, quite a bit recently, and my performance in the gym, is way lower, Skynet keeps you small, while clothing Arnold, dude, dude, dude, the James Cameron movies, very, very cool thing man, Terminator's happening, yep, I understand man, that eating, 3100 calories, you have better workouts, than 1900, I get it, how, do you feel, about the injectable amino acids, for better muscle growth, well, I don't know about growth, but I definitely get good pumps, like, I tried that amino asylum, formula, and I've, had other people mail me, injectable stuff, for, like, basically injectable pre-workouts, they work great, I love them, stags, also, what is the minimum, amount of, ALA and ALA, B1 cutting, I don't know off, the top of my head, I think, is it 600 milligrams, what did I put in here, I know I put in the right amount, but I don't, I made it 14 years ago, 25 milligrams, so, maybe, I think that's a good amount, I'm gonna have to look up on that, I don't remember off the top of my head, what the right amount of, RALA is, we're not as popular tonight, oh, it's also a lot later, it's one in the morning, rather than 10 p.m., so, apparently, a lot of people have been unsubscribed, by YouTube, because there's people, like, how did I not know, that you do lives, I was like, you're probably unsubscribed, they're like, no, I subscribe to you, I know you subscribe to me, but YouTube came along, and unsubscribed you to me, and they're like, no way, and I was like, Chuck, and they're like, holy shit, you're right, I am unsubscribed, I'm like, yeah, all my friends are unsubscribed to me, so, that means that probably like, 80% of the people, that have subscribed, got unsubscribed, where, where, where, where, do you take, this, I don't know what that means, is 24 milligrams test every day, eight milligrams MPP every day, enough to grow in the long term, is what Dan Bilzerian uses, when he wants to grow, what's that, 175 test, and, eight times, 56, so he's like, I mean, yeah, I guess you could grow, on that, I mean, to a point, and then you wouldn't be able to grow, you'd need more, because you'd have too much muscle for that, is honey smacks, the best cereal, I think if you're a frog, and if you're the food pyramid, deep sleep induced peptide, you know what, I haven't tried it, I've heard about it, but I haven't tried it yet, what are the bunch of risks, of renatutate, another GMP one egg in the stock, so, I've had, two clients, that were women, on ozempic, one was having, bloody diarrhea, and kept it a secret for me, and the other one, was having, permanent diarrhea, and kept it a secret for me, and after that, I was like, well, I can't trust women, to use these drugs, so I stopped prescribing to them, and, I just, they're just not worth it, and, I mean, it's just a cultural difference, that, if you're someone, who eats right, and trains right, there's really no need for them, that they would have an application, for competitors, who are really close to show, and need to control their appetite, or post show, when they have the rebound phase, but most of the people, who use these drugs, are severely overweight, and just have bad eating habits, so they just use them, to not be hungry, so they just starve off the weight, which is never a good, Aaron, if I'm doing 90 minutes leg workout, followed by 25 minutes hit, how much carbs, would you put in your drink, let's see man, it doesn't work like that, like, everybody's metabolism, is different, how much, okay, hold on, how much carbs, would you put in your drink, you actually asked me the right question, you asked me what I would do, okay, so my 90 minute leg workout, well, using, battle mead, size chart, all right, so, so it is, I'm 200 pounds, well actually a little more, but I'm 200 pounds, and I'm working out, for one and a half hours, so that would be three scoops of battle mead, and, battle mead per serving, which is two scoops, is 20 carbs, so that's 30, now would I use more, I might say, because it's leg day, and it's me, I might go 40 carbs, for leg day, and then if I was going to do another, 25 minutes of hit, afterward, honestly, I would never do hit, after leg day, because, that, it wouldn't be hit, I would do hit, as far away in the week, as possible from leg day, like if, if you're doing six days on, one day off, that's not a very anabolic, program, the only way, you could really make that work, was if you went, upper, lower, upper, lower, upper, lower, off, and I would probably, make the off day, my hit day, thank you for getting me, through cardio Todd, thank you for, tuning in bro, the John, is the bomb, thanks Todd, for your answers, on my questions, have a good night, your videos are very informative, with good tail telling, I appreciate your time, not a lot of bodybuilders, like to share their knowledge, you're welcome man, appreciate it, your point about, reddit two tide, I struggle with binge eating, because of my, fucked up dopamine system, since being on reddit, I'm fucking shred, and feel good, I'm never coming off, okay, so, case in point, the reddit, is fixing, a psychiatric issue, I didn't say psychological, I said psychiatric, issue, and thus, you're now, able to stick, to proper diet and training, so for someone, who doesn't have, a psychiatric issue, they wouldn't, maybe, now I'm not saying that, when I think of psychiatry, I don't think of reddit two tide, but, binge eating, is a psychiatric problem, if it's tied to dopamine, specifically, and it can be, now, why is the dopamine system, fucked up, is it due to psychology, or is it due to, you know, like, prior, I'm not going to accuse you of anything, but I'm trying to, come up with ideas, as to someone else, why they'd have, fucked up dopamine, it's like, they had a cocaine addiction, so now, nothing really releases, dopamine evermore, so I guess, the implication is that, you need dopamine, so you binge eat, to get dopamine, and I don't get into, the psychiatry stuff, I basically, I'm just like, no matter how you feel, just do what you're supposed to do, and that's what discipline is, and you don't need dopamine, just fucking suffer, and be miserable, you know, like, just, would be worse, would be your life, for living in a Russian prison, with cockroaches, and rats, you know, like, it could always be worse, so I'm just faithful, thankful for what I have, and if I have a life without dopamine, I have a life without dopamine, as a bodybuilder, you live months straight, without dopamine, do you have a CPAP, yes I do, do you think everyone should have, one improved sleep quality, yes I do, watch my video on sleep hygiene, why is fruits eliminated, from the diet when cutting, I love fruit, not everyone eliminates, fruits from the diet, while cutting, what's up Todd, hello Alvaro, how are you, yeah lots of people, have fruit, while they're dieting, fruit is an optimal, carbohydrate source, I guarantee you, if all those people, ate fruit, instead of processed carbs, they wouldn't be needing, retitutide, because they never would have, gotten fat in the first place, now this individual, is saying that he has, binge eating disorder, due to fucked up dopamine, that in the end, what I really am hearing is, it's due to binge eating, I am alpharius, as long as you're not an Aquarius, those people stress me the fuck out, I'm having fruit right now, while cutting, banana and pineapple, do you stick the banana, through the pineapple, and like, while looking at women, making eye contact, so that you can get charged, with sexual harassment, do they have sexual harassment, in Columbia, I bet they don't even have, sexual harassment, I think it's just called flirting, all right, Aaron, hit, I'm on legs, hit, push, pull, pull, push, legs, hit, pull, push, hit, off, my logic is that, this will have least impact, on my legs, my priority, as doing this, soft bike run, I don't know, I don't know man, doing hit after legs, it could be anabolic, or it could be destructive, I, people will say, well it just depends, on how much carbs you have, and that's a gamble, I just wouldn't take, if you're already hitting legs, twice a week, ask John Jewett, you know what, get a hold of John Jewett, and ask him, because he's the hit daddy, I don't really do hit, this is a lie, okay hold on, or Justin Harris, Justin Harris likes hit too, all right, should a fat body like me, avoid your battle meat, when I have a fat loss phase, no, because, you're still going to need carbs, while you train, and there's glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agents, so probably if someone's fat, then they're insulin resistant, which means they'd want, the glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agents, because it would aid, in insulin sensitivity, so battle meat, is probably more important, for someone, in a fat loss phase, all sliced, okay, the difference between, sexual harassment, and flirting, is charisma, that's true, that's the only difference, is do they want it, if you flirt with them, and they flirt back, it's flirting, if you flirt with them, and they're like, yeah, then it's sexual harassment, some flirting here, would be considered, harassment in the US, yes, yes, dude, I, I couldn't imagine, I can't imagine, someone from South America, coming to the United States, talking to the women, here, the way that you could talk, to women, in any other country, and I say, could talk to, is, because, there's a huge disconnect, women think men, are being rude, intentionally, this is not true, men are speaking, to women, the way men, want to be spoken to, so, for instance, if a woman, woke up to me, walked up to me, and said, hey, I like your face, I'd like it better, as my chair, I would totally, go out with her, that would be, the best pickup line ever, if you walked up to a woman, and said something like, your mouth's open, but my dick isn't in it, something's not right, then, that would get you arrested, it just doesn't work the same, women don't like it, when you talk to them, the way you want to be spoken to, if they simply were to be, step outside themselves, and be a little bit more empathetic, empathic, empathic, is the correct word, empathetic, is the word, people have said it for so long, that it's now in the dictionary, which is pathetic, if people were a little more, if women were a little more empathic, they'd be like, he's trying to succeed, this is the best he can do, he's not rude, he's stupid, then, then they might actually be, a little less offended, and they would take pity on you, but they think you're trying to, objectify them, it's like, we want to be objectified, we never get told we're pretty, we only get told we're smart, it's just the complete opposite, the Alpha Legion, are all about subterfuge, spies, sabotage, and general tomfoolery, okay, but which, I don't know which Legion, the Alpha Legion is, like, who, which their, what's their primark, I think I can kind of organize things, if I understand, let's start with the primarks, and then work backwards, got the evolve, for the zoomers, my ex, ex my name is, and my pronouns are daddy, and harder daddy, oh man, I never came up with funny pronouns, for myself, oh, I did actually, it just would not go over well, it's, it's, his excellency, and his most distinguished excellency, those were the pronouns, I came up with, and I was like, I cannot put those, people will not get this, they will not think it's funny, men get one compliment, every 20 years, and remember it, it's true, it's true, okay, hold on, ready, this is what, this is the, this is my compliment, all right, it happened three weeks ago, this happened three weeks ago, there's this girl at the gym, and I kept looking at her, because she was so hot, and she kept catching me looking at her, and I was so embarrassed, and I was like, can you just go up to her, and talk to her, because at this point, it's just getting creepy, and then I caught her looking at me a couple times, and I thought it was, because she was just scared of me, so I waited like an hour, she's still doing back, she did back for a whole hour, so I walked up to her, I was like, hi, sorry to interrupt your workout, she took off her headphones, not one, she took off both of them, and she turned her whole body, so her shoulders and toes were squared up with me, good side, good side, so I'm like, she's got, I've got her complete undivided attention, and I was like, I just want you to know, that your form is impactful, your tempo, your range of motion, how close to failure you're going, fucking perfect, and she's like, thank you so much, and I'm like, on top of that, the fact that you're here hitting back, for a fucking hour, alone, when you're the only girl in the gym, and it's midnight, on a Saturday, that's really commendable, she's like, thank you so much, I'm like, that, most girls would be out partying, but you're in here, getting more powerful, and that's so great, I didn't want to take up, any more of your time, she's like, you look great, and I was like, thank you, and I walked away, and it's like, I'm going to remember that, for like, fucking five years, because I didn't say, a goddamn thing, about her looks, or her body, I intentionally, only complimented, her ethics, and her skill, at lifting, so that I wasn't, some creepy dude, but she, didn't say anything, about my form, or she went, right for, the direct compliment, of you look great, I had, I was dressed like this, there was no muscles, no veins showing nothing, I was completely covered up, so, obviously, I'm trying to find it, wonder, is she just being polite, that's a possibility, two, is she just, she assumes, is this what I want to hear, or three, she meant to say something like, your training's great too, but Freudian slip, she actually slipped, and said what she really thought, so I was like, I'm going to lie to myself, or I'm going to tell myself, what I want to believe, and that she actually thought, I look good, as a man, not just as a bodybuilder, but like, she actually thought, I look good, and that when I'm going, to see her again, which hasn't happened, what if I see her again ever, I'm going to say hi, and see what happens, and I know like, people are like, God, this guy's such a dork, and I was like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, it's, it's still, the point is, we've been so conditioned, to never talk, to anyone, in public, or at the gym, ever, by the millennials, that, they want to just, pepper spray you, and castrate you, if you dare look, in their general direction, that the Generation Z girls, have never had a guy, talk about, They've never had a guy even look at them. So they're like really lonely and they don't mind men. The Generation Z girls do not hate men. So you can actually walk up to them and talk to them and give them compliments and they don't pepper spray you or accuse you of sexual harassment. The Primark is Alpharius, but this is a lie. Omegon is the Primark. Okay, so some false fraternity going on here. Do you play guitar doc? Yes. I started when I was 16. So technically, what is that, 30 years? I'm not very good though. I'm a rhythm guitar player. Just came here to say I love Anadrol. Oh man, we've got the run by trolling. All right. Did she sneak a look at the donger? I don't know. Was I wearing gray sweatpants? I think I was wearing black sweatpants, so there's no way she could have saw it. H-O-Q to get good sleep. Check out my sleep hygiene video. It wasn't too long ago. It was republished recently. Fast as I go to bed. Okay. Okay. Yo, I just remembered. My country's president got absolutely destroyed by Trump. Oh dude, I fucking saw that. Okay, for people who don't know. Because I was like, well shit, I guess I can't go to Columbia and hang out with Alvaro now. It's like, oh dude, this was amazing. So Trump puts all these Colombian, which we were informed, doesn't mean they were, but we were informed, they're criminals, on a plane and they're sending them back to Columbia. It's like, here's your garbage. We don't want it. You know, like, and the Colombian president's like, we're not going to accept them. And so Trump, within 10 minutes, increased their tariffs by 25%. And tomorrow it's going to go up by 50%. And he's put like visa restrictions and all these things. And within 10 minutes of that, Columbia's like, we'll take them. And then he wrote the cringiest fucking letter. He wrote like an email that was like fucking, he obviously verbally dictated it. Because anybody who wrote this would realize like, he's repeating himself. And you just cut this paragraph and put that paragraph there. And you adjust this and all you use the same adjective twice. We're going to erase that adjective. No, no, no. This was not edited. This motherfucker dictated this. And then no one edited it after the fact. And it's this horrendous run on nonsense, accusing Trump of being a fascist, then saying he wants to get a drink with him. Then saying we're, we believe in freedom and not slavery and all this other shit. It was so embarrassing to see that. That went super mega viral. Oh my God. He's not getting elected again. That's for sure. Okay. So strength matters in hypertrophy. Strength is a proxy that hypertrophy has occurred. So as you get strong, as you build muscle, you will get stronger. But just because you get stronger doesn't mean you've got built muscle. So it's really confusing like that. Muscle will make you stronger, but strength doesn't necessarily mean you have more muscle. Our president initially said, yes, we'll take them. And 20 minutes later, he said he won't let the planes land. Oh, that's even worse. Nothing looks weaker than indecision. All right. DBD. I knew it. I watched one of your older cardio videos today, and you talked about using different machines like musicians using different chords and scales as an analogy, just like a guitarist. I remember the video existing. I don't remember exactly what I said. What unit of measurement for IGF-1 do you use over there? Micrograms. Yeah, I know. Oh, you mean on the blood? I don't know. I know that Australia's got some fucked up units, and everyone wants me to make my videos in Australian units. And it's like, no, dude. I'm not doing that. Just learn the U.S. units. Yeah, all of Europe uses nanomoles. We use mass, not quantity, which is a nightmare because you can convert moles into mass if you know the molecular weight of IGF-1. Good luck with that. Yeah, it's like that's a fucking nightmare because we go like we're usually like nanograms per deciliter, and you guys are nanomoles per liter. It's like, holy shit, are you in for a treat? I just, whenever I go by the bloodworks, I don't know. I'm trying to just refer to that person's old blood work and see, like, did this make an improvement so that their variables and then they're just the delta between the variables is what I'm looking at, not the absolute values. That's a tough one, man. But you can always look that up on. Almost never is things per liter here. Everything's usually nanograms per deciliter. I don't know why. I hate American units. That's why I don't like writing them. What are your thoughts on no tropics such as modafinil? I just think that if you need to take drugs for your mind, you have a weak mind. So I also have got 25 years sober, so I just don't touch mind-altering substances. So part of my judgment is just I'm biased. Maybe that there is people who can benefit from using drugs to make their mind sharper. That's just not something I need. Just like how some of the IFBB pros don't need to take drugs to get bigger and stronger. They just naturally grow muscle. How important is overall estrogenic signaling for muscle growth? Obviously, it helps with IGF-1 conversion, nutrient partition, et cetera. But someone would make gains while single-digit IGF-1 levels, E2 levels? Yes, they could make gains, but they'd make more gains if they had more because you get more IGF-1, like you said, and there'd be more estrogen. There'd be more insulin sensitivity, which you talked about with nutrient partitioning, and there'd also be more satellite cell migration because the estrogen alpha receptors exist on the satellite cells. So it's almost like could you make gains with single-digit testosterone? Women do, just not very much. Joshua Perry. Alpheus was the first Primark found, according to Alpheus. Yes. Oh, man. I thought Horace was the first Primark found. Alvaro, the Senate wants to pass a bill to force the president to random alcohol and drug tests. So what's funny, though, is at least they are trying. At least they're trying. Did you write any songs? I did. I wrote a couple songs, and I didn't write them down. I would just play them. And it's been a while. I haven't really played guitar in like six years. Okay, thanks, boss. You got it, man. The Canadian comedy. So that's like the flip-top head from South Park. Oh. That was so funny when, Josh, like, guys get compliments from girls every 20 years. And it's like, it's so fucking true. It's almost, okay, the truth, truth is if you're a bodybuilder, you will get a lot of compliments the week or two before your show. And if you win, you'll get compliments after your show. If you lose, apparently you're told to go kill yourself if you're a pro. But if you're an amateur and you lose, no one cares. You're like, better look next time. If you're a pro and you lose, then people that you don't know will tell you you should kill yourself. But as far as girls go, girls will only even look at you when you're pre-contest. Like, otherwise, they look away when you walk down the road. Nobody wants to look at you when you're off-season. All right. How big of a calorie deficit do I need to re-comp? Wait, what the fuck? How big of calorie deficit so I can re-comp? I'm 10% to 13% body fat. You don't really need to re-comp at a 10% to 13% body fat. You're good, dude. Just start growing. Watch the video I did with Scientific Snitch, the autopsy of bulking. That will explain it to you better than I could do here. Let's talk some brand names here. I don't know if you're talking about band names and called it brand names or brand names. That's the thing. Horus was found first and became the War Master while Alpheus landed on Terra and was trained by Malakador to deceive and hide. Oh. Oh. Okay. Of course I know Kevin. Yeah. I've known Kevin for like 13 years or so. I met him at his first show and I walked out of the parking lot. I was like, dude, you're fucking amazing. In fact, I think his car broke down the day of his second show and I drove him to his second show. And then we've done a couple training videos together on his channel about 10 years ago. Who likes Pharma? You know what? I was supposed to have Kevin on as a guest recently and I forgot. I was supposed to have Kevin, Guy Sistronino, Stefan, Wesley Vissers, John Jewett. And I just don't follow up with them. I'm like, oh, they don't want to come on my show. No one wants to come on my show. But I should do it anyway because maybe they'd enjoy talking to me. I don't know. I've had Guy on the old podcast like three times, the Weekly Grind on Keith Fabry's channel. Who likes Pharmago? I don't know what that is. Which type of dessert sweets? Okay. So I like Devil's Food Cake, specifically Bill Knapp's Chocolate Cake. That's my favorite. I especially like to have ice cream with my cake. Maybe vanilla. I sound like such a baby. And I'm like rocking back and forth as a child. As far as like candy, I like Star Crunch. I like Kit Kats. I like Milky Way. I already gave three. And oh, man. I miss so many. I'm going to stop, though. That's enough. That's enough. I left on Oreos because I quit Oreos. I quit Oreos, I would say, in 2019. I don't think I've had an Oreo since 2019. I just had to quit it. Malakador was only the Siglight at the time. The second greatest psyker in Imperial history. Of course, the Emperor was the first greatest psyker, correct? All right. Unknown chap. I've been loving your test, mast, and GH approach. It's my first time running things this way. And it's the best I've ever felt and looked. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I love hearing that. I think Sam Sandowda, Wesley Vissers, and now Paul Barnett are all on board, too, with this approach. You got to get Kevin on and talk about metal and guitars. His custom guitar is sick. He has some good-ass guitars, man. In fact, I've got a Malevolent Creation shirt he gave me. I'll wear that shirt when I do the interview and see if he remembers giving me that shirt. Where were you when Malakador is under the Golden Throne? Oh, okay. Wasn't the Emperor the one? Okay. Malakador took the Golden Throne when the Emperor had to go onto the ship to fight Horus in the final battle of the Horus Heresy. And that's where he destroyed Horus' body and his soul. And then wounded the Emperor returned to the Golden Throne. And that happened in the year 30,000. I thought you were going to say something like cookies, cheesecake, brownies, pie, donuts. No. So I binge ate 6,000 calories a day with only 2,500 being clean diet. Anything I should do tomorrow to limit the damage? No. That's... You can't unrape your face, dude. It's done. It's over. You're just... You just put on a pound of fat instantly. Yes, the man Emperor of Mankind was the first and his powers have grown immensely according to the Primarch Robert Guilliman. And Robert, I am making you feel bad on purpose because you should never do that ever again. False. Horus' soul remains undamaged. The Emperor's last words are, I will wait for you, my son. Oh. Oh. It's weird that he was so fucking loyal to Horus and Horus was such a fucking traitor. I wonder which one of the chaos gods is the ones who convinced Horus to betray. And it's so funny because it's so the story of Lucifer that got half... Only Lucifer got a third of Heaven's hosts to rebel against God, whereas Horus got half the Primarchs. Is there any way I can calculate how much fat I gained on a cheat day or a meal like an equation, like calculating the fast fat calories and assuming I store them all? All the calories above your maintenance calories are stored as fat. So if your maintenance... So like Robert eats 2,500 calories and then he ate 6,000. That means the difference is 3,500. All 3,500 of those are stored as fat. None of them turn to muscle. All right. Most ripped I've ever been and I screwed it up. I'll do better. Avoid eating edibles, friends. Just say no. Correct. That happened to me at the end of my prep was someone's... I couldn't sleep no matter what. So I was like, use these edible CBDs. There's no marijuana in them. And then I ate them and I just kept... They had a little bit of sugar in the edible. So I ate... That was the only sugar I'd had. So I went ape shit and I'd eat another one. But there was active components. So I forgot. Because I had the munchies and amnesia. So every time I had an edible, I didn't realize I had another bag. I ate the whole fucking bag. And it was just like 400... What was it? It was like 600 or 700 milligrams is what I ate. And I was like, this is so uncomfortable. And I was like, I don't like being this high. I was like, I have been high in 24 years. I didn't mean to get high. And I felt guilty and sad because I accidentally got high from eating these gummies that were supposed to be CBDs. And then like... I was like, I don't count this as a relapse. But it is cheating on your diet because it is calories. And then I ended up eating more food. Can you explain the theory behind wearing a squeam? Oh, is that a girl? Is there a girl in here? No. I couldn't find any videos. But I remember you've spoken about it multiple times. So the theory is you just basically hold... It trains you to keep your abs and core tight. You could get the same effect from wearing a belt. But the thing is the squeam distributes the force over a greater surface area. So you have to keep all your abs tight. So it's kind of like a perpetual vacuum. Like a plank. Are you able to order blood work for people that live in Australia? No. I wish I could. I wouldn't be able to read it though. You guys have some fucked up units. What about your top five favorite foods in general? Like savory stuff. I like gyros. I like pizza. I go to this Persian place near my house called Pars. And I get their leg of lamb. Or lamb shank rather. It's kind of like a Greek dish. And I like Thai food. I get a Thai dish called Pad CU. I think that's five. And my normal diet food is I take chicken and stick them in panko gluten-free breadcrumbs. And air fry it with some Thai chili sauce on it. And then I serve it over some rice. And my rice is pretty fucking good. I like soup my rice up. I put my rice cooker to work. And one of my favorite meals of all is just my staple chicken and rice meal. What are your go-to fiber sources? Peas and carrots. All right. The end and the death rewrote the ending of the heresy. The end and the death rewrote the end of the heresy. We all hope Sanguinus had damaged Horus in some way. We were wrong. The angel was destroyed by Horus. Beaten like a dog. So, Sanguinus is obviously the primark in charge of the blood angels. Is that correct? Can a non-responder still get gains from pharma-grade testosterone? I mean, you're not a... There's a hypo-responder, not a non-responder. Because if you're a man, then as a fetus, you responded to that testosterone. I'm not being pedantic, though. Like, there are, I think, people who have androgen receptor knockout mice that they're male, genotypically male, but phenotypically female. But to answer your question is... This would be a more complicated conversation. Because I find it hard to believe that you're a hypo-responder to training and gear. It's usually one or the other that you're a hypo-responder to. The probability that you're a hypo-responder to both is so low. Hey, Doc. I'm running 35 milligrams tests and 50 milligrams mass daily with a UGL GH of 5 IU. I love how he talks to me the way I want to be spoken to. E2 is 62 and IGF-1 is 225. 225. Would you recommend increasing GH? No. Your GH is high as fuck. Your IGF-1 is low. Your estrogen is pretty good. I mean, oh, I see what the problem is. Your calories are probably low. That's probably what it is. Your insulin is low because your calories are low. That's probably what it is. Horus had the option to die horribly or become greater than the chaos gods. Erebus offered the choice. Do you still think, do you think side-injecting triceps encourages them to grow? Purely anecdotal. So here's the logic. A lot of people are like, it doesn't work locally. Okay, fine. But if you inject the triceps and then you go pump up your triceps, it's going to drive blood to the triceps. And then the blood in the triceps is going to absorb the drugs. Then it's going to go through your circulatory system, back to your heart where it gets pumped through your whole body, to the body part you're pumping, which is the triceps. So now it's going to infuse the whole tricep capillary bed with the enhanced blood. Ta-da! People don't consider it that way. It's getting cold in here. I've got to turn the heater up. But if I turn the heater up, you won't be able to hear me. Sanguinous and blood angels. The one year in a coffin after drinking sanguinous blood is how a recruit becomes a stardis. That sounds so cool. Warhammer is so fucking cool. It's like, oh, it's so fucking cool. It's so ultra, ultra, ultra hyper-masculine. It's like, I understand that no women would ever like it. But it's like, it's funny that they don't understand why they wouldn't like it. They're just mad that there are no female characters in the Warhammer universe. So they've, what do you call it, retconned them in to make Warhammer woke. It's like, you can't make, you can't make a game about religious and racial bigotry woke. That's the whole game, is going through the galaxy and killing everything that's even slightly different than yourself. The blood curse is the blood angels must consume blood. Sorry, Imperial Citizens. Dude, so they're vampires. I'll watch a video just on blood angels tonight that I always thought I'd play chaos, but I never knew which space marines I would play if I played the space marines. Now I know. Now I know. I gotta go to bed. I gotta eat another meal and I gotta go to bed. How long am I going to have an hour and it's 20? I got in trouble. I got in trouble because I was in a three and a half hour live. They're like, there's no yield to a three and a half hour live. I'm like, but it was so good. And they're like, there's no yield to it. It's $70 just to edit that one video. I was like, yeah. No, it's $70 for just the timestamps on that video. That isn't even counting the editing costs of that video. I was like, yeah, it's totally not recoup losses. All right. All right. Toodles. May the force be with you. Oh, wait, what? Red thirst is the blood curse. Black rage is basically the strategy. He's relieving and beating by Horus. Reliving the beating by Horus. And everyone sees, everyone seen his Horus. That's so fucking weird, man. Oh my God. Warhammer. I could basically just study Warhammer for the rest of my life and never hit bottom. That there's more information about Warhammer than there is about fucking religions. That there'd probably be priests in real life studying Warhammer that would get through Warhammer school slower than a priest in seminary school. I appreciate everything you do. Thanks, man. I appreciate that. Good God. All right. See you guys. May I have a fortune with you? I will see you.