 So we're at the Arnold Classic, and behind me is the entrance, and it's very busy in there, so we came out here to shoot this. Right now is pre-judging, and tonight's the finals, and tomorrow is finals for open men, and we're gonna walk around and meet people. Alright, so we're here, it is super loud, so if you can't hear me, I don't know what to tell you. This is what we're gonna do, we're gonna walk around and stand in lines that we don't know that we're standing in line because people are moving so slow. What's up, Sean? Hey, how you doing? How you doing? I've seen you before enough times. Yeah, yeah, yeah. How you been? So, like, good, good. Just wanted to ask some questions about the upcoming season, what you have planned. Okay, yeah, yeah, of course. So for me, I had a really busy 2025. 2026, we're just focused at Olympia. Okay. You know, spending some time with the family right now, let my body just kind of heal up from a long, busy travel season, competing. You know, dieting for one show is handling your body. We're doing five shows in one season, it's a lot. Yeah. And my coach, John, I said, hey, let's just take some time to do something to body kind of heal up and compare for what we know we can do in the 2026 Olympics, which is win the title back. Awesome. Now, how is it working with John? Oh, man, I just had this conversation with somebody before. So I worked with John Meadows in the past, right? And John was a legend. He was super smart, super knowledgeable. I never really felt comfortable or trusted anyone to really handle my training, aside from John Meadows. But I've always been a big fan of John Drewitt. I've known him for a while. I've watched him compete. I've watched him progress. And I reached out to him, like, you know what, this is someone I believe that can take me to the next level and help me bring up some weak areas. So I reached out to him, and we kind of headed off. He's been doing my training since the Arnold of 2025. And I brought him in at the very last minute to take over my entire prep, and we just knocked out the part. Now, I watched a video with you training with Luke, and it's really humbling to see someone as advanced as you being so open-minded and receptive to all these messages. I honestly don't believe anyone knows everything. Right. And I've always been, I believe, an open sponge. Like, hey, if you know something, I'll check it out. I'll try it. If it works, great. If it doesn't, it's all good. But I've never gone into anything in my life, no matter what it was, that says, I know everything, or I don't need your help with X, Y, Z. So when Luke came into the gym, I said, hey, you take the reins. Yeah. You know, I brought you and John in for a reason, to make me better, to show me something that I'm missing. And, you know, that session we did was phenomenal. I mean, off the bat, just the initial warm-up with the flies, I was like, this is the perfect combination. Have you watched your blind hyperchipy videos on the J3U site? Oh, yeah. So John pretty much took over everything. So, you know, as far as, like, the momentum of training, the rep ranges, the intensity, the volume of my training has all been changed. How do you like it? I love it because I kind of, I know I understand it, right? Well, it's like the old shoulder going to just beat and annihilate myself every single day. It's like, I got to leave the gym feeling like I kicked my own ass, and I felt that. And I got better, and I was good. But when John said, let's go from seven exercises to four exercises, my body's not beat up, but it's still progressing. Now I have more energy to go train again. So I'm not always feeling like you're beat up and inflamed and stuff like that. So it's been good. When I used to watch your old training videos, like five, ten years ago, I was like, he's like me, where we're trying to beat our own ass. I did. That we can't afford not to give it 100% because we're fighting uphill battle. Yeah. But now I'm being older, you know. Now you got to be smarter. You got to be smart. I built that density. I built that base. I built that foundation. I'm there. What's going to take me to another five or ten more years? Exactly. Change things up a little bit. Let's focus more on the machines and the cables, slowing things down and really focusing on the recovery aspect. So, I mean, I feel like, honestly, I got another five more years to be in the NFL. I believe it. And I appreciate your time, man. I won't take too much of it. Yeah. You're the inspiration to all of us. Thank you, man. I appreciate you. How did you prepare for this Arnold Classic different from last year? So, I moved to Las Vegas and I was close to Neil and I was training at the Dragons there. And when I was in Brazil, I was doing a lot of more things and be athletes. And when I moved here, I can be just athlete, you know. So, I think this makes a big difference to me. Okay. You own a gym in Brazil. Yeah, I own the gym in Brazil. So, you got someone else managing that? Yeah, yeah, yeah. All right. So, you're able to just focus. I have my partner there. And so, I can come here and just focus on the athletes, you know. Are you still working with Chris Nassino? I'm working with Neil. Neil. Yeah, Neil. Okay, cool. So, when he was here with Mike Sommerfeld, you were here also with Neil. And that's why you're doing all the pictures together. Okay, makes more sense. How do you like working with Neil? I love working with Neil. He's a very detailed guy. And I like it. We've been working for about three years now. And we got some great improvements. All right, fantastic. How confident are you about this year? So, you know, last year I had a bad year because I had a gut problem. And I needed to fix it. I spent about four to five months just to fix my gut. And then I started offseason and I was away from the stage for a little more than one year. And now I'm really excited. And I think I brought, I'm going to bring now what they asked for me the last Arnold, which was my hamstrings, more glutes and back. So, now I look to my body and I see the same guy from the front, side and back. And before, when I was posing from the front, I was a very good guy. From the side, it was good. But from the back, it was totally different. But now I think everything is balanced, you know. What did you different to bring up your hamstrings, glutes and back? I did a lot more like deadlift exercises, you know. And this was stiff exercises. I played with the weight, with the abs, you know. I played a lot with my working out and really focused on squeezing. So, when we say deadlift exercises, are we talking more Romanians for glutes, more straight legs for hamstrings? Well, I needed to improve my glutes too. So, I was doing more Romania and LDL. Okay. And then how, what rep range were you using? Because a lot of people go really heavy with those. So, well, depends. But sometimes about 10 and 12. Sometimes a little bit more. Sometimes a little bit less. Depends. The time, you know, what I was doing. And sometimes when I go heavy, I do less reps. When I go a little bit lighter, I do more reps, you know. But the most important thing is like the squeeze, the connection. I didn't have the great connection before because I have hernia. Okay. And L1 and S1. Okay. So, I was a little bit scared. But then I start to learn how to work and out with this hernia. And now I'm in a good place. Is it better? It's way better. The hernia got better? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. A lot of people won't realize that. If they strain from the lower back, they can actually pull the desk back into the vertebral body. So, would you pause at the bottom of the deadlifts or did you just go down and up? No, I'd go down. And you paused at the bottom? All right, great. Yeah, I paused. Thank you so much for the pleasure, buddy. Nice meeting you, Raphael. Nice meeting you, Raphael. Cook it, bake with it. It's got all the nine essential amino acids your body needs packed with protein. Now, I didn't used to refrigerate it. Was I supposed to refrigerate it? Yeah, I kind of used to it. Oh, really? Even after you open it? All right. So, you have to refrigerate it. Yeah. But you don't have to cook it. You can just drink it, right? Right, right. Unless you didn't refrigerate it. Then you probably should cook it. Probably a good idea. All right. Yeah. I'm safe and sorry. All right. So, what are your hottest flavors right now? Yeah, great question. Our tube cellar is always to eat better. Oh, okay. And probably the chocolate. Those are our chocolates across the board. So, what I used to do is I used to dip Ezekiel bread, the cinnamon raisin Ezekiel bread, in the cake batter. Yeah. And I'd make French toast with that. Flam dunk? I would have done that with that. I prefer that. Yeah. Yeah. It's great. You can add some pancake mix. A lot of people put in their Ninja Creamies at night, but you have that sweet tooth, but you can't have real ice cream. You can use this instead. Yeah. I love it. All right. Cool. Thank you so much. All right. You guys, what's the handle? Do you want to? I actually watched your videos on Instagram. No way. Yeah. Well, I, what do you call it? Lifted in Hunter's Gym, and Chan sent me try on some of the equipment. So, I'm one of the sales reps here. That's the owner. Oh, okay. Cool. Yeah. Yeah. So, I mean, tell me about the brand, man, or let you want to talk to the owner or whoever. So, the brand has been around for 10 years. Sorry, my voice. I lost it a little bit, but been around for 10 years. Just started going more towards commercial space, I'd say, probably within the last two years. This year, and also last year, we won a regular. It's got the wrapper on and everything. Please, thank you. Not like Ferris Bueller's Day Off. We've definitely expanded a lot more into the commercial scene. I'm opening up a powerhouse in Chapel Hill, North Carolina. Okay, cool. I'm opening up another gym here in Ohio. I forgot where. But, yeah, I mean, we've definitely come a long way with our equipment. And a lot more commercial grade, as you can see. Test out the equipment for yourself. But, I mean, that's the only piece that we have residential. Which one's residential? That big-ass piece right here. Let's walk over it. Let's check it out. But, yeah, Smith machine. You got fully functional trainer. 250 pounds on the weight stacks. All right, cool. Lap pull down. All right. Low row. All your attachments you need for any of these. And then you got your J-humps. You want to do, like, a free squat. All right. This is awesome. So this would be the centerpiece of your home gym. Yep. And if you really need to, you can buy some leg equipment. And you're pretty much good. Because you can do all your cable shit right here for leg, shoulders, arms, flies, rows. You can do your pull-ups. You can do your bend rows. You can do your presses. You can do your lateral cables. You got the whole upper body right here. And you can squat. Yep. And you can deadlift. And you can Bulgarian squat. This is actually a prototype. I do believe that this will be coming with a vertical plate. So you can do vertical leg press. Oh, sweet. And what this also needs, Matt, is if you can, make it belt squatting. Because remember, the belt squat's the only traction for the spine. So, I mean, belt squat's going to go popular in the next 5, 10 years. I could. So we have belt squats already. But I could definitely talk to them. I could make attachments. All they got to do is hook it on there. And it's kind of like a plate thing that goes up and down. It won't be heavy. But it's good for, like, everybody over 50. Yeah. It'll decompress their spine. It's like the 45-degree angle. Instead of a deadlift, a belt squat instead of squats. So we actually have a bench called a troll. And we actually have a freestanding troll belt squat with them. Awesome. So this is a belt. It's a task before a bench. All right. Cool. Well, this looks really good. What was your name again, buddy? Roman. What is it? Roman. Roman. Roman. Yes, sir. And you're opening up a gym in South Carolina. North Carolina. And here in Colombo. Yes, sir. All right. You, yourself, or Bolt? I'm the sales rep, so I'm opening it up for the customer. Oh, okay. Gotcha. I got you. Yeah. It's going to be all Bolt. Powerhouse and then a gym called 8-Best. I see what you're saying. You're outfitting the gyms that franchises the Powerhouse. Correct. I got you. Okay, cool. Sweet. Thank you so much. Not a problem. Do you mind if I get a picture with you? Oh, absolutely. Thank you. How did you prepare for this Olympia different than the last Olympia or the Army? Were they running in sixth place? Yeah. I mean, I was working with different coach back then. I was a lot younger back then, too. Right. So, I think for the final Olympia, I mean, just how did you prepare for this Arnold compared to, like, the last? This Arnold was actually, like, a really great prep for me because I was able to take some time off. You know, get reset mentally to get ready for the show, which I haven't done in a while. Oh, really? Yeah, yeah. The only thing you need to take some time mentally, it just gives you that drive, that invigoration to, like, train harder and stuff like that. So, I think for this Arnold was one of my best training prep. All right. Yeah. Who are you working with right now? I'm working with Chris Hesito. That's what I thought. Okay. So, you're still with Chris. Yeah. All right. And you didn't do anything different. Because I know he does. I mean, he throws out the notebook every time, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Chris is always changing stuff up. And he's so easy to work with and so easy to, like, you know, just have somebody like that that has all that knowledge and, you know, wealth in the sport. Do your prep and everything like that. So, it's just a blessing to work with Chris. How would you say your training changed at all? You've tried to bring up any particular body parts or something? Yeah, man. I mean, I'm a lot older now. So, I was always known for lifting a lot of heavy weights and stuff like that. But now that I've gotten older, I kind of backed away from that a little bit. Me too. So, mostly reps and stuff like that, yeah. So, what's your favorite rep range for since, say, lats? Like 15, 20. Oh, really? You're going that high for lats? Yeah, exactly. And how do you feel about the new wave of single arm cable pulldowns versus the old bent rows? I mean, I'm always a student of the game. And I say, for some people, if he works for you, do it. But for me, from the old school, you know, I stick to what works for me. All right. Fantastic. Yeah. Well, I really appreciate it. Thank you, Rakeem. Thank you. Looking forward to seeing you on stage tomorrow. So, what would I do if I wanted to learn the most about bodybuilding on a Thursday, the first Thursday of the month? Man, you'd probably want to go to some course that could teach you everything you wanted by someone that's highly experienced in doing it all for themselves at the highest level. But there's only one person like that. Oh, who could it be? It'd be John Jewett, his open enrollment now for level one for Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday. Use code top 10. Only my audience. Obviously, your audience should use John's code. How you been, man? Doing solid. But, yeah, I've been waiting for this moment out here at the Arnold for a bit to land Anthony on stage. Okay. Gotcha. So, he has pro-debuted. Because you've been making Monsters in the Kitchen for a couple years, knowing John, and then now you're releasing them all at once. That's it. Yeah. Specialized in short and tall. Yes. And everything in between. Yes, yes. When are you competing with us? So, I was planning on the spring. Uh-huh. But then, like, we had some business questionable things that happened. And then also, Renee and I bought a new house spontaneously. And we're like, let's move. That took a lot out of me mentally of focusing. So, I do the bodybuilding thing, but I couldn't lock in on a show yet. But I'm going to get home after this and decide on what show I want to do. Because you just shut down the offseason, what, two months ago? Yeah. All right. And so, I started Fat Loss Days. But I wasn't excited about a spring show. Like, nothing's like, yeah, that's what I want to do. I might go back in the offseason. I might do it. I just, I want to have fun. And that's what excites me is just to grow. Well, you got up to $268, right? Um, $276, yeah. And so, in your video, you said you were at 5 grams, but it didn't specify what. And people thought you said you're at 5 grams of test. Oh, no. So, people were, $3,500. $3,500. But they think you're at $3,500 of test. Oh, okay. It was? It wasn't, no. No, no. That's my point is I was like, dude, it's not $3,500. It's what he said. I watched the video. It's not what he said. So, just clearing it up. It wasn't $3,500 of test. Whoever cares, it's 2 grams of test. Okay. One and a half grams of a mix of, like, Nastic Remo at that time. I had some Boldenone for a bit, and I hated it, and that was a mess, so. We talked about that in the podcast. Yeah. If you want to crush your E2, fast as fuck. Personally, for me, that's what we're doing. I'm, like, running at 6 milligrams a day of EQ. 6. 0-6. It's so low. 6. Walker was like, 6? Not 60? I'm like, 6. Oh, man. Well, I don't want to hold up this line too much. I just want to say hi to you. Yeah. All right, buddy. All right, buddy. I'll see you. Dude, you're looking incredible, man. Thank you. You're looking incredible. It's coming together, bro. Are you excited? You know it. You're going to be so good. This is always my favorite part, bro. Getting to hear all the stories and listen to everybody say I'm fat. You're not fat. I look fat in a sweatshirt and sweatpants, and I'm a behind. And then we get to walk out on stage and make everybody go, oh, what the fuck is that? Dude, that's fucking bullshit. No, I'm very excited for this one, man. You know, conditioning is probably similar to Prague, if not a little better. Okay, good. And I'm four to five pounds up, depending on where I wake up tomorrow morning. Would you say that Prague was your leanest? Prague was definitely my leanest. We ate a little bit of tissue off of me to get to that point, I think. But not this time. But this time, one, getting the rebound out of the show. And then this time, I think we timed it perfectly. I think that this look would have been similar to Olympia, but I didn't fill hard enough at the Olympia, so I was too flat. Okay. You know, the conditioning was great, but it wasn't pushing against the skin like it needed to. Prague, we got it to push against the skin like we needed to. But now, this time, you'll see the size in the upper body match. The balance is really, really nice. I'm really happy with the balance. Did the chest come up this offseason? Yeah, so really the five pounds went to chest, delts, and arms. My legs are bigger, but I don't necessarily know if they're bigger or if they're just more mature so it looks bigger because the graininess and the hardness is more there. Where did you put it on? Hamstrings? No, side quad. Really? You got more sweep? You got more sweep? More depth here. Son of a bitch. I need some more sweep. When I push into the ground, I have way more side leg detail. Oh, okay. But the depth is also deeper in the sweep. And then glutes grew a good bit. Okay. My glutes, I felt like, were just a little too small. Well, I mean, are they more strided than before? Yes. Then what does it matter what they look like in sweatpants? Yes. So that's what people don't understand. If you don't look like you're fat in sweatpants, you won't have shredded glute tension. Right. Also, you know, when you're peeled, you look like shit until you eat. Right. You're flat as fuck. You're flat. Nothing's pushing against the skin. You're oftentimes holding cortisol water because your body's pissed at you. Right. So if you don't look like that before show, there's, I mean, there is two options. You can be fat. Generally, if you know the bodybuilder, though, you know if he's going to be fat or not fat. So I almost called you the other day because I don't know how to cook female rice. And you're the king of cooking. Will you explain to me how to do it? The simplest, most lazy fucking way to make female rice. Honest to God, I know this is going to sound like more work. Fuck the microwave. Oh, my God. Get a whisk. Get a pan. Boil the water. Whisk and pour the cream of rice in. As soon as you're done pouring, it's ready. I'll try it. Done. Because I got to start eating something. No clumps. No fucking stir, stop, stir, stop. No. Nope. Just whisk it. Because I got to get this way smaller. And all you guys in Team Kinzel are eating protein powder and cream of rice in your offseason and your contest prep. I'm like, this has to be it. I need to start eating cream of rice. It definitely makes a difference. We're very waste-oriented in our group. Waste-oriented. I need to be waste-oriented. I have got a huge waste. You know, our goal at Boston Eyes is to bring the most classic open bodybuilding look we could possibly bring. What's up, George? The only honest guy in this industry. And everybody want to, like, jump on him because he's educated. This is the baddest-ass motherfucker coach. I swear. Oh, love you, brother. Nobody goes through what you do and then gives back to the community as much as you do. You know what? Like I always say, there's life after bodybuilding. And I'm so glad to see somebody like you preaching what I always said. You know what I mean? I haven't quit yet. I'm still, I haven't retired yet. Okay, cool. I keep preaching it. Well, I keep competing, too. Yeah, yeah. That's what I mean. But I mean, you compete, you're amazing, and you're preaching the right stuff, man. Appreciate it. Thank you. Because we need somebody who's, you know, knowledgeable in this industry. You know what I mean? Well, we got you. And we all love, we all love this industry. Right. Okay, brother? I love bodybuilding. Yes. Keep it up, Todd. I love bodybuilding a lot. All right, baby. All right. Good to see you, man. So this is Marley. This is Wesley's wife, and she helped him with the mobility. What did you do to open up his hips more so he could get deeper in his squats? The simple things like a Spider-Man rotation and sit more down and hold a rig because he didn't get that deep. The simple exercises like a cat and a cow, so improve his hip mobility. Oh, yeah. Yeah. That's it. It's just basic yoga? Just basic, simple stuff. Basic, simple yoga. All right, cool. The old school mobility work. He also likes the old school exercises for his routine. Did he do like cobra, downward facing dog, frog? Yes. All that stuff. All the basic stuff. All the basic stuff. And also sometimes exercises with a band, with resistance band to help him a little bit extra. Awesome. And that's all on the YouTube channel, correct? Where you guys worked on this? Yes. Starting about last April or so? Yeah, I think so. I think he improved his mobility work after the Arnold's last year. So he already does it more than one year. So it will be improved also in his posing for the next routine. Awesome. All right, cool. Well, I'm excited to see how he does tomorrow, and I can't wait to see him in Detroit. You are the only dude I know who brought his legs up after 40. How do we do it? How do us over 40 guys bring up legs like you? Stimulus is key. Right. Stimulus over even load. If I have to feel like I have to use too much load, I need to make it harder. Okay. I need to do something to challenge the movement harder. And then I want to train it frequently at a recoverable volume. Uh-huh. Because I want as much stimulus as possible. But if I'm prioritizing a muscle group and I'm training frequently on a muscle group, then something else has to be pulled back. Right. So my chest is strong. Uh-huh. So on a quad day, I'll train chest after quads. Okay. Because I know I'm not going to leave a lot of volume. I'm not going to leave a lot of stimulus. And I'm going to put most of my work into the legs. And I can get away with just a little bit of chest and be out of the gym. So I'm pulling back on body parts that are already going to respond. They don't need a lot. And I'm putting all my volume over the week into what I've prioritized, which is quads for the most part for me. And you have to figure out the medium between muscle recovery and joint inflammation recovery. Right. Right. Like the quads might be done in three days, but your knees aren't done for six. Right. So either I'm trying to figure out exercises that don't cause that joint to respond as much, or I'm going to split into days. Maybe I'll have more of a pressing day, more of an isolation day if I'm going to train more frequently because I know that's going to be less slow than that joint. Right. So, like, for example, if you train quads on Monday, but they're stored until Saturday, but leg extensions don't aggravate them, you could do leg extensions on a Wednesday, then you hit quads twice in the week, but you only aggravated the knees once. Right. Okay, cool. So you have to find a happy medium. It takes a little experimentation, and then you'll start to adapt, and you can add a little bit maybe of volume back once you start to adapt. Uh-huh. But it's all about progressively adding certain pieces to the puzzle, but making sure each of your training days, if you train frequently, don't look like each other. Okay. Maybe the ones on the two opposite ends, let's say we have three legs a week, they're going to look maybe similar. Right. That one in the middle should not look like the one before. Okay. It should be maybe a lot more volume, a lot less stress, because you don't want that carryover fatigue to carry over to the end of the week. Right. You want to almost be like active recovery. You just get a stimulus, get some blood flow, get in, get out, and recover. So last year you were working with Justin Harris, and that was your first year. Are you still working with Justin? Yes. All right. How do you like it? I love working with Justin. All right. Yeah. You know, I don't need a lot of babysitter. I need instructions. I need somebody with good eyes, and I like the variability of carb cycling. I respond very good to it. And that's how we lay out the week. You work through an application. I have choices, of course, I can make, be flexible, but we know we all need the same thing all the time anyway. So if I'm not mistaken, you're not going out to Kuwait anymore. You're training back in. Yeah, since last, uh, Arnold Prep last year. I've been in the U.S. All right. And so you're training in Tennessee, is it? Yes. We're in Tennessee. I live in Murfreesboro. That's right. And you have a carbon gym there, right? Yeah. Well, the carbon now, we have a carbon in Murfreesboro, but a carbon in Franklin, and a carbon in Nashville. Okay. Our carbon is in that one. And so you're training in those? And, uh, I play some kind of lift at San Flanacup, which is a Royal Star and Bodybuilding. So we used to think, like, not, we've never talked about this before, but me and everyone I know thought that the why it worked with Kuwait was that you were able to focus on just lifting and not being distracted by life. Do you find that that's the case now that you're back, that life is more complicated, and that you missed having that focus of being in Kuwait? Well, you know, I spent, like, maybe eight years going here. Right. So being a dad, being a husband, having young kids, at a time, it's a different dynamic. My kids are a little bit more mature now. You see, I got two of my youngest sons right here. Yeah. They're a little bit more independent. It's not as much. I basically got to drop them off here, drop them off there, pick them up here, pick them up there. I got one that's driving. Mm-hmm. So, and then my daughter, she's about to go to college. I see what you're saying. So they're older and mature. So it's less of a distraction. Yes. I got you. Okay. Yes. It's less to navigate. And, you know, it just took me being over there, learning some things about the process, learning what required, coming back and testing to make the decision, okay, yes, I can do it here. I have everything I need. I have the freedom to do what I need to do, and I can execute. But I made that test before I made the full decision first. And that's what led it to the Army. I said, okay, I'm going to do it. What you been up to? Hey, I'm just here. I'm just here. You got your awesome seats as usual? What? Your awesome seats. You got the best seats. You're like the seat dealer. Yeah, I'm kind of up front. We always... That's the reason why I give him the money, so he can pick up our tickets and stuff, so we can get the good seats. He's got the best seats. Yes. Nobody gets better seats in French. Everything good? Hmm? Everything good? Fantastic, dude. These are awesome. Looked to be at the house, man. Appreciate it, man. Thank you. Appreciate it. I'm going to get you up to your 1,000-pound leg press for 20 reps one day, and then take off a plate and do 900 for 20, and then take off a plate and do 800 for 20. This motherfucker's crazy. That's after two hip replacements. Just one. Just one. Just one. Okay. So you brought your legs up. Yes. The world's watching. Everyone wants to see them. You've been hiding them. Yeah. What did you do differently this year to bring up your legs? Well, first of all, have a complete off-season because that never happened. I always did the Olympia, Arnold, and different shows in between to qualify, but now I took a full off-season, and simply, in simple bodybuilding terms, more food on the leg day, higher carbs, more intensity, sting to movements that don't mess up my lower back, just to make sure I can keep going without injuries for the legs. Anything you do special for your sweep? When I trained with Hanni Rambot, he really told me the foot positioning matters a lot, so to make sure my knees actually go over the toes and not to the outside, so kind of get tension on the outside of the quads more, so I've been doing that a lot as well, and also working on mobility because my mobility sucked when I went deep. My hips, hip mobility was just terrible, which prohibited me from getting into full range of motion for the quads, so I've been working on that as well, and every time I get better in the full range of motion, which puts more tension on the quads as well. And your wife, Marley, helped with those mobility drills? Is that correct? Yeah. Okay. Yeah, she helped me a lot. She knows she's an expert in that stuff, but you know how it is when somebody knows a lot, but they're very close to you, sometimes you don't... You don't want to listen to them. Yeah, but now I do, so we're a great team right now. I'm so happy to hear you. Husband and wife teams are doing great right now, I'd say. Yeah, absolutely. For sure. What did you do different with your food this year? Anything? Honestly, especially during the prep, my food stayed so much higher. At first, I was afraid to come in not conditioned enough, but it backfired, and it actually got me flat and looking less conditioned because I wanted to keep digging down and down and down, but now me and my coach gave me every time on the check-in that my legs look slightly flat, high day, immediately. What's your high day compared to your medium day? Up to 400 extra grams of carbs. Up to 400 extra. Spread out, or is it peri-workout? Mostly peri-workout, but also a big portion pre-bed because it actually helps me... Stay full when you're sleeping? Stay full when I'm sleeping. It helps me mentally also knowing I have a big meal and the last meal of the day, and also it helps me recover because, yeah, during sleep with all the other things you do, the supplements you take before sleep, it kind of just helps me to recover for the next day. I used to always be worried that I wouldn't have enough food at the end of the day, so I'd squirrel extra protein, carbs, and fat so my last meal could be my biggest, so I could sleep good on it. Exactly. And so he took that out of that for you and just gave me extra carbs. True. Perfect. Okay, cool. Well, I don't want to tie up your line anymore, buddy. Thank you so much. Thank you. Appreciate it. My pleasure. Thank you.