 Everybody asks me, how the fuck do you eat the same thing every goddamn day, all day long, just one meal over and over and over and over and over again. I'm like, the secret is, learninGHow to cook, dumbass, and if you watch this, I'll teach you. A lot of people don't know how important the food part is of bodybuilding, and I never emphasize it, I say, you know, trening and food is more important than gear, but then all the videos you see because of the algorithm are the gear videos, so I seem like a hypocrite. Well, this is a lot of people that are the way that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that they look like that look like that look like that look like that look like that look like that look like that look like that look like that look like that look like that look like that look like that look like that look like that look look better making less rice than just making it fresh every time, especially if you just plant it out. So I'm going to rinse out my rice cooker. All right, so I'm going to take some rice. This is basmati. This would be more like a cutting, IMean a type of rice that you would cut with basmati rice, more than grow with basmati rice. So that's three cups, and then we're going to want about five cups of water. So what we're doing now is we're rinsing the rice, trying to get the extra starch off of it. So what I'm doing is I'm testing the water. Once the water gets clear, clear, that's when you switch to cold water. You actually start to add the appropriate amount of water, and that's when you put in your rice cooker. However, there's two other steps. I want to put in a significant amount of salt. I want to put in a little bit of turmeric, and I want to put in some oil so the rice doesn't stick. I could give you ratios, but every rice cooker is slightly different based off of the adhesion of the surface. So I can't give you a generic amount of oil. And each oil is different. That looks good and done. I'm used to using my other rice cooker. I forgot this rice cooker has a capacity of two cups of rice. I put in three, so now there's not enough room for enough water. So this is going to be very stiff rice, but it shouldn't be too bad. There was one step I kind of glossed over, and that was weighing the oil. I talked about it, but that made me think I did it. Eight for that much. Eh, I could probably handle a little more, but I'm not going to risk it, because it's not a very good controlled way of delivering it. It's like eight, sometimes six, another 12 sometimes. It's really frustrating. Here's the turmeric. That's enough. Doesn't need a lot. Just for kind of color. And it's taking a slight taste. Iodized salt for those people who want to have a functional thyroid. Everyone's on sea salt that doesn't have iodine. It's pretty funny. 20. Ah, 20. That should be enough. It might not be salty enough, but you can always add more salt. You can't take it away. Whoa. I didn't catch shit, but it looked cool. Now we're on to, you're like, wow, way to make rice complicated and hard as fuck, Todd. It's like, eh, if you were here and you tasted it, you'd be like, well, this is pretty good. This is like restaurant shit. All right. Quick spray. Now, what's this, you say? So this is gluten-free panko non-flavored. They're breadcrumbs, but because they're not bread, they're not crumbs. So they're gluten-free flakes that are panko. Three. One. of 20 never. I'm going to have to be careful which hand I use to pick up my beverage. All right, so that's step one. But there's more to come. Again. I didn't prepare this. I lost all the suspense. So you would spray the oil, then you would put on the chili sauce. Then I would put on a salt. That's your preference. I do four grinds per script. Then garlic, onion, and parsley. It doesn't matter how much you use. That's just up to you. So this is what it looks like before it goes in. All right. So I use the Thai chili wing sauce, number two, from J Hughes, after I've re-sprayed the flakes with the avocado oil. There's a reason why this order is used. It's very complicated. Just do it in the order. The last step is the peas and carrots. There. All right, seven minutes. So we'll have maybe 10 minutes on that, 13 minutes on that, seven minutes on that, and then we'll just construct in reverse order. So while it's cooking, there's something to be set up for macros. So 55 grams of protein and six grams of fat. And then as far as the carbs go, it literally is as much rice as you use. That's how much carbs. Of course, you can use 85 grams worth of peas and carrots, which is going to give us about five net carbs. 300. So that's my serving of rice. That's about 100 to 120 grams of carbs right there. 91, close enough. There's that. And last but not least, the protein. And there you have it. And there you have it. This is my chicken and rice recipe. So it's not really a traditional meal for bodybuilding, 91 close enough there's that last but not least the protein and there you have it this is my chicken rice recipe so it's not really a traditional meal for bodybuilding but it is chicken rice and the macros came out really good some people say well that's not enough fat well i can always have a rice cake with almond butter on it to add fat to the meal as a dessert and then that way it allows me to escalate up the meals by just adding more rice cakes and almond butter going forward if this was the maximum amount of food my stomach can handle every three hours the only way to scale up on that would be desserts or adding oil or adding fruit