 diousousous distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance distance And yeah, it would be hard. It's not a vacation. So, Mr. Brandon Curry. Yes, sir. 2019, Mr. Olympia, Arnold Classic champion, same year. Yes. I think you won it one more time, didn't you? 22, yeah. 22, that's right. What is up, sir? Oh, man. It's been a quick weekend. Quick weekend, quick work. You know, still processing. You know, the brain still processing the weekend. You're thinking about everything that could have went right, could have went wrong. But yeah, for the most part, you know, I had a good experience. Good experience. Decent experience. You know, everything wasn't perfect, but I made it to the stage. And that's the main thing. All right. So, for people who don't know, do you want me to do a quick synopsis and you correct me if I'm wrong? No, yeah, go ahead. Go ahead. All right, cool. So, this is the guy that flew to Kuwait and started all of that in like 2011. Was his, Muhammad was the coach out there? Abdullah. Abdullah, that's right. And it's like, you were with him the longest, but everyone flew out to Kuwait for a while. We thought there was something special, that we heard legends that you stay in this tower and that girls come to your room full hijab and they give you your shots. And then you have like serving girls bring you your like kofta and rice and shawarma and stuff. And then you go down there and you have a team of experts that are all like college educated unloading and loading your plates and have fancy equipment no one else has. Is this what it was like, Brandon? Well, I don't know. Well, I got there in 2016, actually. Okay. I got there in 2016. And, I mean, I guess when I got there, they got rid of most of the women, I guess. Because the only women that were working there were the ones that was working the cafe and the gym. Right. And like in the next year or so, there wasn't no women at the cafe anymore. It was all guys. Interesting. So, as far as, you know, the science and everything, everything is experience based. You know, those guys, you know, they have a lot of athletes that they've coached over the years. And, you know, they've learned from a little bit of everybody. But it's really just the grind, man. It's bodybuilding full time, really. No girls giving you shots or nothing like that. I didn't even fit the culture. That's why I'm making these sense. Yeah. It's like in the culture, men and women are probably separated most of the time. Right. Well, I heard that later I heard you guys go out to eat in groups of men. Oh, yeah. And no women are there. No, no, no, no, no women. And the only time you see a man or a woman together is the guy's on a date with his wife. Okay. Every once in a while you catch a guy on a date with his wife out at a restaurant when all the guys are out. Well, that's good. At least they take their wives to dinner. Yeah. But that's the just of it. Most of it is just a bunch of dudes all the time. Interesting. So, but that's just the culture, you know. As far as the equipment, yeah, it's an equipment playground for sure. Batter does a good job of, you know, just bringing new pieces in and out of that gym. And he has those gyms packed. Oxygen gym. Oxygen gym. Yeah. He has those gyms packed to the max. And, you know, it's one of the first places I train on most machines like New Tech. Mm-hmm. And Tezza using their variable step climbers, you know. It's like a lot. So a lot of that stuff from South Korea that's really been innovative. I've seen that first. Of course, Panada has always been there as well. But he gets even, what, Jim Lecco, Jim 80. First place I've seen all that stuff. Do you like the Jim Lecos? I mean, some pieces. I think that they're really cool because they're such a small profile, you could actually put it in a home gym. Mm-hmm. But it's so sturdy, you don't think you're going to knock it over. Right. Like, you can lean into it and you're not going to knock anything over. Yeah, and the plate design is real cool as well. The little slider. I think someone's going to lose that. I think for a home gym, that would be cool. But I think if you had a commercial gym, someone's going to lose that. Well, to be honest, if it would have been lost, it would have been lost there. That's a good point. And I don't know who would, because since it's, normally you lose those things because somebody's taking one and putting it in another machine. Right, but there's nothing to do it with. Yes. So then who are they going to do it with? Right. That can make sense. So that's why I think they kind of stay around. But durable, some of the pieces I really like. Some of the pieces are a little bit smaller profile. So I think they're not necessarily big enough. You're talking about a different brand? Gym Leco. Gym Leco, yeah. Yeah, some of the pieces are a little bit smaller design, but some of the pieces are nice and perfect. But I critique, I just critique equipment because I've trained on so much of it. I know. And that's the thing is, what they think when we get together, all we do is talk about steroids. Yeah. We never talk about steroids with each other. We're always talking about training, pretty much. Yeah, training is the most part for me because that's where I have the most passion. When it comes to the PED game, I don't talk about it much simply because I have teenagers. Right, and that's why I figured. And they have friends, and they get affected. My 16-year-old, he's training and gaining muscle. And I know they mess with him all the time. It's giving. So I try to make their lives a little bit easier by not making that the main focus of my conversations when I'm talking in these spaces. That's just because I know who their dad is and what it must be like to have a dad that's on the stage, like high-level bodybuilding. So, you know, it's just like, you know, and I try to speak to the kids about the basics, encourage the aspects of discipline and nutrition in sports because that's what's going to carry them further. I remember when you went and talked to the football team. Yes. As soon as you turned to Mr. Olympian, I was like, that actually brought a tear to my eye. I was like, now that's an ambassador. That's a hero for kids. That was such a sweet thing that you did. It was totally, totally unplanned. I was riding around with the sandal in my trunk because I had just finished traveling. Like, I went to Saudi Arabia. I went to the U.K. tour. So I had this thing with me, which they almost took away from me in Saudi Arabia because they wanted to say that I could fly with it. But fortunately, Abdullah knew one of the agents and, you know, made sure they didn't take it from me. Yeah, people don't know this, but Abdullah's like connected. Yeah, he's like a little mini Sultan. Yeah, he's pretty connected. A lot of people, popular on, what is it, Snapchat. Okay. He's very big on Snapchat. Last I was there, he goes around as kind of like a social media personality in the middle, I guess you would say. He just talks mad shit. And when I saw his house, I'm like, well, okay, now I understand. Yeah, yeah. Now I know why he talks mad shit. Well, he's a businessman. He's grown into a businessman. I'm very proud of him because he's really, really taking things to the next level. So I'm really, really proud of him as far as him, you know, maturing and going into business and just really just stepping into some good shoes, you know. Because, yeah, he's tenacious, man. And he's one of those guys that kind of raised himself, which is rare in Kuwait. Right. You know, because mostly, you know, it's family oriented. But he didn't have his dad. He had, you know, taught himself everything. And he's pretty much, you know, you call it self-made. He's that, man. That's why he's so tough. I mean, and that's so admirable. Yeah. Because it could be the other direction. But when someone's self-made and they're taught them, it's real. Yeah. It's not fronting. Yeah. So I'm walking around with that trophy in the trunk. And my wife's like, yeah, you may want to show the kids the trophy. I just got the trophy. I was like, oh, yeah, yeah. Because they were, I guess they were thinking about getting ready, I guess, to play a championship anyway. Oh. So, you know, we wanted to, I was like, that's an opportunity to show them, you know, what hard work, what focus, you know. Just give them an idea, you know, an expectation that if they really, really zone in, they can come on with some iron, you know. So, yeah, it was just an opportunity. It was spontaneous. And I was happy to be home. I think I had just got home. And, yeah, it just turned into a cool moment. So those moments like that, it's like, you know, you just, you know, they just come. I don't plan on them. They just come. So it's just fortunate just to be around young men and just seeing, because all those kids now are, what are they, teenagers, 16, 15? So they're all teenagers now, all of them doing big things at different schools. So it's pretty cool. That was a crazy team. That was a crazy team, actually. They did a lot, did a lot, a lot of good things in football, and they continue to do a lot. So, yeah, I have influence in a lot of different spaces that some guys may not. So I have to be, I try to be, you know, the best example I can be, because I don't have a big responsibility. And so left your family for up to eight months at a time and lived in Kuwait for, I think we talked about on Thursday, eight years? Well, I think, I think the, my wife says eight years. She keeps me strict on the numbers because I'm not the best. I'm a numbers guy, too. Yeah. And I think, yeah, I think the longest stint I was going was probably around that seven, eight month period. She was more accurate. I think as time progressed, I would spend like three or four months at a time there. I would get there like, they would, they would kind of get upset with me because I come in in like July, August, you know, right before. And I'm doing these quick preps, but they're like, you come in, you look like a regular dude. And then three weeks later, you like totally change. So I kind of knew that I could get away with, you know, doing less time, but still getting results because I know how the process will go. Plus, when you want to lock in and it's heat of the summer, you got to be locked in. You know, you can't, you know, I want to be locked in, locked in like this is game time. This is time to go. And nothing's hotter than 120 degrees summer. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, the worst, the worst, the worst summer experience, I think, you know, I'm in the room. It's hot outside. It's cool inside, but I want to get some fresh air. And I open up that balcony door and it is insane outside hot. And I wish I'd never even opened it up because it made me feel claustrophobic because I'm like, I can't even go outside. I don't even want to go outside. It's so hot. You felt trapped. Yeah. Yeah. I felt trapped. Exactly. Exactly. So, yeah, that's one of those moments, you know. They say when you go to Kuwait, well, I've seen it, actually. If you can survive three weeks, you know, on a regiment in Kuwait, you can survive longer. But it takes that three-week hump before, you know, you got to settle in. Because around that three-week mark, you get homesick. You want to go home. Because I've seen it happen to several guys. I know Regan. I've seen it happen to him. I had a roommate with Akeem. I've seen it. I've seen it. I came kind of experience it as well. So, it's like that. if you can survive three weeks there, you can ride it out because it's like, it's really intense. You can be in a room, everybody's talking, but you don't know anything that's being said. You don't speak the language. So it can be somewhat lonely at times. So you have to be like, and then, of course, they'll speak English and incorporate you and things. But a lot of times you're just hanging out. So you're spending a lot of time in the gym or you're spending a lot of time to yourself or FaceTime with the family, trying to connect. So it can be a little bit, if you didn't have a mission, if you didn't have something to accomplish and locked in, yeah, it would be hard on a mental sometimes. It's not a vacation. I just did the inverse. So I live in Michigan. I was locked in for six months. I just went to the gym and came home. No, I talked to these two pretty much and that's it. And it's just, when you go outside, it's negative eight this winter. It was holy shit this winter. So I was like, I could go across the street to get something and I'm like, fuck this. And I just Instacart it because it's like, I don't want to put on snow boots and scrape off my car and then drive across the street. It's shoveling out. The risk of accident is so much greater than the amount of Instacart charge once you even divide it out amongst the whole winter. I agree. I totally agree. One accident. You could have done Instacart the whole winter for that much money. Yeah, I totally agree. I totally agree with that. And so many bodybuilders slip and fall. We just had a guy do that this weekend, right? In Class of Cuisine, right? I didn't know about that, but that is a fear that I thought was just mine. I thought I'd pull a Branch Warren coming out of an Applebee's every time I went down the stairs. Branch Warren, whoever, did Evan do that too? When Branch in, I think, 2011 tore his quad off the bone coming out of an Applebee's because he took the ramp instead of the stairs. Yeah, I remember that. Because he thought it'd be safer, but it was wet and there wasn't a grit on it. So he slipped, tore the quad off the bone, came back, and then he won the Arnold Classic that year. I was at that show, bro. He freaked me out at that show. Yeah. Because I was behind him in the lineup, and it's one of the craziest things I've ever seen. I looked at Branch, and I was like, oh, he's off. He's off. He's off. He's off. I'm right there looking at him. Dude, as soon as he hit the stage, and I looked up at the teleprompter there, the TV, I'm like, what in the world just happened? He looked like he transformed right in front of my eyes. As soon as he started posing, everything just started. He's just one of those guys, when he starts posing, he just gets freaking hard. Everything just starts coming to life. It freaked me out because I saw it in person. I'm thinking, my whole time I'm judging it, I'm like, no, he's not on. He's not on. He's not on. He ends up taking the show because he starts hitting them poses, and it just starts hardening up veins. It's just like, what in the world just happened? It's just the perfect peak where you peaked the minute the lights get you, but you didn't peak before. Sorry. So do you pump up backstage and get a pump, or do you get a pump from posing backstage, or what do you do? I do try to pump because, first of all, I want to see, make sure I can, and make sure the pump is going to come. So I try not to over pump because a big rookie mistake is just wearing yourself out before you get on stage. And I try not to go to that extent, but I try to maintain, realize that I maintain this. Okay, I got some blood flow. I feel some tightness. Okay, I can squeeze that muscle. Yeah, I'm good. That's what I'm doing. I'm not trying to, because I know once I start posing, posing, I'm going to start feeling out more. Right. So I don't try to just overdo it. I remember watching, like, it used to be tempting. Like, I learned from Dexter, watching Dexter backstage. He'd sit there, and he'd sit in this warm-up, and he'd wait, literally, on everyone. And he'd just sit there, and he'd just chilling. I'd love it. Man, what are you doing? You want to get ready? I said, man, no, no, just, you got time. You know, they're always rushing us. I'm like, okay. All of a sudden, everybody's waiting on what Dexter looks like. Last minute, he strips off, gets his little pump, barely does anything, goes on stage. You know what I'm saying? So I'm like, oh. And then I'm watching Roley. Roley would pump up for, like, 15 minutes. And I'm like, man, by the time he's on stage, he's got a sweat going. And I'm just like, but then I realized Roley sometimes would have to pose himself into shape. Because for some reason, when Roley was competing with Roley, it seemed like the call-outs would last long. Like, almost like they're waiting to see if he's going to harden up towards the end. It's what it felt like. You know what I mean? So I understand the different strategies. If you may be a little off, maybe you need to pump up some more to try to, you know, get to where you need to be. But it's your own. Because I've done the reverse before. Where you're so flat that if you pump up, you're going to flatten out more. I've done the reverse. So, yep. So I've learned watching Dexter. He's a good person to watch. You have to ask him, though, because he may not just tell you. Next time. Next time I get a chance. I will definitely try to get an interview going with Dexter. Because, I mean, he's going to have some secrets. I mean, he's one of the most successful bodybuilders in history. He's a smart guy. He knows competitive, his competition. I've seen him freak everybody out. One time he comes into Australia late. He was at the Australian Pro late. And he comes in late. He had a bag. And he's just eating. He's got candy in it. And he's snacking on his candy. And he's like, hey, anybody want in here? Anybody want in here? He's throwing candy at people on the table. And I remember Evan was backstage. After the party's backstage. He got so pissed off. Dex coming back there eating candy. Just nonchalant. Passionate candy. He just walks off. A lot of people eat simple carbs before they go. Yeah, but it's just the way he did it. It's like he was like, I'm coming. I'm going to win this. And he could tell he can get up under somebody's skin psychologically. Right. Or he'd make you crack up laughing. So theoretically, Evan would then be upset. Yeah. Cortisol. Yeah. Water attention under the skin. Yeah. So it's just like shooting a dagger in their mind and making them lose the show. Yeah. In backstage. Yeah. Because this is the way he comes in. And it's just the presence, the chill. It's just like, I don't care. I'm going to win this anyway. So yeah, I've seen it, man. He's definitely been, even on stage, like on stage, talking trash. He's something else. He's like, uh-oh, you think you're going to beat me? Uh-uh, uh-uh. And the first time I did beat him, I walk off stage. He's like, man, about time. He has to take the victory from you and turn it into a form of defeat. What a man. That's awesome. So, man, I love that. I love that. He's just hilarious. He's one of great ones, man. For sure. But yeah, it's just that competitive mentality. So I didn't understand it until he waited to explain it to an audience when he guest posed at my show one year. He said, yeah, you know, I didn't like Brandon when I first met him. Because he used to give me a hard time. And he's like, yeah, but it's because he's a rookie. I was like, he gave me the rookie treatment, you know? So, yeah, I definitely got the rookie treatment from Dex, man. I had to earn his respect, you know what I'm saying? That's funny. Yeah. So how did you like your peak for the show? Considering some of the complications I went through Thursday. Care to elaborate? Yeah. Basically, Thursday, I got up. I ate, I think it was one or two meals. As the family came in, they got in town, they drove in. They came to the room, and then they went to settle down in their rooms and do whatever. And I was eating another meal. And I didn't really recognize it earlier. But I guess my esophagus was inflamed. I guess one of my ulcers, I had an ulcer that got inflamed. So is it a haital hernia, and it's a gastric ulcer that's in the esophageal canal, or is it actually an ulcer in the esophagus? It's an ulcer. Well, from the last time I had it happen, I had a couple ulcers in the esophagus itself. Wow. And they actually got cauterized. That's what almost put me on the Olympia. Was it 03 or whatever it was? Oh, okay. When I missed the meeting and everything. 23. Because I was in the hospital. Yeah, 23, yeah. Because I was in the hospital. And I missed the meeting. I missed the meet and greet. They had a debate on letting me go on stage. And I was in the hospital overnight because, you know, they could only treat it the next morning. So I had to go all that time without eating and drinking. And they cauterized them. And I was good. So once I was able to eat, they let me out. And they let me out of the hospital. And I had to get clearance from the powers that be that I was good enough to compete. And they let me compete. And I ended up getting fourth that year. So I thought. Who got fifth? I don't even remember, to be honest. Man, they must have been pissed. Yeah. I don't know. I don't know. But, yeah, so that happened. Like, what would have happened the first time is, like, I was swallowing some. I had a ginkgo biloba tablet. And what I thought, I thought it didn't go down. So I was, you know, trying to force it down with water. Right. I do that. And it wasn't that. It wasn't probably that it didn't go down. It was just probably I had irritated those ulcers. It felt like it was stuck. It probably wasn't stuck at all. So that when I was spitting up blood and everything, I knew something was wrong. So that's when I went to the ER. But this occurrence happened. I was eating some chicken rice. Typical. Or this Thursday. Yeah, this Thursday. And, you know, drinking sporadically. And then I realized, man, it's not moving. Something's not moving. Maybe. Maybe. So I literally drink something down. And I feel I have to, like, drink till so much pressure builds that it's forced through. And then it's, like, pain. I'm like, oh. Like, that hurts. Like, take your breath away. It kind of hurt. Oh, wow. And your throat, you can't get away from it. Yeah. So I'm, like, I'm trying to, like, you know, breathe. Because it's, like, it's just radiating. I'm in the sturdiness. And I'm like, okay, I know what this is. I know what this is. All right. So I'm like, okay, everything's clear. I already know it's clear. But it hurt to clear it. So I must be super inflamed in there. So I'm like, I can't. I got to go to the meeting. I'm going to meet at the meeting. So I just stopped eating right there. Yeah, I saw you Thursday night. Yeah. I stopped eating right there. And I'm like, okay. I took some antacids and stuff like that. I was trying to figure out, okay, how can I get this to soothe? And, yeah, it was, you know, I was a little bit uncomfortable with that whole meet and greet. And I hadn't eaten. So I went from. You came across very friendly and happy, actually. Yeah, I mean, but, you know, because this, you know, just being around the fans, being around the people. It comes back with a certain time. I like that energy, you know what I'm saying? So for me, it's like I got to give it back. And you did. I would never have guessed you were in pain at that moment. Yeah. So I got to give it back. No matter what I'm experiencing, you know, these people come a long way. And they support us. So, you know, I wasn't thinking about me at that time. I was thinking about, you know, just making sure I gave people that time. That's awesome. So I knew not eating wasn't painful. But I think the night before, I went to bed at like 258.6 or something like that. Before I left to go to the meet and greet, after like a couple of meals, I was like 255 something. And when I got, woke up the next day, you know, trying to create the process, but not trying to, I tried to eat one last meal before I went to bed. I tried to eat some cream and rice and some almond butter. But I was like, no protein because I don't want to irritate it. See if I get this down. But it was, I ate half of it. And it was like. Do you think even protein powder would have irritated it? Yeah. Probably not. Okay. But, well, actually, everything I was drinking was irritating it. Even the water. Not more so than the cream of rice or almond butter. Right. But the cream of rice and almond butter was still irritating to where I couldn't finish it. I only ate half. Wow. And I was like, okay, I can't do it. I was like, the pain keeps increasing. So I'm like, okay. I went to bed and it was uncomfortable. But some, some, some point when I'm sleeping, I'm like, I'm praying. I'm like, give me some relief. But some point when I'm sleeping, I wake up and I'm like, okay, I don't really feel much pain. I'm like, this is good. I'll go back to sleep. Of course, I'm peeing because I'm trying to stay on top of, you know, the drying out process. Because I'm like, okay, maybe we can rescue it and fill out. Because I was already pretty much full. So I hadn't depleted any glycogen. I wasn't training. So I was like, okay, we can at least hold it. It's just sodium and water at this point. We don't need food. Exactly. So I'm like, okay. But when I woke up the next morning, I dried out well, but I was like 241. Which I never, I'd never been that light the entire prep. Wow. Like never been. I hadn't, hadn't. I think the lowest I hit when we were pushing was like 247, 246. I mean, you dropped fortune pounds overnight. So I was like, okay, this is, but he saw the pictures. He being Justin. Yeah, Justin, Justin Harris, he saw the pictures and he was like, and I put, he's like, he's like 251. And I'm like, no, no, no. He says, I said 240. He's like, he's like, yeah, I was wondering. He says, you look, still look 251. But you said 241. I thought you had a typo. I'm like, no, dude, I lost that much weight overnight. So fortunately, by the next day, I got a little, I think a prolosec or something. Some more Tums. I think I took some Pepto just to coat the, coat the, coat the softgish. And for, and for some reason, I just went and experimented and ate some wedges of potatoes. Okay. To see if I can get those down nice and soft. And they went down smooth. Okay. And then I started eating some filet. Mm-hmm. And filet start going down pretty smooth. And then after I know it started getting full, then I started, okay, I started getting a little discomfort once I started getting full, but I was still able to continue to eat. So I was able to rebound that a little bit. So I was probably on stage lighter than I was expected to be, but I was probably still like 246, 246 around there on stage. Now this is Friday. Now what did you weigh Saturday? Saturday, no, maybe I was 245 on stage. Because Saturday I was probably around, I left the room almost like 247. Okay. And I had a meal, I had a meal, I had a meal after that. Okay. Because I didn't weigh. I see. I didn't weigh after that. So what? Which day do you think you look more conditioned? I don't, I don't really know, to be honest. Like, I haven't studied it yet. I was looking over it because I was sitting behind Randy. Yeah. Friday and Saturday. Okay. I hadn't really studied it yet. I know I wanted to kind of fill out a little bit more for Saturday because I know it probably naturally is going to happen anyway. And I was more comfortable. I wasn't in pain. So I could continue to consume calories. So I think the way, you know, Justin handled the adjustments and he, you know, reassured me, you know, he making sure my mind was good as far as don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. He was, he said he was up, you know, he was, you know, panicking. Yeah. But he, Justin's good at keeping his cool and convincing you you're going to win. Right. So, so yeah, he, he kept me, you know, just, just focused on what I could get done. So I was, you know, considering this situation, it wasn't ideal, but I think we capitalized on it in a good way. And to be honest, the feedback was, was, was very incredible. Like first, I mean, most people was arguing, everybody was telling me that they were kind of pissed that they didn't put me in it. They didn't compare me in the top four, top four with the top four. Well, I mean, normally they would have done that. Right. And then later on the Saturday, they compared you versus Martin, moved you in the middle, left you there, but then they didn't change the scoring it seemed. Right. Well, it was more like, you know, the internet went crazy. Mm-hmm. I know they heard that because, you know, they let me know that I had a chance to move up. So, you know, I was like, okay, cool. You know, that kept me, my head in the game, continuing to complete it, stay tight as possible. You know, I'm not going to change anything crazy. So we didn't change anything crazy. Just ate a little bit more. Yeah. So like Friday, your legs were as big as sustained must office, but they were way more shredded than anybody up there. Okay. So like, and I'm fixating on your legs because that was the target area the last few years, right? Right. And so your hamstrings are bigger than I've ever seen them. I think your hamstrings are like your best part. Yeah. When you hit your side tricep, you line it up and we get a perfect hamstring hang. And then when you rotate that left shoulder over, you end up rotating your right knee and you lose that hamstring. Ah, yeah. That was the only thing I saw. Everything else was fucking flawless. Okay. Okay. I got that. I got my, one of my guys, Jimmy, who out of Texas, a massage therapist. He actually said I needed to be opened up in my abdomen. So he came to me after prejudging. We didn't get to meet up. He didn't bring in his equipment and stuff, but he was trying to meet up with me, just trying to open me up a little bit because he said it looked like I couldn't. And he said that may have been because of rotating at the waist, but it may have been because of what I was, I had dealt with. He was saying as well, but I think also it's just, uh, I probably don't emphasize the, the hams as much in that movement. Uh, just because I know they're going to be, the side chest is going to, they're going to be seen. Correct. And I'm actually a little thumps too. So, and I know how strict Tyler is about seeing the widest torso possible because when, I was at a different angle and I saw you lined up the traditional way where we don't show our left tricep or left shoulder, the tricep look way thicker and the hamstring drop look thicker, which is how I like a side tricep. But to get the width, we end up getting, it rotates the whole waist. So what I, what I get, what I get differently, like I like, I like that because when the way you start talking about, it shows the chest thickness, it shows the tricep, it shows the hamstring thickness. But when you rotate, once you get out of it, you get the, the shoulder width. But I also, when I rotate, I also get the separation. In the serratus and the lats. In the serratus as well. And, um, and for some reason I can contract the glute from, from, from that position a little bit easier for some reason. When you rotate? When I rotate. I think the contracting the glute might be what's pulling the knee off. Okay. Might be. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Cause that's what happens to me. If I squeeze my glute in my side tricep, my right knee dips out like one degree, like one o'clock. So it might be eight degrees or something. And then, then the hamstrings go off. Gotcha. Yeah. Gotcha. Yeah. I, I, I can, that's something I'm willing to play with. Just because the legs were the target. Right. And you had huge legs on the side chest and setting up the side tricep. Right. It's like, I've been working on rotation with like a PVC pipe. Okay. Where I'll lock the PVC pipe in a door frame. Oh. And I'll wear shoes and I'll walk my feet in the other direction. Okay. Or I can lay on the floor and do that. And that's allowing me to actually rotate more for my side shots. Okay. Well, I consider, I consider, what I consider, now that you say that, is I'll change, I'll change the, the starting angle. Yeah. Cause usually like if the crowds at 12 o'clock, I would theoretically pose to nine. But if I pose towards eight, when I twist, it pulls the knees to nine. Yeah. Cause what I do miss, I do miss some of the, the depth from the chest and the more profile position. Cause I do, I do miss that personally. Cause I look at some older shots where I did hit it like that. And I, you know, I liked that personally, but it's just, it's just a matter of styles, I guess, you know, but like I said, man, you know, I felt like, I felt like not being able to eat a fully Thursday took, you know, some of the fullness we were going to bring to the stage away. Um, but other than that, I mean, everything, everything for me was, was pretty, was pretty good. It was pretty consistent with what, you know, me and Justin have, have been able to bring. So we'll see what happens. Hopefully in three weeks, we'll see what happens with adjustments we can make. How do you, um, so is it Arnold, you came through these and how do you feel this look stacked up against other great looks in the past? Like I said, I don't judge myself, man. Good. I don't. Good either. I don't judge myself. I don't do it either. I don't, I don't, man. Are you really harsh on yourself? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I'm probably like, I'm, I'm like, I'm not satisfied with a lot of things. Like people like this and like that. And I look at it and go, uh, you know, do you only see what you want to fix? Yeah. Yeah. Pretty much. Like, like my wife's like, oh, you got to post pictures from the show. And I'm like, I don't like any of them. Do you think in six months you'll like them when you're offseason? I mean, yeah, yeah. And you're like, oh, I wasn't as fat as I thought. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's why I look back. I look at the other pictures like back when I didn't like them and I'm like, oh man, that's good. That was a cool shot. But like, yeah, right now it's like, yeah, I'm still, I'm still a work in progress. So it's not like, you know what I mean? And that's what I always tell people too, is like, if you wait till you're perfect, you're never going to get on stage. And then when you do, you won't know how to perform on stage because it's a skill. People don't realize that you're in a completely different state when you're on stage. You're blind. You can't hear, you know, it's hot. And so like, you can't, you can only hear your pulse almost. So it's like when their first couple of times, like people are going to be so nervous, they got to get that experience so that they're nonchalant like Dexter. I just, I just gave that advice. There was Thursday. He said, I just got, I told him as a kid, I said, don't wait. I don't wait. He said, you're never going to be perfectly prepared, but you got to develop a game, a game. That means the stage, a show game. You got to, you got to know what the experience is and then you can make adjustments. I said, your first show, that should be the easiest low pressure show you have because there's no expectations. You're trying to figure it out. You know, once you get, start figuring out, then you can do your homework. Then you can build from there, but just do it. Get it over with so you can get to work and accurate work. You know what I mean? Because otherwise you just, you just aimlessly aiming and don't really have any, any real, real focus as far as, you know, how the stage, how the stage is, you know, going to be presented. Do you feel, what is, you feel is the biggest weakness of most bodybuilders coming up? Nutrition, training, or posing? It's got to be posing. It seems like no one even starts it until they're four weeks out. Yeah, it's got to, it's got to be posing because no, no one can, no one can, unless you just are creative type and you know, you like that artistic value of it, no one can emphasize that the need for it as much as, as much as they should to. Nobody can communicate that to a person that doesn't have any, any, even when they have experience, it still cannot be communicated. It takes a while to get it. It takes a while. It takes you actually being perfectly honest, being able to fully analyze because you can all day say, I look better than that guy. I look better than that guy. I said, yeah, standing there you did, but, but posing, this pose, you look awful. That pose, you look terrible. You know, it's like, so it's like one of those things you can't, they have to see it for themselves, you know, to really, really want to focus on it. And that posing is something that you'll always be dissatisfied with and adjusting. Hopefully. Even if you've got seven awesome poses, you're in your eighth post is what you consider shit. That's the only post you think about. That's the only one you practice is the shit pose. And posing is work, man. It's work. It's not, it's, you know, training is fun. You know, everybody loves that. Posing is work. It's, they figured out that our heart rates get up to like 150 when we're posing and that it's way more work than anyone thought it was. They had to like, cause you know, when they're like, oh yeah, really hard to do ballet. It's like, I don't know. Like we way more than a ballet girl. It's like a little bit different. And then now there's science to support that our bodies struggle with posing more than they do with lifting weights. Cause do you ever really have a 150 heart rate when you're lifting? No, but I guess it's like 150 when you're posing. It just says a lot for the isometric contractions, you know, this is a lot for that. And I guess that's something that I think the old school, you know, intuitively just grasped a whole lot better than the new school. They had more patience for it. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? I don't think that, you know, these, our later generations, you know, we get so much instant gratification that we have as much patience for that, that, that form of, that part of bodybuilding. I mean, I'll be honest. I didn't when I started, I didn't have that patience for it. I mean, I had to just continue to suck at it and see that I sucked at it in order to say, okay, I need to fix it. It was all conditioning. I think when we came up, it was all conditioning. You had to have shredded glues. Yeah. Then if you have shredded glutes, who has a back? Yeah. And then if you have back, who has quads? Right. And usually you've wiped out everyone by that point. Nobody's going to have shredded glutes, a back and quads. Right. Usually. Right. Yep. It's true. And then it was like posing is like, yeah, we just got to get into the pose. Right. Like, but now it's like, because the classic guys brought the game up, brought the waist in, made posing an art form again. And it's like all bodybuilders have to get their waist smaller and be better posers than ever before. Yeah. It's a good, it's a good transition. It's a good time for it. And like I said, you could, you owe that to classic for sure. Because those guys, you know, incredible, incredible, safe, presence, control, discipline. So, yeah, we could definitely use that a lot more in bodybuilding. Speaking of discipline. So, you've had a very unique training style. Do you, did you learn a lot of that when you were in Kuwait? Or is that just stuff you figured out? Because you have like Janicki, this way to creatively come up with a mechanical ways to target hard to reach muscles with the most bizarre equipment sometimes. And it's really creative. Well, for me, you know, training is like my first love. Like, it was my first love. So, I used to, when I first started training, I was 14, I had a, you know, one of those like weeder style sand weights. Use the sand weights. Set up in the gym. A thin little bar. So, I'm taking that leg extension. I'm taking that, you know, that bench. And I'm trying to, you know, I'm taking, I'm putting, making dumbbells out of it. I'm, you know, I'm doing what I can with what I have. Trying to be creative as possible. So, you know, I take that. And then I get into the gym. And it's like, okay, I love this. I love this. You know, I'm looking at Charles Glass. I'm like, you know, I got to work with Charles when I was fortunately young. A young body were coming up. And I'm like, this dude, there's something I can't explain. And like, he does things that seem very simple, but it's kicking my ass. Like, the way he orders it, or the slight modification, three exercises in, Charles, I'm freaking done. Like, we got more, and I'm done. And he's like, yeah, like we did nothing. And I'm just like, okay, this, this, this is something to this. So, I started, because I started off as an athlete. So, my, I was so performance driven. And I was so about being stronger, being faster, heavier, heavier, heavier, heavier, heavier. Well, what happened to me was a lot of muscle groups developed that were strong. But my quads didn't develop from heavy lifting. Chest and shoulders and triceps are big as fuck. Yeah. My quads did not, no matter how much I, I could squat 700 pounds. It didn't matter. I could squat 405 for 20. I could do all that kind of stuff. It didn't matter. That was not what my legs would respond to. So, you know, you spend a lot of time just beating up your body just to get a goal. And then, you know, I'm next, in the preps, I'm wearing knee wraps because my knees are freaking killing me, inflammation. And I'm just, you know, I'm crazy. I'm going to push. I mean, I mean, people think, people obviously accuse me of not going to work hard in the gym. It's like, no, you guys, no, I'll push. You know, people like Chris know he's trained me. Well, you look like you're almost asleep when you're training because you're so chill. Yeah. And that's probably what they're talking about. Maybe that's it. But if you train, I've trained with me. And your voiceovers, it's like smooth jazz. It's like so relaxing. Well, now I'm so targeted. Now I'm so targeted, it's different. Right. Well, back when I was younger, I've trained with everybody. One of the hardest guys that I've trained with, just because of pure volume alone, was Roley. Oh, I think you're going to say ranch. No, Roley, man. Roley. Roley does a lot of volume? Roley. Does he ever train triceps? Yeah. But Roley, Roley, Roley's like, you know, we go back to back, you know, same intensity. And I'm like, okay, Roley, I'm done. That's enough. Roley's like, oh, man, come on. We got two more exercises. I'm like, Roley, why? Why? And like, Roley will hurt his hamstring. Oh, I pulled my hamstring. I come in the gym. Hey, man, why don't you pull your hamstring? Why are you training hamstrings? Oh, yeah, I got you. I'm not going to do too much. I'm like, why are you training your hamstrings? You just said you had an injury. Like, that's how he is. Like, he's like tough like that. So I've trained with a lot of different guys and, you know, and it's like Roley was one of those guys, extreme ballgame guys. But pushing myself, I push myself with anybody. But it's not just about to push. So over the years of being pushed, but especially by the oxygen crew, I realized, okay, it's, you know, my off seasons. I'm like, okay, I'm at home. I got to make progress. So how am I going to make progress? I'm going to prioritize what I need to prioritize. Right. And leave everything else, you know, at maintenance. So I started adding more frequency because, you know, I'm always into research. You know, I'm going to take a grain of this and a grain of that. And I'm going to try to apply it. I'm going to experiment. So I started experimenting with frequency, you know, just total volume of the week. Trying to figure out, okay, how can I get past training intensity, keeping the joints and keeping this frequency up? So eventually I'm like, okay, I come up with a plan. I try it out and test it and I make progress. So, yeah, I go, may go to Kuwait. They have a whole different program. Okay, we're going to build on top of that. But in my off time, when I'm not pushing, I'm going to work on the things that I need to work on. So slowly but surely, I'm making the progress I need to make because I'm focusing on prioritizing things I need to prioritize. When I go there, I'm doing whatever they want me to do. So now that I'm handling all my training, it's always prioritizing what I need to prioritize. Everywhere else I don't need to prioritize, I don't. So what's back burner? Like let's say you put your chest in the back burner, right? Because that's a good strong body part for you. How many sets is back burner for you? Well, it depends on how many, it depends on the styles, about styles, how many count. So we say top sets. So I'll have like, what, three total top sets if I do that, three exercises. So you'll do a top set, back off set for three different exercises or just three top sets? Yeah, three top sets. I don't want to exercise for two. Yeah. And you do that once a week or twice a week? I'll do that typically probably twice a week. I'll hit chest twice a week. So that's a back burner is three sets twice a week. So six total sets a week. Yeah, six total sets a week or eight. Right. And that's Mr. Olympia's chest too. Yeah. So what do you do volume then for your areas you're trying to bring up, let's say the hamstrings and the quads those years? Well, hamstrings I haven't tried to bring up. Quads are different. So quads, I'm going to probably do probably two top sets. Per exercise. And how many exercises? I'm going to at least do four or five. So you're going to do total eight to ten sets of one workout? But I may do that three times a week. Oh, wow. So you're doing 30 sets of quads a week? Yeah. Holy shit, I'm on a train of quads. Okay. Hey, but two of those are pretty much pressing oriented. Right. One of those are more isolation oriented. So I'm doing different variations of extensions. I'm doing like 60 squats. Your somersault squat, would you count that as an extension? Yeah. I would count that as more of an extension, not a press. What if you did the somersault squat superset with a normal squat on a belt squat? Would that be a good superset? Did you pre-exhaust the quads? I think that would be... Like if you squeeze it? That would be okay. Yeah, that would definitely be okay. But I use a leg press because it's close. Oh, okay. So I actually use a somersault squat with an actually inverted leg press, but I hang my toes over the edge, my heels over the edge, midfoot, so I can get depth. And you don't feel knee pain from that? No, no, no. Because I'm trying to get this thigh to this shoulder. Okay. Which you don't get when you're flat-footed. Right. So I go midfoot. Okay. And that way... And it's light. I put quarters on. So you start with the sled plus quarters. Yeah. So really light, the range of motion. The range of motion. Feel it in the quad sweep, I assume? Yeah, yeah. Quad sweep, deep teardrop. Mm-hmm. And then... But I'm going from the somersault squat to that. Right. So the somersault squat is the lead. And I do that because it's like, that is like post-week intensity. That's like late week. That's light week? Late week. Leg week. Late. Late. Late week. Late week. Late in the week. Oh, I see. Because it's... Okay. So these are not the heavy-duty exercises we put in the beginning of the week. Yes. Because you're only going to... We talked about this on Thursday, isn't we? Yes. If the knees take six days to recover, then in the middle you can put things that don't traumatize your knees. Yes. And you still stimulate the quad. Yes. So that's the lighter stuff. Yes. So walk me through the whole week's programming then for legs. Because that's really complicated and everyone does leg programming wrong. Let me... Let me... Let me... Let me go back in my head here. Let's see. Sunday... Let's see. I'm sorry. I got post-show brain here. Yeah, I do. I do. I'm honored that you took the time to do this today. I got post-show brain. You competed yesterday. Yeah. You're here today. I got post-show brain. And let me... Let me get my thoughts together. When it comes to legs, we... Let's see. Early in the week... Let me think. Because I did change a little bit here recently. Just because I wanted to bag off the intensity a little bit more. But I come in... Let's say I come in and I'm doing... I warm up... Let's say I'm warming up with some kind of hack squat. Okay. Typically, if I'm using a hack squat now for intensity-wise, I do a single leg. I was doing a double leg in the beginning. Lows are getting heavy. I'm doing a single leg. I'm doing a variation that I call like a pistol-style squat. Because you're off at a 45-degree angle? Yes. Inverted with the leg. So what I'm doing is I'm trying to emphasize the sweep. So what I do feel is as I'm lowering, it's pushing my hip. My hip is having to push and stabilize this way. So anytime I feel like I had adduct or... Yeah. Yeah. Adduct. I feel like the hip engages and the sweep engages at the same time. So you activate your adductors and then your sweep? Yeah. Are you internally rotating too? No. Okay. No, no, no. I'm still trying to keep my knee in the same position to follow the toe. Okay, cool. So if I do that, then that's going to... Yeah, that's not where I want to be in my knee position to be in. Okay. I've tried it. I don't think it's worth it. It's like you've got a little bit more sweep than a lot of knee pain on the medial side, right? Yeah, yeah. I don't think it's worth it. I've tried it. I don't think it's worth it. But I'm trying to get as much depth because I find that my sweep particularly engages at the bottom. Oh, really? And then once I come up and I push, then I get the contraction all the way through. So I push away. And this allows me to, okay, train lighter, target where I want to target it. And less load through the core. Yes. Less load through the core. From there, we could go to a leg press. Okay. So we've done two work sets, top sets, single leg, pistol squat, hack squat. Right, right. Pistol position. And honestly, before that, leading into that, I just warm up with a, typically I warm up with a cable extension. Mm-hmm. Because I want to get the, I want to get blood in the sweep. Is this the seated cable thing where you hook up to the belts? No. That's a different exercise. This is, this is basically, it's basically where you have a cable. Mm-hmm. You set it up probably like waist height. Mm-hmm. You figure four from this position. Mm-hmm. And you extend and you turn the hip here. Okay. So the cable is here. Pull it this way. Line of force is like this. And then you extend it, but you rotate the hip. So that's, that's my lead. That's my lead into that. And then I go in and I'm lit up. Okay. When I go in there and I go from there to the, to the, to the hack, single leg, then I go to the leg press. Typically the leg press, I do a standard, but I like to lift my butt up off the seat a bit. Mm-hmm. Because that allows my heels to come closer to my butt. Mm-hmm. So I get a greater knee angle. Right. Your knees are also closer to shoulders. Right. Now, do you let them come into where they're crushing your ribs or do you let them veer out a little bit? No, I want to, I want to come as deep as possible. Okay. So if they, if they're going to run into here, I don't even like that feeling. I hate it. So I always make sure I have. I hate it so much. I only do single leg, leg press. Yeah. I don't, I don't, I don't like to have, yeah, that all on me. And I, and I think I've, I think in the past I've done something in my back by having all the, that on me. All those old machines. Yeah. Like the hamstrings and stuff that weren't ergonomic. Yeah. But I, but I will use single leg for that reason too. Especially when I don't feel like loading plates. Uh-huh. I'll, I'll use a single leg for that, that reason. And in that, in that case, I, I turn, I turn my hip like this. Kind of like, um, I think, uh, Henry, David Henry should do that. Yeah. I turn my hip like this. So when I'm coming down, it's coming down here like that. It's coming, it's coming like, it's almost like this leg. It's here. It's almost like a, which is the work leg. This is the work leg. So you're, oh wow. She's doing the leg press like this. Yeah. So the, the knees come in. So the opposite of what you did when you did the hack squat. Right. Where'd it be this leg if we're on this leg. Yeah. So the knees come in here, but I'm facing like a 45 here. Interesting. That allows me to get the full position I want and it allows me to get deep without the heel coming off the platform. And you feel that in your sweep? I can feel that. Yeah. I feel that coming. Once it pushes my leg out here, when I, me having to come back, I do feel it, but I do feel in my adductors too. Oh, okay. But I need a little bit of, you know, I need a little bit of variance, uh, in, in that position. But by that time, everything's like me up there. And of course we started with squat. You didn't start with anything else. Exactly. And so then after the leg press, what do you do? And after that, we'll say we have, I said, that would be a good time to finish with like a somersault variation. Okay. Uh, that's something that. On the belt squat. I do a belt squat. I also do it on the, um, the Roger pendulum. Oh, okay. Yeah. But, but the difference is the pad placement. So the pad placement on the, the Roger pendulum comes down at an arc like this. Right. Usually where the shoulders. Right. And you sit into it. So you're having the pad on your hips. The pad comes down mid, mid back. Mid back. Okay. That way it pushes my butt right into it. Right. Kind of like a donkey calf. Right. If you put the donkey calf on your lower back rather than your hips. Exactly. Exactly. And, and this also, I also could set up a sissy squat, you know, a sissy squat little apparatus. Mm-hmm. Also, I could set up a sissy squat in the, uh, in the Roger pendulum. If I didn't, if I wanted to push against a pad and I wanted to drive out like a sissy squat. Mm-hmm. And you know how you have to, if you really want to hit a sissy squat right, you need to, you don't lean forward. You stay away. You got it. You posterior pelvic tilt. You stay away, right? Yeah. So that machine, the way it comes, starts back here. Mm-hmm. And arcs down. Right. It brings, it does that. It, it, since the path, if you set it in the right position, it'll set a path to where you'll drop your, it'll drop your butt right to your heels. Wow. And then you thin off the pad. Actually, I've removed the one that goes behind the leg. Okay. And only leave the pad here because that's the one I'm pushing off of. That way I get more depth. Oh. Okay, I got it. I got it. It pushes my butt all the way down and I get more depth because if that pad's here, I'm limited to how low I can go, right? Uh-huh. But if I remove that, that pad there, then I'm just pushing off that. So it's literally pushing. I see. The reason the pad's there to prevent you from falling over backwards because the force is applying to you here, it doesn't, it's not going to let you fall over backwards. Right. Exactly. Exactly. Because you're already set up. You can't fall backwards. That's smart. So pushing against that, that lights me up too. So I make a decision whether I'm going to do a somersault squat or I'm going to do it that way. It's very, very similar. The only, the only difference is I'm not getting the ankle flexion. So that way you're working the rectus in the shortened position without using the leg extension, but it's still going to be, it's still a leg extension, but it's not using a leg extension machine. Right, right. And you can load it more. It's very similar. And it's closed chain. Right. Because open chain leg extensions hurt my knee too. When you get heavy, you got to do like 25 reps. Otherwise, your knee is screwed. And then when I come in on, let's say I come in on a, I can end the workout there. I can end it there. And that would be six sets. Yeah. I can end it there. And then you have two more leg days. Yes. What did you do? Did you do anything else for the legs that day? No. Okay. I did chest after that. All right. Three exercises. What's the second leg workout look like? As we start, that's more of my leg extension day. Okay. So I go in and I do far back. Leg extensions like way back. Yeah, so we're stretching the rectus? Stretching, yeah. And then I do what I call side saddle. Okay. Which is. I do it like this. Yeah. With the leg kicking out like that. The leg is basically, I use the prime. Uh-huh. So the leg is, I got, I'm like, let's see, if the seat's here, this leg is here. Uh-huh. In the middle of it. And the pad is on the side of my leg. Uh-huh. So when I extend, I extend here. And you rotate into it. Yeah, yeah. So the hips can rotate. Yeah. So you have to knee, the knee has to be over the edge of the seat a little bit. Uh-huh. So you can get rotation. Uh-huh. So it's like, you know how you get this rotation here? Uh-huh. For some reason, it just lights me up. Yeah, me too. It lights me up. I actually put a pad on that. Yeah. And then I don't have to have the knee go over the edge. I can actually have it tight to the edge. Okay. Because the pad wraps around it. Okay. And I get the full stretch. I got that from Janicki, actually. Okay. He invented a leg extension thing for his new company, Torque. Oh, wow. It isn't released yet, but you can just slap it on the seat. Yeah. And then it gives you more range of motion. Yeah. Those light me up. I typically would do those, and I'll finish with those. And then I also hit hip flexors on that day because I use a hip flexor like ab machine, you know, the crunch machine. But I place one leg on, place the other leg in front of me, and I put myself in a position where I feel my hip flexor come back and open up, and then I bring it up. So I don't use my abs at all. I just use my hips to bring it up. And the reason why I train my hip flexors is because I notice that if I don't have enough strength in my hip flexor, if I can't control this area, then I can't get separation through my quads. Because how do you engage separation through your quad when you're posing? You usually push on the floor. You push on the floor. And then you rotate. And then your hip. It comes through. You pull up through the hip. Because you sit your hips back slightly. That causes tension. And to your pelvic cells. Yep. To pull up the sertoiors. Exactly. So I started training the hip flexor because I was like, okay, I'm lacking separation in the quad. And sure enough, the more I started training hip flexors, the more I was able to bring out separation in the quad. Fuck, I got to do that. Because it's a bitch for me to activate my right quad. Okay. So I do those, and then I start doing the ones on the lifts on the leg curl. So getting the leg curl, reverse, post one leg, one leg up, stretch, lift up. Oh. You know what I'm saying? So that one really lights me up. It also lights up the sartorius for some reason really hard. Yeah. Yeah. That's funny. So I do that one as well. So I used to do the ones where you fall back on the glute hem raise, where you lock your foot in, up high on the glute hem raise. And I hold my knee, or I used to actually wrap something around my leg so I could hold my knee so I wouldn't have to hold it with my hand because I was losing grip. But I let my body fall back, and then I pull myself back up with my hip. But not with your abs? Yeah. Just with my hip because my butt's on the thing. So my abs, they're stabilizing, but they're not going to bring me up. My hip is going to bring me up. So I would use those as well, but I've been switching different exercises out just based on variation, convenience. You do one-legged hip, but you're like 270, 280 pounds in the opposite zone, right? Yeah. I used to add weight to it too. What the fuck? So one hip flexor's raising your whole body? I take a kettlebell, and I try to open up like this, and I come back like that. Oh, wow. With just hip flexors. Yeah. Shit. Yeah. It makes a difference. It definitely makes a difference. I know hip flexor strength is important for athletics, but I just never really considered in the bodybuilding. But when I started thinking about it, flexing the leg, plurian out separation, you have to contract up here. You have to contract up there. Man, I'm contracting there. All right. So it helped a lot. And then so I do my hip flexor stuff there. Then I'll go down. I may do some adductor work as well. Mm-hmm. That day. But then I'll go down and do some sissy squat variations. Mm-hmm. So I do... Often I superset them. I do front-facing hack squat, sissy squats, which I do those because that's the only sissy squat that allows me to get focused on the contraction at the top. The stretches are given in the sissy squat. But as you get to the top, when you're facing the platform, you squeeze. Because squeezing, you can squeeze the top. You have to squeeze at the top and you kind of get that hard contraction at the top. And then you can go into the stretch. But also, since I know I'm stronger in the reverse, I will reverse, flip around, and then I'll finish out the set in the stretch range. Mm-hmm. So that'll be typically all I'll do unless I add the cable, belt squat from the 45-degree angle. Mm-hmm. So that one, whether I do the Bulgarian, whether I do it two legs, whether I do it from the side, that angle was just so different. So it's a Bulgarian, but rather than having a dumbbell and having gravity work on you vertically, you have a cable pulling on your hips forward. So we've got a closed-chain knee extension making it way more quads because you still have your body weight going vertical for quads and glutes. Right. But the horizontal is just quads. Right. Got it. And fighting it is the thing. It's like fighting it. And I encourage that you actually let it pull you up on your toe. Oh, okay. Because that's when you feel the biggest stretch in the quads and your hips come up a little bit. And then you have to really engage to bring them back. And since the belt is right there, it's like really pushing against that belt. And when I first tried them, I didn't think they were going to be hard. I was like, oh, this is going to be easier. But I'm like, they smoked me. They smoked me, literally. I'm like, so that's a day two. Now, about day three, I would do, like I said, that would be a somersault squat, superset it at the end of the week. So I would superset that probably with the inverted leg press. Let's see. What was that? That day. Maybe I would do the pendulum squat as well. I was doing that typically normal with a pause. But normally after the pendulum squat, I used high reps on that day. So I'm using like 20 reps. I'm pretty much fried. So 20 reps on a pendulum squat? Yeah. So there was an interview where someone was asking you, I don't remember what this was, about what you thought about slow eccentrics. And you're like, well, I mean, if you come down fast, the amount of force necessary to rapidly negatively accelerate is the same force as you would have used to slowly deaccelerate. So you actually get more muscular contraction with a fast eccentric. Right. But then there's always the risk of injury. Right. Do you still feel the same? I still feel the same. So you got to use fast, eccentric, smart, sparingly. Like you can't, you know, they'll beat you up. Because most when I see you train, your tempo is usually pretty measured. Yeah. 2-1-1-1, basically. But they'll beat you up. That's why. Okay. So you still like it, but because of the risk injury, you're still sticking with the slouching. Because of the volume. Because of the volume that I use and the recovery aspect, I have to moderate my distemple more. If I had, if I didn't have so much frequency, I probably would train a lot faster. But I know that it's harder. Do you know that I've never heard anyone ever explain that except for you? And Milos would push it. He's like, everybody wants to go four seconds down, one second up. What if you did four seconds up, one second down? And he would change it up, but he never really explained it. You actually explained it. And I was like, holy shit. It's like when you're doing it, it doesn't seem harder. No. But to recover from it, it beats you up. You have a CPA, don't you? Or an accounting degree? No, no, no, no, no. I'm not accounting. I went to school for exercise. Okay, I don't know why I got that wrong. That's Ronnie. Well, it's Ronnie, Phil, and I thought it was you. I thought it was three Mr. Olympia's all-head accounting degrees. No, no, no. My accounting teacher wanted me to be accounting, but I couldn't sit in front of a computer all day doing that. Because I'm just like, dude, you got the mind. Have you thought about engineering any of this equipment with the company? I would like to. I had a company approach me. Probably wasn't the best time out of Spain. They wanted to work with me, but we didn't really get into the details. But I would. I definitely would. Like, I've had some good conversations with some guys that work in the equipment field. And I don't know. It's just something about it. I have a natural way of just seeing things differently. And just knowing, like, different levers, mechanics, how different things work. I'm like, and being able to, having to use so many different equipment. I'm like, if I don't have something, but I want to simulate it, sometimes I think I subconsciously think about it. Like, when I'm in the gym. Like, I'll be doing something, and I'll be looking over at a piece of equipment. And I'm like, and I'm, and I'm, and I'm, like, for some reason I can't focus on what I'm, on what I'm completely doing. Because I'm looking at a piece of equipment for some reason. And all of a sudden it's like, you know what? I want to try that. So I'll go over there and I'll play with it. If it's good, it's good. If it's not, it's not. Do you use a logbook or are you more instinctive? I don't, I don't use a logbook. I don't use a logbook. Because for me, for me, I'm just, I guess I can't, I can't. I tried. I tried. But for me, it's, that's too much of an ego thing for me. You try to break numbers. You find yourself dreading it. Your whole body hurts. You're like, how the fuck am I going to do that today? I mean, I've had good days. I've had good performance days. And what I realized is the good performance days set you up for failure next time. Or the days that you feel the strongest are the days that you have the weirdest things happen. Like you're strong but brittle? Yeah. Like every time I've sprayed anything, I was feeling invincible. The weight was moving like nothing. I don't need to warm up today. Fuck this shit. I was like, man, I'm like warming up. Like, man, this is moving. What happened? So, yeah. I don't need a logbook because I got to go with how I feel that day. And I got to work with what I got that day. If I'm up here trying to beat yesterday's person, yesterday's person. I may have been a different person yesterday. You know? So, now, do you take every set then to failure or do you cut short? Now, I'm trying to find working weight. So, if it's an isolation exercise, though, it's not very taxing. I'll take every one of them to failure. Mm-hmm. Like, if it's a pec bag or something, I'll take it to failure. But if it's something that's more compound, I'm trying to work up to a load to where I feel like, okay, this is work. This is workload. This is, I'm going to push this one. But, so, I'm trying to stay away from over fatigue, you know, for the sake of performing my best with something that's going to count. You know? That's how I play it because I've spent a lot of time in the gym just, I guess you'd call it junk volume. Doing a lot of volume just for the sake of volume. And I just think that's just not a way. Do you normally do, like, two sets per exercise and walk away? Well, maybe I would consider it two sets, but somebody else would look at me and say he's over. Two top sets. Yeah. He's over there to six sets. Right. Like, because you had mentioned we're going to count top sets. Yeah. So, you do, like, two top sets per exercise. I'll do two or one. And are they always the same or is it work set back offset? But they're both considered top sets. Like, six to eight, drop the weight ten to twelve? Or is it just ten to twelve, ten to twelve? Yeah. It'll be, it'll be, yeah. I never drop. Okay. If anything, I'd say maybe it wasn't heavy enough. I feel like I got too many reps. Right. What would you say is too many reps? Let's say for a compound lower body. Oh, it kind of depends on... Every exercise is different. ...or what I set my mind to that day. Oh, I see. It's like, if I said, oh, I'm going to do 20 reps, and that's a big window. But if I say, you know, I'm going to keep everything pretty heavy from, like, you know, twelves, and I do 20, then that's just, I need to do a set. You know what I mean? Uh, so, I try to be variable with the, with the ranges. I try not to be so addicted to a rep range. Mm-hmm. Uh, just because I know that you can stimulate hypertrophy in plenty of ranges, just as long as you get the work done. And some exercises feel better when you do more reps. Mm-hmm. Some just feel better when you do more reps. Like, shoulders, for instance. Yeah. You know? So I don't, I don't, I want to limit myself. And, like I said, when, when I don't want to train too heavy, because my goal is not to be the strongest guy in the gym. My goal is to make, if anything feels easy, too easy, I'm trying to make it harder. I don't, you know, I don't want the kids to come in and be impressed with how much I'm lifting. I want them to be like, man, why is he has such... Why is he only lifting that much? Yeah, why is he lifting that much? Yeah. Why is he, why is he? And then they go try, and they're like, oh, dang, that's hard as shit. Yeah. Yeah. So, that's what, that's what I like. It's like, yeah, yeah, yeah. You, you may think it's easy, go try it. Give it a shot. It's funny, man. It's like that Panada converging. Mm-hmm. Because it goes, like, a little bit deeper. Mm-hmm. You're using half the weight. Yes. Half the weight. Yes. And it's humiliating. You're like, what? I'm like, I'm not even up to a plate and a half? What the fuck? Yeah. And I was like, I get weaker? I use the normal Smith machine. I'm like, no, I'm not weaker. It's just, I think it's hard as fuck because you're going all the way back there and you're so deep. Anything, anything, anything, anything to smash my ego was good in the gym. Anything to smash my ego was good. It's funny that you think this, that, look at that. Okay, cool. Because that's kind of how I approached it, too. It's like, because at, like, 42, I kind of had a pretty big tear. Yeah. And I was like, all right, we have to completely change our personality. Yes. Because this personality cannot lift you and he has to retire. Yeah. And that's why people retire. But if you can change your personality. Yes. And start to be chill and the tortoise, not the hare in the gym. Yes. You could probably squeeze another 10 years out of it. Yeah. I mean, if you love being in the gym, you love what you do, then you have to create an environment to where you continue to do what you love. Sometimes that means taking a different approach or looking at it differently. You know, that's all it is. Just looking at it differently. It's like, okay, I'm still working my ass off. Somebody else may judge it differently than they actually can. They can't perceive it. But this is for me to understand at the time. Maybe they'll get it later. You know, I can only, I can only lead you to water. You don't have to drink it. That's a great way of putting it. Yeah. I feel like a lot of people, they get upset when people don't take their advice or people ask advice, you give them advice and they don't follow it. They haven't followed it yet. They'll follow it eventually. Yeah. They just haven't got hurt enough yet. That's plenty of things people told me that, you know, I didn't get until later. I've been the same thing. But I'm like, well, you know, I guess that's why this is a thing called maturity, right? Yeah. We all have to, you know, we think we know everything. And then, oh, we don't know what we don't know, right? How old are you? 43. 43. Yeah. All right, cool. I knew we were a similar age. I thought you were a little bit older, but I'm glad. So after the Arnold UK, what's the plan? I'm going to chill. I got some travel to do. Looks like, what did I just commit to? Looks like I'll be going to Hungary, Muscle Beach. I'll be out there seeing you guys out there. And probably Romania. I think there's another one leading before that. Maybe I won't commit to everything that I haven't committed to already on here. But I'm going to chill a little bit, kind of still train, spend some time with the fam, see if I can go somewhere nice with the wife. How come not Detroit? Next week there's a Detroit pro. You know, I mentioned it to my wife, and she didn't seem like she thought it was a good idea, so I left it alone. And then Justin would be there. I'm sure he'd make the trip. She left it alone. So, yeah, I'm like, oh. I don't know. I try to, like, you know, it'll be a lot of competing for me if I do this many shows. You got the other one. Yeah, because I normally don't do that many shows. I normally just do. Do we know who's competing in the Detroit in Open? I know the classic's doing classic. I know Martin is. I think Raphael is, because I was standing beside them when they was asking me. But other than that, I don't know. Really? I haven't been paying much attention. I'm still trying to figure out, like, how it's going down. One of the main organizers of that event is no longer with the Arnold, so I don't know how things are going. You mean the Arnold UK? Yeah. Two bros, pros? Well, uh. Got separated two years ago? Well, no, no. Well, Lloyd, he used to. Oh, okay. He's one of the main organizers on there, and he's one of the reasons I committed to doing the show. Maybe I got it mixed up. So I thought that the promoters of the Arnold UK didn't pay Arnold two years ago. Lost the show, and he got new promoters or something like that. Yeah, he got new promoters, but some of the, I guess, the officials that work here with this one have to go organize there. Oh, I see. You have to kind of, so Lloyd, Lloyd Davis was one of those guys that, I think he's been with the Arnold for like, what, 30-something years? If I'm not mistaken. Wow. So, yeah. And he, this year, he left us. So, I don't know how that's going to go, so we're going to figure out some things before we hit our in three weeks. So, hopefully they got it locked down. Well, it's, I would have loved to see you in Detroit, but I understand that you're not going to blow the Arnold UK over a smaller show on the interim. Well, yeah, I just, I don't know. I just think I need to, yeah, I need to adjust. I need to readjust. I need to readjust and make sure, you know, I'm thinking about track season, the kids, all this kind of stuff. So, I'm thinking about all these things when I get back for the next three weeks, so I'm going to manage all that and then head out to it. And then you got two different gyms, right? Yeah. Right now, we got two, yeah. We just recently sold one in Murfreesboro. Oh, you did? Yeah. I still train there, though. Okay. Well, I sold it to a nice guy. But, yeah, two Nashville and Franklin gyms are there. But, yeah, so. Well, how do people get a hold of you or what, your socials and all that? Oh, just Instagram is Brandon__Curry. You can go to BrandonCurryAllAccess for YouTube content. I will have some more training footage and stuff coming up leading to this show. Just to give you an idea of how this preparation went these final, what, couple weeks? I think I got a couple weeks of content. And I'll probably give some ideas on where I'm going with my training for this next phase because that's what I've been thinking about ever since I got off stage. It's funny you say that because I was going to ask, can I come down to Murfreesboro and train with you? Or not, would you tend to see and train with you sometime? Yeah, you was right. Murfreesboro, yeah. Okay, yeah. Yeah, you was right. Yeah, you can come down and train. That would be awesome. For sure, man. That would be awesome. You've got some skills. Yeah, man. Like I said, it's something I love, man. It's something that, you know, it's just a natural passion for me. I mean, it's probably, once I figured out you can go to college to learn exercise, I was like, oh, okay, I'll go to college and learn exercise. I wish they, you know what? I did biochemistry, but in retrospect, I should have done exercise physiology in undergrad. That would have been way more fun. Well, it was great. It was great for me. I had some good professors. And, you know, we used to have arguments about studies and stuff like that, you know, recent studies. Oh, God, it's so easy to argue with scientists about studies. Oh, yeah. Because it's like people don't know this, but the academics, that's their competition. Right. So they're aggressive nerds. Yes. And so, like, they don't look dangerous, but when you're in their turf, now they're, like, really barking dogs. Like, the academics are so vicious with each other. Yeah. He just went on to say, okay, so, Brandon, what do you think? What are y'all doing now? Well, how would you be applying this? I was like, well, yeah, well, you know, this is what we see now. But, yeah, so we used to have some interesting conversations, but it was all love. It was all respect. It was all the atmosphere of learning. Well, yeah, when you're in the school, but it's like when these academics start fighting around about online, about, like, whether the partial lengthens are so valuable. And it's like, well, that's because you fuckers never trained in the partial lengthen position. So if you've never trained this range of motion, you only did this your whole life. Because I watch people in the gym. This is their curling. Yeah. If you do this for the first time, you're like, oh, my God, it burns down here. I've got so much growth. It's like, well, if you've done it right the whole time, then it would probably not be as big of a deal. Yeah. I mean, it's cool to see. It's cool to see all the back and forth. But we know if you ain't in the trenches, you know, you're going to. You can't design a study if you don't lift and then have it on people who don't lift. And then it's like we concluded that this exercise is no good compared to this exercise. I just watched these fuckers do it. They had no clue what they were doing. Yeah. That's why you use leg extensions. You can't fuck that up. But meanwhile, you and I are discussing the other 11 different ways of doing a leg extension. And like you're hanging upside down doing it and stuff. It's like so clearly there's different ways of doing the leg extension, too. Yes, exactly. And that's the beauty of it. You know, the nuance is something that you can't study. No, man. It's like that's the thing is people don't realize bodybuilding is so there's so much to it because it's an art. And how to train. Then it's an art and how to peel the fat off. And then it's an art and how to displaying it. And then we don't look like artists. But that's like our hearts. Yes, exactly. Exactly. Because we got to present it. We got to present ourselves. And, you know, to judges. Tell them, you know, what they think of us. It's our day in the park is everyone's worst nightmare. Everyone is worried. They have nightmares. They're going to be on stage naked. And people are going to judge them. Whereas we throw our whole lives away trying to just get on stage and get judged next to people who are the best in the world by the most critical people on earth. Yes. Yes. It's brilliant. And then it's like it's so much pressure. You handle it so good. You're like the best sportsman. I've been around it a long time. I grew up in the sport, I would say. And that helped me a lot. Just learning from other guys. Seeing how they handle things. Phil Heath. Seeing how he was the first social media. Mr. Olympia. That taught me a lot. What not to do in that regard. I had a lot of respect for him. But I'm like, man, this is not the way you do this. He got right hooked out of nowhere. And then he got right hooked with that Generation Iron. And then everyone thinks he's the villain. And then he has to defend himself the rest of his life. Yeah, man. That was rough. Nobody could tell him. Nobody could help him. Because he's the first in that position. Nobody knew how to handle Instagram. No. So, yeah. So it's an interesting thing. But for me, it's just, like I said, I love the sport. I know what it's about. It's about the fans. It's about the people that love the sport. Whether they criticize me or not, they're involved. You know what I'm saying? And we need everybody involved. You love me or hate me, it don't matter. We need everybody involved. Everybody's attention. You know what I'm saying? To keep this thing going. It's always bizarre to me how there are fans that are just negative fans. They follow you just to be mean. But it's like they got to like you at some level. Otherwise, why are they following you? Yeah. Humans are humans, man. We don't understand everything. But, you know, they are following you. That's right. You got their attention in some kind of way. Whether they just want to follow you and be irritated or they follow you tomorrow, you just about right. You're still a follower. It still counts on social media, right? It's like how much pain does someone have to be in to where they just coast the internet reaching out to hurt people? Yeah. Like all the time. So it's like you got to feel bad for them too. Like for everything they say to you, they're feeling so much worse. Yeah. It's true. It's true. I mean, I do have, I do have, I do think about that on occasion. Like, man, this person went out their way. Just to, just to say that? They didn't have nothing better to do? Oh, poor, poor thing, man. So, yeah. Like I say, man, we got to, you can't take everything too seriously in this sport. You know, it's a lot of pressure. But at the end of the day, you can only control what you can control, right? So what do the doctors say about these ulcers? Are they stomach acid related? Yeah. H. pylori related? Stomach acid related. But have you been tested for the H. pylori? I didn't need to test it though. Oh. They said I probably would need to. Yeah, because I'm thinking like, if we're using Prilosec to kill the acid level, that's going to partially work because it stops the proton acid pump in the stomach. But the real issue is the stuff we do drives up our histamine levels, right? So DAO is what clears histamine and our supplements obliterate that. Okay. So I take DAO in the morning. Okay. And of course, I still take the rednetidine and the certezine. I take more of the allergies, the histamine for like the nose. Okay. But usually stomach acid is related to histamine levels too. At least. Because my thing, I think, is the issue is it happens more when I'm, at least the more food, the more acid. So once the food increases, I think that's when I started to get the reaction the most. Because it sounds like it was a hiatal hernia at one point because the food was so big and there's so much pressure, drove the stomach contents in the esophagus. The acid's so acidic. I mean, it sounds like a stupid thing. Corrosive. Thank you. The acid's so corrosive in the stomach, but we have mucus on the lining of the stomach. We don't have the same mucus on the lining of the esophagus. So that gets on there and burns to that. Right. So I think the trick, rather than, you know, of course we can stomp down on the acid, but like George Farah would say, like, then you don't have the acid to digest the protein. Right. So then that's not going to help either. So I've always stayed away from the Prilosex and the protein pump inhibitors and stayed with trying to manage the histamine at the H2 receptor, which the DAO will help a lot with. Okay. I appreciate that. And I will definitely look into that. Like, I know even this Prilosex situation for me is just temporary. It was just something just to manage this period, but I don't plan on taking it. The reason I mentioned I went through all that stuff before I went to medical school. Okay. Yeah. So I, like, learned it the hard way. Okay. Like, every single time I got sick, it was just like getting sledgehammered in the face and thrown down a flight of stairs with broken glass. They're so bad at their jobs that I have to figure it out myself. So I'm like, fuck this. I'm just going to be a doctor. You definitely, you definitely, you know, that's, that's, that's tested. So I appreciate it, bro. I appreciate it. I'll learn from you. So I won't have to experience too much of this, man, because that's definitely not what I want to be. So, yeah. Yeah. And if I forget, I will message you. Yeah. Just call me, dude. Call me anytime. Yeah. All right, buddy. Thank you so much. Thank you for taking all this time to talk to me today. No problem, man. I appreciate it. Appreciate it. Thank you, sir. It's a pleasure. It's a pleasure here. All right, cool. Did you want, not the, well, obviously you probably don't want this t-shirt, but we do have cool, we've got them some hats that you might like. Yeah, cool. I'll take one. Yeah, sure. So you're with Gorilla Wear. What's your supplement sponsor right now? Cytec. Cytec? Cytec. Cytec. Oh, of course. Out of Hungary. Yeah. That's why you're going to Hungary. Yeah. All right, cool. Yeah. Oh, we've got a tiny one, a hollow one. Yeah, see this. You like that one? Yeah. Cool. Yeah, it's cool. Yeah, I wanted, I figured because of your sons, you wouldn't talk about gear, and I didn't want to do gotcha stuff either, because we really don't talk about that stuff, but that's what my audience thinks I'm a gear person. Yeah. So they watch me for gear, and I'm just like, huh. Yeah, but my 60-year-old starts taking creatine, and you know, he started training last year. So he's- I remember, because you weren't his favorite bodybuilder, right? No, no, no, that's my middle son. Okay. That's my middle son. He's just now 13. My 16-year-old, he's the football guy. Who's this? Samson? Oh, no, Maximus. Maximus. I knew it was a cool name. All right. Maximus, he's the football guy, man. He's crazy. He's the 16-year-old. Yeah. All right. He's got 20 college offers already. Wow. Wow. Yeah. That's what- Yeah, yeah. That's what you're saying. Yeah. It's nuts. So, yeah, they're trying to actually- Schools, one of the schools is trying to get him to graduate early. Wow. So he can be ready for fall camp. That is sick. And when he's graduating. So we're having to strategize with the school on how he can get his extra credits so he can potentially do that. Right. So I'm like, man, it's nuts, man. So, yeah. That's awesome. So if he goes to college, I mean, like, he can just take the college courses to be for the high school ones. And normally you do the college courses when you're in high school. But since it's the same classes, in theory, it could work backwards. You know, like, let's say he didn't do calculus. Well, he has to have, like, you know, I guess it's all the NCAA requirements before he can graduate. Well, also, Todd, he has to have all of his high school credits and his diploma before they can do- Yeah, I realize that after he said that. Yeah. The diploma's the thing. I mean, there's a minimum credits for the diploma. Yeah. For him to, yeah, the NCAA, he has to have all the minimal academic requirements before he can actually go and be in as well before college. So, but if instead of him graduating a normal time where he comes in later, they, if they expect him to be playing him early as a freshman, then they'll have him graduate a semester early so he can go into camp and all the rest of the team goes into camp. So he'll be prepared for when the season comes. That's awesome. So I'm like, man, that's crazy. Can I ask which colleges you guys like thinking about? Well, the college specifically to ask this was UT Knoxville. Wow. They have, the coaches are very adamant. I mean, the offensive coordinator was talking to my wife a couple weeks ago, said he was their number one pick for the class of 2028. Wow. So I was like, wow. How proud do you feel? It's, it's great. It's crazy because, you know, he's always been like this, this dog. I always thought he was going to be a, you know, player, but it's just crazy to see because he's transitioned over the years and just, just seeing it happen before my eyes. I'm like, man, he's always been an impact guy, but it's like, I wasn't expecting that because of the dynamic of the whole college industry has changed in a way. And it's like the timing that is changing and him coming up. It's like, it's crazy. So the odds of him making, going to college is just to make money, you know, it's nuts. He's going to college to make money. Not, you know, it's like, it's like, that's, that's the crazy part. So we just got to keep him healthy, you know, injury, you got to stay injury free and he's all right. So, but that's, it's nuts. What do you think about the recovery differences between football and bodybuilding? For instance, post game, they get an ice bath to minimize inflammation to make them ready for the next game. But for us, I hear that the ice bath is going to minimize the recovery process. Right. Uh, I think for them, it's more of pain reduction. Anti-inflammatory to the ligaments. It's, it's more, it's more of pain reduction, meaning like, it's more of like. It's like a shock to the, it's, it's, it's almost like perception because you, you have to be able to perform and sometimes that's a way to, for them to manage the pain. Inflammation. Yeah. They can do that through heat too, which I think some of them are learning because even at UT, they have red light beds. Okay. So when would you think is the right time to use a red light bed? Morning and night. Every night, every morning? I think nighttime is good because for some reason, I guess it's good for combating white light. Oh, really? Mm-hmm. And morning is typically, it's kind of like a mimic for, it's like the sun, like your early, you know, when you rise. So it kind of, I guess it kind of helps set your circadian rhythms in a way. So. John, we can get you hooked up. I have a red light thing I got because Jennifer wanted me to. I just don't know when to use it. Yeah, we can get you hooked up because did you get like the. No, it's a, I can wrap it around my thigh. I can wrap it around my arm so that, but I just don't know when to use it for recovery. Also post, post-workout. Post-workout. Yeah, post-workout is good too. Because it'll help with inflammation. All right. That makes sense. Anything inflammatory, yeah, will help with as well. But yeah, I use, I use red light to actually shower, I shower with red light. Oh, that's smart. Jennifer taught. Jennifer does that. You put a red light in your shower? Yeah. Well, I have a, I could set it up. Oh, okay. Put it, I kind of, my wife don't like anything electric near the shower, so I don't have to move in there. But, so yeah, but I set it up because I'm doing everything in red light at a certain time of night when she's kind of winding down because I'm, I'm still up. So I have red light just to do everything that I'm doing at night in the bathroom and then I shower. So it kind of kept, so it doesn't disturb her. Red light doesn't disturb you when you're trying to at night. All right. I'll be more diligent because recovery is becoming bigger and bigger a problem. Yeah. Like it started getting harder at 42, but now at like 46, competing is a lot harder than even once at 42. I know, I know people preach sauna like post, post training as well, which is, which works, but you don't have to have a sauna because I think a hot bath is also even like a better equipment equivalent actually because it actually increases the internal body too much more. That's a good point. And it's not as uncomfortable as the sauna. And you can use supplemental magnesium or Epsom salt as well. Yeah, I do that. So like post-workout, I think that is, I'm going to start incorporating that a lot more because, you know, I would use a sauna, but some saunas are so inconvenient. You should stay in touch about a recovery because I don't know anyone older than us that are competing really. Yeah. I mean, that sounds mean, but like you're at the top of the sport. I think you're the oldest guy competing still at the top of the sport. Yeah. William was older than me. Who was? William was. But he retired, didn't he? Yeah. William retired, but he also, he turned pro after me. He was 45? No, he's the same age. Oh, he's the same age. Yeah, he's the same age. Kamal retired. He was like 41 when he retired. Yeah. Kamal was. Yeah, I was talking to him last night. Yeah. He was 51. Yeah. And Dexter was like 50. Yeah. Yeah. So we got some time. We just got to keep each other young because nobody really knows how to do this. Right. Because like if you think about there's no, only pro bodybuilders at our age have ever actually had to do it. Mm-hmm. You know, everyone retired previous generations. Right, right. Before they ever got this far. That's right. Yep. Yeah, I'm all about recovery. Like, I'm all about it. Make sure. Make it threes are high. I take a lot of magnesium. You got to do 800 a day. Yeah, I take up to 800. 400 bis. It's 400 magnesium, but it's 800 bis glyconate. But with the bis glyconate, you're going to get less. Right. Because it's going to be the. L-1 on magnesium. It's two glyconates. So the molecular weight of the glyconate takes about 50% of the. I like glycine a lot too. Glycine? Yeah. Before bed? Yeah. I take at least six grams. Six grams? Yeah. All right. Is it like L-R? It's just straight glycine? It's just straight glycine. All right. It's, you know, sweet taste. N-A-C. I do that in the morning, yeah? Yeah. I take it at night with my glycine. Okay. Mell-A-Tone. I find that that helps with like recovery during sleep if you take it at night. Man, I see. Yeah, it brings my body temperature down. N-A-C brings your temperature down? Glycine. Glycine brings your temperature down. Glycine. Glycine does, yeah. I sweat like a pig and I actually have to lay towels down. So it makes me, yeah, it makes me definitely relax. And it's anti-inflammatory as well. But the N-A-C combination helps with glutathione production as well. When you combine it too, so it's like two grams at least of N-A-C with the six grams. I think that's, that's not the perfect ratio that they say, but it's enough. And then melatonin. Right. I probably take what? What do I got? What are those ones I have? Is it the 60 milligram? 60? Yeah. All right. So you're taking, because you know like medical sciences is like 300 micrograms to three grams. And even John Jewett's like, nah, you take 40. I'm like, well, fuck. If John takes 40, then why am I taking 10? I got like 60s. 60s. My buddy who's in his 50s, he's still pretty much. He takes 300. 300 melatonin? Yeah. Boy, am I underdosing. Yeah. So, and that's, you know, that's good. Adding oxygen and inflammatory as well. So, so we're not rolling, are we? Well, the cameras are still technically on, but like, they're, I mean, you guys did your. I can turn them off. Well, I just, I wanted to ask you a couple questions. Okay. It's like, do you pull out your test before the show or do you just leave it in? Yeah. I mean, I'm running pretty long estrus, so I'll take it out like, what, five days, three days. So it's still in. Yeah. But you're bringing the estrogen a little bit. Yeah. All right. Do you like use Proviron to control the estrogen or? No. arimidex, Tamoxibin? arimidex. That's it? Yeah. arimidex pretty much. I'm running arimidex, raise the wind straw. Maybe I'll keep Anoboran. Do you leave in the mast and the chum? I run it till I don't want to take shots. So probably three days out. So three days out. But they're all long estrus or you use a short estrus? Well, even long estrus chum? Yeah. All right. So you're like exactly like me. Yeah. All right. Yeah. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's just leave in the long estrus, test, trend, mast, and wind straw up until the last. Then just double the wind straw when you pull the ejectables. Yeah. And go from, what, 50 to 100 wind straw or something? Yeah. All the way up to 200. All the way to 200? Yeah. All right. I don't know if I can handle it. All right. Yeah. That's pretty much. But that's only for like eight days. You don't really use that long. That's like, yeah. So, yeah. Yeah. I like that. I like that too. Because I didn't notice a difference. I'm not sure as to, I don't, you know. I tried. But I like the long rest. I like the long rest. Do you do daily injections? Yeah. All right. Cool. Definitely. And then like, do you take out your GH? Yeah, because I don't travel with it. Oh, okay. Yeah. I don't need to fool this anyway. Okay. So like, yeah. I take that to, yeah. Before I left, I took my last thing and I was like, I'm not going to travel with it. I'm not going to fool with it. And then, did you ever fuck with Halo? Like, do you ever see anything from that? No. Why? It's so funny because it's so, it's like the, the bro community with their D-ball bullshit has influenced the NPC. And so like, I kind of want to do what Fuad started doing five years ago before Fuad started making money on Hostile and wanted to deficit some of them from steroids. Is I kind of want to make it clear to people like, the pros are doing pretty much the same shit as they did back in Flex Wheeler's time. It's pretty much 50 tests, 50 trend, 50 masteron 50 windstrawl a day, pretty much. It's like, it's not fancy. No, no. No, I don't, I don't know. I never understood the big deal about Halo. I don't, I don't see. Does it make you angry? No, not really. Not really. Does anything make you angry? Uh, yeah, I'm sure. I try not to be angry. You have to think about the last time you were angry, then you're not angry. If anything makes me angry, it means it has control over me. Hmm? So if anything makes me angry, it has control over me. That's a good point, because you only feel anger is a defense mechanism to fear, and you feel fear from threat. Okay. So, I don't, I don't, yeah. Yeah, I don't, I take anger seriously. I don't want to be angry. Did you? That's good for your heart. Like, that's good for your health. Did you end up eating after you lifted, bro? Uh, yeah, I snacked. You had snacks? Yeah, but I don't, I don't eat a lot after the show. Okay. I eat when I'm hungry, but I had some like, you know, I had some post-workout carbs, but that's about it. Is your throat still in pain? No, I'm good. Okay. Yeah, I'm good. Actually, I don't, like I said, this is, it's weird. Once I controlled that little acid hiccup, it's like everything got better. Mm-hmm. But I think the previous volume of food, the day before, I was eating like 165 grams of carbs a meal. I think that probably set it off. Was it rice? Well, yeah, rice. Okay. Rice, cumin, rice. I think that set it off. Not potatoes, obviously. Nah. No. I think that set it off, because then the protein went up and the carbs went down a little bit. I think the protein was more. Because it drove up the histamine. Yeah. And then the acid was necessary. Yeah. So more acid gets produced. Yeah. So the stomach was like, ah, we'll prepare for this. Overdue. I just had David, David Skeeter in here. Mm-hmm. That dude's like wicked smart. Mm-hmm. Like scary smart. I like ski cow smart. Mm-hmm. He was like, cut all, like all your food if you eat it fresh. Mm-hmm. If you refrigerated, throw it out after two days. Mm-hmm. And your histamine levels will go down. Okay. I don't. Look, I'll leave food out for like two days and eat it. Like pizza, just leave it on top of the fridge for like three days. And then that's why the histamine probably is with an issue. Yeah. I typically eat most things fresh. I don't know. I don't know. You know, most things. Can we ask the Todd question? What's that? Team Primo, team Mastermind? Yeah. The look. That's good. Obviously, we won't air it. Well, for me, for me personally, as far as affecting my physique, I feel Mastermind has the biggest effect on my physique. Okay. The look on my physique. Honestly. You're talking about in prep? Yeah. What about in the offseason for growing, though? Have you ever tried to Mastermind as a grow agent? Yeah, I've had it in. I've had it in. I don't see any difference. I don't really feel Primo as much as a grow agent myself. And this is my whole point. It's like if Primo lowers estrogen and Mastermind doesn't and estrogen is anabolic, then Primo would have to be way more anabolic than Mastermind to be more anabolic at the end of the day. Makes sense. Especially if you're using GH because the estrogen makes the GH turn to IGF-1. So then what blows my mind is people will spend extra money for Serostim. They won't use generic. They got to use the brand name Serostim. Then they buy the super expensive Primo to make the Serostim not work. And then I'm like, why don't you buy generic and buy Masteron and have a higher IGF-1 and save enough money to buy a house? Yeah. Yeah, I mean, yeah. I mean, yeah, if you got to manage estrogen, Primo, I think is okay. But fortunately, hopefully you don't have to manage it that much. Yeah, I mean, if you're running, well, like, do you run, some people run like 750 tests in the offseason. Some people run lower tests, more anabolic. What's your offseason loadout? I don't really have an offseason, per se. Oh, really? Yeah. Meaning, like, I go into prep. I'm in prep. But if I'm not in prep, you know, maybe like TRT, I guess. So you're just 250 a week or something? Yeah. Really? The whole offseason? Yeah, pretty much. So when you're building those legs, you're on 250. Yeah. I'm at, I'm at. And you don't even start the gear until you're going to prep? No, I don't push the gear until. What do you think would happen if you used gear in the offseason? I don't know. I'll probably, I'll probably, I'll probably be a little bigger, I guess. Like if you took, let's say, a pre-workout Anadrol or Anivar before legs, only on leg day. Yeah. That make the training a lot more interesting. Yeah. Because I do Anadrol and Viagra before I try to get the best pump possible. Yeah, it may make it a little more interesting. Like, you know, I typically like, yeah, that's what we should get there because I, it's like, I'm not really fully in until I'm in prep. So that's why I re-comp basically. Okay. So it's typically where I start my prep is where I end my prep. I see. I said it to Justin. I don't know if he believed it personally. He saw it a couple times now. He was like, oh yeah, you start your prep when you prep is just a different body. You know, so I know that happens, so I kind of take advantage of it. But I guess I, you know, since I'm going, doing more shows, I'll probably be, I'll say I won't push because I'm just doing more shows. Because you're going to be on it longer. Yeah. But you're on the same loadout of Test, Mass, Trend, possibly Anivar. Yeah. And then you'll switch to One Strong and pull out the Test. Right. Yeah. I may pull out the Anivar for now too. So I probably won't use that. I'm using, should pull out the oils for now. So you get a little closer. Give the liver a break. Yeah. Do you, like, usually get your blood work done? Or do you get it every six months, every three months? Six months normally. Six months. Yeah. All right, cool. I haven't been competing that much. No, because I think that that's smart because I think the people get the blood work done too much. Yeah. They got, like, a complex about it. And then they're going to retire because one value is wrong and somebody puts a fear in them. Or they're just going to chase blood work all the time. Yeah. And it's just constant experimentation. But they're never actually growing because they're never focused on lifting. They're focused on fucking with their blood work all the time. Yeah. Yeah. I'm, like, yeah. I don't know. I don't know. It's, it's people obsess. Hmm? Some people obsess, like, and I can see that and it's, like, paranoia. But, yeah. I'm, like, most of the time I compete once a year. So, it's not, like, you know. Only one? Most of the time. Like, I did the Arnold. This is, this past, last year I did the Arnold and I did the Olympia. But they say I normally skip the Arnold, like, every two years. So, this is the first time I've done the Arnold back-to-back. And, like, a while. So, and I only did the UK because, Lord, he convinced me to do UK. So, I was, you know. And then he's not with them anymore. Oh. So. That's bullshit. So, you know. He could have done Detroit. I know the way I'm thinking is, like, Olympia qualification would be easier to Detroit. I don't have to qualify, though. You don't have to? Because you're a Mr. Olympia. Oh, my God. I forgot about that. Then why would you do Detroit? Now it makes more sense. I was, like, I forgot you don't ever have to qualify. Yeah. Shit, I forgot about that. Yeah. That's what makes it, like, that's what makes it low pressure for me. I forgot about that. Oh, man. I'm, like, yeah. That's funny. So, I can chill. I can chill, hang out, and, you know, enjoy family time. And then I'm, like, okay. Game on. Let me focus. So, what made you change your mind to do so many shows this year? Well. Well, Lloyd convinced you this one. And you're not locked into the other ones. Right? No, no, no. Tyler's trying to be to do, or Angie, I'm trying to be to do Pittsburgh. But that's too close to my anniversary. Even though it's happening. Pittsburgh's what, April? May 16th, I think he told me. You got to stay in shape for another eight weeks? Yeah, I mean. Kind of. We'll see. That's like four. Kind of. I could probably, like, backpedal and then change everything in four weeks. Nine weeks. Nine weeks away. Yeah. I don't know. We'll see. We'll see. We'll see. It just depends on how life is at home. We'll be guest posing at Pittsburgh either way, right? Nah. No? They don't guest pose at Pittsburgh anymore. Well, they used to. They used to. But now that they have the hundred grand prize money, there's no guest posing. Yeah. They have an expo now, too. They have an expo in Pittsburgh? Yeah. Well, shit. There's more money I can spend. All right. We can get a booth there, too. Do you want to go? Oh, fuck it. Yeah, expo. Yeah. Last year was the first time they had an expo. Fuck it. I mean, it's two months of planning. We may not be able to do it. But if we can do it in two months, we'll just get a booth. Bob Lormer is running an expo. Hmm? Bob Lormer. Oh, shit. Really? Yeah. Awesome. He's an organizer at the expo. I know. He did this for 40 years almost. Yeah. That's awesome. So, if you need any, if you're trying to do anything there, just let me know. I will. I will. Thank you, Brandon. Thank you, sir. Thank you, sir.