 Th Th if you have like 4,000 calories, but not necessarily if you're in a cutting phase. But this might be a good carb reload on a cutting phase. So I use gnocchi because it is gluten-free pasta or pretty close to gluten-free pasta. It is made with 85% potato. It's made in Italy, so it shouldn't cause the same type of gluten reaction as American-made. I've got friends who are gluten-sensitive, and when they have Italian pasta, even though it should have gluten in there, it doesn't set off their gluten sensitivity. So I always try to go with Italian pasta, never anything but Italian pasta, but I still hedge my bets by getting potato pasta, and that's gnocchi. So one of these packages is 150 grams of carbs, and it's 24 grams of protein. We don't need to use all of it, so I pre-boiled the water. Normally, we want to add some salt to the water to make it boil a little faster. It also makes the gnocchi taste better. All right, that was a lot of salt. You don't have to use that much. It came out a little fierce. And because I'm actually using Italian food, then I'm going to go with the rich-tasting olive oil, the thick stuff. And it doesn't really matter how much you put in the water because you're not going to get, it's not going to really matter once you get onto the food and stuff. So first, we're going to put, this is going to take about four minutes to boil. So the next thing we're going to do is we're going to deal with the air fryer. So we're going to grab the air fryer over here. And I don't want to put the gnocchi in until there's only like four or five minutes left on the chicken. So I use avocado oil because it's got the highest smoke point. It's like 520. So the least chances of getting some type of toxic shit in your body. So I'm going to prepare this now. I didn't marinate these. I could have. I should have. But I didn't. What I'm going to do is rely on the breadcrumbs to do their magic. Now normally you'd measure this stuff out. But I'm pretty good at knowing that my serving of chicken is approximately 15 carbs worth of breadcrumbs. But you should weigh it all out for yourself one day. This is not gluten-free breadcrumbs. The Italian stuff, I can't find gluten-free. But I like the way they do their Italian seasoning. This way I don't have to manually season my chicken to be Italian. I just like this Italian blend. Not all Italian blends are the same. This one's great. All right. Just going to lightly bread the chicken. And some of these details might have been covered in episode one, chicken and rice. Not this. This is a more advanced episode. So if I miss something that's needed, it might be in that video. So the reason why I'm only doing one side is in my experience, if you put it on both sides, then the second half, the side that's touching the air fryer, it just comes off in the air fryer. There. And this is really lightly breaded. It could have been more heavily breaded. I probably should have done it more heavily breaded. But put a little bit of that on there so it sticks. Then we're going to put, now you can put on the pasta sauce first and it gets good and baked in there. But it won't be as crispy theoretically as if you do it later. But what I'm going to do is I'm going to bake it into half of them and not the other half. And we'll see how they come out. Now I like to use this brand because that's what I've been using since I was a small kid. And I used to do all my own cooking when I was a kid. I was basically watching my fat grahams as early as eight years old. So this is what it looks like after I prepared it. So these were heavily breaded. These are lightly breaded. And I put the sauce on the two middle pieces. So we'll get basically four different options. We'll have heavily breaded, no sauce, baked in, heavily breaded with sauce baked in, lightly breaded with sauce baked in. And lightly breaded without sauce baked in. Obviously, because they're chicken tenderloins, not rats, I can't like replicate identical things. It's just kind of the luck of the draw when it comes to cooking. It's more like witchcraft and less like science. Let's see how this gets knocked out. It's a $390 for $13. I usually do $400, but you know, it's a different air fryer, but it doesn't really matter. Because I can always look at it, if it's not done completely, I can just leave it in the hot air fryer for another minute. And it's going to cook in about a minute, you know. So the water's ready. We're going to get started on preparing the gnocchi. We're going to move this aside. So someone I know likes to get into a box really pretty. And it like destroys him to see me just tear into a box like this. He hates it. But I have to measure as I go. Because the way you know the gnocchi's done is it floats. They all float down here. And if you pack it in so dense, it's on the top, how would you know it's floating? So you've got to watch as you go and not overdo it. So, yeah, it looks like I can get the whole thing in here. So if you come check this out, you can see none of them are floating right now. See how none of them are floating? They're all submerged. The gnocchi will float when it's ready. So the next step is to get our colander ready. A lot of people like to rinse their pasta. It may not be such a great idea. What I do want to do with this particular batch is I'm going to probably put some oil in the pot after I transfer it. So I'll transfer the water in the pasta to the colander. And then I'll put the pot back. I'll do something to cool it off really quick. If I can, like rub, run some cold water on it. Throw some oil in there with some salt. I'll shuffle this around so they don't get stuck from being starchy. And then start to feed them into the pot and then work the oil into them so they don't stick together. Because when gnocchi sticks together, it sucks. It's not nearly. Each gnocchi should be its own experience. Think about what kind of animal would it have two pieces of sushi at the same time? That's how I would think about someone who ate two pieces of gnocchi at the same time. So we've got nothing to do really while it cooks. We've got to wait. This hasn't gotten done yet. This has got nine minutes. And then once that comes out, we've got this. And we've got this. Now, how much you use of that is up to you. That's your preference, right? I'd say about 60 grams of protein worth of chicken tenderloin. And I used maybe five grams of fat worth of the avocado oil. The gnocchi, we got about 162 grams of carbs worth of gnocchi in there and 24 grams of protein. The oil was kind of irrelevant. My intention is to put eight or nine grams of olive oil into the pot after I cooled it to keep the gnocchi from sticking together. But even if you ate all of this at once, we're looking at 60 plus 24, 84 grams of protein. 160 plus 30. I would say 200 carbs. And then fat. I would say this whole meal, you're going to come up with under than 15 grams of fat. Even though you think, like, when you added oil to this and you added oil to this and you sprayed oil here, it's all going to get lost in the cooking process most of it. I mean, of the nine grams of oil that I'm putting in this pot, at least five of it's sticking to that pot. So we don't really have to worry. I know it seems crazy and counterintuitive, but you can put oil on everything, kind of. And if you use the tiniest bit, like a drop, it works. And you basically only added five, ten grams of fat to the whole meal. Especially if you're using zero fat chicken tenderloin, zero fat pasta, zero. I mean, is there any fat in this? There's one gram. So maybe one gram from that. And then this, as much as you want to use. So, like, if the whole meal is only going to have, like, 10, 15 grams of fat, and you want to add five grams of fat worth of Parmesan cheese to it, like, who the fuck cares? You know, like, that's going to totally be reasonable, considering you're having 200 carbs. You would want to blunt some of that impact. Now, I'm not suggesting you should have the whole box of gnocchi. You could have half of it. And then the gnocchi plus the sauce split into two portions. Now it's only 100 carbs for the meal. If you split it into four portions, then it's only 50 carbs for the meal. There's no fat with the gnocchi and the sauce. It's just carbs. So, again, we can completely control whether we're cutting or whether we're growing by just modulating the carbs, the white rice in the first meal, the rice cakes in the second meal, or the gnocchi in the third meal. The protein and the fat are pretty much locked in. They always are approximately 50 to 60 grams of protein. And the fat's usually between 5 and 15 grams of fat per meal. Now, some people will say, wait a minute, you always eat vegetables with your meals. Why is there no vegetables with this meal? I can't really find the right vegetable for pairing with this meal. Something that adds to the dish rather than just is covered up by the dish. Like all my meals that I use, peas and carrots, the peas and carrots make the meal better. Just want to cool it off a little bit. Otherwise, we're just going to turn that olive oil into vapor, and that's not a good thing. And we're going to go with the heavy shit because we're doing Italian food. See how much steam is coming off? We don't want that to be olive oil in our lungs. All right. There. That's five. That's enough. Is there still enough moisture in there? Nine. Got it. There we go. There we go. We don't want to get it on the floor, though. So I want to get any excess water out while I can't work it. And then we're here. Work it in. Stir it in. work it in stir it in because otherwise they're gonna stick because it's hot it sucks you don't want sticky nasty gnocchi it'll be aggressive getting that oil on there because once the oil is on them they ain't gonna stick even to the pot now these are good we can pretty much leave these to their own devices for a little bit throw on a little bit of Parmesan so it can melt in now what we're doing if it's one gram of fat per five grams so let's get a count on this so we'll we're starting at 209 we'll see what we end up with when we're done and then we can just add that divide by five and add that to the fat content there we go that's right on money got one minute on that so it's time to plate I'm my normal meals are a hundred carbs each so and the breading is 15 so I'm gonna try to do a third of this that should be plenty for me I always like to taste one of them without putting anything on it see how good I did yeah I nailed it on this batch this is fucking awesome there's enough it's really thin the sauce will spread it quick and you really don't need it at all if you need the sauce on your pasta you fucked up on the pasta I like it here we go all right so we got lightly let's separate these two we got lightly breaded with no baked in sauce lightly breaded with baked in sauce heavily breaded without baked on sauce and heavily breaded with bacon sauce now make sure to let it settle for at least a minute because the breading is there to keep the moisture which is basically fat and water trapped in so you got scalding liquid magma inside each one of these little guys we don't want to bite in right away but the curiosity is gonna kill this cat because I need to see how good that fucking peace looks cuz that one's calling to me it's saying eat me I got to see I gotta see how good this corner came out I nailed it except it needs more salt no the salt comes in at the end okay that's cool so we got sauce covering most of it stuck in the ribbing on the gnocchi and we got the cheese then I'm gonna get that tine right there and that's gonna be a complete bite it's got everything in the whole meal right there one bite this dish would normally be 50 to 100 grams of fat I pulled it off in like under 10 but I could have made it richer by putting in more fat we could have used dark meat I don't fuck shit up um could have laid on with the oil thicker but I got the breading crispiness perfect it's a contiguous piece of breading it's not like it's broken up I love that because if that traps in the moisture and then I know you're gonna see but half of it's exposed on the bottom half I'm like you could if you got money to burn put it on the bottom half it'll trap in the moisture then when you pull it off the coating is trapped on the grill but at least it kept the moisture in the chicken oh man the gnocchi came out perfect the chicken came are almost perfect I would say it's a four out of ten and saltiness and I think it needs to be a five but when you have the whole meal without drinking any water because you don't want to stretch out your waist you'll thank me at the end that it's not that over the top because by the end of the meal it's gonna be very salty well hopefully you found this helpful this is my favorite dish chicken parmesan with gnocchi it may not look like it's diet food but as you can see from the macros it's as diet-y as you want it that yes pasta is typically used to slam as much carbs as possible so it would traditionally be an off-season meal but this would be a great high carb meal in a contest prep whether it's before a leg day or if your coach says you're really flat this would be like one of my favorite things to slam in as much gluten free or close to gluten free fun as possible as you do as you do as you do as you do as you do as you do