 is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is trade name. But the point is, there's the second generation and the third generation. The second generation one, the tamoxifen, the Novodex, that has many metabolites. Some of them are CIRMs, some of them are AIs. And so you get really a broad spectrum anti-estrogen effect out of tamoxifen. But it takes a while because you're talking about metabolites. So it doesn't hit steady state concentration for 60 days. Now with raloxifen, it is a direct CIRM right out the package. It just targets ER-alpha and stops it. I believe it also blocks ER-B though. I believe so. Because they do track whether or not it affects IGF-1. And I believe both of them nuke IGF-1 levels. You get immediate action out of the raloxifen where you get a more complete taking care of the problem with tamoxifen. Now that's the pharmacokinetic science bullshit. The real world is this. If I take tamoxifen 20 milligrams in the morning, 20 milligrams a night for three days, it fries whatever mass just started. Now if I let it ride for a while and I'm irresponsible, that's not going to happen. But if I catch it immediately, if I do regular breast exams every week or something like that while on anything that aromatizes like testosterone, deca, ment, etc. Then if you constantly check your nipples at least once a week, don't do it every day, but do it once a week and you find a mass, three days, tamoxifen, usually noxenol. Now I can't guarantee it works like the way for everybody, but holy shit is very effective. Now there's a risk with tamoxifen that can cause stroke and death. So it's best not to abuse the testosterone and get the gyno in the first place. But why the fuck would you guys listen to me, right? Anyway, toodles.