ffee,chaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechaechae All right, Dave, what brings you to Ohio today? Oh, yeah. So usually I sit in my dungeon and I'm super pasty and I don't see the light of day. I don't even think people know where I live, even if they know where I live. They're like, I think he used to live here because I don't get out much. So what brought me up to Ohio? One, my wife is from Ohio, so she has family up here. So it was like tradition for us to go up here. And then, two, I'm obviously with more Virginia Nutrition. Nick's competing. Nick Walker looks gnarly right now. And then I have my own client in it who was the classic, actually, overall champion. So you'll like this story. This is wild, man. So, one, when I picked him up, and I do not say this. I said this, like, something similar to this three times. And thank God I've executed every time. No, so I don't ever make promises about placements or anything like that because I think it's stupid. You can't dictate who's going to show up that day, right? And we showed up against someone really good. But needless to say, I was like, tell you what, man. Here's what we're going to do. You're going to do the Arnold. We're going to win the overall. And you're going to do your pro debut at the Arnold. I didn't even hesitate. And I was like, why did that come out of my mouth right now? I actually didn't know why I said it. I was like, damn. I was like, I don't say stuff like that. Why did I just say that? So we showed up. And I was like, we won first in our class against a dude. That was sick. Like, absolutely nuts. The guy that was second place. Like, he'S-23 years old. He's going to go pro at the next show. He does. He's that good. And I'll probably win the overall. And we won first place. And I was like, nice. Pro card, right? And I see no one standing on stage with a pro card. Because I thought it was first place as a pro card in every class, right? That's how it is at the Olympia, at least for classic. No pro card on stage. And my heart started sinking. I was like, okay. Well, can someone look up the rules? Like, I'm texting my friends. I was like, can someone look up the rules really fast? Because I thought it was a pro card per class. Nope. Won overall. Not even top two. Just an overall winner. So he won the overall. And what's his name? Caleb. Caleb what? Galen. I think Galen is how he's pronounced it. The Arnold Amateur Open Classic. Yes. And then he is now a pro. He's now a pro. So what's his show? He's going to do Detroit? He's going to come visit us? No, he's going to be doing the Arnold Pro. Arnold. He gets the invite automatically. Oh, next year. You win overall at the Arnold Amateur. And you get an invite. So that was my goal. Because he has such a high genetic capability. I truly do believe that he will be top five in the world. I mean, dude, he's in shape. It's six days. Monday at 3.30 is when he has to sign his contract by. It's done on the website. So if he applies today and he gets his card, he can do it all tomorrow or Monday before 3.30. So what I pulled off in this peak to get him to turn pro. You can't repeat it in the next few days. I nailed it. Well, I could repeat. No, I could absolutely repeat it again. The difference is I need him a percentage body fat leaner to a percentage half leaner with an additional 10 to 15 pounds of muscle tissue. And I understand what you're doing. To win at an open pro show. But what if he just does it? Because it's practice. Why do I want practice? You want to win your pro review. All right. I want to get a top call out at the Arnold Classic the next year. I want to jam 10, 15 pounds of muscle tissue on this guy. He is so good. What if? That's what I hate about this debut stuff. It's like everyone hypes the debut. But like if you just rolled into the show that you can while you're still in shape, that's so much more practice. But we're not as in shape as I want to be. Not for a pro level. I have a very high standard when it comes to conditioning. And his conditioning is good, right? Like very good. In fact, people try to convince him. Everyone outside of me and his wife try to convince him not to compete at two weeks out. Everyone. And I'm like, you're better than you think. You're leaner than you think. You're flat. And I was like, and this is what's going on right now. And I was like, keep your head down and let me do the job. You do the work. Let me do the thinking. And you know what happened? He turned pro and won the overall. And every single person I told him not to go is probably sitting back in their chairs right now. Like, hmm. Should have kept my mouth shut maybe. Well, man. I don't miss those days when you have to compete with the client's family for who knows what's best for them. Well, you don't want a client's family blowing smoke a bass either, right? No, no, no. You definitely don't want. That's the worst, too. It's like, I hate it when people are like, it's the less experienced they are, the more they want to tell you what the feedback they're getting at the gym is. And so if they're a lifestyle client, I'm like, okay, great. They're getting accolades and respect from their community. Their status has elevated. The lifestyle client's mission is accomplished. Polar opposite for a bodybuilder. I need you to think the opposite. I need you to think like a perfectionist. Like, I have to be a Japanese parent and you have to be a samurai. And it's like, if anything's wrong, it's seppuku time. So nothing can be wrong. You know, it's like, and that mindset breaks everybody. Unfortunately, that mindset also makes people take lives in the sport, which is, I think it's a really dark side of the sport, though, is like suicide, man. Oh, I don't really mean. Well, no, no, no, no, no. I know. But like, but like people don't talk about like how frequently like people are actually committing suicide. Like it's, we don't, we only hear about some of the big names that have committed suicide. And I think that there, there's in bodybuilding, you do have to go to a little bit of a dark place, but you need to be comfortable there. And you need the right people around you to constantly have at least some light shining back in on that darkness. Because you get numb when you're digging. You get numb to a lot of different aspects of life. And if you're not strong spiritually and emotionally, you break. I don't even consider myself strong emotionally or spiritually. Really? I just do it. Well, and that's just like, it was really rough in the beginning, like 15 years, 17 years ago, 18 years ago. I'd be laying on the floor in my bathroom crying because I was so hungry. But I didn't know how to fucking do anything back then. I didn't know I could eat lettuce because my coach said, you can only eat chicken breast. No sugar, no Splenda. You got a third cup of oatmeal and 10 chicken breast a day, no seasoning. That sounds amazing. Boiled, that was it. That's all I would eat. Boiled them? I thought you said oil them. No, boiled them. I was like, oh, hell yeah, brother. So you have 10 boiled chicken breast, a third of a cup of oatmeal, and 12 egg whites. So I would get to the hospital. I would get 12 hard boiled eggs, take the yolks up, throw them away, eat a cup of. I have one third of a cup of oatmeal. I could have two Splenda packets and the egg whites. And the rest of the day, I had chicken breast. You know the really funny thing about you saying that you would get to the hospital right? I was saying that you had, I forget that you're a doctor sometimes. So I was like, you had really frequent visits to the hospital because of your shitty ass diet. It was so good. I was like, my favorite thing of all time was like, I'm standing there, and it's like some super fat nurse, of course, has to look at my plate and be like, all those eggs aren't good for you because of the cholesterol. I was like, did those fries grow on trees? And then she's like, touche. It's like, bitch, who are you to question my? It's like, because you're fit. They want to question what you eat. Bitch, you're like 100 pounds overweight. Why are you telling anyone what to eat? You know, it's funny. When I was working corporate IT, because I worked at a lot of Fortune 50 companies, basically, that's the major companies that I worked for. We're the major companies. Like Coca-Cola was my first job out of school, data analysis. So that's why data is so easy for me to interpret when it comes to coaching. I forgot that I did this, but when I was working at one company, and most of these people were super supportive, by the way, of my lifestyle, besides the fact when I couldn't function anymore right before a show. And then I had to take a lot of PTO. I dropped my Tupperware container. And I had glass Tupperware. I was like super fancy, like upper echelon of bodybuilding, because I had glass Tupperware instead of plastic Tupperware. I finally upgraded life, and I was still broke. Pyrex. But I dropped it. Then you know what happened? It broke. I've never seen a Pyrex Tupperware break. Well, I was special that day, and I decided to eat it with glass shards in my food. And I forgot that I did that. One of my coworkers commented last week, and I was like, oh, yeah, I forgot that I ate. And there's glass shards. And I actually had glass shards. I actually cut the inside of my mouth because I missed one of the shards. Dude, that's so funny. I got my food, and I was starving. That's badass. When I was 19, I had a year sober. And my buddy was like, do you want to try some Aftershock? It's not even real alcohol. It tastes like cinnamon. So like a fucking moron, I'm like, sure. I don't remember exactly what happened, but I know that within an hour, I took the empty bottle of Aftershock to the concrete outside, smashed it on the ground, and was picking the rock candy with the alcohol out of it, out of the glass, in the dark. I hadn't had a drink in a year. That was my first drink in a year. Totally blacked out, except for that. I knew I got in my car, drove to the liquor store, bought all the liquor they had. And then I don't remember where I ended up, but I knew I drank all of it. When you hear malt liquor, you know you're not a colic. Yeah, no, dude. I blacked out drunk at least six nights a week. Holy. That was, like, immediately. Like, as soon as I started drinking again, that day, I blacked out for a full six months before I even got one day sober. So, the only semester in college I really drank, you'll like this one, because you're talking about malt liquor, so you're giving me some throwbacks. I really didn't drink much. It was, like, the gym was my anti-drug. Like, thank God. It was a drug, but it was just my anti-actual drug. And this one, Four Locos first released. What? Four Locos? I don't know what that is. Oh, you were sober then. Yeah. Oh, yeah. We didn't even have Bex Light when I drank. Right. So, Four Locos is essentially an energy drink originally with malt liquor. And it would take a single Four Loco and someone would black out. Almost everyone tells you the same thing. Like, you have a Four Locos, you black out. I would pre-game with two Four Locos before we'd go out to the bars, and then we started drinking blue motherfuckers from that point on. Because, why not? We're alcoholics. But you're a college student, so are you an alcoholic yet? I mean, I knew I was. Dude, we were in abnormal psychology, and they're reading off the symptoms. And I'm like, check, check, check, check. Woo! And then everyone in the class is looking at me, because I'm the only one excited about being an alcoholic. Everyone's just staring at me. They have their preppies. I've got, like, long hair. I've got some metal shirt on. I probably have blood or puke on it. And then, like, everyone in the class is a professor. Everyone's staring at me, and I'm just like, I am not mature enough to be in college. I was like, what the fuck? I'm so immature. I don't take anything seriously. And all these people are so serious. Did you get better grades than them? Oh, yeah, I got 96 on average on every time. That's usually how it goes. It's usually the alcoholic. It's outperforming everyone. Dude, I was high and drunk. It's the best grades I ever got in college. I was drunk. I was high and drunk when I took my ACTs. I was like, dude, it was fucking awesome. Because it made everyone so upset. Because I just, like, blew out the school district. So, my last name is so long. Like, literally, I think people are done with the SAT and also bubbling in my last name. I couldn't spell it. I put Dave Margarita. Dude, you probably just gave someone a great SAT score. Hopefully, you knew they're social, too. So, this is probably the last time I got, like, blackout, blackout. Like, in college. And I was visiting one of my friends. So, either way, I don't remember who was going in and out of the dorm. And who's at the dorms? We're idiots. We're just getting wasted in the dorms. He's throwing a, like, banger of a party. Two, four locos to start off the night kind of thing. We're going. I walk outside in the freezing cold air. It's, like, 20 degrees outside. And I'm, like, in a T-shirt because I, like, just started working out. I was, like, two weeks into working out, you know, 140 pounds wet. So, I was jacked. I was really soaking it up. And so, we go back up there. And either way, we got called whoever the, what is it? A dorm person that gets you in trouble? I don't know. Hall monitor? Basically a hall monitor. R.A. Thank you. R.A. Yeah, yeah. So, come knocking on the door. Like, lucky guys. I have to write you guys up. And they hide. The people that in dormant was hid in their rooms and locked their rooms. Like, they didn't exist. And I'm standing there absolutely, like, wasted. I don't remember most of the night. And I didn't even know that I gave them a false name. But they asked for my name because they had to write me up. It wasn't even a big deal. I wasn't going to get in trouble because I didn't go to the school. If I went back, I would have gotten in trouble. But I gave them the name David Freeman. And he's like, did you? He goes, I'm sitting in there, like, having to talk to them because we're all in trouble, right? We're all getting written up and stuff like that. And then I hear the name David Freeman. And I almost started bursting out laughing because do you realize that you said David Freeman? It came out. I didn't even think. It just came out. Like, I gave them a false name. I was like, what the hell? Full autism. Well, basically, the two of us together, I was just like, shit, we have no idea what's going to happen. No fucking idea. Is this supposed to be on bodybuilding or something like that? Do you think more fun is if we just mic'd us and Kai walked around with his camera and we just went around public. And this is crazy shit. Like the classic walk up to girls. Do you like diet bonds or guys with abs? And I was like, abs are disgusting. And then you lift your shirt up. I'm like, what about now? And they're like, you know, you have to drop the line, though. It's not gay. It's bodybuilding every time you do it. You know, I would say if you have to tell someone it's not gay, it's gay as fuck. Probably. Yeah. Yeah. Probably accuracy. Yeah. But at least we're happy. Right. So I got a question. Yeah. How do you talk to your cat about gun safety? How do I talk to my cat about gun safety? Yeah. See. You have a book. Oh, you got to. Oh. You got to hold it up. So. So my cat's smarter than me. I call my son. Actually, I have two two Bengal cats. One of them somehow falls on its back. I didn't think a cat could actually land on its back when my cat does it all the time. And the other the other one's like a genius. Like I swear to God, he's in college or something like that. Like he's the professor. So I think he needs to teach me about gun safety by this point in my life. Interesting. Yeah. So a lot of your content has been about peptides lately. Yes, it has. So. So. So. I'm not as cutting edge on some of the peptides that you've mentioned in some of your videos recently. Why don't you fill me in on what I've missed out in the past couple of years? So everyone wants to hear about peptides because they think that it's like the next PED. It's actually almost annoying to me. So I will say that we've known about like the first time I injected myself with peptides was like 11 years ago, 12 years ago. So one of my YouTube videos I did, I was like, yeah, I was like, I've been injecting peptides for over a decade now. I have literally over a decade of observational research and actual relative research. So I'm going to cut things straight. And a lot of peptides are bullshit. Some of them aren't. Right. And the interesting thing is kind of the names that float around now, we know work. A lot of those names are still somehow hanging on and floating around. Don't work like MGF. Like we have tried. We're using mechanical growth factor. We have tried using it. And just like we can't get it to work. Folistatin 334, like the myostatin inhibitor, like we can't get it to work. So and like I don't know how companies are selling it and people are buying it. Because here's the thing. You tell them myostatin blocks muscles growing. Folistatin blocks myostatin by here. And they don't even have to prove it works. Nobody knows. Everyone knows that there's no human data on this. It's just like the mechanistic data for LR3 is it should be great. It doesn't seem to do anything. It's MGF. It's supposed to be great. It doesn't seem to do anything. Yes, we stimulate MGF with reps 6 through 10. You know, and maybe some partial reps at the end or some rest pause. Yeah. You can squeeze a little MGF out. We're not generating that with MGF directly injecting the muscle. Theoretically, growth hormone is supposed to stimulate MGF locally. Maybe not. Who knows? It's like AOD. They brought back Frag 191. Bro. And they call it AOD now. AOD is garbage. Like all the frags. They used to sell it. FDA approved it. And they pulled it because it doesn't work. So they renamed it so they could rebrand it. That's exactly it. It's kind of like Superdraw, right? It's a pro hormone. No, it's a steroid to begin with. So it's marketing. But I will say that it's pretty cool, like, getting deeper into the peptide space because there's a lot of cool use cases where you can improve biological function. The issue that we're running into right now is, like, for instance, they're using clickbait words like mitochondria, right? It's like, you know, everyone's trying to do their mitochondria. And I was like, do you need energy? And they're like, well, no. I'm like, then why do you need more mitochondria activity? And they're like, what do you mean? It's like, it's supposed to be a fat burner. I'm like, it burns fat for energy. But if you're not in a deficit, you're going to just put the fat right where you got it from. Yeah. So it works like multifaceted, right? So some of these mitochondrial peptides, they improve overall cell health and maybe energy output. Some do directly improve energy output, but a lot of it's like secondhand energy output. There is a small molecule, SLUPP332, which is not a peptide. And in mega dosages orally, I've seen crazy results with it. But the interesting thing is, it's just like bodybuilding. They always overdo stuff. So one, it crushes people's LDL. It's extremely impactful for reducing down LDL, triglycerides, ApoB. It's fascinating. Well, is it though? Like what happens if we get too low of LDL? Like with statins, you start ripping and tearing stuff. Well, that's, I thought the statins directly are what's causing the ripping and tearing. So you still need LDL for like other biological functions, brain health, things like that. Especially like with like women, for instance. You need it for like a steroid genesis. I don't think that that's a risk though. I mean like with the blood work I see, I get dudes that have just the most horrible fucking cholesterol. They're like, I eat pretty clean. I'm like, that is not acceptable, dude. There is no fucking way you have a 177 LDL and you're eating clean with a 44 HDL. I've seen probably five cases in probably 10,000 to 15,000 total labs that I've seen where there was a genetic component. Right. It's very, very rare though. It runs in my family. So does KFC, bitch. And it's like, that's why your family's got this problem. You all eat the same like shit. Nicknamed the colonel. Yeah. I fucking, it runs in my family. Shut the fuck up with it. Runs in your family. Well, that's what Dr. C to say. Like, how do you fuck with Dr. C to say? So, so as I'll use an interesting one, right? So I do see actually positive results. Like in the factory, like I would compare it to like, as a, like a BAM 15, for instance, right? Like a mitochondrial coupler. But the crazy thing is, is like, it's like A-50 to a hundred milligrams. It's like crazy how well effective it is for energy output. But people forget that it fucks up your health when you start taking even higher. And they're just like another hundred milligrams, another hundred. And then it's like 300, 400, 500, 600 milligrams. Like it's the, how much energy can the cell actually output? You're just starving the cells by this point. And you're wrecking your own cellular function. You need to pump the brakes. So like, let's back this up a little bit. Okay. The Sloopy is what I call it. The SLU PP332 Sloopy is, it's, they come in 250 microgram tabs usually. Sure. If you're getting a pharmaceutical from a domestic compounding pharmacy. No, no, no. Well, no, there's a domestic compounding pharmacy now that's actually making them. And you can get scripted at 250 micrograms. I know, but like, why would I want to pay someone to write me a script? I can't just get it from the China for cheaper. Yeah, that's true. Yeah. So it's like, the point is, is someone's telling me that those 250 microgram doses are based off of injections, not oral. So now I found an SLU that's injectable, five milligrams per container. And so that, I'm like, all right, that looks like this is promising. You heard what I said. I said a hundred milligrams. A hundred milligrams. Right. And so these are 250 micrograms. And then this is five milligrams injectable. Yup. So this is where things get really interesting. In theory, injectable sloop should not work. That's why like some dumb ass. Oh my God. I swear to God. Some dumb ass said to inject it with DMSO. Don't fucking inject DMSO unless you want to risk your life. So that one, that's, but what I saw in practice, I know it works to some extent because at 500 micrograms approximately, almost everyone would get hungrier. Meaning that the energy output had to have been higher. This is injectable. Injectable. Yeah. So, and people will say that injectable doesn't work. Well, why are these people getting hunger? The energy output is increasing. Why wouldn't injectable work? I can't remember the, the molecular, the way that it's the deliverable through it, but it has something to do with its direct mechanism and how it's absorbing through someone's system. Oral works. It implies that the oral stomach acid is what's going to change it to a protonated verb or a reduced form. And then it gets absorbed that way. Something like that. Like I wish I actually need to take a step back and actually like, I will be honest if like, I can't say exactly what it is. I would have to go back and actually look at the literature behind it and why the actual reasoning behind it. So I can't give you an intellectual answer, but it has something to do with the, obviously the biological breakdown of that molecule through the system. All right. So I'm going to have to do some much more complicated. Yeah. It's pharmacokinetics. There needs to be oral dosing protocols and injectable dosing protocols, and they're not going to be the same. Correct. And that's where the people are getting messed up about it is that they're confabulating injectable rat data with human oral shenanigans. And then it's not exactly the same. Like the whole we're not rats thing, that's an argument right there because their livers are 12 times as efficient as detoxification. So when people do direct port for per kilogram per kilogram, you got to divide by like 12 to get the human dose because they've just got much better livers than we do. Sure. One piece of the puzzle. And we also know rat data doesn't always translate well with a lot of different things into humans. Something works in a rat, it's like 30% of the time it works in a human. Yeah. And in cancer, it's like 50%. Well, that's also, they pick the rats that get cancer. Right. Well, you have to, though. Like, you have to have the genes. 100% of these rats got cancer when they used, what was that, Cartering? Yeah. Yeah, because they used Winstraw rats, which all get cancer. It's a line of rats that are doomed. Yeah. So we can see which ones get the cancer first. That's why they were trying to figure out if the drug worked for that used case. So that's what they were trying to legally get it. And then, like, they were all dying from cancer. It was, like, exponentially increasing the rate of which the cancer was growing. So they're all dying faster. So that's why they actually pulled it. And they're like, well, we can't get it even past the rat data right now. So we're going to pull the plug on it. But we know in humans that it's pretty effective as improving blood pressure, cardiovascular output. In fact, carotene is kind of underrated for how good it improves cardiovascular output. Like, it's way, like, and Tomasarn doesn't even compare to it, like, as far as, like, oxygen tearing capacity. But, like, does this work better in athletes? Or are we looking at sedentary death's door Americans? And we pump a little bit of drugs, like, pairing Harkonnen in them. And they're able to float around on their little hover pad for a few more days before their heart explodes. Like, what do we mean it improves blood pressure? It gets from the red blood to the orange. It's not effective enough for it. It's, like, we just have better drugs for it that are safer anyways. Like, Tomasarn is a great drug. Shoot, the kidney supplement that we formulated at Morphogen Nutrition, Amil Peptide. What I have seen on paper from data after eight months of using this. So we way over formulated everything. It is as strong as 10 milligrams of lisinopril. I didn't think it was going to be as strong as Tomasarn at, like, 40 to 80 milligrams, right? It is stronger than Tomasarn, which is kind of mind-blowing. This is a kidney medicine? It's a kidney supplement. It's not all natural. It has a... And that improves your blood pressure. It improves your blood pressure. That major active ingredient in it is called Amil Peptide. What does it do? How does that improve the blood pressure? It's a natural ACE inhibitor. Oh, okay. So that's basically what we're doing. Basically a natural. Okay, so that's why you're comparing it to lisinopril. Or potentially... Well, I didn't think it was going to be as strong as Tomasarn. And his weight... Well... Everyone dropped their Tomasarn because there was no point. If they needed something else, it was lisinopril on top of it, basically. Because to me, like, they're working the same mechanism. Sure. Indirectly. One is the ARB and one prevents the AR from existing. Yep. Correct. Yeah, it's one step up. Right. That's a cascade. So, like, I guess if you double down on that cascade, you can hit it from two mechanisms to get synergy. Correct. Using a lisinopril and a Tomasarn together. It's usually advised not to, though. Well, of course. Because, like... They can sell you amlodipine and they're going to sell that. Because lisinopril is, what do you call it, on generics. Of course it's not advised. No, people just don't get it is a business first. They think that medicine is about healing people. Not at all. It is disease management in the West. It's healing people everywhere else. But in the United States, it's disease management. Keep the patient sick and rape them for as much money as you can. But the way the insurance system is set up, yes. Because it's actually the way that, structurally, the insurance system is set up. What it should be viewed as is it should be preventative health care, followed by acute health care, followed by a higher triage health care hospitalization system. So the sick don't have to pay for the healthy all the time. Or most of the healthy don't have to pay for the sick. But, like, when you're focused on keeping people healthy, technically more people are healthy. So even if you are buying into support the unhealthy people, there's so much less people that are unhealthy. However, what I will say, though, is they open up Pandora's box with GLP. Like the GLP agonist, they open up Pandora's box because it's going to reduce down disease by so much. I'm really curious the meta-analysis that happens 20, 30 years down the road with how many people are taking GLPs now. Well, I don't... Okay. Do you believe the GLPs really improve cholesterol in the off-season? Or GLPs prevent people from cheating on their diets in the off-season so they don't have the cholesterol from not eating like shit? I have enough data where I at least know that RETA does improve cholesterol in the off-season. That's why I will keep a very low dose, even at 0.5 milligrams to 1 milligram. I do 0.5 every two weeks, and every time I take it, I get gastroparesis for like three days, and my waist grows like four inches. Very interesting. So I get severe noise reduction from food to the point... And I don't like eating food because I was like in jail eating 8,000 calories a day for my off-seasons all the time. It was so bad. Like it was like getting out of jail will stop bodybuilding for me because I just like got my jaw back kind of thing. Yeah. Either way. Wait, what? You got out of jail? Yeah, I got out of jail. When were you in jail eating 8,000 calories? No, that's bodybuilding. Oh, okay. Metaphorically. Yeah. I was never in jail. Okay. So... I think you'd be popping in jail. Huh? I think you'd be popping in jail. I'd probably be popping in jail. It's the eyes. That's why I do squats. Yeah. Type butthole. So you squeeze. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You have to have a plan B. Of course. Just in case. I thought about getting like a detachable dentures. And just in advance. Oh, that's actually smart. So you don't have to actually like... Get him knocked out. Egotistically, you know. You don't... You never like... It's like the guy's equivalent of getting a hair tie. It's just... It's like removable teeth. Yeah. All right. That's so dark. Hopefully no one gets that. All right. So anyway. It's a bodybuilding. Yeah. Oh, yeah. So... Retta and improving in LDL. So I think it's a glucagon activity that is really improving. Because if you look at like phase two research, there was one clinical study that was very interesting. Whereas like reversing liver cirrhosis. Now the... The dosing though... It's so funny though. Because I'm like... I don't even look at the data. Because I'm like... These people have got to be so fucking fat. And they have so many problems. None of this is going to correlate to bodybuilding. This was an obese populace. But I don't think it was like super morbidly obese. Like the ones where they lost like 72 pounds kind of thing. Yeah. Over 64 weeks. It was a longer study that was done at four milligrams. Basically is where the dosing really maxes out on Retta for all the benefits that you didn't get out of it. I've seen a lot of people getting more fat loss from 12 in those data. So it's not exponentially higher though. It's not exponentially. It's like... The sweet spot of the graph is... It's like 23%. 22 to 23% around the four milligram-ish marker. And then it goes up to... It titrates up to 27%. But you're talking about four milligrams versus eight milligrams versus 12 milligrams. So they're trying... You're spending three times as much money for the full year versus spending a third of as much money for an extra couple of weeks. Yeah. And the other weird thing is, is the side effect of diastasis. It's going to be dose dependent. It's dose dependent. And most people experience it right around four milligrams. And they kind of adjust. What I found is anything above that, they don't... Most people do not adjust to it. So like you had... It was about 70% of the population in the higher dosings of eight milligram and 12 milligram actually stopped in the study. Either they're losing weight too fast or their side effects were too high. And they actually stopped... Because there's too much fucking drugs. Yeah. It's crazy. It's so high. That's what blows my mind about these idiots. They're like, how much should I be using? I'm like, dude, if you use... Like what was Chase's protocol? 0.5 three times a week for offseason. And I've never even ran that. I ran one twice a week in prep. And then I eventually got up to one and a half twice a week in prep. Yeah. But that's... Like... So when I did... I experimented with... I try to filter words so that we don't get in trouble. But I did SEMA in my final prep. It was just an experiment. I didn't want to think or look at food at 0.1 milligrams. It dampens my food noise so much. Like I would get into like almost like nausea looking at food. Like I could... I was like, oh man, I have to eat carbs in this meal. Like I didn't want to. So like eating air is easy. And then when it came to Aretta at 0.5 milligrams, my food noise is so low. Like Caroline has to like force me to eat. She's like here. And then like... That's offseason though. I don't even do anything. Right. You're not competing. But yeah. But like I totally offseason, I can see that just murdering it. Yeah. You also don't want to keep injecting Reta because the glucagon agonism that you have. You don't want to keep smashing that receptor. You mean not daily? Daily. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like one of the very few doses you do not do daily. But the difference is, is with the stuff that most people are getting right now, because it's not pharmaceutical grade, I don't think that the half-life is as long as people think. So they're actually getting away with doing it more frequently and not having that issue instead of just doing it one time a week. I think that two times a week is probably more optimal for most people because it's peaking a little bit faster, coming down a little bit faster. Because I don't think, I don't know if it's like a lipolytic process or something like that, that they're binding to the molecule to make it a little bit longer half-life or what they're doing with it. But I don't think it's being done when it's being compounded in like UGLs and stuff like that. I don't know, but like my waist was so much bigger when I got here on Wednesday than it is today. And pretty much the difference, and it was like that for two or three days because I had right a, I think two weeks, 10 days before I came or seven days before I came. And I was like, I want to clean it up a little bit before this and eat really good for a week before I go to the Arnold because I don't know what's going to happen at the Arnold. I might either be able to eat really clean or I might have to eat really dirty like I did the Olympia that year and it was like my, I was just had complete gastroprinitis for like three days. And then I had like really bad motility for like three days. And like today I finally have my old abdomen back where I have control of my muscles and all that stuff in my abdomen. That's also something people don't talk about is that it does widen people's waist. People do not know how to diet properly. So they lean into RETA so much to the point where they're like, their motility is so low that their waist gets wider and wider. It's very profound to see within women, way easier to see it than in men. Because like, I mean, you have a hundred and five stage ready bikini athlete kind of thing. Their waist is tiny. So even a tiny little bit of distension and you see it. Now I will say that you can also pick up SIBO there. If you slow down the motility too much, bacterial overgrowth is a little bit easier to like combine and stuff like that. But if you're not eating food, it doesn't really matter that much anyways. Like it's, it's pretty hard to get into that position. Um, so that I piece that together almost three years ago though, that sometimes dropping it out, like for some people is dropping it out, which sucks about a month to two months out, minimum six weeks out because you have to let the elasticity shrink back down and tighten back down because it takes time. Like it's not an overnight thing. For my prep, when we were on the road is I, that whole time I was peaking for a whole month, right. It was pulled out. So I was peaking without retta where I had been on retta the whole time. So it was a very bizarre. And then we were moving into different Airbnbs every three to four days. And then I'd do a show and then I'd get back on the road and we drive another 14 hours, trying to eat meals while you're charging the car and stuff like that. Randomly staying in Airbnbs. Some suck, some don't. It was bizarre. It was a bizarre way to do back to back shows. It was a bizarre way to do back to back shows with a new coach. And it was a bizarre way to do back to back, to do a road trip ever. So it was the first road trip, multiple back to back shows, new coach. Oh my God. And ultimately everything went really good. Even considering all the things that went on. It's crazy how fast, because I'm someone that can eat the air and I'm fine, right? It's crazy how fast your appetite comes back with a vengeance where you feel like a rat is clawing your insides, like scratching out your stomach and stuff like that, like wanting food. Because you crave it so much. You start having dreams about food. It's annoying actually detoxing out of your system because it's such a strong impact on the limbic system, the brain. And so, yeah, just people don't talk about it. People only talk like idolize these peptides. And at the end of the day, it's like there's a pro and con to everything. Like if it's smashing your LDL down, what is the other double-edged sword? Also, it's binding to the receptors that can grow cancer if you have them present, right? So like ovarian cancer, things like that, they have the same receptors that like Sloop, sorry, Sloop, like Sloop binds to, right? That's just going to agonize. Oh, it's the orphan estrogen receptor. Yeah. EBB, EBB receptor. So the, yeah, it's MOTC, right? MOTC is an interesting one too because everyone's talking about how great it is for weight loss. Like it basically is a mitochondrial like signal to the brain is like how I think about it more so than anything else. Drives up AMPK. Well, okay. Are you on RETA? Like do you actually need more AMPK? Do you need to ramp up your cells? Do you have the energy? Berberine does AMPK. So exactly. So do you actually need it? You need to feed the cells. You need to feed the body to support whatever that peptide is going to do because the body is pretty efficient at creating the peptides that it needs at that moment in time. I think the most unique peptide right now that I really like that I want to do an experiment with it with like Graves disease is SS31. There's another peptide that no one really knows of, which I'm guessing people are probably going to try it after I say this. Atomax, I want to try out. It's basically a subset of C-Max. So C-Max is really, really impactful for me and like ADHD without having to take stimulants because I have Graves. I can't really do much stimulants even though probably people think I'm like cracked out when I'm on this and talking 100 miles an hour. That's just Graves? Yeah. No, it's me. No. And Graves. I don't know. I don't know. Dude, that's what it is. It says we've got, we're both neurodivergent in the same direction. So we're actually, what do you call it? Neuroconvergent with each other. Wait, is that actually a thing? I guess. Well, it is. Now it is. Now it is. You just made up a word. I actually knew what your business name meant. That's how in sync we are. So it's cool stuff though. I mean like some of the peptides are worth looking into. Like SS31 just got FDA approved. It's so funny. People are like, they're never going to FDA approved peptides. What's SS31? SS31 is a mitochondrial peptide. They just patented it. This was back in November actually. And essentially it improves mitochondrial function. It's like deep rooted basically in the cell without going too far in the weeds. It improves cellular function. The most impactful thing, again, another mitochondrial peptide. But the most impactful thing for this is the improvement on organ function. So they approved it for Barth syndrome, which is a very violent syndrome. You essentially usually die from it, usually of heart failure, but it can impact the brain and a few other things. So they approved this peptide in very high dosages. It's extremely expensive to do. It's between five to 10 milligrams is usually what they were scripting for Barth syndrome. I think when they were doing the studies, they actually went up to 40 milligrams a day of SS31, which I think would cost you $200 to $300 a day if you were like, even underground stuff. Like it's super, super expensive. What does it do? Just improve cellular function, like at a super high level. Like it improves mitochondrial function. It improves cellular function. But it protects you against, the big thing, protects you against oxidative stress. So what they found is- Okay, so it slows aging. It slows aging. Yeah, exactly. Telomeres, things like that. It also is extremely protective of organ tissue, which is a fascinating thing, which I think they're eventually going to approve it for potentially some like brain conditions, heart conditions, renal conditions, eventually, because they're now getting a lot of human injury. It just protects organ tissue. It just protects you against oxidative stress. That's all it is. So it's going to extend the life of every cell in your body. So for people who are not taking their bodies too seriously and then have organ systems dying, this will slow the death of that organ system. And then GHK-Cu is super useful because of the improvement in, I guess, autophagy, I guess, because everyone likes that clickbait word. Right. And it stimulates those cancer cells to die. Correct. It's targeted to kill off cancer cells. It's also targeted to improve cellular turnover of good cells too. And then you obviously get like antigen, so improving hair, skin, nails, things like that, which I have seen a pretty – did you see my post on GHK-Cu blinds? Probably not because we're pretty far off social media. People think we're on it all the time. We're really not. We're posting it off. I just found out I'm associated with Anivar. Wait, what? I didn't know that anybody associated with me with Anivar. Really? I just found out about that. Wait. Well, because we really like Anivar. Anivar is great. Right. Apparently, the collective feels that Anivar is just for girls and it's not – Oh, no. It doesn't build muscle. I didn't know this existed, but that's like the mainstream meathead thinks D-ball is good and Anivar is bad. D-ball is kind of trash. The Tren and D-ball is what you're supposed to do and the bodybuilders say they do Mastron and Anivar are lying. Every top Olympian is using Mastron. Every one of them. Not even non. I know you're one of them. Everyone. Yeah. But Anivar is useful. But it's not anabolic. Yeah. That's why everyone's using it. Anivar is super interesting because especially if someone can't tolerate Tren, for instance, you can still get the reduction very effectively in TBG, so thyroid binding globulin, leveraging Anivar, and you only need to go up to like really 20, 25 milligrams and you get the impact from a mechanism action standpoint from Anivar. So wait a minute. Are you meaning to tell me that Tren does lower TBG? Yeah. All right. Because there is a certain person who considered themselves knowledgeable who disagreed with me about that. And I never – I couldn't re-find where it was. I was like, I thought Tren totally lowered TBG. And so I'm glad that you mentioned that. So this is really interesting. I was doing a deep dive on research. Let me explain this to them. So TBG, if you lower thyroid binding globulin, then that means there's going to be more T3 available. Yeah. And from a theoretical standpoint. Now, from a practical standpoint, I was doing actually a deep dive into Tren's impact on thyroid function because we know that anything that's really strong corticoid receptor tends to downregulate thyroid function, right? However – It's an antagonist of glucocorticoid, which means it should upregulate thyroid function. So it's kind of – yes and no, right? So my question was, what does it do to the thyroid, right? Like what data do we have available in humans? And so I did a deep dive into some medical literature. Like I'm talking like I spent days deep diving. This is one of the most recent like deep dives I did. It was about a year ago. I mean it was like deep. For like days and days, I was doing research trying to figure out and piece things together and find different lab panels and stuff like that. So what I found with the medical literature is I couldn't find anything good. It was like there was gaps in the labs that they were running. It was like, yeah, downregulated thyroid function and they're looking like TSH, like total T4 and then sometimes not even free T3 and stuff like that. Isn't that amazing? They do a study to see what the drug does to the thyroid and they don't fucking test the thyroid. They test the pituitary. Exactly. I couldn't find like really good, hard, conclusive data. Endocrinologists are so bad at thyroids. It's like there's this epidemic of women with thyroid dysfunction. No. There's an epidemic of shit endocrinologists. I'll bite my tongue. I like urologists. Urologists are really good. I feel like urologists are really like kind of ahead of the curve for a lot of stuff. They're like penis and bladder surgeons. Yeah, but some are really smart and they can even work with women. Really? They usually just prefer not to so they won't do it. But they're really smart when it comes to hormone function. At least the ones that, the really high up ones that I've like been directly able to work with. I've never met a surgeon that was confident about any medicine, let alone endocrine. So that's amazing to me. That you know, urologists that are confident with hormones. The first doctor I studied under was a urologist and he actually, he's like, man, it's like these seven-year-old guys. I wish I could just put them all on anivar. Not even making it up. Like this dude was dope. So like I have met some really good urologists. Not a lot. There's not a lot around. I mean, the only problem with anivar is that it crushes HDL, so it's going to drive up APOB. Yeah. Well, it just depends on someone's diet. And also if someone's on RETA, does it actually impact APOB that much? I find that LDL and APOB isn't impacted that much. With the accessibility now that we have, I mean, you're talking about like over a decade ago when I was studying under them. But you're saying that you can run RETA, for example, or Telmasartan and GHK-Cu as kind of like a, not prophylactic, but if you run that under your off-season, shit's going to go off the rails a lot slower. So you're going to get a longer off-season. Yeah. I don't have anyone that has insulin resistance issues anymore. I don't have people that have LDL issues. I had a guy that was two weeks out from a show, 14 weeks, 16 weeks into a cycle, and natural supplements, by the way, 39 LDL. No RETA, by the way. 39 LDL. Just taking Kidney Prime and Omega. This is your company? Yeah. What's the name of it? Morphogenic Nutrition. Well, not my, like I don't own it. Ben is a genius. He's the OG in the space. He was the one that really pushed for non-proprietary blinds back in the day. I've been with the company for over 10 years, but like I helped with the rebranding, reformulation and stuff like that. Do you know what I think's funny? So I did the open label in 2014 with Mind & Muscle. Yeah. And then somebody, I'm not going to say who, stole my label. Like verbatim, my Wicked 2.1, he made his own version of it. And just, it was exactly like mine. They're like, Mind & Muscle has a doctor. We have a website and we have a doctor. Let's have our doctor have a pre-workout. And they ripped my label off and just gave it to him. But he isn't that type of doctor. He's a kinesiologist. So they, and when he tried to talk in the camera about it, he just sounded like a blithering idiot. So they tried to get a girl biochemist to come on and explain what his product does because he can't explain it. And I was just like, this is such a shit show. And it became a huge company because bodybuilding.com is such a big platform. Of course, they're going to shove it. And so, of course, he rips off bodybuilding.com leaves and starts his own company. And it's like, this is why the open label stuff is such a pain in the butt. It's because people rip off your formulas. So what's funny is when I came out with a different product and I did most of the label was open, but they had a little bit. I was like something, something mitochondrial activity blend. And then I had the ingredients in it and I had the amount. Then it's like Todd leaves like hiding this. I started this shit with open label. But you guys rip it off. And I know no one knows this part of it. So I'm going to lock that little part of the label down. Yeah, because you can't really get things patented. The only way you can get it patented is you show the mechanism. You spend $2 million on research and development and peer reviews and stuff like that. It's very expensive to do it. There are companies that are doing it. Like you have like Metagenics and companies like that. Designed by Health. They're pharmaceutical grade. They get things clinically backed. And it backs that proprietary blend. So you have actually proof in medical literature that backs it, which is pretty cool. Right. And then you can charge more money. But what people are going to pay for it is a question. It's like now to pay for your R&D, you had to price yourself at $95 when the market's at $50. So you're going to get less of that market than if you just rolled in there with a $65 product and just didn't even did the university study by. So yes and no, because if you're a doctor, you're going to give someone pharmaceutical grade stuff because you know that there's medical literature that backs whatever that is. Right. It plays into the doctor theme. If I'm going to be like, right. And I can charge a shit ton more money and all that stuff. Right. So we can always do that later. Yeah. Like Fullscript is pretty cool site for doctors. But yeah. So let's see here. We talked a little bit about peptides. We talked about the, well, like, okay, we talked about how the community, which I don't really know if I'm part of that community. I feel like that the bodybuilding community who actually competes is so vastly different than the population that calls themselves bodybuilders and doesn't compete. Yeah. Um, and it's, well, because it's been opening up to gen pop because of tick tock because of Instagram, everyone wants to be an influencer nowadays. They want to look a certain way and everyone considers themselves bodybuilders, not something on stage. And I'm cool with that because like, here's at the end of the day, when I was bodybuilding, I just loved training really hard. I probably didn't consider it. Well, I guess I did consider myself a bodybuilder, but I never really competed. So I would never like open me like, yeah, I'm a competitive bodybuilder. Right. And we all started somewhere. So it just depends. Some of these people that don't have inspirations to compete. I don't know if it's considered bodybuilding. Well, my point about this is. It is so bodybuilding. It's art. Those individuals are the dbol crowd. I don't know anybody who's a competitive pro bodybuilder. He uses dbol in the, no, well, it was being used back in the day. It was like dbol, like cycling through it. Right. Cause they didn't have injectable test or whatever. That is the only oral that provided an estrogen substrate. Oh, you're talking about the seventies with our, yeah, that's why I think dbol was popular in the seventies and it never went out of fashion. So here people are like, I become a water. They're so fat that when they take dbol, they look bigger. And when they take anivar, they don't look bigger. So they think they're bigger muscles because dbol, cause they can feel how big their muscles feel. They don't understand it's just water retention from the dbol and anivar has no water retention. And that's not anivar is not weak. It's just, it has less side effects than dbol knows. Yeah. And then these idiots are confabulating the side effects with the effects. Like for instance, I added 20 milligrams of testosterone. I gained like four pounds. Yep. I went from 40 milligrams a day to 60 milligrams, gained like four pounds instantly. Well, clearly that's muscle clearly test is best. No, it was water. I was water retention. That was it. Yeah. It's increased fluid and glycogen retention, muscle tissue. And technically on DEXA scan, it will pick up on us. Muscle tissue. Obviously that's why I like try to tell people, I'm like, I'm using DEXA scans. Like I always tell them that. For cycles. I'm like, are you kidding me? They're so dumb. They're so dumb. Please stop. And it's like, they always want to, I'm 12% by DEXA. I'm like, I don't give a fuck about your DEXA. Yeah. Anivar is way stronger than people realize, especially if you've ever taken like Anivar trochee. It's like a pharmaceutical grade. It's just unbelievable. Yes. It is. I swear to God. It hits hard. It's like taking Anadrol. It is so strong. And it, one of the best physiques I ever had was 120 tests. And I was doing 12.5 milligrams of, uh, Anivar trochees for like a month. It's one of the best physiques I ever had. I wasn't planning on competing or anything like that. It was just like, I did it for a bit. I want to do a little bit of an experiment. The best I felt, my joints felt good. I felt strong. My muscle tissue was super full. I was getting leaner, stronger, more vascular. It was crazy. It was like, we're like, are you getting ready for a show right now? I'm like, no. It was like, I'm just like in the gym three days a week again and eating four meals a day, eating still ice cream every single day. I mean, I feel like if I want the best pump rather than 50 Anadrol, it's like 50, 25 Anadrol and 25 Anivar almost hits better. I would agree with that because you also don't have to worry about the histamine issues from the Anadrol. Everyone thinks that like these, the appetite issues a lot of times with Anadrol, like if someone has a bad gut, you're going to get wrecked from an appetite standpoint. It mainly has to do with driving up histamines more than anything else. What I find is like on 25 Anadrol, only on Lyftase, it's like I'm on Sirtazine, Loradadine, Diphenhydramine and Hizipaline, one of the other first generations. So I've taken two second generation antihistamines, two first generation histamine, antihistamines, and I take two DAO doses every day. DAO is awesome. So it's like I'm hitting it from like four different angles, right? And it's like that much of an issue is histamine with like 20 times a day. And it's like I've always had histamine issues. Apparently it's an issue with type O blood, like heartburn, type O positive. You're going to have heartburn, but you're less likely to have any type of vascular event, like because your blood, red blood cells are smooth. They don't have any trees of sugar sticking out of them. That's just a smooth oval basically. So our blood just slides. It doesn't stick. So we're not going to get much less likely to get stroke or heart attacks and Alzheimer's, but you're also going to have heartburn like a motherfucker. Histamine is going to be your worst enemy. So it's interesting because like a diet for your blood type, O negative at least, because that's my blood type, apparently produces more stomach acid than most other populations, which I always did really good with high protein diets, which is interesting. I direct. Okay. So I confabulated. It's stomach acid for type O. I concluded that's from the histamine. It could be from the histamine, right? Like it very much could be because like I, but the issue is, is all right, Anadrol. Let's talk about Anadrol. When, when I was, I love Anadrol, by the way, it's like one of the few anabolics that like you just take it, it works. It does its thing. You get in, you get out kind of thing. Like don't run it forever, run it for a short period of time. It's awesome for like two, I like two weeks cents a time. If I was to do Anadrol, um, when I was young Anadrol, I nearly got no side effects from, as I got older, I got more side effects from it. And older populations, as we age, we tend to produce less HCL over that period of time. So less stomach acid. So the question is, is, is it driving up the histamine receptors and just dumping more stomach acid into the system from driving up histamine H2 receptor, right? Like a stomach is H2. Yep. Skin is H1 brain is H3. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Yes. So yeah. If so, for those histamine is a neuro stimulant in H3. It's an acid stimulant at H2. It's an itchiness stimulated at H1. So when you're going to have high histamines, like you said, don't leave your food in the fridge for more than three days. Kai always laughs at me because I'll leave uncooked chicken sitting on for two or three days and then I'll cook it. And I always said, like, if it smells like farts, it's fine. If it smells like feet, then don't eat it. And he thinks I'm crazy. Like, I've never gotten sick eating your. Yeah, bro. No. It's not dry aging, bro. I know. Chicken. That's called salmonella. I know. That's an easy way. I don't believe in salmonella until you start seeing it on GI mapping and how bad that people feel. And then you're like, so it's rare. Someone else. Since you said that, I'm like, I'm going to start, I'm going to have my housekeeper come twice a week. I'm going to clean out my kitchen and I'm going to make sure to eat everything within one day of me cooking it and see if that drastically changes my mucus production. Holy shit. I can breathe with my CPAP on. I'm not waking up having a panic attacks every night between anadrol, eating a big meal before bed and having astronomical histamine. Even CPAPs don't cut through that shit. No. But being here, I've been away from so much stuff. No anadrol, like no rotting food. I get every food, everything at drostanolone. So it's like I could breathe through my nose. I don't have stuffy nose at all. That makes me so happy that you actually like implemented that. It was one of those things where it was like instantly like I noticed a difference in how well I felt from changing that up. It's like eat your food within two days kind of thing. And then it's like get groceries, eat your food within two days. It kind of sucks. It's annoying. But it makes a massive difference, especially because like the bodybuilding space, most people just don't have good guts. We're eating so much food. Most guys, especially guys, women are pretty good about it. They're not eating enough vegetables. And you just get your gut into a really bad spot. Odds are you have bacterial overgrowth at some point in time, whether you dress it or not. People usually get to that point. At least some strains are going to be on overgrowth ranges. If you have candida overgrowth, it's more of even a pain in the butt further because you're going to have higher histamine content in your body. You're going to have I mean, it's a whole cascade that goes down. It impacts anxiety, depression, things like that. Like I see it over and over again, especially because like acromantia usually gets low when you get leaky gut, which is a bacteria, a good bacteria strain. So I definitely like to focus on biological functions and optimizing how someone feels because someone feels good. They're going to show up. They're going to perform better. They're also going to need less drugs to grow like and they're going to train harder, train harder, less drugs. It's like that simple. So my business partner who does the coaching with me, Karina, she does the nutrition right now and she's brilliant when it comes to the micronutrients and the gastronomy and the GI. What's everyone uses this buzzword, but GI health is basically it. Yeah. And I was I swear like it's not my strong suit and my waist is probably partially a result of, you know, obviously you're trying to eat to grow for 10 years and you're squatting four or 500 pounds. This is a bad recipe, but I noticed that recently I stopped wearing a belt when I trained my waist gained like two, three inches within about three weeks. It gained like really lack of muscle control. So I take the belt off for lats because how are you going to really fire your lat if the belts cramp like a vice in the middle of where the lat. Yeah, you shouldn't be the only trick with wearing a belt during lats is if you're doing a lot pull downs and someone has a really hard time activating their lower lat inserts. Yeah, you can like pinch into that area. So it's like having like someone put their fingers there kind of thing. Yeah, that I started taking that off for back, but I left it on for all the other body parts like legs, arm and chest and I was fine. But when I just stopped wearing a belt completely and the red at the same time, it's just the waist just took off to the races. Well, you sit around a lot in a day, don't you? That's all I do. Yep. So I'm the same way, especially working in corporate IT. Matt Porter was actually the one that got me into corsets. Corsets are great because it keeps you upright. I used to wear those waist trainers and then like everyone's was shitting on them. And then I just talked to Keon and he wears one now when he trains. And I was just like, all right. So I've tried at the last Olympia. I mean, Arnold, last year I wore a waist trainer, not a belt. And I can't brace against the waist trainer the way I can brace against the belt. So it's like. So waist trainer, I don't care about it for training. I care about it for lifestyle, right? All right. So like if you're working, like here's the thing is right now, like I'm kind of slouching. I'm moving around though. So it actually activates core a little bit. I'm sitting still. Yeah. Yeah. Which is actually probably a good thing. You're like bracing like how you're supposed to. When I was corporate IT, like you just work so many hours that you start slouching a little bit, no matter what, it doesn't matter how strong your back is. You start to slouch a little bit. The corset just forces you to stay upright because like just from a neurological standpoint, it's like kind of bracing you. So you kind of sit upright. Right. But the biggest downside that people have is if they start corseting, they stop training their core. They have to train their core. And I have a theory. And I don't know if I told you this theory on bubble guts. Did I ever tell you this? Okay. Everyone's talking about bubble guts and growth hormone and insulin. Meanwhile, insulin improves blood flow into the intestines. So it's like insulin is not causing it. It's amount of food. But when you have bacterial overgrowth in your system, right, you're getting internal press outwards and then you're lifting really heavy and then you're bracing your core into a belt, which is the right way to do it. You want a little bit of like you want a thumb gap and then you basically expand core diaphragm into it rather than shrinking it down. Power lifters, they give a little bit of wiggle room because like when you go down, you breathe out or sorry, you breathe in and hold and push out against the belt is how you're supposed to belt squat. And the combo of the internal pressure, I think is actually what causes diastasis recti in men. And that like diastasis recti is like bubble guts. All right. So are you telling me that by wearing a belt, you prevent diastasis recti or you cause it? I think you can increase the risk because you're bracing all the time into that belt and you're using it as a handicap. If you use it as a tool, it's fine. There's no issues. I just think that people need to train their cores. If they have a weak core, they wear a belt to compensate for the weak core, like the lifting belt at the workplace. Yes. Where there's the classic die with a huge beer gut and he's got a lifting belt because he has no core whatsoever. So in order to engage the lumbars, he has to have a belt on to create the illusion of a brace. Correct. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about wearing a corset all the time, even when you eat to make sure you don't have your waist expand. And then you take the corset off, put the belt on when you're going to train and brace against it. Yeah. I would actually almost a little bit different. Less of the waist trainer. You wear as needed. Like if you're sedentary lifestyle and you're sitting for eight hours a day, wear for two to four hours a day kind of thing, just to keep you a little bit more upright and you can slouch for part of it. But at least hopefully you're cognitively aware that now you're slouching your core's weak. So you actually readjust, you roll back into the chair, whatever you need to do. I look at it like a shock collar. When I wear a belt, when I'm at the gym, it's like a shock collar. If I release my core, it hurts. So I have to keep it tight. And then I notice if I take it off, like when I do my vacuums the next day, I'll get sore from the vacuums because I wore the belt. Same thing with planks. You don't feel the plank or the vacuum or the belt when you use it. But when you do something else, you feel a sore transverse. Sure. And that's where if you're perpetually slightly sore in your transverse, then you know you're making your waist smaller over time. If you feel like you don't even know where your ab muscles are, there's just like this gap in your brain where there's like a hole there and you can't feel anything going on here. You don't know where the muscles are. Then you're probably getting wider by the minute. You know, the best thing I implemented with most of my men, which is really hard to do, by the way, really hard to do yoga. Yoga. Yoga is so good. So most guys won't do yoga, but they will do Pilates. And I feel like any actual professional athlete in any sport should be doing yoga or Pilates, especially for injury prevention because it's so good. It's not pails and rails, right? Like, or cars for your joints. Like, cars for your joints is like the best thing for probably professional athletes, which is just progression, regression of the joints to make sure that they're strong, especially ball and socket joints. That's what it's really for. Um, so you don't like tear hip labrums or shoulder labrums, things like that. And that alone, I've seen improve women's and men's core actual ability. Look, just the actual look. And I think long term, what I'm going to see is it's actually going to prevent dyslexic rectile on some people. Plus, I keep people pretty lean the offseason. Like, I don't let people blow out their waistlines. So like the yoga before legs really helps. But I should be doing yoga before every workout and before every posing session. You should be doing yoga two to three days a week away from a workout. It should be like an active recovery. I look at it just like I'm going to go through these poses to prepare my hips and knees for the leg workout it's going to get. And that's fine, too. I guess that's a little bit different because like you're sitting there doing like a 30, 45 minute yoga session. You're not like working out after that, right? No, I would go in there. I would do like five, 10 minutes of cardio to warm everything up. Maybe do some passive stretching in case or foam rolling if I'm really tight. Then do my mobility, which is basically yoga. For sure. And then so it's about 45 minutes total. That's impressive. And then I get started with the workout. Heavy nose and improvement. Yeah, because now I don't have to fiddle fuck with form and seat positioning. And I don't have to do as many warm up sets because the muscles are active. I sometimes walk into the workout with a pump in every muscle because the yoga and the stretching, drinking my pre-workout, it's filled the muscle up with water and hydration. It's ready to work. And so I minimally have to warm up and every set matters. I just want to pick your brain on this. So my theory has changed on warm up sets a lot since like when I like used to work out like 15 years ago watching Kai Green do like 100 reps. That's for warm up, I swear. Like he would do like 20 rep sets like and he'd make every single warm up set a workout, kind of part of the workout. What's your theory on warm up sets? Like how do you like doing warm up sets? The way Kai did it is the right way. No one moves like Kai. No. And Kai did what was right for Kai. Right. And that everyone I talked to this weekend, they're doing 12 to 15 reps or more. And none of the dudes over 40 are doing like under 12 reps right now. So it's like, you know, the studies are all like six to 10 reps are the way to go for maximum 2x fiber recruitment. I'm like, yeah, until you tear your shit and then you have to take eight months off. Or if you're doing that many sets that heavy, your joints are going to take a beating. You're going to need to deload for months. Let me re-ask this again. So your question was. Warm up sets. Not working sets. I know. So I was going to do warm up sets. So what I'm thinking is if I do one or two warm up sets for the first exercise, I'm probably not going to get a good work set. I'm probably going to need to do three or four warm up sets for the first exercise to get a good mind muscle connection, really make that fucker work, which might mean that that work set's a little less impressive on paper. But the whole rest of the workout goes better. And I never have to do another warm up set again. How many reps are you doing in a warm up set? Five to eight. I won't do 20 because to me, then what I'm doing is I'm starting this workout with a light set and I'm pyramiding up like an Arnold pyramid, not what we're typically doing, which is work set back offset. Okay. My theory on warm up sets changed drastically when I first started lifting because I used to treat everyone to warm up my muscle tissue for the next set, right? So you're doing 12 reps. You're doing pretty close to what you're doing in your working sets, right? I would, I say eight to 12 reps. That's kind of like rep range. But like, for instance, leg press is such a high risk movement because the weight's so heavy. It's a 20 rep to 30 rep movement for me. I can't. My lungs could never handle that. Oh, really? I could never handle more than 15 reps on leg press. I'm just a freak. Like I, like I would just bury myself. Like I didn't, I didn't mind. Like as long as I'm like. Do you have asthma? No. I have asthma. Oh, okay. So I had like an asthma attack recently with a seizure after I did pendulum squats to failure for a set of 13, which was the first time ever. And I talked to some other people and I guess there's an infection going around in January that was supposed to be not a COVID, not a flu, not a COVID. I thought I was the only one getting seizures. Apparently a bunch of people were getting seizures from that. Yeah. It makes sense because of the blood pressure changes that were happening from the lungs for sure. Yeah. And that's what I talked to another, an ER doc. No, no. It was an ICU doc. That's my patient. I was like, would you agree with this statement? Any anoxic state could result in a seizure, especially when stimulating serotonin. He's like, yes. I'm like, sweet. That's all I need to know. Did I tell you I almost died from serotonin syndrome? No. Oh, dude, it was the worst experience of my life. So I, uh, I was going through some like really hard times coming out of the first hip surgery. And I was like, I was talking to my doctor. I was like, Hey man, like I'm kind of in the dumps. Like I couldn't walk. Right. Like I literally sitting in my room, just in pain all day, every day. Um, I'm already off painkillers and stuff like that. So you kind of have that dopamine crash that comes out of it. And he's like, yeah, we can go on like a very low dose Lexapro. So I started doing 10 milligrams of Lexapro, which is kind of like the lowest dose that you script for Lexapro. And, uh, the first day I'm like, damn, I feel good right now. Like I thought I was on like Molly or something. I thought I just felt amazing. Second day felt amazing. Uh, third day. Like I was like, okay, like kind of getting used to it, I guess. Right. Because I know there's a building process. And so after about seven days in, I'm waking up and I'm like, dang, my eyes kind of hurting right now. Right. And, uh, a little bit loopy to an extent. It almost felt like a dreamish state. So I, one of my clients actually flew into town and I trained them and I was like, dang, my right eye is killing me. So after I was done training her, I went to the bathroom and I look up, I went to splash water in my eyes to actually put water in. And no, I thought it was going to be bloodshot red. The right pupil was like, and I was an alien. It was just super dilated. And I was like, because I had a weird feeling. I thought I was starting to get serotonin. It was too much serotonin. But why does it affect the eye if it's not through mescarinic acetylcholine stimulation? I don't know. All that I know is I felt like I was on intraocular pressure and dilation. Well, it could have been graves also. Because I get ocular pressure from graves. So like maybe the combo of the two. That makes sense. Like I'm on like methamazole now, like one pill two times to three times per day right now just because it's been pretty active. What does that keep your free T3 at? My free T3 never goes down even on it. I stay at it like a 3.1 to 3.3. Okay, because I have, I just picked up a patient, a client who, she was being treated with medoprol, whatever, and it brought her T3 down to 2.5. And I'm like, that's over correction, but she's only in five milligrams. So you can't go any lower. The minimum dose is 15. Right. So I'm like, the only thing we can do is add in T3. You know, like we would have to add in T3 and do it really mildly, like six micrograms to get you up a little bit. You can do a 2.5. You can do a five and split 2.5. You can also do like an XR so it's less adrenal sensitive with it, right? Well, she's on prep. So I expect things to be a shit show. So with the free T3, I can manage it. Like you can, with liquid free T3, you can just go like six and six. Dude, I hate liquid. 12 and six. You keep talking about it. I fucking hate liquid. Because I can measure and count. But you're right. Most people are terrible at measuring and counting. And you give them liquid, they'll kill themselves. But I just, I swear to God, there's a dispersion issue of some sort. Well, with T3, right. And that's why the chemist I work with is super precise and is super, like gallons of it are made. So that it's distributed appropriately. I don't know why I randomly thought of like when I was a little kid, I got like slimed in Nickelodeon. I don't know why I thought of like gallons of flu. Because like it's always like blue for some reason. I swear. Like when it's like these research and stuff. Nickelodeon slime was green. Yeah. It tasted really good. It tastes like apple, by the way. Oh my God. That makes sense. So you were telling me what your philosophy is on warm-up sets. And we got sidetracked. Yeah. Sorry. Warm-up sets. Yeah. My philosophy completely changed around this. So essentially what I do is once you get that like one rep and it's like, boom, like, damn, that was a good rep. Stop. Stop. And now you're ready for a work set? Correct. Well, not necessarily work set. It might be the next warm-up set, right? So you might do like two reps. It might be three reps. It might be four reps. It might be eight reps, right? But like you need, like once it's like, boom, that felt like a machine. Like that was the rep. Good. Go up. Now, are you implying that once the tempo amplitude is where you want it? Or are you saying that you have a way of knowing whether a rep's an effective rep or not? Like you're within six or seven reps of failure and you stop when you're six reps out from failure. I don't care about reps until failure until like I'm getting closer to my working set. I need to assess tolerance at that point in time. This is like the stupid easiest way to train. I think I told you this in the last podcast that we did together. But one of my mentors, but this is before I knew what progressive overload was, is it was once you get to your, you do your warm-up sets. Don't do extra reps. Just warm up. Like when it feels good, just stop. So you don't burn yourself out before you get your true working set. And whatever your working set was, let's say bench press 225, once you breach 12 reps on that set for three sets. So it was essentially three sets followed by a fourth set. Okay. If I did 225 for eight reps, right? And I knew I was like about three reps in the tank left till failure. It'd be 225, eight reps, 225, eight reps, 225, eight reps, final set. 225, complete failure. Pretty close to as close to mechanical failures you can get without injury. As long as you had a spotter, you're good. You can go to mechanical failure technically. And whatever rep you hit on that final set, that's your rep starting point for the next set. When you hit 12 reps on that final set, well, sorry, on the three sets, you hit 12 reps, then it's time to go up and wait. And then you kind of restart again. And that's actually one of the stupid easiest ways where I saw the most progress I've ever had in my entire bodybuilding career. But you've got to do four sets per exercise. Four sets per exercise. Once you can get 36 total reps in the first three sets, then it's too late. Correct. But the fourth sets to failure regardless of the number doesn't really matter because what your real goal is, is to get 12, 12, 12, then progress. 12, 12, 12, then progress. Yes. Yeah. That final set is to reestablish what is your actual failure point. Did you actually estimate properly? It's actually like the calculation. Was your calculation right or wrong? So whereas most people like me, if I get 13 reps on the first set, then it's too much. I add weight. Yes. Yeah. If you do 13 reps and you're like, okay, cool. That was like a five RAR kind of thing. You should just add. Well, even if that was failure, if I had a zero RAR at 13 reps, I'll just add five pounds or two pounds. And next week, hopefully I'll get 12. Well, not necessarily because if you had a zero RAR at 13 reps, right? That would make it so that you would be at 10 reps, 10 reps, 10 reps, and then you would be at your failure point, meaning that you still have another six, two reps per set to go before you're at your failure. Because you drop about one rep in the tank every set. Right. Approximately. Unless you go to failure. Unless you go to failure, then you're shooting four or five reps every set. So the interesting thing is when I used it to failure train with insulin in my system, I couldn't fail. I couldn't fail. It was the craziest thing ever. insulin is single-handedly. Like TRT insulin and some GH is like the best thing ever. I swear to God. Only person I know that's promote. Well, only super biochemically educated person I know who promotes insulin as an actual performance-intensity drug or anabolic. Whereas most of the community is like we use insulin to compensate for pancreatic insufficiency or insulin resistance. But in a person with perfect insulin sensitivity, you don't need to add insulin and it wouldn't be anabolic. It would just drive them to insulin resistance faster. And I would actually combat that with – so yes, basal insulin is sure. You want to take pressure off the pancreas. That's fine. Red at your time is way better for that because it's more beta cell protective. But at the end of the day, what I have seen from insulin combined with growth hormone – I just had labs recently on someone. They had a 460-something IGF-1 score. I think it was 467 if I remember correctly. And they started dieting down. They were still on the same growth hormone. Nothing changed. They dropped their insulin. And at first, he didn't say that he dropped the insulin. It went down to a 240-IGF-1. Now, I was like batch testing can be wrong. Run a GH serum test after shooting the growth hormone to make sure it's good. And sure enough, it was real growth hormone. It was legit. So whenever I see that, I'm just like I look at their T3. And if their free T3 is down, I assume that they're not eating enough calories to convert the GH into the IGF-1 because we need insulin for that. And that wasn't the case. But – Oh. Well, so here's the thing is carbs did drop, right? So calories did drop. T3 did not drop. But like he was dieting down. But he was taking T3. That's why you can't use that, right? He wasn't taking T3. But he was carb cycling? No. So what? He was just reducing down calories. Huh. I wonder how – It's very linear. T3 didn't drop if he didn't carb cycle. Well, it just depends. It wasn't like – It wasn't a huge – It takes a long time. For instance, I never downregulate because I've grazed, right? Like I never saw my thyroid – Now, this guy doesn't have grazed disease. But his thyroid didn't really have the opportunity, I guess, to downregulate that much. By that point, I think it was only like – I thought it was 100 hours. I think it was only like three to four weeks into the dieting phase, which usually you don't see thyroid hormone downregulated that quickly. No, because they usually have enough fat supply to where their body makes up the calories. Yes. And also, stress response doesn't go up that much. By that point in time, brain function is still pretty high. Like you're not changing the chemistry of the body that much. So you've – But we were talking about insulin being performance enhancing. Yeah. You were saying that the insulin's action on IGF-1 is the blood work evidence that it's performance enhancing? Yeah. Well, it's more of the neurological feeling of like I don't get – I don't lose reps in the tank. So if you're talking about – sorry, from a basal perspective, I tend to see better improvements of exogenous insulin added in than just like even like a redditratide. But redditratide will improve IGF-1 scores for sure to a certain extent. It even increases growth hormone secretion. Any GLPs do. So to a certain extent. The insulin as a rapid pre-workout, there is no anabolic I've ever taken in my entire life that quite amounts to insulin. And there's really not a lot of downsides with it if you're monitoring blood glucose levels and you're overshooting on the amount of carbohydrates that you're doing. And this isn't me like saying like a Joe Schmo in the gym should be taking insulin. That's absolutely not what I'm saying. But I will say that insulin is still the best peptide ever made. Okay. More than growth hormone? Growth hormone is like second or third for me. Should we really like insulin more than growth hormone? I think – well, if a type 1 diabetic didn't have insulin, they'd be dead. Okay. But we're not – I'm not talking about – we're talking about just normal competitors trying to grow muscle. Do you really think that insulin is – There's better use case for a lot of – so growth hormone is probably the best peptide in the sense that when you're talking about like just longevity in any sport, if you want to be Tom Brady, like it's growth hormone, right? Like growth hormone is amazing from like every biological function. Like I used to get – I had severe tendonitis in my elbows for like two years. As soon as I started growth hormone, I never had like any type of tendonitis ever again. Like growth hormone is absolutely phenomenal for soft tissue regeneration, potentially muscle hyperplasia. If we're lucky, we like gamble every day. We're like give me that sweet muscle hyperplasia, muscle hypertrophy. I mean it's an exponent added into the equation when you're talking about anabolic. So from like a longevity standpoint, you can also stay on it year-round unless if you have like tumor cancer cell growth or you want to bring down IGF-1 score for a bit just to give the body a little bit of a break. Growth hormone is absolutely amazing. It's something I wish I could have started in my career sooner. insulin is also something I wish I could have started in my career sooner because in the beginning I was like hell no, I'm never taking insulin. I'm not doing it. And it's one of those things where my pancreatic function was working so hard because I was having to eat so much food, having graves. I was just eating so much that I just felt better on it. I actually stopped going hypoglycemical when I started doing basal insulins because of the pressure off the pancreas. So it just improved my beta cells. So the reason why I added in the RETA when I had been off of it this offseason was the blood work wasn't looking great. And some, you know, like I'm looking like I'm insulin resistant. I've got my ApoB is higher than it's ever been before. Even my Cystatin C is higher than it's been before. I was dehydrated when I had the blood work done so I can count on it being 5% to 10% lower than it actually lives. But it's not great. So I added a little bit of RETA thinking this is supposed to make off seasons go better on the organs. That's where now the distension started being an issue. So it's like, okay, should I be using insulin instead? I was like, I don't want to chase insulin resistance with insulin. I want to be doing 10 minute elliptical sessions after every meal. I want to be using berberine and using RETA to drive down the insulin resistance rather than relying on insulin. Now, since I am offseason, I do want my arms and lats bigger, not my waist. Would insulin still be good for me to be using pre-workout? What's the downside of using insulin pre-workout? There isn't more. Yeah, that's the question, right? It's like, just challenge it. Like, is there a downside to it? And the answer is usually no. I find that three units pre-workout with about 30 carbs intra-workout is plenty. If I go five intra, five insulin pre, then I might get hypo while I'm training. If I do five intra, I'm definitely going hypo while I'm training. And yes, you could, in theory, drink enough sugar. But the sugar you drink drives up your insulin's secretion by your pancreas also. Then there's gastric emptying time because you got to use basically eight CBDs. Yes. Then you have to use enough water for the carbs, which people aren't doing. So to have 50 carbs into workout, you're drinking a half a gallon of water. It's going to be, that's going to stretch your stomach out. So when I was at my biggest, when I first, the first time I ever took insulin, I was doing like two IUs rapids pre-workout. That's all that I was doing. And I kept having like blood sugar issues anyways. I was doing 200 grams of carbs as my pre-workout food meal. And then I would do 200 grams of carbs intra-workout actually when I would do it. And I would still go hypoglycemic at two IUs. The longer that I use insulin, the less I started going hypoglycemic. Very weird in higher dosages too, because I eventually got up to six IUs pre-workout. But that's about where I maxed out my insulin. Okay. Because to me, that's a tiny dose. Because I was, when I used insulin in the past, I was using like 20 Lantus twice a day and as much as 10 Humalog pre-imposed. Oh, okay. Yeah. No. Every day. And I don't believe in post-workout insulin. And I didn't see a huge benefit from that. So you're saying that something as mild as 10 or 20 Lantus and five pre, and that's a good amount of insulin usage. That's plenty. Yeah. I could totally handle that without noticing. Yeah. Yeah. Like, well, the thing is, is also if someone's having appetite issues, insulin's great for driving up appetite. And do you know why that is? Because it improves blood flow into the intestines. No. Ready? This is a secret. Okay. So when the beta cell makes the insulin molecule, there's something that it cleaves off called a C-peptide. And the C-peptide is present and that makes you not hungry. Because if your body's releasing insulin, it's got the carbs. It already has too much carbs. It doesn't need you to keep eating. So when you're injecting insulin, you get the insulin, but no C-peptide. So it drives the food into the tissue, but it doesn't make you stop being hungry. That's why you can eat starch and inject insulin and never get hungry. But you have one caramel rice cake with three grams of sugar and you're good. That's very interesting. So a little bit of dessert shuts it off and you can stop eating. I didn't know if it was signaling by improvement in blood flow into the intestines and you were getting signaling to like gut to brain access way, whereas like, hey, like I need more food. Like I've digested my food, rest and digest kind of thing, right? But so you know how like in movies, they're always like, like you say, like what's an injection that doesn't show up on autopsy and toxicology? And the bodybuilder's like, he could inject a lot of insulin. Then they would die from that. So I would order a tox cream for C-peptides to insulin ratio. So there should be one C-peptide for every insulin molecule. If there's more insulin than C-peptides, poison. So it's really interesting that you just said that. So a lot of people don't realize that usually when they're doing like urine analysis testing, hair testing, like things like that, they're testing for metabolites, but it's actually metabolite ratios. So there's biological natural ratios that you have. So you can still beat the system. Right. For instance, with testosterone, USADA tests the E to P ratio, and it has to be a less than a four to one ratio of T to E. Whereas if it's six to one or greater, you definitely are taking exogenous testosterone. Yeah. But they don't have a test for growth hormone that I know of. They do have a test for growth hormone. What is it? I can't remember off top of head, but there is. And it's a natural biological ratio that they have. Because what's funny is, like you said, if you know how the test works, you know how to break the test. You can break the test. And then you can cheat in the sport. And people are like, remember kids, there is no cheating in bodybuilding. That we can use all the drugs we want. It's not drug tested. Why the fuck would it be drug tested? Aren't they doing the non-drug tested Olympics this year or next year? The X Games. Oh, is that what they're calling it? That's great. I don't know. I've been hearing about this for 10 to 15 years. The Enhanced Games. Oh, Enhanced Games. Oh, yeah. Very original. Great marketing. Can we call it the X Games? Oh, no. X Games is taken. Sorry. We can't use that. Because DC took the term Enhanced for their superheroes. Oh. So now when we say we're Enhanced, it's basically implying superiority. Not like we are deficient, so we need to take testosterone to be as manly as you. It's just like we chose to become Astartes. We went through the process, got the super soldiers. And then it's like you're just an elevated life form. Thanks, El Capitan. Yes. That crowdgenic chamber came in handy. I'm happy to be around passionate people. I think that's where people get things backwards in this world. It's been so interesting, people focusing on money. And I'm like, why do people focus on money just focusing on helping people? It's something that you actually enjoy doing and you're going to be really good at it. It's not focusing on creating content to make money. Like, why don't you create content because you enjoy creating content? Why don't you give away your best knowledge for free? Like, who cares? You're not the only person. Like, the wheel has been invented. I'm sorry. Could it be that you're so smart, you're good at anything you do? So if you follow your heart and passion, the product of your work will be so valuable and you're so charming and easy to get along with that anyone would want to work with you. And so that's – whereas these people, they ain't got shit. They ain't got shit. They don't know how they're smart. They're not good looking. They're not charming. They don't know anything. And then they see all these people making money doing nothing and they're like, I want to do nothing and make money. I'm going to be an influencer. But they have nothing – they don't have enough value to influence. Nobody's going to aspire to be them. So no one gives a fuck what they have to say. So, like, in AA, it's called, like – it's a slogan that I forgot. But basically it's like, you don't get advice from someone who you don't want to be. That's true. And so you surround yourself with people who you admire. Now, if you're someone who's insecure, you're going to feel jealousy for those people. You're going to want to distance yourself from them. You're going to be around people that are worse than you to make you feel good. Whereas somebody who wants to be better and isn't insecure, they're going to see people that are above them and they're like, I want to hang out with those people and learn what they know so I can be closer to them. Without beating them. I like being around really good people that just like what they're doing and like lifting each other up. I like cheering for other people. I like seeing good people win. It doesn't matter, like, what it is. And thank you for hitting on me. I need that ego boost today. My wife just flew out earlier today. I'm practicing. I haven't left my house in six months. I'm going to talk to a girl and not stutter and look at the ground. I better flirt with you first. I would still look at the ground. So I suck at a lot of things. I'm really good at feel. I'm really good. I feel at certain things like extremely good. And I stay in my lane because I know my lane. I know where I suck to. We were talking about that earlier. is that I just basically just sacrifice entire swaths of life. Because if I'm not good at social skills, I will have no relationships. There's like no family, no friends. I have five people that work for me. They're all geniuses and we get along great. I will interact with the people who work with me. And that's it. And then I have my patients, clients, and that's I have to put on the talking to people face. And then sometimes it goes good and sometimes I cannot click with people and it does not go good. I find that. Do you handle stuttering well? Stuttering? What do you mean? Like that. When someone is so nervous they can't talk and they keep trying to change what they're going to talk about. And then they get angry at themselves and then they get more frazzled. So it's an extremely uncomfortable conversation to be with this person because you have to feel all their bullshit. It's like for fuck's sake, dude, what do you want? Like just tell me what you want and I'll give it to you. Like at the end of the day, it's like this. We all have our own challenges. I'm not going to put my challenges on you. So don't put your challenges on me kind of thing because we all have different walks of life. So why don't we focus on being optimistic and just like get shit done? Like it doesn't life, right? Like so like if someone's having problems or insecurities and it's coming out like they're talking negatively about people, it's because they haven't worked through their own traumas. And I don't want to be around people like that. I refuse to. I refuse to let those people around my people, your people, your five people that you hang out with. The relationships are the glue that hold their life together. Like it is a fundamental need for animals to have relationships, period. And so it's a need, not a want. I so reject that idea. I know I'm saying you're right, but I don't like that. I believe that I need water, oxygen and shelter and food. And then everything else is a want. There's four needs. This is getting too philosophical. Why don't we pick this up? Okay. Next time. Let's do it. How do we get a hold of you? How do they get a hold of you? People know me by Dynamite D on Instagram. I have, I go by David D. Mesquita on every other platform. It's a really long last name. It's easier to find me on Instagram and then find my other channels. I have my YouTube channel has been pretty dope lately. I've been popping off. I have 105 notifications. I have to get back to you at some point in time within the last 24 hours. So it's crazy, man. It only took me 600 videos and over $300,000 in spend on the YouTube channel. But I never created it to make money, though. As long as I'm not the only one spending money on YouTube, I feel better. Yeah, I spend a lot of money. But it was really to give back to people. I didn't care about spending it. People think I make a bunch of money. The money that I make, I try to give back as much as I can. Just in knowledge. The people that actually want to be helped can be helped that way. But you have multiple kids who do have to make money. Yeah, I make money. Hey, bro. Zach. What? How are you at? 4.01? 4.01. Okay. I'm running the elevator right now. All right, cool. All right, brother.