 Good, good, now lean back like a motherfucker, hold there, good, good, good, good, good, give me your heels a little further apart, good, and then squeeze together, bring the elbows out a little wider, good. Excellent. Hold. Hold. Hold. talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent Just give me a bit more of a side crunch into this. A little more twist. Imagine, turn the other way. Imagine like this elbow is trying to push in front. Good. Blow out, blow out, blow out. For you, your biggest thing, honestly, is just take this hand. Pull it back a little further. Right there. Looking good. Turn back to your front and relax. Run it again. Good. This is looking great. Looking great. Just lean forward. Lean forward. Your big thing you have to remember is you want to be like this the whole time. All right? Big arch chest tall. You coming in? Get in. Get yourself stripped down. Get on the line. All right? Bend those elbows for me a little bit more. Good. Take your shoulders and just push them forward. You should feel good. Now pop the chest up from there. Much better. Press out on those legs. Push your elbows forward a little more. Right there. Good. Quarter turn. All with this. Todd, you look great. Turn to the right. Start your quarter turn facing this way. Make sure your feet are touching all the way together. Make sure your toes are touching together as well. Yes. Slide your right foot back slightly and then hyperextend the knees. Good. Now, you feel how this arm's way out here? Bring it all the way to here. Now, roll the shoulder forward instead. Like that. Good. Hold that. Hyperextend those knees. Good. Lean your chest forward a tiny bit more. Hyperextend the knees. A little harder. Hold that. Get used to that. Just hold that position. Get used to breathing in it. This looks great. Much, much better. Give me a little bend in that. Oh, good. Looking good. A little more in that midsection of your money. Clean. Face the rear. Let's look at your rear. Relax. Todd, looking great. Very happy with that. Keep doing that. Get your feet a tiny bit further apart. A little more. Keep going. Right there. Squeeze your glutes. You got more. You can get those glutes tighter. Keep going. Right there. Beautiful. Hold that. Get used to it. This is looking way better than last time. Keep that. Give me a little more on those glutes. Let your hips come forward some. All right. You're going a little too much with the bikini butt. Let yourself go from here to here. Right there. Good. And one last quarter turn. Twist. Keep twisting. Look at the toes. You see how you're like this together? Lock out. Good. Give me a little bit on that oblique. Much, much better. Give me a tiny bit more on the midsection. Good. Try to hold 15 before you have to take a deep set on the midsection. Good. A little more here. A little more there. Good. Bring your arms out a little further apart for me. Good. Same thing. Bring your arms out a little more. Bring this hand like there. Yep. All right. Face the front. Let's take a look at your front double bicep. Your biggest thing, pressing out. Quads look great, Todd. Keep that up. Twist out a little more on those knees. Let your hips come a little further forward. You're like way back here. Come up like that. Yes. You see how it closes up the gap on your thighs? That's a big thing for you. What up, Rich? Hold here. Good. You see that left leg? You see how it's kind of soft compared to the other one? Twist out. Good. That's much, much better. Pull your belly button tight. Good. Bend your knees. That's going to be your big thing. Now, imagine if there's a rubber band around them. Drive out. Keep pressing out. You can get more. Let your hips come back a little harder on this one. Good. Flex so hard, guys. You come to flex so hard. Yeah. One thing you're going to have to realize is you only need to be flexing about 85% because otherwise you're just going to gas out. Fire up. Start swimming. Belly button a little tighter. Lean a little further forward. Good. Rich will also be assisting me, by the way. So if you have any questions, you can always ask him as well. Go ahead and let me see your side chest. Is anyone here doing bodybuilding or is it all classic? I'm excited to do that. Okay. We'll run something for you in a second. Raise your heel up a little higher. Yep. Give me a little glute. Good. Hands a little lower. Pull them over. Right there. Good. Hold that. Get used to it. This is Doug's favorite pose right here. Hold here. Give me a little squeeze on that midsection. And then you feel how your shoulder's driving down a little bit? Squeeze back a little more instead. Good. Turn your hips a little harder. All right. All right. With this one, I want you to press in. I want you to slide your foot forward just a little more. Raise up the heel a little higher. Good. I want your knee basically to come out. Good. Now, put a little bend in that back knee. Right there. Right there. And then take your hands. Turn the palm up. Good job. Touch it there. Right there. Now you're looking a lot better. Squeeze your glute for me. Doug, pull over a little more. A little more. Try to do this. So as you pull this hand over, touch my finger with your elbow. Yes. You see how your shoulder pops a ton better there? That's a big one for you. All right. Excellent. Back double bicep. Let's see what you got. Put a little bend in your knees, Todd. Right there. That's perfect. That's all you need. All right. For you. Your legs are all the way together. Come out. Slide one foot back. Raise up the heel. Now, knees out. Squeezing together on the feet. Like that. Good. Now lean back until you're feeling my fingers touch on your travels. Keep going. You got more. There. Hold that. Squeeze your glutes. Squeeze your glutes. Todd, you look good. The elbows look a tiny bit lower on your money. Hold that. Just a little. Just the smallest amount. If you go too much, it'll kill your width. Give me a little more glutes. You can get more. Beautiful. Hold there. Spicy. Can you give me the smallest amount of lifts up on the chest? So think like just a little more. All right. Keep holding. Focus on those glutes a little more. Let your hips come forward a tiny bit. Lean back harder now. There. Get that. Hold this. Hold this. Relax. Hit your abdominal and thigh. You're good. You're good. Give me a little more on that right quad when you hit that one. Yep. Do that one more time. Do that one more time. Hold. You keep going. Let me see that. Just this one one more time. Take your right knee and just think about bringing it out a little more. Yes. See that difference right there on the quad? It's a lot better. For you, I want you specifically to practice holding here for an extended period of time. I don't expect you'll have to do that for super long. 50% vacuum? Yeah. Just hold it. Just get used to that because that's going to be the one I think is going to be our biggest for you. All right. Bring your left foot forward until the heel is on the line. Like that. Yeah. Good. Bend that left knee as well. Don't forget that. Good. Also, take your arms. Instead of bringing your elbows by your ears, bring them up and around. Like that. See? Notice. You see how your lats now have a lot more to them? That's good. Doug, let me see what you got. Honestly, this is pretty fucking good, dude. Pretty fucking happy with that. Give me a tiny bit more here and your money. Good job, man. Good. And relax. Favorite classic pose? For you? Get a last breath. All right. Never pose at my last chance. You'll be learning some stuff by the end of this. Give me a tiny bit more right there. I want you to remember for this one here and this one here, just think of that right knee coming out a little more. It just gives us all that inner leg. Okay? Take your hands. Drop them a bit. And then, in your case, I'm going to have you go from all the way up here, bring the hands back a little, and then imagine like you're pressing in. Yes. You see how that immediately wakes up everything? For you, shift the hips over a little harder. All right? Not by much. Yeah, like right there. See what you got. For you? I want to try that one there. Like here? This way. Like this? Yeah, that one's out. All right. Try that. Just a slight pin. For you? Give me. I'll get you in one second. So right now, you see how your wrists are like this? Yeah. Bring them out. Come back. Press. Now, push forward. Both shoulders and elbows keep coming forward. Keep going. Let yourself cave in a little on the shoulders. Let me see what you got. Lean forward a little harder. Pop the chest a little taller. Take your hands. Let them come forward a little more. Right there. That gives you a little more lats. In your case, though, I want you to try. Instead of going here, try here. Okay? Yep. Look at that difference. That's your classic pose. All right. Let me see what you got. Sorry. Hand over the head. Take your hips. Shift over. Other direction. Sorry. Yep. And then give me a vacuum if you can. When you get the vacuum, think about relaxing your abs. Like, it's more like you're trying to just pull in rather than much better. Press out the knees. Press out the knees. Todd, let me see you one more time. Let's make sure we got you. Looks good. Looks good. Looks good. All right. Relax. Catch your breaths for about 30 seconds here. Feeling sweaty? Good. Good. Good. Means you're getting some work in. That's a good thing. All right. We're going to start again in that front relax. We're going to basically just run this almost conditioning style for a second. All right. The goal is you want to basically take what you've learned each time, be able to apply it even as you're getting more and more fatigued. All right. That's what's going to happen, especially when you're on stage, because it's not just one round. Half the time, they'll run you three, maybe four rounds, because they're trying to see not only who is the best competitor in terms of the physique, but sometimes it comes down to, hey, who can last longer than everyone else, especially if it's a close battle. All right. Front relax. Let's see it again. There we go. Just lean forward. Just lean forward. Just lean forward. Good. Hold that. Hips a little further forward. Good. A little less. Right there. Right there. Hold that. Get used to it. Get used to it. Straight feet? Yeah. Straighten your legs out. Nope. Not like a classic stance, like full blown. Yeah. Remember, shoulder width, okay? Beautiful on the legs. You can be a little more on the sharpness there. I'll let you handle this, too. Todd, all I want you to focus on is when you're holding this. Just think about going from here to, like, here, and just getting used to it, okay? Beyond that, you're pretty much holding what I want on you. Quarter turn. To the right. To the right. To the right. Stagger your feet. Yeah. Get a little stagger stance on it. The left foot is forward behind the back foot. Todd, you look great. Keep that up. Doug, make sure your feet are touching together a little more. Good. And then, instead of the toe being out, turn it in. On that. Yes. Good. Hold here. Get used to holding this. Get used to holding that core control, even when you're tired. Hyper-extend those knees. Hold here. We're almost done with this shot. It's supposed to be awkward. It's not a fun pose. I'm going to tell you that right now. Relax. Quarter turn. Do that. Back relax. Back relax. It looks like a men's physique. Yes. Basically men's physique for you. Doug's physique, by the way, so we'll run a couple things for him in the end. Pull the floor together. Light up those hamstrings. Feet a tiny bit further apart. You'll feel it a little better. On all three points of your legs. Todd, lean back a tiny bit harder. Right there. That's good. Good. Good. Don't bring your butt back to you. Keep it underneath you. Touch your elbows to my fingers. Good. Hold this. Quarter turn. Hyper-extend. Don't forget that part. It's your big thing. Good. There you go. Good job. Stand hold. Think about here. There. Yes. Remember, we're not trying to look short on stage. You're trying to look big. This looks solid. Todd, I'm very happy with that. Yes, sir. Feel how you're kind of like this here? Don't hide your blue. Crunch in. And then, crunch in. Probably your biggest thing on those side poses is making sure you're not too close to open out. Beautiful. Make sure you're wide, okay? Hold it. Relax. Face the front. And let's see your front double bicep. Front double bicep. This is good. Very good. Todd, looks great. Very happy with that. It's almost like you've been posing with me for like 10 weeks. Who knows? This is cleaning up. This is looking much better now. Much, much better. Lean forward. Good. Do you feel how your shoulders are shrugged? Relaxing down a little more. All right. Think of it kind of like you're trying to almost cave in a tiny bit. Yes. Now lean forward. Lean forward. You look good. You look good. Hold that. Just like that. All right. You'll do the same thing in your lap spread too. Okay. You got to say that. Y'all are good. Y'all are good. Yeah. Just saying. For you, keep them just like that for now. All right. Hold here. 10 more seconds. 10 more seconds. Make it count. No more quads. Press out. Bend that knee. Side chest. Close the bicep. Your foot. Slide it forward. Just a little more. Good. Raise up the heel. Good. Let your hips come under you just a little more so you can feel the abs tighten up a little harder. Good. That's Todd's a pro. Todd knows what he's been doing. All right. I've been running Todd for a minute. This is a walk in the park for him. Good job, guys. Back double. Remember, we want to show pace the abs. Pull those legs out. Shoulder width. Let's go. Drive the knee outward. Outward. Elbow to my fingers. Right there. That's it. That's it. Outward. Much better. Much, much better. Good. All right. Give me some glutes. There we go. Much, much better. Get used to holding that. That's going to be your big thing. All right. I want your head. Get your legs just a little further apart for me. You're going to feel how you can squeeze in better that way. All right. 80%. Hold this. Get used to it. Don't forget to breathe in those rear poses so that you don't kill yourself. Hold this. Relax. Two seconds to breathe. Turn to the front and hit your ab and thigh. What's your name again? Marcus. Marcus. Okay. For you, Marcus, we just need to get the quads waking up. All right. Right now, you're holding, but I need you to imagine specifically with that left leg, like you're trying to do, like you're sliding the foot in the direction of the toes, and you'll feel this whole area start to wake up. Okay. Think like, so you're locking out the leg right now. Yeah. A little bend, and then push. So you have your abs to pull the head forward and push it. Good. Give me one more time. Mm-hmm. Push the hinge. Nice. And pick a favorite classic pose. That's a front double. That's fine. There's something else. I would say, have you tried, have you tried hitting this one yet? Yeah. Try it real quickly. Okay. It's similar to the front double, so you don't have to change a ton, but it gives you, think like ab and thigh, and then front double, and then with your hips, just go like this. Shift over. Just a little. Yep. Just a little. Todd, you're good to go there. Right now, do you feel how you're shifting the weight back like this? I'm going to do this. both toes even on this line of tape. Now, what you're going to do, I'm going to show you on here so you can see what I mean. So both toes even on the line of tape. Now your right foot is going to point out just a little bit. Left foot, you're going to shift the weight over and raise up the heel on the left foot. Now, drive out the knees. Now, hold from here. Hold the position. Much better. Much, much better. You're good to go. Let me see you one more time. Try the same thing. Stand on. This foot, bring it forward. And bring it in more. So I want it like that. Okay. A little bit more. You got big thighs so you can get away with it. Stay right there now. Now, bend down a little bit. Just a hair. Not too much. Now, go ahead and bring this hand over the head. Yep. All the way around. Close. Now, come up with the front double with that one. Let me see you one more time. Can I see you really quickly also hit here? Here. Just for routine purposes. More than anything. Legs a little taller for me, Todd. Right there. And then turn your hips back toward me a tiny bit more. Turn the other way. Other way. Yes. There. Good. Relax. All right. Relax. Breathe for a second. You, my friend, are the sweatiest of them all. So we're going to try a little something. All right. Did I bring a knife? I'm retarded. I did not bring a knife. Rich, you got a knife in there? You got a knife? I have a knife. Of course you got a knife. You strike me as the type of man to have a knife. I've got a towel. I'm going to grab myself a little. Nah. We're going to use a little trick. All right. I don't know if any of you guys watched the Italy show that Erz Kalisinski just won. He was using a little bit of a kinesiology tape and he just wraps it around his fingers here. And then even no matter how sweaty or oily you are, you can hold it. Hold it nice and easy. So since you're the one who's a little, a little slippery, we're going to give it to you. Make your life a little easier. And this is something you can do on stage. All right. So highly recommend it. Literally, it costs you maybe 10, 12 bucks for a roll of this tape if you get it at Academy. I actually also sell some for about six bucks if you want to just grab it there. I would have brought my own tape, but it was taking like five days to ship. And I was like, fuck that noise. Let's take this, wrap it around your index finger, bring it high up. I'm talking like right up to the knuckle there. Like here? Yeah. Say what Amanda says. Say it's 30%. If you say 30%. I never understood what you meant. 30% effort. Oh, okay. Whereas I always do 100% and burn myself out. And last week, it changed me to 50%. And that's why I was able to not break a sweat this whole time. Did you just cut yourself? Did you just cut yourself? I just like the knife. It's a good knife. Oh. And then, yeah, put it around your ring finger. All right? All right. What we're going to do next. Obviously, most of you guys are classic. All right? But I want you to have more than just those classic mandatories down. Because, sure, you can hit those. But let's say you wanted to hit more than one pose out there. Or let's say you wanted to hit something that's not just front double or a side chest. So we're going to work a couple of non-mandatory classic poses. All right? We're going to start with a front lat spread here. All right? Which, the nice thing about this is if you can hit a front relax or front double, you can hit a front lat spread. All right? We're going to start with that one. Then from there, we're going to go to a side tricep. All right? Which is one that if you're in bodybuilding, you're going to get used to hitting as well. Then we're going to hit a rear lat spread as well. And then we're going to finish off with one other alternate classic pose. Go ahead and hit your front lat spread for me. Fist or thumb. Fist or thumb. Either one works. Chest tall. Think of it just like that front relaxed. Now the hands are on the waist. When you do this, turn the palms from here to here. And then bring them back. Now drive forward. Good. Lean forward. Lean forward. Can I see you with your hands a smidge lower? Kind of curious. Good there. Let's see what you got. The way you're going to want to do this one is. Actually, no. You're looking solid there. I'm happy with that. Just chest forward a little more. Good. That's solid. Get used to that right there. Very good. Pull the lat's out. Good. Now it moves out towards the hip. Good. For you, you feel how your hips are the furthest thing in front? Go here. Now pop the chest tall. Good. Can I squeeze my butt just a little bit? Maybe a little bit. Try bringing your hands a little more to the side. Now go in. Good. Hold this. Ten more seconds. Ten more seconds. Side tricep. The best way to think about this one is it's a side chest. And then your hands are reaching back behind you to set up. Lift the shoulder up as you do that. Yeah. Yeah. Relax. Relax. Face to the rear. Hit your rear lat spread. Your stance is going to be like your back double bicep, okay? Remember one foot back. And I want the foot that's back to totally be lined up with your joint. Think. Take your hands. Take your hands. And I think in your case because of your mobility of the shoulders. Instead of going like this, take your thumbs. You're going to go back to here. And then hook through. All right? Imagine like you notice how I'm hooking onto my oblique. Bring them back even further like back to here. Now try. Much, much better. Give me some glutes. Give me some glutes. You'll probably try that in your front lat spread too. Pop your chest a smidge taller. Good. Lean back a little harder now. Good. Doug, I'm pretty happy with that. Just give me some, the knees turning out. Hold this about 10 more seconds here. Externally rotate your knees. Give me some glutes. Hold. Hold. Almost there. And relax. All right. Now, we're going to choose an alternate classic pose. Okay? I notice a lot of you guys are hitting either a teacup or the hand over the head. That's good, but it's always nice to have an extra one just in case. All right? So pick a classic pose of your choosing. All right? I don't care how shitty it looks on you. We'll get you fixed up. All right? Pick one. Let's see what happens. Take your, take this foot here. Or take this foot here. Bring it over here. Just a tiny bit more. Like that. Does that fuck with your balance at all or is it good? Yep. Okay, good. I kind of need it out there. Okay. Then just step it back a little more. Yes. Like that. Good. Hold there. That's looking solid. Todd? Didn't I already see you hitting this pose? Come on now. We're here to learn, brother. Now get comfortable. There we go. Good. Take your hips. And you're going to go like this. Look. Watch here. Thrust all the way in there. Now take this arm and touch it to my finger. Bring it up. Right there. Hold that. Now that's looking right proper. Much, much better there. Josiah, is it me or with this one? Uh-huh. Is this foot positioning supposed to be opposite? I'd switch them. Yeah. There you go. Now raise up that heel high. The back one? Yes, the back heel. Push your hips forward. Run it one more time. Just adding that in. Let's see how that goes. When you hit that side tricep and that side chest, make sure that foot isn't out here, okay? Yeah, bring it in. You want it right here. Okay. Staggered all the... I feel like I'm more dominating the side chest. I can put this side. Do it. Do it. Yeah, that's fine. The key... I say it doesn't matter which side you do it, so long as when you're doing it, you're just showing off that hamstring, and that's why when you bring the foot in, when you bring it in, what happens is it pushes this hamstring out so it drops a bit lower, all right? And that's why you don't want to leave it back here. Just slide in a little bit and hit the pose. One. Go. 20 seconds. Speed it up a little. 10 seconds. I like that transition. Four. Three. One. One. Two. One. Good. Good. That transition that you did from the back to the side where you went here, came through, that was really nice, actually. I liked how that went. The only thing I would have done was maybe after the side tricep, held it just a little shorter so that you could have came back to the front and maybe hit like a most muscular or just one extra pose. So, from here, transition. That was fine. That part was good. Now. Then from there. What you could do, make it easy. You're here, right? Bring this foot out and hold it. Boom. And just make sure you roll that elbow forward. Other elbow. Like that. Just to get, put a little bend in this. So, you see how your arm's locked out? Watch here. Yeah. Bend. Like that. And then, it would be a, that'd be a great spot to finish out too. What do you, what do we normally hit for you? 45, is it? We can do 45. I don't really care. 45? Yeah. Let's do it. When are you ready? Three, two, one, go. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. and all the talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent oh yeah hell yes three two one time that was great that was fucking great dude all right ladies and gentlemen that's how a pro poses all right who's next is that everyone one thing i like to say in general with footwork actually is you basically want to be able to put your foot in a position where it takes one movement to get you to your next spot all right so if i'm going from the back to the front or from the front to the back rather than going like and doing this whole number or going like this which is what a lot of people do take one step put your foot where you want it to be when you're in the next pose and then when you pivot you're there all right and that works the same way let's say you're in this position and you want to go all the way to the other side put your foot where it needs to be for the next pose step over and now you're over and you can hit this position all right let's say you want to go from this position to your side chest step the foot over pivot and now drag in you're right in position all right that's basically all you have to do is you find where does my foot need to be for the next pose put your foot there and then the rest of it can just be a simple pivot to get into position nice back double bicep clean clean looking good dude i'm very happy i'm saying here thanks man how does it look in person compared to in video better it does look better in person better in like i knew i knew you looked solid but when i saw you in person i was like okay i feel a lot better about this all right especially based off what i saw here you didn't shake you're not even breaking a sweat right that means when you're on stage you're going to be easy shit okay so i'm not concerned i don't know why my midsection control was so bad at florida do you think at all it was nerves you weren't nervous at all honestly it could i mean it could have been something as simple how did you sleep the night before you sleep well fine did you have any weird foods any digestive stuff i know it's man that's show day shit bro that's show day shit i think this go around though it'll be a lot easier just on account of the fact that you're first you know the first go around is always like the i always kind of say it's like when the engine's not tuned they have to figure it out now you got it tuned well i like that you called it a warm-up show because it was an add-on yeah originally this is the first show that was just we were going to be ready early or we thought we were going to be ready early when really it's i look better i think my body started falling apart and so i looked worse and then yesterday i looked good this morning i look good i think that i'll look a lot better at 182 than 173. give me a little more yep just make sure on this one when you come in just get that knee out extra hard all right when you do that we're looking way better and then come down into it that's much better like that see i would prefer to come like this just so again so it makes your waist look so much smaller just so long as you can get the knee out at the same time because yes the waist may look smaller but we got to make sure we're not hiding your quads okay does that look better yeah i'm with that all right so clean clean and then let me see the classic pose left quad you got more on it really think about that twist there it is shift the hips over a little to the left oh sure what's up get into that one more time all right look at this you see how your your elbow starts drifting so much forward yeah then you start to move all of that okay she want me to see that more all right good way to think about to help you on that especially if you're holding it for a long time is rather than thinking about your elbow coming forward like this think about your shoulder pushing the whole time you don't want that no you do so when you're here i'm holding this and i start to get to the point where i'm holding safe 10 15 20 seconds instead of me thinking this motion rotation it's actually protraction of the scapula exactly all right that bring the elbow back a little more there like that yeah it just helps a lot with making sure this whole area is full yeah at the end of the day that the the main concept of that is you want your elbow and your shoulder to be more or less even with each other rather than the elbow being too far in front okay and that's how you keep that down all right can i really quickly go back to your back double all right one thing i want to look at there and then do we have a way to play music for routine um i have my phone yeah that'll work that'll work i don't know if we'll hear it over her i won't i say we can actually connect to the speaker oh okay cool okay i'm happy with that all right relax let's grab the uh music speaker yeah let's go i welcome your input on this one i Never having talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent talent so good this should be that actually looks so much better in person really yes because Because there were a few times, and I think it was mostly because it's harder to hear on the cell phone than when we're in here, where I was like, what are we doing? But now I'm here and I'm like, oh, when you're ready, here we go. All right, cool. All right. All right. All right. All right. All right. Yeah, dude, we're good here.