 So, anivar is great as a pre-workout to improve your strength and protect your muscle while you're training and in theory even give you an an anabolic boost. Story! You're watching Dr. Todd Lee TV, where theoretically you could learn a bunch of cool shit. People tell me that's not true. People tell me that's not true. You'll see there's people whining in the comments section that's not absorbed. They're not very smart. They're thinking what I'm saying is you take a pill and crush it up and pack the area under your tongue and that that's just supposed to magically get transmitted. They're not smart enough to understand that there are things called chemists and biochemists and they will package the powder not as a pill but in a liquid suspension and that the suspension has other chemicals in it like DMSO that will make it transmit through skin contact. Now, if you do it under the tongue, see that dark purple bluish area? The veins are so close to the surface of the skin, you can see them. That means that's the perfect place for transmission. Alcohol does this. So what we used to do is put dbol in rum or anivar in vodka and mix it up and then you could put it under your tongue. And I'd be like, Todd, but you're 25 years sober. It's like, yeah, I don't really count a milliliter of rum, which would be if rum was, I mean, even if it's Bacardi 150 or 51 or 50 ever clear, which is 50% alcohol. I guess ever clear is 100% alcohol, but it was like 50% rum, 50% alcohol, whatever, 100 proof. 14 milliliters of 14 grams of alcohol is considered one drink. So it'd be 28 milliliters would be a drink. So basically you'd be having one shot over the course of a month. So it's one 28th of a drink. So it's, I don't consider that to be a relapse because if you put rum under your tongue, because it's got dbol in it, or if you put vodka that has anivar in it and people look, but that's so stupid. Cause it doesn't get in your bloodstream. It's like, have you ever heard of this thing called a toothbrush? If you brush your teeth and brush your gums until they bleed, and then you were to swish around this solution of alcohol and oral steroids, you have no reason to believe it's not going to get into your system. And even if they're right, you're still swallowing the shit anyway. Greetings earth wings, like subscribe and share this video, share with a friend, share with enemies, share with people that think they know everything. I am a medical doctor and I could be your doctor. Put the link in the description box. I can order you blood work. I could read the blood work. I can treat any illnesses. I basically, it's like an HRT clinic. That's a one man army. Also, I do coaching. Dr. Karina Dodson. I have a coaching business called apex coaching. So if you sign up with me, you get coaching, which is nutrition, programming, and I'm going to be a doctor. You can do it for lifestyle coaching, as well as all the medical stuff. So you have two doctors in one business. It's going to be a test prep, a nutritionist, a programming person, and the doctor all in one. You can't beat it. It's integrated. It works the best that way. You'll love it. Make sure to do it. Click the link in the description box. So telling me that sublingual is stupid because you just end up orally absorbing it. So the fuck what? What's the loss? What's the loss? Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point Point you have nothing to lose by doing it my way. Because if I'm wrong, it still works the normal way. It's not like by using it sublingually, it doesn't work at all. I'm not telling you to spit the shit out. You can still swallow what's left, but it just makes sense to brush your teeth and your gums and then swish it around if it's in an alcohol solution or a DMSL solution, and it'll absorb faster than if you just swallow it. And some of it might even skip your liver. But don't listen to me. What the fuck do I know? I'm just a biochemist, medical doctor, and a pro bodybuilder. So obviously, the dude covered in pimples knows more about how to use steroids safely and effectively. Anyway, I hope you had a good time. Thanks for watching. May the force be with you. I'd like to thank our sponsor, Fusion Regenerative Therapies, where I am the Director of Human Performance. This is the practice in which I practice medicine. We will be able to order you blood work and read your blood work and help you with therapy as needed based upon the results of your blood work. Please click the link to get a consult with me, and I can help you optimize your performance. Thank you. Thank you.