 the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the research the labs and that's who I want to do all your blood work with M&M labs. So with, we talked about this last episode about going to the website, clicking Dr. Lee's labs. And so I got Dr. Lee's labs for I am Dr. Lee. And we will look at my labs and PJ is going to review my labs. I reviewed my own labs first, but it's pretty boring if I review my own labs on my own show, because I could be lying to you. So DJ is going to review my labs. And we were talking about how DJ had taken the Myers-Briggs personality assessment and this INTJ, which is my absolute favorite. And she was impressed that I guessed her correctly. I pegged her correctly as an INTJ. So first we start with some bullshit that doesn't really matter, like white blood cells. I'll let you read it. You tell me what you say. So before we do this, these are not his full labs. He got himself his own standard panel, but it is available with like the ultra sensitive testosterone, free test, ultra sensitive estradiol. You can do add-ons LH FSH. He got himself the standard. So this is actually his preliminary results because I believe we're still waiting on probably free test and DHT, I think is what we're still waiting on. I were waiting on just DHT and reverse T3, honestly. Okay. Which take the longest. So we don't have to ask Todd whether he hydrated or not for his labs. I didn't. I didn't. What? I didn't. I woke up at my, after three hours, I had a huge meal, went to bed, woke up three hours later and said, fuck it. I'll go, let's go get my labs done now. So these are not fasted and they're not hydrating. Oh, I can't talk shit. Then that was the whole thing. As I saw that, I was like, Ooh, I can't wait to rub this in his face. Nevermind. So I know where you're going to go there. I know what you're going to do. This guy right here. Right? Yeah. So we're, we're always looking at RBC hemoglobin hematocrit. These are like kind of the, the three pillars that we analyze, especially in our testosterone users. That's what everybody gets hyper fixated on. Um, obviously hematocrit is higher than where we want to see it. Uh, but that explains it right there. And then to be, to be clear, you did come off cycle. When, cause you were running Anovar prior to this, right? Right. I had, I was running test masteron a bitty, bitty baby dose and PP, which I didn't like. And Anovar, I stopped them April 1st. And this blood work was done. Collecting 22. So it was exactly three weeks. So we're pretty much where we'd be. I was running 80 tests a day. And 60 masteron a day. When I had this drawn with eight units of GH. And somebody is brand new to your channel. Explain the relevance of daily injections and why that's important for managing H and H. Um, we want to have stable blood levels because if you have unstable blood levels, every time there's a spike, more DHT, more aromatase will convert the testosterone to DHT. I mean, more five alpha reductase will convert to DHT. More aromatase will convert to estradiol. You'll get more side effects and less anabolism. If you do the sporadic injections that if you want the most. I always tell people, even if it's not a matter of trying to manage health markers at the end of the day, we're taking suppressive compounds and our bodies already kind of suck. And we fluctuate enough as is. If you have the ability to be in full control and give yourself hormonal stability, why would you not do that? Why would you intentionally make it suck when you're injecting things into your body? So only injections, everyone. I always explain it to you this way. It's like, do you like when your wife's on her period? Do you like it when she's PMSing? They'll be like, no. I'm like, then why do you do it to yourself? Yes. Why wouldn't you want to be stable? Why would you want to be unstable? So Todd CBC looks good. Shame on you for not hydrating. And just so you are aware, if you purchase labs and you go on Todd's panel, it gives specific hydration protocols directly on the website. So you do not do what he did. Yes. And so right here, well, I thought, how can I fuck? How can I be like a total fuck up? Like a patient, I'm going to do what they do and I'm not going to go in hydrated and I'm going to eat a huge meal right beforehand and see what happens and fuck up my blood work just so that I can just complain about it later. So if you see here that this is normal, the hemoglobin is normal, but the hematocrit is high. That's proof it's dehydration. And sometimes we'll see like, we can see like iron restricted erythropoiesis where we have elevations and like RBC and hematocrit and a well hydrated person, but hemoglobin is not going to be high. Sometimes we'll see like early onset markers before you've actually become anemic, but we can see skewed like MCV, MCHC things that might indicate like a B12 folate or early onset, like iron deficiency, but not in an anemic state. But obviously Todd gets his micro down to a T. There's no issues there. So if you got low iron, you got microcytic anemia. So I believe one of these, yeah, one of these is going to be low. And then megaloblastic anemia. When you have B12 deficiency, one of these values is going to be high. Mean corpuscular volume, mean corpuscular. I forget what this one is. I forget what that one is, but I never see this abnormal. And even if I did see it, I'm abnormal on intake. Once they sign up for coaching, Karina's writing their diet. She makes no mistakes. So everyone, if they just stick to their diet for a month, everything normalizes. They don't have problems. So your CBC looks good. Shame on you for not hydrating. Yeah. And then we come back to the blood chemistry report. Yes. And I was going to bitch about your blood glucose, but you know, now I'm not. And we do talk a lot about analyzing the UN and creatinine. I think we talked about that on the other one. These are basically going to be irrelevant markers outside of general population. If you are an athlete, if you have decent muscle mass, high protein diet, even taking creatine supplementation, these markers are easily influenced. And then people will get on you. They'll say, oh, well, they don't matter, but it's, it's the eGFR. Well, the eGFR is calculated via creatinine. So again, if we have false elevations here, these are not the true renal values that we're looking at in an athlete like Todd. And he was a jackass and didn't hydrate for these as well. So these are not applicable here, but there are, we'll, we'll get to the cystatin C. And when we do have real renal dysfunction, which does, which does absolutely occur, especially if we have people that are abusing compounds haphazardly, we're typically going to see other issues with like our fluid balance or electrolyte markers as well. I always kind of like to look at those in conjunction. If we do have elevations and be you in and creating my issue. And I know Todd runs into this as well. If you don't submit photos for consultations, like if you're talking to him and you, he doesn't know what you look like. Everybody claims that they train hard. They say, well, it's been training. I train like a beast. They're like, well, I have so much muscle. I'm like, well, with what you're running, you should have muscle, but you don't. So photos do help us in this analysis for future purposes, because everybody says they train hard. So when I look at this, what I see here with this creatinine being over one in me, it means I'm taking my sets to failure. If I was training one RIR or two RIR, then this would be lower. That's what that says to me. Whereas a bad doctor will tell you it means kidney failure, but we'll prove them wrong. You know these numbers on yourself. Typically, I couldn't tell you what any of my values were one time in the last five years. Oh yeah. I know myself pretty well. I know exactly what to do to fix things too. Um, like if I see something like this, I know to, you know, like I've been, I've been doing my own match reps. So for instance, on set one, if I get 18 reps set two, if I get 14, I'll rest, pause and get four more. And then set three. If I get 10 reps, I'll rest, pause and get five more than rest, pause again and get three more. So that I, the sum total is 18 for every set. So I'm getting, I'm hitting failure six times with three sets. And that's why I'm training like a wiener right now. Dang. Wiener. All right. I love that. We're just putting all of your like vital information up. They can edit that. Right. All it is. This is my birthday and my age. This is my phone number address. I'm not, I was going to poison my dog from this. Birthday. Birthday's important. So, okay. So we actually talked about alkaline phosphatase levels earlier off camera. Essentially we're, we're looking at, you know, we're looking at Billy Rubin, AST, ALT. We talked about that before. Shame on you, Todd. These look elevated, but even though we utilize ALT as a stronger indicator of like liver health versus AST, we know for a fact Todd experiences, these elevations that are training related and he didn't prep for the test properly. And we are only three weeks out from completion of an oral cycle that he was on. So when we have these elevations and we say, Ooh, Oh no, ALT is a little bit higher. What are we going to do? Are these chronic elevations? Like we see while someone's, you know, taking something extremely hepatotoxic or something like SARMs. No, but they are elevated. So we always pull a GGT, which is going to be included on any of the metabolic reports on Todd's panels. And that's going to be lower in here. So this right here, this is actually not high for me when like 15, 16 years ago, before I ever used gear, but did bodybuilding, these would be in the seventies. My mom's is like that. So I have genetically high AST and ALT, but for me, this is like in the seventies, my baseline wall prep, like right now, this should be like 200 and this should be like 300. Do we think that they are lower three weeks post cycle because of the glutathione? I think it's the glutathione that did it. And I was going to go get glutathione done this week and then maybe repeat AST, ALT, the CMP, just to see how much does the glutathione actually clear this up. The fancy IV though, right? Yep. IV. I'm not going to do the shot shit. I'm going to do it right. And then right here. One thing I want to point out is AST is let's pretend S is short. L is long. That's the half-lives of these metabolites. So the ALT will always be longer than AST unless you did legs and then went and immediately got blood drawn, which I've done that before to test this. And they're like, they're like, we won't do that. You're dehydrated. I was like, I'm not dehydrated. They're like working out dehydrates you. I'm like, listen to me, lady. I've like, she was just like this fat blob that like was spilling out of her chair. And I want to be like, if anyone knows more about lifting weights, it's sure as fuck as you know, but I didn't say that. What I said is I weighed myself before I trained and I drank enough water so that by the time I was done training, I weighed more. And she didn't understand. And the woman behind her is like, look at him. He's covered in veins. He knows what he's talking about. Just let him back there to get the blood draw. And then she was like, fine. So it's just, oh my God, a thimble full of power. When I first started doing labs, I didn't know anything. So I would only get blood work immediately after training. That was the only time. It was right next to the gym. So that was my baseline for probably a year. So what I was saying was if you just change legs and you go in, there, you're going to have like 300, 300. And then the next day it's going to be 200, 300. And then the next day it's going to be like 100, 250. And it's going to just be like that. So I don't, I train a lot. I don't give a fuck about these reference ranges. Basically. If I saw someone who came to me and they're inside the reference range, they're not doing enough volume. That's what it says. I've never seen. You train like you. That is, you take it seriously. You're not, you're not exercising. You are training. There's a difference. So Kai, my camera guy, and he's a big guy. He was up to two 80. He hadn't been lifting in a while. And he started lifting with me for one week. And he had like fevers. He had to be like, he had to take two weeks off in the gym from one week. Cause he was having sporadic. You killed Gary. We did what back. Yeah. I was like that. I'm not training with y'all. I'm going to do my own thing. I know you wouldn't. I was like, I came all the way to Texas and you hold me out. You wouldn't train with me. You fucker. I was so hurt. Next time. Okay. So now we have your lipids. Total cholesterol. Literally. The only thing I'm concerned on here is HDL. And I don't necessarily find it concerning. And I know that sounds bad to say, because obviously we want good high density lipoprotein levels. We understand the importance, the relevance of it, but what we are looking at now is a lot different. I think conventionally, especially, you know, like a decade ago, everybody was hyper fixated on total cholesterol, but we know what compounds are going to do, how they influence LDL, HDL specifically. So I like to look at an LDL, HDL ratio when doing an evaluation. Men are naturally going to have lower HDL levels than our female counterparts, of course, because of estrogen requirements. Now Todd keeps his E2 a little bit higher than the average person intentionally for IGF conversion. So he's probably why his HDL looks so good. Three weeks post anivar. So I look at the ratio and I know they say anything 3.5 or lower is good. I'm a stickler. I like to aim for 2.5 or lower. So even though this is reduced, we are three weeks post anivar, which this looks very good. It's still recovering. And because his LDL is so good at a 67, that brings us to a total ratio of 2.8. I'm very happy with this, especially for somebody that never comes off of compounds and is always on test at any given moment in time. Now, what's funny too, is I am on Mastron. So that'll drive that down a little bit. And this is much higher than my normal LDL. My normal LDL is about a 44. Really? So you're still, you're still stabilizing then, but this is only three weeks post. So I normally, when I have, if I have someone on orals, I don't want to see their blood work afterwards. I will check it eight weeks when I feel like there's been enough time to recover. I don't want to see it any sooner. So this looks very good considering we're at three weeks. Yeah. Right here. We got the cystatin C. Whereas before the estimated GFR was an 85. This is a 94. And I want to say that this is not accounting for surface area. When I went on the national kidney foundation and recalculated mine, it was over 100. So it's out of 100. So I had like a 107 out of 100. So my kidneys are superhuman, according to. Superhuman kidneys. Superhuman. And 0.91 is actually pretty high for me. I like to see this closer to 0.8, but I'm not anal about that kind of stuff. Now for your total test, we did not do sensitive testing on you, but what, how much test are you on now? And what do you typically run? If I was running 60, I would have been 1200. So I'm running 80. So I'm estimating I'd be about 1600. Okay. You know, your levels pretty well. So I'm assuming this isn't even relevant. You know, where your, your, your total is going to be. So yeah, I mean, in the future, DHT. Yeah. In the future, I will do the other one just so I can see what it really gets up to. But I mean, to me, the, what's the point and try to determine your total test. Unless test is your only compound. If you're running test and masteron, then you would add them together. So it's not really relevant. As far as the only time it really matters is if we're trying to do like a compound integrity thing, but there's going to be other indicators. I'll be honest. I don't normally run sensitive testosterone on people. If they're very excited and they want to know the number and it's like a personal thing. Yes. But typically I can do compound integrity checks just with estradiol levels. So. Yeah. What I usually do is I would only run a sensitive if they're running mandrelone because they both show up as testosterone, unless you do the ultra sensitive. And I would only run an ultra sensitive estrogen. If they're running trends, this trend shows up as oxygen. And that is an option on, on the Dr. Todd Lee panel, by the way, you can opt for ultra sensitive estradiol if needed. So we're waiting on your DHT and I'm sure you'll go over that when that comes in. And then I'm going to estimate it. It's going to be a 73. Why so precise? You're, and I guarantee it's going to be within like very, very close. If not 73. Cause that's, I can just do that. I'm like, I'm weird. Man knows his, his blood work and on his panels, we don't rely on fasted blood glucose. And I always tell people like, if I am an asshole the night before and I decide like, I need to eat very Chantilly cake at midnight. Like, I don't want to look at my blood glucose the next morning. Blood glucose is only a snapshot of a single moment in time. So on Todd's panel, this does include your a one C as well as fasting insulin. That gives us a better picture of what's actually going on in your body versus that little snapshot in time. Right. So right here, we got a 5.5, which ain't good, but it's not bad. It's better than the 6.3. It was after my last show. So I've recovered. Yeah. I came down from full blown diabetes. I'm not even pre-diabetic anymore and I'm running no insulin right now. So without insulin, just a little bit of retta too tied. My diabetes. That's still fresh though. Right. The retta just came in. What? Two weeks. Yeah. Two weeks, two weeks, two weeks ago. Okay. And then free T4. This is a little high. Now I've been adding in a hundred micrograms of thyroxine. So I'll probably would bring this down, but because I'm about to start prep anyway, I'm not going to fuck with it. I'm just going to leave it in. Okay. The TSH is a little high. Don't give a shit. Um, and then there's T3 in here somewhere. Let's, let's skip ahead to T3. The free T3 should be at the very, very bottom. I don't know why they do that. It's not your fault. It's always separate from thyroid. And I'm like, why would you not include it with all the little thyroids? So right here, free T3 is 3.4. This is great. It's good enough for me. Now, my goal in prep is to keep it here. In order to keep it here, what I like to do is six micrograms of cytomel. First thing, when I wake up and six micrograms of cytomel about 3 PM. And that should keep it that way. If I'm not carb cycling, if I am carb cycling and I'm doing a high carb day, every fourth day, I can keep it at 3.3 without having to use the cytomel. Is that your goal to stay? Like, is it anything above three for offseason? Your goal? I don't want it to be too high in the offseason. Cause then I have to eat more food. Usually in the offseason, if I'm eating 5,000 calories, I've got a 4.4 total T3. Or I have free T3. So what's your target range to stay prep versus offseason? I just want my T3 always at the low end of normal so that I have to eat the least amount of food. Okay. Cause food costs money and people don't think like me. They're like, how can I be efficient? They're like, Oh, treats. Fuck your treats. I want to save money. More money means more growth hormone. And so we got prolactin here. I don't know. Do you tell me this prolactin matter? I can't figure out what prolactin matters. Prolactin matters when we're taking compounds that will influence prolactin. Or if we have an individual that is going to be very predisposed to elevations in conjunction with like estrogen increases as well. If it's not high, I don't pay attention to prolactin. And if we're not. Right. That's what I meant. Yeah. But it's there. We have it on there. If their dick works and they're not squirting out of their nipples, I don't give a shit about prolactin. That's basically how I look at it. I don't. I mean, if it was a zero, I'd be like, Oh, that's probably not good, but I don't know what it's supposed to do. Aside from like, well, I, people talk about their feelings a lot to me and I don't know what the fuck they're talking about. They're like, this drug makes me anxious. And this drug makes me horny. And this drug makes me angry. It's like, I'm always angry and horny and I'm never anxious. So I don't know what the drugs have to do with any of this shit. I think, I think a lot of people like to, when anything that's exacerbated by use of androgens immediately has to be like labeled identified, makes them feel better about those changes. Cause their wives are probably nagging them about the changes. That's always my guess. And then you're estradiol. You, you intentionally like seventies is your preferred range, right? Basically. If I go higher than 50, I start looking like a puffy bag of shit, but I get really good. IGF one conversion as we can see here with the four 57. Now, if I was like, I was 19 before when I was running EQ and it was four 15. So it's like, I looked good as fuck though. So I think adding in 30 milligrams of EQ to bring this way, the fuck down on prep. And that will be my AI is just using 30 milligrams of EQ every day. I'll knock this bitch all the way down to like 19. This will go down to like four 15 and I'll look hard as nails. And then I don't have to change. Where do you keep your estradiol and prep normally? Um, I found that as long as you don't go down fast, as long as you go down slow, your joints don't get achy. I think guys, they perceive the Delta and they, and they assume it's the absolute. So it's the rapid change. Cause they always do these insane doses. Like, Oh, I'm going to start test. And they go on 500 tests and 500 Primo. And it's like, that is the fucking dumbest thing I've ever heard. One to one ratio, bro. Yeah. Well, 10 milligrams per week for like a month and then go up another 10 milligrams and you'll get the same results, but without any side effects. So like with me, if I just crushed this to 30, I'd be dry as a bone. I'd be tearing stuff. But if I've been 30 for a while, I go to 22. I won't notice. If I go from 22 to 11, I won't notice if I go from 11 to eight, I won't notice. Cause I've ran into a show and eight estradiol and been fine. H this is a great number for me. I'm really happy with this four 57. And then reverse T3. We are waiting along with DHT. Why is your vitamin D so high? I take 10,000 units. After seeing this, I decided to cut back to 5,000 units. You have all of, all of the vitamin T and there is our GGT. And this is going to be a standard marker on all of Todd's panels. Again, especially when we're seeing like training related elevations, this is going to be a more accurate depiction, just kind of like we used to stat and see for our renal markers as well. There's always secondary things. And this is an important thing for people to, even if you're not getting blood work through us or consulting with Todd or something, this is something that you can speak to your provider about. I see a lot of providers make unnecessary referrals out to specialists without doing very basic preliminary lab work first. To clarify. So just as we do cistatin C to disprove the creatinine elevation is kidney disease. We do the GGT to disprove that the ALT and AST are liver enzymes. They're not liver enzymes. They're transaminases located in the muscle and the liver and the bad doctors, which is almost all of them will misdiagnose you as having liver disease and pull your HRT just because of elevated ALTST. But the reason why your ALT and AST are elevated is because you started fucking lifting because a lot of guys, they think that if they're lifting weights, they they're half assed, but if they're on steroids, they're bulletproof. So they actually try. So now that they're actually trying their blood work changes to reflect, they're trying. So this proves that my out, my liver enzymes were just busting my ass enzymes. And the cistatin C being normal, just prove that there's nothing wrong with my kidneys. I'm just taking my sets to failure. So if you don't have elevated ALT, AST and you don't have an elevated creatinine, you're probably a bitch. And that's what the blood work tells me. It's psychological. I train like a bitch, everybody. Well, girls, you might be different. You guys are a little bit more resilient. Yeah. I will say that it's my resilience. That's what it is. So this, I was testing out a new brand of growth hormone called Viking tropin. So I shot 10 units and when got the blood drawn 85 minutes later, and this is what it came up as is 15. So you'd expect it to, if you were to do serostim and wait three hours, it would be 30. So, and it's linear absorption. So this implies if you want to do deductive math and people are going to shit all over this, but this would imply that it is as strong or stronger than serostim because serostim in theory would only be a 15 after 85 minutes or 90 minutes. I tried to time it. How you have all of your, all of your clients and patients basically establish their, their growth hormone, right? If you have them do injections and then do lab timing around that. No, that no, they're not that smart. Most of them, most of them would fuck it up. So I just go by their IGF one. And if their IGF one isn't at least 300, I have them either. We increased their tests to get more estrogen or we increased their growth hormone to get the 300 IGF one. I would never say like, inject this, this amount, then drive there and get the blood draw. Like, no way. They're not going to get it down to the minute. Like I, I got 85 minutes. It wasn't even 90 minutes, which is what I was shooting for. Okay. I can't even get people to like drink water. So. Right. That's most of the time they make excuses. It's like, it's your five 50 fucker. It was like, you know, time to repeat it. What would I was like, the whole point of this was you wanted reassurance. I can't give you that reassurance. Progesterone. So someone was telling me progesterone is important for skin health. Uh, it progesterone can be very important for skin healthy. The main issues we see with progesterone is if they tend, it tends to get elevated and males. Otherwise, I don't think I've ever seen elevated progesterone in any lab work that I've had. Um, despite specific compounds and other influences and other hormones, that's never been an issue. Um, this is obviously going to be really essential for females in terms of like menstrual regularity and vaginal lubrication, um, sleep quality. And this does, it is an important factor in sleep. And that is something that could be potentially beneficial to keep an eye on, especially in prep scenarios, just for sleep and recovery purposes. But progesterone looks good, but your insulin was what I was going to give you a lot of shit for. I was, I was ready to drag you for this, but you ate. So nevermind. It was three hours before, but yeah, it was, I mean, let's look, look at it this way. If let's say I was fasted and I had a 97 blood glucose and a three insulin, it would mean that my pancreas can't produce enough insulin to get my blood glucose as low as it needs to be. If I had a 70 and a three, I'd be perfect. If I had a 70 and a nine, it means that my pancreas is working super fucking hard to force that blood into the tissue. And then I'm probably insulin resistant. But by being 97 and 13, if I was fasted, it would mean that not only am I insulin resistant, but I also have pancreatic insufficiency. However, because I had eaten three hours prior, I would say a 97 and a 13 ain't that bad. We can't shit on you for this. And that's, this is what I always tell people about blood work. And this is why I like your panel because it's very comprehensive. People are like, well, do I really need to look at all this? Blood work is like a puzzle. Each individual piece matters, but it's worthless unless you put the whole thing together. And that's why we need to put all of these pieces together. Because again, pulling just one thing is not going to tell us what we need to know. And then if you try and go and get quicker panels that maybe aren't as comprehensive, you're going to get on a consultation and they're going to say, I need you to go repull X, Y, and Z and add these anyways, because we have to have the full picture of what's going on. I always tell people it's like if Star Trek's beam wasn't working, it would be a Star Trek analogy. So like, if you're going to beam a hurrah down to the planet to collect samples and you beam down her eyes and her hands, and then the next day you beam down her brain and her feet, and the next day you beam down her skin and the next day you beam down her skeleton, then you don't have a hurrah. You've just got a steaming pile of dead body parts that you have to get all the blood work done and you have to get it all done at the exact same fucking time. Otherwise it's completely fucking worthless. There we go. Don't want a steaming pile of body parts. Yeah. And people are going to be like, I don't know any different. It seemed appropriate. A hurrah was the only woman and the only black person. So I include, they're like, why are you lashing out of her? That could be interpreted differently other than people. That I wanted, if I said Spock or Kurt, then it would be part of the patriarchy. I know those names though. Yeah. And that would be like a colonization because they're white. But if it's a black woman that I'm sending, that it's not colonization. It's not the patriarchy. It's inclusivity. So I did my due diligence. And then. Okay. So our final things, we have April, like a protein B and our SHBG as the final markers on the talk. Dr. Todd Lee basic panel. So we talked about SHBG last time, and it's kind of highly debated whether it needs to be brought up and into specific ranges for our heavier anabolic users or not. But we're going to see it decline. No matter what. I know. I think this becomes a hyper fixation. And it is very important in like our natural athletes when we are trying to leverage free testosterone levels. Yes. We pay close attention. And of course, in females, when we're trying to maybe artificially inflate this, you know, given androgenic effects or something, but use case, when we're talking about like actual bodybuilding, high super physiological ranges are going to reduce this. And then you bring in, it doesn't have to be proviron. It's a dated thing, but anytime you bring in a DHT derivative, it's going to bring it down further. So your SHBG is going to be low pod monitors his, his DHT levels. That's usually our primary concern is like, what can happen when we have higher free tests? Are we managing potential conversions? Which he is. Yup. That I basically, I never expect to see that above two. So I'm kind of like ashamed of myself. I should have stopped that harder that you would normally and prep put in proviron just to murder SHBG provirons only use is to assassinate SHBG, but you're going to, you know what I'm going to say. My best friend masteron is the second best drug at murdering. SHBG that masteron's flaws are that it lowers. It lowers HDL, not as bad as anabar, but it's the second most aggressive thing against HDL. And it is the second most aggressive thing against SHBG. And if this is, if you are a competitive bodybuilder or you're using anabolics heavily, your SHBG is simply going to be lower. And there's, and even to bring it back up, there's not a lot of things we can do outside of maintaining adequate estradiol levels, like omega fatty acids, like that's potentially working with like an endocrinologist, like for specialty, like I guess estrogen protocols, but that's, it's typically not going to be a concern to get it up quickly. The only time where we really see that is going to be in females where maybe an anabar cycle crushed it. And then it revealed underlying issues and they were really prone to androgenic effects or something. DJ, let's cut the shit. Have you ever met an endocrinologist and knew what the fuck they're doing? No, that's why I do my mom's stuff for her. Right. Okay. So let's stop trying to give them any credit at all. That endocrinology is a subspecialty of internal medicine that pays really bad. And internal medicine is where the kids who support. Does it pay back? I figured it paid. Oh yeah. Oh, it's, it's 135 bucks an hour. It is the lowest. Locally our endocrinologists just give everybody, phenamine. Like what's the hormones, even though it's your job, let's give everybody phenamine. Yeah. So endocrinology is the lowest paid, I think, branch of internal medicine specialty subspecialties. Internal medicine is the absence of a specialty. It's for people that weren't smart enough to get into a good field like radiology, dermatology, or surgery. And so they basically work for a hospital because they know they're not smart enough to actually survive on their own. So they need someone to cut them a check because they don't have what it takes to be in private practice. And then of those people, the dumbest ones go into endocrinology or pediatrics or psychiatry. So the lowest, I enjoy listening to that. The lowest of the low is pediatricians, endocrinologists, and psychiatrists. Now, the reason why people go into psychiatry isn't because they're stupid. It's because they're fucking crazy. And so that they want to know all about the drugs that they need to take to treat themselves. And the reason why people go into pediatrics is because they love kids or because they're a mom. Oh, so I think it's like, you hate children. You're going to pediatrics. No, you're like, have some vaccines, you little fuckers. I want to make you autistic. No, I don't think that they intend on hurting children, but I know that there's, I've never met an endocrinologist that didn't suck ass at their job. Yeah. I, I, I've always had high hopes, but I have, you know, my mom has Graves disease. So watching her journey has been painful to say the least. Yeah. Everybody's better off teaching themselves how to be their own doctor than trusting whatever your HMO provides you. All right. So here we go. The last one, APOB. Now cardiology. We're shooting for under 80. Like that is like fantastic. If we're under 80, this is more, this is a better marker than LDL alone. And it's a beautiful 74. Is this on par with what you normally are? Yeah. Sometimes I'm up to 90, but this is a pretty good low one. Cause you said your LDL was a little bit higher this round than what it normally is. Right? Yeah. But you know, I can run shit as much as like 3.5 grams and the blood work looks pretty much like this. My body doesn't up to 2.2 grams. I show no signs of any disruption whatsoever. If I go at up to like a three grams or even four grams, we'd see a one or a 1.1. Cistatin C. We might see a 90 APOB. And we might see a 40. I've even seen as much as a 90 GGT. But that was when I was running like three and a half grams of injectables, 200 wind straw a day and 50 anadrol a day at the, like at right after peak week. And I had a 600 fasting blood sugar. You almost laughed. I was choked. Dude. Well, it's funny. I think it's a video where I was injecting insulin, a hundred units of Humalog in my vein. And like people were so freaked out. They're like, that's going to kill him. You were messaging me after a shot. I was like, he's lying. He's lying. There's no way. Well, we, we were, we, we had dinner together. I had the ribs and then I had those tacos. And then I had the whole chocolate cake. It was you, me, Stella, Garrett, and Josiah. And we had such a good time. And by the time I got home, I had a 600 blood sugar and I injected a hundred units of Humalog right in the vein. And it brought it down to five 50. I'm like, well, I'm not going to go. I'll fuck it. I'll just stay here. I'm not going to waste that much Humalog. It's not work. Oh man. Okay. So why did you get blood work? Oh, I want to point out, please don't do what I just did just because I can survive. This doesn't mean you can survive this, but I shit all over entire fields of medicine. And there's a reason for that is because I actually do know what I'm doing. It's like, I don't think anybody should ever do what I just did. Oh, what was your question, DJ? Why did you pull labs? Oh, I pulled labs because I wanted to make sure I was a okay to start prep. And prep has started officially today. Cause we got the labs. All right. I organized my car. I'm officially in prep that. The first show of the year is a San Antonio pro September 20th. So you'll have to come hang out. Cause it's only a four hour. It better be an hour drive for me. If I don't sell this house. Well, even if you don't close. I'll. Yeah. You, you, you didn't come to my last show, which was okay. Cause I look like a big watery bag of shit, but I will look good. I ate with you. And that was the important part. I will be, I will be at this show. Cause otherwise I'll cry though. Like all my paint will be runny. I'll look like the Joker and the first bad. I've never actually spent time in San Antonio. I don't want to see the river walk. So I'll save that. I don't know. I don't know anything about this stuff. I want to go to like fucking what's that place called? Austin and do standup comedy. Because everyone tells me I should do standup comedy. I'm like, if I'm going to do standup comedy, I should do it in Austin. I wonder if like my favorite, well, I can't even say her name. Leonardo Joni is a really funny standup comedian in Austin. Who's banned from every club. Cause she's so extreme with her humor, but it'd be funny to, I bet she would just pepper spray me if I had tried to introduce myself, but I would think it'd be cool. If I was like, you're my favorite comedian. And I just approach her and she'd be like, stranger, stranger danger. And just spray me and shit in the face. But that would be cool if I got to meet her and do standup at the same club as her. That's like, I don't like that. What a weird far fetch thing. Well, San Antonio is only like an hour from Austin, isn't it? I think it's a few hours. Really? Cause Houston's still a couple hours. I don't know. I'm up at, I'm up North. I know nothing down South yet. You know, like people think everybody thinks that everyone in Michigan lives near each other. It's like no motherfucker. It's huge. It's bigger than like France. It's like Michigan. I know Texas is bigger than like all of Europe, all of mainland Europe. Texas is bigger than all of mainland Europe, but all the cities are all on the Northeast quadrant of the state. So I've always considered Dallas Fort worth, like the same thing. Cause you throw them in the same sentence. It's DFW. And we spend all our time in Dallas and we went to Fort worth and did like the stockyards, like cattle drive thing. And it was, they are night and day different. They are not even remotely similar. So it's, I don't know Texas very well, even though I live. I have, I've got a lot of friends in Houston and Dallas and you'll be in Houston soon. Cause you're not moving to Dallas. Poo poo. But expensive. It is now. Yeah. But I looked at some houses there yesterday, actually, just for, for grants. Cause I, we're not actually set. We just, we can go wherever we want. So I started looking and I was like, man, I can get a lot more in the suburbs of Houston. But like, yeah, I guess so. I didn't tell you this. I'll tell you this on air. We are considering the Dallas area now. That's why I was looking at houses there yesterday, but it is breaking. I can get a lot more house in other places. But it would make moving to Dallas so much easier. If I had someone there that I knew, I mean, I know people, but I, but you're different. You're like family. So it'd be completely different if I moved to Dallas. It would be fun, but we are, we are looking, we've been looking like the last two days at houses there. So it's got to sell this one. What did Garrett say? I don't know. Can you hear as my mic picking up on it? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, my mic is supposed to drown everything out. Dang. It's okay. Well, it wasn't loud enough for me to intuit. I don't know what he's saying. It's on the kids. I have no idea what he said. Okay. Oh, I did a video last night. Um, how to build a cult. It hasn't dropped yet. It drops Monday. You told me that I would like it. And I was like, man, I already have a cult. I know, but I can improve it. It's so much fun. It's one of my funnest videos in a long time. And people will think that it's just like entertaining. It's not educational. It is very educational. It could potentially save you or help you build one. It could be used as a weapon or as a defense. You know, my favorite class in Hogwarts was defense against the dark arts. Kids have been watching Harry Potter all day. Got it. That was just all of your personal information. Yeah, it was. Got it. And that's it. Well, I'll move it anyway. Fuck it. I think your, your birthday follows you, but yeah, whatever people can, I steal my identity though. I'm sure that Kyle go through and put like smiley faces over it or something. This is where you're supposed to promote your labs and tell them your discount code so they can save money. Yeah. Okay. Now, if you want to get labs so that you don't even need me, if you hate my guts, but you think I'm smart, but you think I'm a dick, just go to M M labs.com, not the ampersand, but A N D M A N D M. labs.com. And click on the top, right is get labs. You can select, just type in my name, Lee. I don't come up. Dr. Todd Lee's panel. Click that, get the sensitive one. Just so people be like me, you're not sensitive for $15 more. You don't have to listen to them whining about sensitivity. And then I almost want to call it the insensitive. And then there's insensitive. And then there's woke rather than having ultra sensitive. It should be called woke because those fuckers are ultra sensitive. And it was like, if you can click that and then you get your good stuff. And then we're also going to have the followup blood work panel. So like if you started 20 milligrams of test and two units of GH after a month, you want to know what your levels are. You can, it'll, it'll just be the test, the estradiol, the IGF one and the DHT. And then, you know, like, okay, my DHT is way too high. This is over the maximum amount of thrush for me. Or, Oh, I'm only getting 800 tests out of this 20. And my DHT and my estradiol are relatively low. I can handle more tests. And then, or if it's like, Oh, my IGF one sucks. My GH is bullshit. I should get a better brand like Viking trope. And, uh, yeah, that's pretty much. That is the dialing it in. Follow up, right? Yep. I think I called it that right. The dial it in. And then I think is what we did it. Yeah. And then what is what I got to look at? I think I called dial it in. Follow up. And then there is the prep something. I called it prep something. The prep assessment. I think med prep assessment. I knew it was smarter than I'm sounding right now. Um, mid prep assessment is just estradiol and T3. Ideally you get that done every two weeks or so to make sure that your estradiol is where you want it to be. So you're not holding water on stage and your T3 isn't tanked if you're carb cycling. And then often it's really hard to dial in T3 because cytomel is like a Tasmanian devil inside your body. You don't know exactly what it's going to do. So we have to be really precise with the cytomel. And of course the dumb fucks make it in pills that are 25 micrograms, which is like way too much. So I usually have a liquid stuff made for my patients so that they can dose it exact, like six micrograms at a time, even if it's multiple, multiple times a day. And discount code Todd, T O D D. Yeah. Yeah. Give you money to do that. Do that. Terrible at promotional stuff. I know I'm, I'm, I'm not, I can't do it for me. I do it for other people. I can't do it for me. I'm comfortable doing it. I feel, I feel gross to like talk about it yourself. I don't even, I never even do my full, like there was this video with Michael Hearn. He was like, greetings everyone. It's Michael Hearn, the Titan, Mr. America. And then he started proceeding. And I was just like, I texted Karina. I was like, dude, could you imagine? It's hard for me to even say my Instagram handle when you're like, where can they find you? I'm like, I want to die now. It's if I was to go into my full fucking title, it's like, I'm Reverend Dr. Todd Lee MD, you know, and then go in like six time, Mr. Michigan, five time national champion, bloody, blah, blah, blah. It was just be so pretentious. Everyone would hate me more. So I don't want to do that. I feel you there. It's, it's uncomfortable. People are going to be like, wait a minute. Did he say Reverend Dr. Todd Lee? It's like motherfuckers. I told you, I did a video on how to build a cult. You, you don't think that this is words of experience. You don't know. You don't know me. You think, you know me, but you don't know me. All right. So. Pot after a full night's sleep. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Oh man. Did you like that video? I will. I'm wearing this shirt. I don't know where my pants. They were my pants. Heard that. Did that real. Like normally my stories get like 300 to 400 views. That can like 1800 views. Wesley Bissar saw it. I was like, Oh shit. If I knew important people were going to see this, I wouldn't have made it. That's what I tell myself. Every time I post anything on Instagram, I go, oops. Well, I posted myself in that blazer with no pants. And then my grandma gave me a thumbs up on it. I was like, Oh, I was scrolling through. I didn't recognize that. I was like, Whoa. And I went back. I was like, Oh shit. That's DJ. It's like, I just walked into my sister in the bathroom. I was like, Oh no, I felt terrible. It was a dope picture though. It was a really good picture. Yeah. My grandma liked it. So I know it was good. Your grandma liked it. Oh man. That's funny. I haven't met your grandma yet. You'll meet all my family. I met my parents. Yep. I met your mom, your dad, your niece, your children, your husband, not your grandma, not your sister yet. That'll be interesting. You won't meet her. I haven't talked to her in a decade. I know. Maybe it would be interesting. It's like the legend. Your reputation perceives you with them. All right. Well, do you have anything intelligent to say? Cause I'm out. Make sure you hydrate before you get your blood work done. Yeah. I don't do what I did and just roll out of bed and say, fuck it. I know I'm not going to be able to fall back asleep. Cause I know if I fall back asleep, I'll sleep through my window to get my blood work done. And everything on our website does have written recommendations on whether these are to be calorie fasted, hydrated. All of them will include instructions, even for your female audience, how we pull panels, usually on day 21 of the cycle. If you have a standard menstrual cycle, we do seven days post ovulation. Um, all of the instructions are on there. I always did my five days post ovulation should be seven. I do. I do a week. Cause that's typically where we hit like absolute peak progesterone levels. And that's where I calculate PG to E2, but nobody's ever like, well, some women are really dialed in and they know like exact ovulation. I have clients that are like, Oh, I'm not ovulating. And I'm like, I forget. I even have a menstrual cycle every month that I'm shocked when it comes. And they know we're ovulating. I've had girls tell me they can feel it. They can feel the egg release from the ovum. Yeah. Opry into the fallopian tube. They can. I forget. I even have one every month. I'm surprised. Yeah. Some women just start bleeding out of their pussy. They had no idea what was happening. Otherwise I'm like, Oh no, I need stuff. I didn't learn this the last 10 years. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, I'm like, okay, here's a super. And you throw it at them. It's just like, there you go. Like you have to be responsible. You carry around supers in your fucking car in case they start bleeding. It's like, don't get on my lever seats here. But I have all my clients track and they know everything. They have to give me like feedback. And then I I'm over here just not knowing it's ever going to happen. Yeah. I thought of a lot of inappropriate shit that I shouldn't say even to YouTube. Oh, Patreon. So the Patreon channel, I'm going to start doing injection instruction videos. Since I know these people have no fucking idea how to do an injection. So I just, I'm not, I know you've got a whole legal team. I kind of need to know for sure I can get away with this before I do it. Uh, so all you do is have someone write you up a disclaimer and make sure they, that is visible. That is the main thing. Same thing. Like you have a warning and disclaimer, like on your YouTube as well. Yeah. So this is education or entertainment. It would be entertainment. This is what I do. Do not do this. If I had to guess, I don't know. I'm not the attorney. I ask them what to do and what to say, because if you're saying it's educational, that means you're teaching them how to do it. And therefore that probably gives you some form of liability. So saying it's entertainment would probably be, and that's just a guess. I don't know. But I think because I'm a doctor, the rules are different. It's a whole nother story. Cause I am off. I am right. They can, but they were, I'm probably one of the only people authorizing how to give instructional videos and how to use me. I'm a big fan of. Do not do this until you consult your primary position. But that's what, but my whole shtick is they're supposed to hire me to be their doctor. So I'm like always backed into a corner. I don't know. That's, that's, that's a legal team question on how to pitch that. But the nice thing is Patreon pretty much anything goes as long as your penis isn't out. My, my legal team says move to Columbia now, you know, like that's what my legal team says. Get a fuck out of this country. Go to, go to like Afghanistan, where they can't catch you. You know, like my legal team is like, we're not taking your retainer. You out of your fucking mind. I like, I love Patreon though. And it's, it's, and I post like my personal stuff on my Patreon as well. And like fun things. And it's things that I, I know that I can't get away with on other platforms or things that are like highly controversial. I like Patreon. Cause you can do whatever you want. And the people that go there are like people you like. They're smarter. It's, it's not going to be random trolls. They're not going to go through the effort of like signing up for a Patreon membership. Like they're people that are invested and like-minded. What's funny is my comment section has almost no trolls. I guess I'm so mean that the trolls are afraid they're going to get burned. I don't get a lot of trolls anymore. I did when I first started, but then I started making video responses and they were like way too fun. I just say the same thing. And we would do not have to tell everybody your small biceps. And then they like, at least their comments, but I don't really get them anymore, but used to really hurt my feelings. I remember. That's very sensitive. Yeah. I don't know. I don't remember if I was sensitive or not. I would just get pissed. And then I would respond to that. Everything hurts my feelings. I hate everyone, but I want everyone to love me. My favorite is there is that one guy who posted one of my responses without context. And I, and it was something like, yeah, I'd make mistakes just like your mom. When she kept you. And it was like, he posted that response. And it's like, this isn't how a medical doctor should talk. It's like, no, you're right. I should just flip up my lab coat, let you take, give it to me in the ass. I should just bend over and take it from you. And every other half with like, when does, when does being a doctor mean? I can't, what do you call it? Fireback where I can't, if you, I can't come up with sick burns. It doesn't make sense. I think the, the only thing I really get now is like, are you really going to take advice from a girl? And I'm like, that's, that's what you, that's what you came up with. Like, you're the one with ED, you know, if I should fix you. It's like, I don't know. I've had a funny joke. I can't say it though. Man, I hate fucking this world where you can't say what you think, but, um, all right, cool. Uh, I was going to go live. If you want to join me over on the live, I'll send you the link to your computer. I had a phone. And I have to make a bunch of workouts tonight. Okay. You go work. I'll play this week. Cause if you stay up late and live stream, I'm usually up late and I'll live stream with you this week. All right, cool. Workouts done. All right. You got it. All right. I'll talk to you later, DJ. This was episode three of remedial street chemistry. I hope you liked it. If not, go fuck yourself. May the force be with you. Great news. I am now partnered with Talon wellness. Talon wellness will be able to provide you your medication. So you get your consult with me. I will review the blood work you got through M and M labs and Talon will be the HRT clinic that will get you your medication delivered to your home. So there's nothing that changes on your part. All you do the same thing. You get the consult with me. Link is in the description box and I take care of everything. It's just that now it is now a different HRT clinic and the lab process is going to be even smoother. The prices will also be lower than they were with the previous HRT company. So this is all good for everyone. You'll love it. Click the link in the description box to set up your consult today and on with the show.