 You're watching Dr. Todd Lee TV, where theoretically you could learn a bunch of cool shit. What you need to know about SHBG. SHBG is steroid hormone-binding globulin, kind of a topic that's starting to have a little underground movement, anarchist movement behind it. So it's a long time, pretty much all of endocrinology history. SHBG was basically a molecule that binds your testosterone molecule in the blood and chaperones it around the body so it doesn't get dissolved. That normally the testosterone should be, because it's fat soluble in a carrier molecule to protect it in the blood because the blood's not fat, the blood's not fat, the blood's made out of water mostly. So usually albumin, about 50% of the testosterone is bound to albumin, and there's a lot of blood. So usually albumin, about 50% of the testosterone is bound to albumin, and there's a lot of blood. A little bit that's bound to SHBG, and then there's also just free testosterone just floating around that's going to get chewed up by the liver most likely. Supposedly one model is the SHBG then binds to a SHBG receptor binding complex, and it deposits the testosterone into the cytoplasm where it then binds to its receptor, moves to the nucleus, and does genomic expression for protein synthesis. The theory is that if you wipe out your SHBG, you'll have more free tea, and more free tea will then be, you mean, more anabolic faster. I mean, in all reality, if you're using anabolic steroids, your system's so flooded with more than enough anabolics that there's no reason why your SHBG level is going to have any real impact. Supposedly there's some beliefs that the SHBG can do some other things. Like the SHBG, when it's bound to its receptor after depositing the testosterone molecule, basically it provides a bunch of cyclic AMP molecules. It's supposed to change the area around where the testosterone gets introduced to improve its probability of getting shuttled through the enzymatic pathway to the nucleus and getting the gene transcription to occur. That's one theory. Another theory is that it regulates sex drive, although it's been shown to have almost the opposite effect. The correlation studies, not causality studies, of SHBG and sex drive are basically like people who have low SHBG have low sex drive, but they're testing people who have low testosterone. They have people who have low testosterone, low SHBG, and low DHT, and low estradiol, and they have low sexual performance. Like this is the stupidest way to conclude data. So they're not testing people on like a gram and a half a year and have low SHBG, and if their sex drive is correlated with how much SHBG they have. The whole point is that there's no concrete evidence whatsoever SHBG does anything useful. And normally when you take anabolic steroids, SHBG is crushed, and there's no evidence that a low SHBG is actually bad. And furthermore, the reason why people take provirin before they get on stage is simply to wipe out their SHBG so that there's nothing there to bind up estrogen to be a free reservoir of estrogen. Also, if you have high DHT, your SHBG is probably going to bind a lot of DHT so that if you go on something like Masteron or Provirin that strongly binds to SHBG and wipes it out, it's going to cause a lot of hair shedding because it floods the system with DHT. So you almost need to wipe out your SHBG first before introducing Masteron to protect your hair, which is why I always find that if you run someone's testosterone to the absolute limit and GH to the limit that their bodies can handle before switching to more specific and safer synthetic anabolic steroids, then you don't really run into issues with hair loss switching from test to mast in this way.