 you were to go from 50 estrogen to 30 estrogen, you would feel like you have crushed estrogen more than if you were at 11 estrogen and just went to nine estrogen. That it's the relative change in estrogen is where you feel the symptoms. Basically, the first thing that I'm going to experience if I have crushed estrogen is my right elbow is going to hurt. It's going to feel dry. Also, a lot of people will complain that they look too good. No, you're right. Nobody complains about that. That's one of the symptoms, though, that your estrogen is too low is you don't look fat anymore. The other issue with low estrogen is people complaining of having low libido. I have no idea what the fuck that is. That doesn't sound like a problem at all. That'd be like someone saying that they have the problem of having too much money. I can't imagine how you could possibly have a libido that was low enough. But these are things I've heard people complain about. And in my experience, it's usually bullshit because if I get their blood work tested, their estrogen is just fine. A normal range of estrogen is anywhere from eight to 40. And that's assuming you have normal testosterone. Normally, I look for a 20 to one ratio of test to estrogen. And that's just a rough guideline. It doesn't mean shit. The more estrogen, the more IGF-1 conversion out of your GH if you're not one of those fucking morons who doesn't use GH. But if anyone's smart enough to use GH, then using more estrogen to a point will help you convert to IGF-1. Eventually, if you look like you've got two chins, it's either your diet, your fat, or your estrogen's too high. Also, estrogen can make you have cankles and it can jack your blood pressure up through the roof. So don't fuck yourself up. Don't have too much estrogen. So don't look like a fat fuck. Don't have edema. Don't have high blood pressure. Don't have sensitive nipples. Also, don't have too low of an estrogen to where your sex drive is completely non-existent and your joints are creaky. Most of these things are from the relative change of the estrogen and your body's inability to control the renal sodium extration or retention. It's not a property of the estrogen itself. If your patient, which none of you are because you all like to backload rather than using the insulin syringe correctly, then you would actually just slowly titrate or slowly titrate down on doses so you don't have any side effects. Then you wouldn't have anything to complain about because your life would be good. Anyway, if you want your life to not suck, get a hold of me. Consult in the description box. May the force be with you. Great news. I am now partnered with Talon Wellness. Talon Wellness will be able to provide you your medication. So you get your consult with me. I will review the blood work you got through M&M labs and Talon will be the HRT clinic that will get you your medication delivered to your home. So there's nothing that changes on your part. All you do the same thing. You get the consult with me. Link is in the description box and I take care of everything. It's just that now it is now a different HRT clinic and the lab process is going to be even smoother. The prices will also be lower than they were with the previous HRT company. So this is all good for everyone. You'll love it. Click the link in the description box to set up your consult today and on with the show.