 overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt overt test a day, which gave me a 75 estradiol. Now, if I had added Primo or if I had added EQ, even 20 milligrams, that would have knocked that down into the 20 or less range. I added 20 DHB and it went up to 107. Now, does that mean that DHB increases estradiol? No, I didn't run an ultrasensitive test either time, but a 40% variance, that's pretty fucking big. One thing I can conclude for sure is that it did not lower it. So some extra added details. I was doing 80 test, 40 mast, had a 75 E2, 457 IGF-1 with eight units of GH. So eight units of GH, 75 E2 yielded a 457 IGF-1 and that was on 80 test. The 40 mast is irrelevant, right? Now, this time I was on 80 tests because I didn't want to fuck with the estrogen. I went up to a hundred mast because I'm smarter than those guys. I know better. Mast doesn't lower E2 because I've tested this already. So I added one up to a hundred mast, added 20 DHB, the real variable, and the estradiol went from a 75 to a 107, increased it by about 40%. 42, it's a little bit less. It's about 36%. The IGF-1 hasn't came back yet. Now to confound the variable, I forgot to do my GH shot the night before. So maybe it'll come back lower than 457. That doesn't necessarily mean anything. So what I'm going to do is next week, I'm going to do an ultra sensitive estradiol and make sure I don't fuck up my IGF-1 shot the night before. So we can really compare time 0.3 to time 0.1. But our preliminary data is that not only does DHB not lower estrogen, the data shows it significantly raises it. Now I'm not going to stand behind that, but we know for sure it doesn't lower it. So that's the long and the short of it is that DHB is neutral at least. It might even be enhancing the effects of estrogen directly, which would be amazing is that it's a way to raise estrogen without DHT, that DHB isn't DHT. So for people prone to hair loss, they can run a baby dose of testosterone, like 10 or 20 milligrams of testosterone to have enough testosterone, they have enough DHT so the dick works, but then they could run the DHB to get their estrogen up to where they needed to for the GH to kick in. And then if they want a clean anabolic that doesn't affect DHT or affect estrogen, then they could run Mastron. And no one would ever have to use Primo or EQ ever again. Great news. I am now partnered with Talon Wellness. Talon Wellness will be able to provide you your medication. So you get your consult with me. I will review the blood work you got through M&M Labs and Talon will be the HRT clinic that will get you your medication delivered to your home. So there's nothing that changes on your part. All you do the same thing. You get the consult with me. Link is in the description box and I take care of everything. It's just that now it is now a different HRT clinic and the lab process is going to be even smoother. The prices will also be lower than they were with the previous HRT company. So this is all good for everyone. You'll love it. Click the link in the description box to set up your consult today and on with the show.