 ziviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviviv at one point? I would have to look into that, yeah. Okay. I feel like everybody has some sort of mentor or coach. He competed very briefly, and then he kind of decided he wanted to just, like, go whole hog into the coach. I mean, he's also, like, 6'5", so being, like, a bodybuilder at 6'5", is pretty brutal. No, it's not happening with Jamie. Yeah. He probably worked with him, too, at some point. I think Jamie worked with Callum. He probably worked with him. Probably because of the hype and proximity. So the reason why I ask is because I like to know someone's pedigree as coaching those because it helps me know what their approach is. So, like, I wouldn't expect Dom Cardone and Phil Viz to do the exact same stuff, but I expect them to be similar, where I expect Cuba and Joe Jeffries to be somewhat similar. Plus, I know that they've interacted in a positive way. You know, it'd be different if they're warring with each other or something. Yeah. I mean, honestly, when I first interviewed with him, it was oddly enough because I saw that he was coaching Brandon Harding and Brandon Harding got peeled. And I was like, dude, I want to get that peeled. And that was when I was – I did my first show in 2022 and I did Classic. And so I was like, well, if you got Brandon, who's also, like, an influencer that doesn't – like, isn't a full-time bodybuilder, my thought process was, okay, like, if you got him that peeled, you'd probably do it for me, too, since I have all these other things going on, too, that Brandon also has going on. So that's how it worked. And it was – we definitely got peeled, that's for sure, for that first show. That was probably the most condition I've ever been. So how are you approaching this show differently than any other? Or are you just repeating the formula because the formula is perfect last time? It's different in the sense of every single year since we've moved up to bodybuilding – like, I'm filling out a taller frame. I'm just under 6'1", 6'3". And it's, like, to play that delicate balance of, okay, now I'm a bodybuilder. So you can't just get peeled at any cost because if you – yeah, if you're classic and you've got to make a weight cap, yeah, go ahead. Like, just get as peeled as possible because you need to make weight. Whereas now it's this kind of delicate balance of, like, okay, you need to be full enough to be 6'1 and be an open bodybuilder. And so I think this year was the first year where we've kind of accumulated enough tissue where I could probably really push that classic level of conditioning and then still be synonymous size-wise. Probably not, like, of the biggest guys. I'm not going to just pretend that I'm going to be up there with, like, you know, let's say a Martin or Andrew or something like that. But just in terms of being able to stand on stage, and I think then my now conditioning will carry me further than if I were to try to just be a little less conditioned and hold more fullness, I think that I have enough size to do that this year. Awesome. So balancing it. Yeah. And that's the funny thing is if you give up two points of size to get one point of conditioning, you're also losing a point of symmetry because the size gives you your symmetry half the time. Correct. Yeah. So people don't realize that about openness, that that's why they're not shredded glutes. For example, I can look almost perfect at 200 pounds when my glutes do not look perfect. I can shred down to 275. I still don't have shredded glutes, and I've just lost 25 pounds. Correct. It's also, yeah, it's a balance of what is your best look. And I think that these classic guys, there's no choice but to be inside out because they're all scraping up against their cap. So, yeah, of course they're going to be peeled, and then they have to basically maximize their aesthetics. That's why structure is so crazy important in classic because if you're at your cap and you're peeled and it just doesn't look very pretty, you're done. Like you're never meant to be doing classic in the first place. Now you've got to either be done with bodybuilding or size up to real open bodybuilding and kind of fill out your frame and hide some of those maybe, I wouldn't say weaknesses, but maybe you're just not structurally built. You're not Ramon Dino. You're not, you know, Niall Darwin, one punch Nas. Callum coaches that guy. Niall, have you seen him with the crazy tiny waist? He's competing, I think, in like seven or eight weeks. Yeah, it makes every dude want to quit the second week. I see his picture and I am good. I shouldn't be bodybuilding. But, I mean, then you realize everybody's got a unique look, and I do it for different reasons. Then I'm not a career competitor. I just love the sport, and I love seeing my own progression and using that as a barometer of success for me in my training. Plus, I mean, you can market your new company through your bodybuilding indirectly. If nothing else, you're credible. Because, like, if I do it, I'm like, hey, I just invented this new thing. You'd be like, yeah, it would maybe buy it if you had a back. But, like, you actually have a back, and you have quads. I think you're selling yourself a little short, but, yes, I appreciate that. Dude, some dude said I was a frog with 15-inch arms today in the comments. I laughed so hard. I was like, that was creative as fuck. You're like, you can't troll me harder than I troll myself. Yeah, I know. So. I've had mirrors for 46 years. I've said everything. Yeah, man. But, yeah, I think that was so fun about training together. And if you guys have not gone and watched that, make sure to do so. We did some sessions together. But I think there was some things that we pointed out in your training that probably have helped you since. Just in terms of really targeting, especially back and the things we wanted to bring up. Yeah, my lats. I've really had a much easier time connecting with them. I just had to rotate out what I call the Janicki pole, which is the bench where you, like, lean over. And, you know, I'm refining that and getting better and better at it after five months still. But it was, like, three, four years of optimal training. My back was getting smaller. And now, after doing it with you and John Jewett, I got, like, some better tips. And now I'm actually really able to light up the lats. And I reincorporated some of the original motions that built the back in the first place, like pull-ups and bent rows. Yeah, I think it's just – and then you might – what happens is now that you're probably connected with your lats from some of these more, like, quote-unquote, optimal movements, which is essentially just driving the correct stimulus to the area you want to target it to – and now you're applying those same – that same kind of maybe movement arc or that feel to your compound, maybe rows, that you weren't before. So now it's, like, you get the benefit of having that time and that, let's say, more optimal movement to then apply that same cueing to the more, like, compound-type ellipse that you'd think of, like, maybe heavier seated row or heavier barbell row. Yeah, I eliminated – basically, the bent rows third, not first. And then it's also using half the weight. This is what I did, like, five, six years ago. And I'm using, like – yeah. And so I'm also bent over a lot more. And then I'm also feeling it totally at the lats because I got the lat totally – Bent and bent over a lot more. Yep, I was. Yes. And I think of you, actually, when I bend over. I'm hoping you're behind me. Like, if I get this set right, maybe. Maybe. Just maybe. Oh, man. So show me the handle that's going to make my last – This one is yours, actually. No way. Yeah, yeah. Oh, my God. Guys, I did not know if I could just ask – I want you to do the – I want you to do the unpacking. Okay, cool. I only have, like, ten of these, so it's very special. They're, like – they're numbered. I should have signed it and numbered it. Yeah. I've got silver pen. Okay. Okay. So this is the torque D-handle. I probably should take this off so I can – With the built-in lifting strap. So I'll show you how to use it really quick. So essentially, the way I designed this is you have a regular D-handle, as you would just see on a normal machine. And what I was thinking about is there's no – there's nothing on the market where you have something that you can actually just use in tandem with a D-handle as for rows or for a lateral raise. You see a lot of guys will do, like, a cuff and then will hold the D-handle. And I was just in my office one day and I started – I had already started torque and I had already started IDing some of my other products. And I just went down and my wife was doing a training session. I went downstairs and I was like, are you using this D-handle? And she was like, no, you can take it. And so I was like, all right, thanks. So I take, like, a lifting strap I had, an HTLT, just like a regular lifting strap. I take it apart. I glue it together. I screw in this, like, a bunch of these parts. And I put this together, which is essentially this now in a refined version. So now you've got this Velcro here. Essentially feeds through this metal loop here. And now the way it works is you stick your hand through and then – can you hold that loop for me? Just the – yep. So the way it works is you want to create some tension with the handle and then you just size it perfectly. So the idea is not to have a cuff that doesn't have tension with the handle. So this is perfect for me. So now you can see I still have contact with the handle. And now it's giving me that extra support to pull essentially with lat. Now if I take this and I even shorten it a bit further. So now I take it into about here and I stick my hand through. Now I've got essentially a cuff lateral raise. So I can do a lateral raise here with a cuff. And then if we take it even further and we feed it through the loop all the way, we can take it all the way around. And now you've got a very tight cuff for push downs, for pullovers. So you bring this all the way to the second set of Velcro. So right here. And that pad fits through. And then you've got here. And now you stick your hand through here. And you've got this for either like a wrist supported fly. So you can do a fly movement or like a pullover or push down where your wrist is then you have extra support. So that's how the product's gone through a lot of testing and iterations. But first test the grip for you. So what you do is you just stick your hand through there. You grab that D handle. And then just do it like you're about to do a row. So then this is going to be right about for you. Perfect. And so now try to feel like you're pulling with your lat. I'm totally getting my lat right now. Yeah, see that? I'm pushing my elbow down like you taught me. Pulling with a pinky and elbow down. Pulling back. And it's totally on my wrist. And I can squeeze with my hand. But I don't have to. Yeah, I'll give it a little more. This is great. It's pretty sick, right? Yeah. Yeah, that's totally lat. Yeah, so it also cues you into using your back because normally you're, the way I explain it to people, normally you're here. Even when you have a grip on, you're basically putting your hand in front of your elbow. Elbow is basically your mechanism as your lever when you're using your lats. So now this is directly in line with your elbow. So once I grab this, if you draw a line, now my elbow and my wrist and the wrist support is directly in line. So that's why. So basically if you feel your... The line of force isn't based off of your hand grip. Because now your hand's in front. It's based off of the wrist torque. So we're applying the force to the lat, but we're still able to use the grip to get the neural connectivity. The hand provides. And also, like if you were to use a straight up cuff with nothing on it, through a row, it would slip and it hurts like... On your wrist, it sucks. Oh my God, it would hurt so bad. One thing I found was some of them have multiple anchor points and it distributes the pull different. That was the only ones that I found that don't hurt the wrist. Yeah, I mean, especially if I... This does not hurt the wrist because it's so padded. It's so padded and also, yeah, they said it's so nice for like... So then feed your hand through here. And this is for the push down. This is for a lateral. So then it's the second iteration. So this is for lateral. So all you do is now stick your hand through there. And then... And then for here. And then you would just... So you have wrists and then you do this for lateral. So then you'd have... You'd still have contact. There you go. I can activate the lat now. There you go. So this is for delts. We're like going to raise... And I can squeeze that without actually changing the tension point. I'm keeping it in the middle delt either moment of squeezing it. So I can get extra force and extra middle delt without deactivating the middle delt. Yeah. So these... I will have... I will say I've had like a bunch of like pretty high level like bodybuilders and other people try them. They're like, dude, this is like one of the most like effective accessories I've ever used in the gym. I'm so excited. I'm going to use it on arm day. I'm going to be using it for shoulders. I'm going to use it for lats. It's so comfortable too. It's easy. Like especially once you've set it for... Let's say you're doing like a pull day and you've set this one time for yourself. You're just there. You do your underhanded cables with those too. So I shorten it and then I do my like upper chest fly with that as well. They're pretty versatile. I mean, you can pretty much use any... They attach to any machine. So that's why I included this kind of thicker. So you can usually slip this around almost any bar on a like plate loaded machine. Oh, of course. Like on a hammer strength. Yeah. So you can use a hammer strength. You just use it on a hammer strength. And then also on a pull-up bar, you can just slide it around. Oh, yeah. And also if you do want to, this is strong enough. I made this part strong enough that if you just put it around, let's say a pull-up bar that doesn't have a... Like if you don't want to put it all the way up here, this you can just slide it in right here. Oh, okay. And this is strong enough that if you do like an assisted pull-up... Right. So you just take the range of motion. Exactly. Because you might lose three inches. But with that, it'll be... Right. And we need all those inches. So yeah, that was... I wanted to bring that one for you. I'm so excited about this. Tomorrow's back, too. I just have to find a gym to use. And then we've got the other thing, right? The crown jewel here. The crown jewel. So this is my... How heavy is this? Because it looks heavy. This is not heavy at all. That's sick. It looks so heavy in the commercial. It's about three pounds. Yeah, yeah. It's so light. So basically what this is, is a modular squat wedge system. So it has two different levels. So you can use it like a box. So this is like a four and a half inch platform. Or you can separate this. And now you've got a 10 degree wedge and a 20 degree wedge with full foot contact. So essentially you can secure this using the magnet system that's on here. Or you can open up the base. And inside the base lives a U-hook system that I designed that essentially hooks over any footplate. So let's say you have a rubber footplate or something like that. These come out of the base. And they just essentially can adjust to any height. So you would just adjust this to the height that you want it on the footplate. You just feed this through here. And then it basically can loosen it or tighten it depending on how tall your footplate is. Hook it over the top and then you just close the system over the top. Whether you want just a 10 degree or 20 degree. And then just to store the strap system is very easy. You just kind of push it back here. Clips back into place. You pull this tight. And then you just fold this over once. And then it just lives inside that little channel. So you don't have to worry about carrying components like this hook system. So you can use it on essentially any footplate. And then it just fits right inside those. It has these kind of weight saving gaps that I designed into it. Save like 30% on the weight. Those little gaps right there. Which don't lose any structural stability. So this thing is rated up to like 2,500 pounds of weight on the top. But if you want to stand up and try a squat on it. Sure. Here. We'll move this out of the way. Yeah. So step up on there. Do not kill yourself. And then you can basically sit down on your heels. Oh, that's comfortable. That's totally comfortable. Now imagine that feeling on any machine you do. A hack squat, belt squat, pendulum. What are you doing with the machines? I just need dumbbells like this. Yeah. Takes all the pressure off your knee capsule. It really did, actually. I was worried about that. Like, you don't know if I just got down low. It obviously has this, like, really tacky grip on it. So you feel like you're, like, glued onto the wedge when you're using it. And then I get the question a lot of, like, okay, well, is this thing going to fly off a footplate? So I actually designed these silicone pads right here. These are attached. And so when you put even a body weight worth of lateral pressure or vertical pressure on, let's say you have a footplate or on the floor. And you put your body weight on it, like, the grip from these silicone pads essentially make it almost impossible, like, pretty much impossible to have any lateral movement. That's awesome. So I actually did a video where I was doing a five or six plate hack. And I decided people would come from the side and try to press it out while I was doing the reps. Just as, like, as an exercise for the. That's so scary. Like, I understand you're that confident in your product. I guess that would be, like, people, when they think about me. Like, I'm just going to slap some chemicals together and shoot it and see what happens. That's like me with my wedge. It's just a different kind of. It's like hitting from the side with a sledgehammer and see if I get my leg broken. A different kind of crazy. That's my version of Todd Lee crazy. It's just, like, get on a six plate hacksaw and have people try to push the wedge out from the side. I'll send you the clip. But, yeah, no. So that's that. And then I've got a. This is just a prototype. So that's why it looks a little less refined. But it's a chest and back range of motion extender. So you've got this for pulling. So you've got the flat one. So what do we do? I put this over the bench and now I can get a better range of motion. Out of that. And so also what's really nice about it is, like, if you've ever done, like, something where you're doing, like, a chest supported row on, like, a bench or, like, with dumbbells. Like, you know how your face is, like, jammed into the bench. So this, like, clears up so much space. So let's say you set this out, like, for a dumbbell row on the bench, like a dual dumbbell row. You can basically tuck your chin over it and then the bench is here. So now you've created all this space so you don't feel like you're, like, running into the bench. Same thing with the reverse pec deck. Exactly. Like, to get it low enough so that my shoulders are where my hands are higher than my shoulders, my face is against that pad, and that's where everyone's back of their head is. So it's, like, smells terrible usually when you're eating their germs. You want the space. And then this is for pressing. So you put this and you have the round and kind of wrap your scaps around and it just tops on the bench. So you put that around the bench and we lay back on it and then we bench. Yep. And then it gives us the bigger range. And you really, like, wrap your scaps around and get that really full range of motion on a pressing or fly movement. So this is just a prototype, but it's basically finalized. So it has this essentially universal base with the same kind of silicone pad system. And then you can just pop this one off like a Lego piece and then use this for pulling. And then just to store, you can either store the strap inside just like the wedge or you can have this kind of like, you can have this to hold this other one when you're not using it. So if you want to toss this as like a unit of three in your gym bag and now you feel like this is, it's about a quarter pound. This is, there's so many clever aspects to this. It's so much more complicated than other gym equipment. You're going to have to spend so much time educating people. Yeah, I think that's the, that's the big like hurdle is, but then once people use it, it's like, this is a prototype. Okay. So once people use it, it's like a, yeah, it'll, it'll basically be shelly kind of, this is like a little, this was carved by laser. Whereas these are molded. Like this is a product where I made, I spent like 10 K making a mold and then it makes these exact replicas. So that's why you get this kind of, you can have these kind of cool details where on the inside of the face, like I have the little space where that you hooks us, but I also can like do cool stuff like this where I, I put like a little Easter egg where, you know, if you can see it, but I put like the torque logo. If you can shine the light, it says the people's equipment brand. Cause like the idea for the brand is like, you don't, she shouldn't have to have like the all top of the line equipment to have a great workout. I want to like kind of create accessibility to amazing workouts for everybody, regardless of your equipment level. Right. So all of those people in middle America, they're stuck with hammer strength, they don't get the new tech and the Panada. They can use the torque adjustments and every cable, every leg press, every hack squat is going to be able to target quads and lats like never before. Yeah. And then this is my final prototype for my quad extension component. So this basically goes on the seat of any quad extension. It shifts your knees up and forward. And so basically if you're here, you have to think from the side, if I was normally to here, now this shifts me up and forward slightly. Now I can wrap underneath it. I've had a ton of people use it. And for me personally, they came out of necessity because I had the hustler pad at the gym and I hated it because it was always like rolling off of the pad. And so I was always like pushing pads and yoga blocks and stuff, obviously not very practical. And then that's where this took me about 12 different iterations. I like was just carving out of foam. And then I finally had like, I think it was eight different like actual CNC carve, like laser carve. So you did everything yourself. Everything, yeah. You're no partner. You're sole owner of torque. I'm a sole owner of torque. That is the way to go, man. Thank you, man. Yeah. It came at a little bit of a rough time for me. I had a, I don't want to like, I've kept it offline, but. I noticed. I wouldn't have noticed if there was drama. I had a very like a tough experience business wise with some business partners over a brand that, uh, the, the apparel thing that I was doing, it was a pretty rough. So that just, you didn't, it didn't even get off the ground, right? Cause you basically launched for a month. We did our first launch and then some things happened. And all of a sudden I was got a text that I was now a 5% owner. I was like, whoa, that's crazy. I don't know how that legally works. And I was like, okay, so I go two routes. I could take legal action for a company that's very new and I might spend more on legal fees and I would actually get from it. And number two, I could like go the route of like creating slander videos for what? Like, I'm, that's not what the guy brings your brand down for a brand that's less than your brand. Correct. So then the last option was, let me take this as an opportunity to learn and grow from and create something new. And I think to me, it's a beautiful thing because torque never would have existed if I hadn't gone through that because I wouldn't have had the time. I would have been so focused on that, that I wouldn't have been able to create torque and build these pieces. And I'm so proud of it. I mean, I'm like, this is, these are all patent pending. I have three other products that are about to be in patent pending that I created. I can't quite talk about it. I mean, I'm so bad and pending, but, but yeah, I didn't know I had this side of me, like the kind of like engineering. I do have a partner that shout out Colin that he helps me with taking my ideas from kind of the ideation stage to like actual CAD drawings. Right. The engineering software that we don't know how to use. Yeah. Cause this is like these, like the piece that's made out of that's, this is like a mold that's very complicated. And so like those need what's like AutoCAD drawings or step files is what they're called to then give to the engineers to then, you know, make adjustments to, and then make that final mold. And then that's where you get the product from. Yeah. I've never dealt with that. I thought about an idea that might require a physical component and I've never really gotten anywhere close to that part of it because it's just one more whole industry to learn. But you're, you master, you, cause you have what a degree in finance first. That was my first. Yeah. Yeah. So like you, this is good at everything you do. I wouldn't say that, but I will say Todd, if you do have something, first of all, I'll be your first, you know, like I'll give you all the mistakes I made in this. I know I'm new to this journey, but if you do want to do a physical product, I'd be more than happy to help you. And the other thing is if you can create something like we're in such like a digital space where you give value usually through like mediums like this. Whereas if you like have a physical product that you spend so much time up, show up at your doorstep and you like open the box, I'm getting emotional right now. Thinking about it again. I don't want to, cause I got emotional when it arrived. But like when I got this wedge, like in the mail, it was so many like nights up with China from like 8 PM to three in the morning. Then waking up, um, with my kids at six, six 30 and just being absolutely exhausted. But like that moment, the culmination of just like getting it and like having people try the final product and being like, Oh my God, like, how do you, how am I ever going to train without this again? Like having that feedback, it's like, I will say if you do have something in your head that is creating something physical in such a digital world, it is a cool feeling to get that and receive it and have people get utility out of it. Well, it's just, I don't think people are going to realize what they've got until that. Cause once you use the half a foam roller on the pack deck, you're never going to want to not use it, but it flops all over the place. You'd have to use a band to strap it in place. You look like a crazy person. Now, if I just pulled that thing out of my gym bag and slapped it on and, and use it, I mean, that's totally different. That's the end that we were talking about before we started rolling with the bench press. You know, it's like, what is that? And it's like, well, this is my torque addendum to the, well, peck deck. And then it's like the same thing with the rowing. Like we don't, anytime you're going to try to flop down on a bench and hope this foam roller stays in place, that's a terrifying nanosecond. And then like the same thing with every time you're trying to set up something of a wedge on the leg press slide, you're like, Oh my God, this is sliding all over the fucking place. If this slide's mid set, I'm going to tear a muscle for sure. And you fixed every one of those problems. Yeah, that was, it was a lot of trial and error and ideation. And then just like, cause like the first one I made was like, literally I was, I was, I was building these things in my office, in my house, just literally like gluing stuff together, cutting stuff with like a bread knife. I cut my, I think I, I'm basically almost like cut my thumb off one time. Uh, I don't remember which one I think it's this one. I probably still have a scar from it. Um, trying to like, you know, just literally like chop up stuff like this where I'd like order like three big pieces of like EVA. And, uh, there was one point I actually bought this, uh, these like hot wire that you can like cut through foam with. I had like, but you have to have like an industrial, like mask on. So I'm, I'm out there with like goggles and my like driveway with like a mask and goggles with like this hot knife, like trying to like, like cut angles. And I, it was a disaster, but like this smelled so bad for like outside for like a week. But, um, but yeah, I think that's the beauty of entrepreneurship is it's kind of messy and you got to just wade your way through it and hopefully, uh, come up on the other side. But, um, I think if you have good intent and if you have pure, uh, kind of motivation for why you're doing what you're doing, it's, I think it's, it's more likely than not going to work out. So how long have you had your own prototype for these lat and the, what is the name of this product? So which one do you got? The, the torque, uh, my, I, I call it the torque D handle strap combo. My, my, uh, my web designer is dying for me to call it the strandle, uh, just cause he wants to make it like a combo two in one word. So I might call it the strandle. Strandle was at least marketable. The other thing is not marketable. What do you think? You got a name? Just give me, hit me up. I got nothing. I'm going to have to give it some thought. Normally I'm good at this stuff, but no. You'll have to get back to me. Do you guys have anything? Nothing? Nothing? I think strandle sounds great because nobody has it. Nobody's got the strandle. You can, what do you call it? You can trademark it. Yeah. Yeah. Strandle.com. Word market. Strandle.org. You just buy all the strandle and then it just feeds right to the torque site. Yeah. The strandle. The strandle. Yeah. So I guess the strandle it is. It cannot be the torque D handle strap. No. I was like the lat optimizer. That's weak. Yeah. It was just like, because it does more than lats. It does more than that. That's the problem. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I have to, I call this my modular wedge system. I feel like it's probably a better name for my wedge as well. MWS. Yeah. It's a modular torque, modular squat wedge system. MSW. That's really getting out of hand now. Yeah. It's like the magnetic, magnetic U-hook modular squat wedge system. It's like an eight letter acronym. So I think we'll have to, I'll have to work out. I was, I was so hell bent on making perfect products. Like I was, I'm such a, I am so, like, this is so much my baby. They see this grip tape on here. I used a non grit, which was, it's technically nicer. It's more expensive. Right. But I got it and I got my first like 15 like promo units and like you get a little bit of foot slide. And I was like, that's terrifying people. No. So I literally paid like 10 K in the U S. Cause like this was manufactured in China to basically beat my wedges to my three PL in Texas. So they can slip two of these custom, custom cut grip tapes inside the box. So when you get it, I'll have instructions. Just take off the two that are on there and put these like perfectly cut, uh, 80 grit grip tapes on there. Cause they're a better option. And I was like, everybody in my life was like, dude, just leave it. It's really good. It's not perfect. I was like, no, absolutely not. I'm going to eat in my margin and I'm going to get this grip tape manufactured in the U S to beat my squat wedges that are on the cargo ship to Texas to make sure this product's perfect. Cause I also feel would feel really crummy. If this person, the people got the second, who were like my OGs who got the first one, like got a lesser product than the second one. I couldn't have that. What else? Even if one person got hurt, you'd never forgive yourself. Oh yeah. It's not like a, it would, it would hurt thing. It's just like, it's not like a slight foot slides out. It's just like a little like inch. It's just like, it's just like a, yeah. Like it's just like you start, you just have to readjust every soft, which is like only on the 20 degree. If you're on the 10 degree, you're fine. It's just if you're on the really steep 20 degree wedge. So that's why I put two in there and then you'd still be able to use the other one for the 10 degree. But, um, yeah, so that was, that's how maniacal I am about making sure this product. To me, I'm the same way. Like if grip, if I, I have to grab it with my foot and it can't be sliding. If I'm in squat shoes, I can't grab. So it's like I'm lifting in mittens. So I need to have the security of knowing that there's no slide. You should feel it. You should feel this thing in socks. Oh, I bet it's good. You don't even need squat shoes. Of course I could use socks. I didn't even think of that. Yeah. Just, oh man, that's awesome. In socks, it feels like your feet are glued on here. Like they're like, you'd rip, you'd rip through your toes through the socks before your feet moved on this. Oh, I believe you. Look at me like holding this thing. Like it's my baby, you know? Well, it is, Nick. I don't think people know what it's like to have your first product. And I mean, you've had your own supplements with HTLC, right? HTL. HTLT. And I think it's just a little different experience because we're making great products, but it's not, they're not like a one-of-one product that I had to personally ideate all the way from the initial idea all the way through executing a final product and all of the trials and tribulations. Like if I showed you the WhatsApp between myself and my manufacturer in China, Irene, shout out Irene. Her name's Tao, but her, her like, her like American name is Irene. Her American make you feel comfortable working with her name is Irene. I know. And I probably had, we've probably spent in just messages, let's say hundreds of hours, just like between, she always starts work. I get my first message right around like 4.30, 5.00 PM Pacific. And I'm usually up with her until two or three in the morning. Just like, there's so much that went into this, like just like small details that went into this product, like trial and error, mistakes, things like that. Like for example, these are hot glued on the magnets for my second one. It took us like a week to rivet through us. We're going to, there's a, there's magnets that in China, they can manufacture like a bolt with thread and then we'll basically create, but then you have to change the whole mold. Right. So now you change the whole mold so that these molds can go. So it's another 10 grand. Exactly. But see, like that's, but that's what I deal with on a like daily and weekly basis. But yeah, she does this thing. I told her, stop doing it. It drives me nuts. If I didn't respond to her in like five minutes, I was like putting my kids to bed or something. She'd do this thing where she'd call me. I know she, I've never talked to her on the phone, but she would call me to basically be like, Eric, look at your messages. I'm like, Irene, stop doing that. I don't like when you do that. Sometimes I pick up and then she'd hang up right away. And I was like, are you calling me to make sure I saw your message? And she was like, yes, you didn't reply very fast. I was like, oh my God, I'm putting my kids to bed. I can break. She was like, okay, I won't do that anymore. Because I didn't know for a while. I was like, is she calling me? Because she actually wants to like discuss something. And I realized she was calling me to basically be like, look at your phone, you asshole. Because it was like four and a half minutes since our last message. Do you know what I think is just funny? Have you noticed this, that I get great interaction with Chinese when I do business with them, but everyone acts like they're not good business people? Chinese people? Yeah. I think they're terrific business people. I think they're like, they're some of the hardest working people on the planet. I think they drive a hard bargain sometimes. They're a little hard nose. But I think if you can find good people to work with, they want to get you a good product. They don't want to cut corners. All of our conversations were her trying to make my product a little bit better, even if it was going to take a little bit longer, cost a little bit more, not for her to make more money, but some of the accessories that were being. Because this thing has eight different producers. It has magnets, silicone bumpers. It has the strap system, which is the strap itself. Fourth producer is the U-hook. Those are custom U-hooks, fabricated. Then you've got the grip tape. That's, we're already at five. We have these little plastic clips here that go, that basically, so the straps can feed through the bottom of the system and don't need to be secured any other way, with like glue or anything. And then you've got the logo. That's another producer. And the boxes and paperwork that goes inside, that's number eight. So eight manufacturers feed into my EPP. And so I have to communicate with all them to coordinate, to get all those things to my EPP manufacturer to then make the final product. It's way more work than supplements. Way more work than supplements. They just have to get all the ingredients in one place and then put it through the machine and bottle it. And then you've got to get... You've got to make it taste good, though. Huh? You've got to make it taste good. That's their job. I don't have to be sure. I don't know how to make anything taste good. Fair enough. So what's next for you? What's your big... I mean, you've got this huge podcast set up. What do you want to get out of? What's 2026 look like for you? What's a successful year for you? So 2026 is the 10-year anniversary of the supplement company, Valhael Ebs. That's awesome. And then I'm starting my new supplement company, Tadling D Supplements, which is the health line. Very nice. And then I also want to get the paywall launched by the end of the year. Okay. For like a kind of subscription-based... Yeah. Subscriptions is like... I'm going to start with staying in my lane and do like endocrinology, basic cell biology, and what do you call it? Anabolics. But you've got to do the course. So you can't be learning about Masteron or D-ball without learning about basic endocrinology, basic physiology stuff. So it's like it's set up like a college course. It'll be at Anabolic University, but I'll just have it through the website. That's awesome. I think you're a perfect personality for that. I think that your audience would love that. I think that your audience outside of communicating or like being connected to you would also love to be connected to other people that are interested in the things that you provide information and value on because then they can nerd out together in a community-formed-based platform where then you're almost just a connector. And you bring people into the community based on a common interest or common set of knowledge base that they want to accumulate and they ask questions to each other. And you'll find that probably you'll get like the people that almost turn into the admins of the group that are paying members, but they're just so excited about being there. So I think you have that kind of presence that you bring in those type of really loyal people in a community-based format. Almost like it's your own culture. Correct. Yeah. So it's the idea would be, I guess, having virtues of this culture, but I guess honesty and the pursuit of knowledge would be the most important of all virtues in that university. It probably should be the primary virtues of every university. We've seen that's not the case, isn't it? I agree. The university of getting huge and not killing yourself. Yes, exactly. Anabolic university. Yeah. So what about you? What's a bodybuilding like 2026 look like for you? So the goal is to put some more lats on and some more arms on and to get the waist as small as possible and then repeat and see how much more classicy we can get. Because as you said, it's like if you're 182 and you're not as even as symmetrical as you are at 190 or 180, I don't know, it's 200. If you look actually better, bigger, if you just wasted nothing else when you get down to 180, then it's just not right for you. Yeah. So you're going to continue to compete in 212 or are you going to try to push for classic? I'm going to keep doing classic unless I completely place out and then I'll probably be big enough for 212. Because I started with 212 and I was too small for 212. Then I did classic and I was like not shapely enough for classic for the most part. So if I can put the lats on and the arms on and get the waist down, then the shape will improve. Of course. And I could possibly be classic. But if not, then we're going to have to, because there won't be a 212 in five years. It's possible, yeah. There's going to be something, but it's not going to be a 212. It might be like something in between classic and open. They'll bring back 202. 202 was what? I don't know. 202 was before 212. So it's only 202. So like 2008, Diamond Henry was the 212 Mr. Olympia, the 202 Mr. Olympia. Also it's 10 pounds lighter? Yeah, 10 pounds lighter than 212. Do you think? But I feel like that almost makes the problem worse because I think the interest in that division is so low because... The people are too small. The people are too small, but they're not also like weight restricted by height. So you can actually be bigger if you're taller like Wesley Visser is in classic. So you can like have that big striking. You're just kind of like, you just have to be small. You're saying you could make 212 more popular by making it 222? Yes. Yes. Or you make something in between like a height, like a weight restricted by height, but it's bigger than classic. To a classic that's bigger than classic. Yes. Like that's actual classic. Maybe like or like one or maybe between men's physique and classic physique. Like so it's like classic physique. I think that realistically, I think it'll just be... I don't think men's physique going anywhere because it's such a popular amateur division. I think the big problem with 212 is there's no 212 amateur. So every pro division has an amateur like little brother, right? So you have like or even in the female side, you've got amateur wellness, pro wellness. You've got amateur bikini, pro bikini. There's no like women's pro division that doesn't exist at the amateur level. And that's what makes the money for these for the MPC IPB is that all these people are spying to be pros in that division. Nobody's aspiring to be a 212 pro. They just kind of have to be like if they're, you know, five foot four and they go pro at like a lightweight. You know, it's hard to be... You can't beat, you know, Sam Sedata, right? I sure can't. I mean, it's just hard. So it's basically 212 is for the people too short to do classic or open, which is pretty much the middleweight bodybuilders and the light heavyweights nationals. Correct. They're the ones who are the pool for your 212 competitors. And 212 is basically a weighting pool until you're big enough to get an open. Correct. Like that's how it's seen. So it's almost like, like you, to your point, a lot of times when somebody's 212 and they're good 212, they're like, everybody's like, go open, go open. Like that kid, like Nihat, who's the, who got like second or third behind, I think third. You're talking about the 22 year old from Turkey? Yeah, it's amazing. Yeah. But everybody would like wants him to go open because eventually because... Unless it blows his waist out. Yeah. Yeah. But I mean, there's, I think there's guys that, I think a lot of times it's structure. I think the guys that like blow their waist out probably never had like a small waist to begin with. Whereas like, look at Keon. Like he's gotten so much bigger in his classic days. I wouldn't say like when he pulls his vacuum, I would not argue that his waist is even a half inch bigger than when he was doing classic. He's just so much bigger everywhere else. So I think that, you know, realistically, like I don't, I would say maybe, I think maybe earths you could say is like waist isn't quite as tiny, but I just don't think he was also as conditioned as when he was doing classic. He wasn't. They said that. So I think that's... Didn't even try. But if he was as conditioned as when he was doing classic, I think his waist wouldn't be just as small. So I think it's just a structure thing. And if you can get it just as peeled. And yeah, I think you can blow out your waistline with like an exorbitant amount of insulin and growth and just food volume. But I think it's also like the inability to pull a vacuum at that point. Because then you're just like... Right, because you're so overextended. You can't go that way from like that to like, like Andrea Mamoli kind of thing. If you're like flat most of the time when you're walking around, you can pull that nice deep vacuum. But it's like, you know, you can't go from one extreme to the other. Can't go from convex to concave. Yes. Go from convex to flat or flat to concave. And I think that if you're pushing that amount of food volume with insulin growth and all the other things that come along with that type of... Like chasing that type of growth, it can just to prevent you from like keeping it tight in that sense. I think so too. And to me, it's like because it's such a struggle for my waist and it always has been. I've always been super paranoid about other people fucking up their waist. Yeah. So, I mean, at the end of the day, I think you're in a good spot in the sense of with where you're at and like going for classic and just improving the areas that you want to improve. Because realistically, to get conditioned, like bone dry peel to 212, probably in the off scene you've got to be 235. 235. Right. Which is just... I've never been that heavy. It's just... You're going to hate your life. Yeah. I've never been that heavy. It's so hard right now to eat 4,000 calories. Yeah. I mean, and you'd probably have to be eating five to six for like 18 months to get... Yeah. I will... Whatever you got to do, I know that everything I've tried hasn't worked. It's just... Usually, if I go over 4,000 calories, it's just total fat. It's just... Nothing just jumps right to muscle. I think for you, too, I think it's a little bit like we talked about when we train together. If, like, you're open to this type of feedback is... Yeah. That is something that I made the mistake, too, is just like you're playing the volume game in your training where it's like if you just refined your training to be like a lot more just like, dude, I got my stimulus. Crazy two hard sets, move on to the next exercise. Let's say four hard exercises for back, two buys, whatever. That's your day for that day. Maybe you can throw in a little bit of lateral delt for like a pull day or rear delt, excuse me, for like one exercise. If you could just get in, get out, then you're not burning so many freaking calories when you're training and then you don't have to eat as much and then you're probably less inhibitive of your growth, your accelerated recovery because now you're in and out of the gym faster. And so I think for you, especially who struggles to eat enough and is also a high metabolizer, you'd probably be better suited really like getting those targeted sets, getting in and getting out. I think I'm doing a lot less volume than the last we talked. I think the last we talked, I was doing nine sets three times a week. I couldn't. Yeah. I literally think you told me like your sessions were anywhere between like two and a half to three hours. And I was like, oh my God, if I'm by myself, like I'm not doing content or anything and I'm like in and out, I could do like a crazy effective pulled in with back buys and a little rear delts in like 55 minutes. Yeah. So right now I'm doing two back days, only six or seven sets each one and the back components about 40 minutes tops. That's great. I mean, I think that's like the sweet spot. That's like where you're probably going to maximize out stimulus and just get to top it out where anything beyond that's just fatigue. I think Monday has a bent row and that's the big back movement for the week that got reintroduced in. So like a lot of those classic sets of six to 10, one set of six to 10 per body part basically is added in per week. It has a foundation that I had just taken out in preps and never put back in and that was part of it. But yeah, so it's pretty much the cable stuff, you know, one day is a single arm cable pull down. The one arm is with a bent elbow. The other arm is a pull down day with one other one's assisted pull ups. Okay. And so I'm getting, you know, vertical pull and then there's one bent row. You got to try the D handles on the assisted pull ups. It's like the best. I'm excited. I've ever done in your life. I'm excited. The strandle. The strandle. Yeah. The strandles on the assisted pull. I got to pay your royalty now. No, it was your buddy. I know. My buddy. He actually joked. He's like, dude, if you name it that, I actually have to, you don't have to like pay me a royalty. I was like, 10 cents. I know. Might as well. Not a bad idea. Did you remember that movie, The Jerk with Steve Martin? Yeah. Yeah. That's the best ever, dude. So for those who don't know, it was like, uh, they, he basically invented this little handle for sunglasses. And so he made millions and he's got like this palace and shit off of something so stupid. Then one person has cross eyes. And so now there's this class action lawsuit where everyone's got cross eyes. And so he gets sued and everything's just taken from him. He's broker than before he ever invented it. Yeah. So it's like every inventor's worst nightmare is that you can't predict how someone's going to hurt themselves with what you make them. Yeah. Well, hopefully. And I've got lots of products. Yeah, I know. So I got to be really careful with that. But no, I mean, that's why I was so heavily over-engineered then that like, you'd, you'd have to really like try to use the products incorrectly. It's like, if you had a machine and you smashed your, your hand between the weight stack of like, like you put your hand down and you're like, all right, put the, put the shoulder press thing down. And it like smashes your hand between it's like knock on wood. Um, but like, that would be the, essentially the same thing you'd have to do with this watch. You'd have to like put it halfway on something like, Oh, here's my foot plate. Let me put it like, just like this much on there. And then the rest of the foot plate is like off below it. And then you put your feet on it slips out downward. It's like, okay, well, I feel like you really like, you really had to try to fuck that one up. Um, so I think that would be like the only in the quad extension pad. Like, I can't imagine. I don't know how you'd hurt yourself with it. You could probably, people will probably figure it out. This thing. I mean, you're basically just extending range of motion a little bit. That was, that one looks safe. I don't think you can choke. Maybe a kid could choke themselves with it. That's about it. It's like, I, it's like they come up with the weirdest shit to complain about people. Before I, before I had kids, I probably would have made the joke of natural selection, but now I, you paused it. I knew you were thinking something in there. I was like, did I go too far? I was like, I was going to go too far. And then I was like, yeah. There is no too far with me. Then I still said it. I have no safe words. There is no too far. But dude, I'm so excited for, uh, we got to get our next workouts in soon here. We can come out. I'm in town for a few days. I'll do it. Well, maybe we can get one in here. That'd be great. We'll try to figure it out. Do you have a more podcast stuff to do today? Not today though. Nice. I think I got, um, might have Wesley stopping by. Wesley, but hey, such a, he's a nice guy. He's, I was actually helping him out with his leg training earlier this year. Awesome. Giving him some tips and feedback, sending me some videos and stuff. So hopefully it pays off. Well, from my, here from, uh, everybody, his legs are getting bigger. He says he's happy with them, but I mean, obviously if anyone's going to be hard on him, it's going to be himself. Yeah. I don't think he would like pipe himself up if he didn't really feel like they'd made progress. Cause then it's like, everybody's not expecting, oh, they're going to be different on stage. And if they're exactly the same or worse, then that it's almost going to be worse than if you never said anything at all about it. You can't talk yourself up because then people are going to be critical of it. And you can't even point out a weakness because everyone's going to be scrutinizing it forever. Yeah. If you like to say like, oh yeah, my right lot is, I heard it a few years ago. I just never been the same. And then the judge would be like, oh yeah, that right lot is like definitely smaller. And what's funny is, have you never told people your weaknesses? They would never notice. Oh, of course. Never. No. I once went through a comment on a video and someone, it was our video and someone flamed every body part I had week. And I was like, hold on. Did they really know me this well? And I watched the video and at some point in the two videos, I had knocked each one of those body parts in some negative way. Like I need to bring up my biceps or I need to bring up my triceps. So he just memorized everything that I thought was weak and then said it, you know? So like here's where you think your insecurities are and they attack right for him. Oh yeah. They know. They know how to dig, dig that knife right in there. But, uh, Bannon, thanks for, thanks for having me. Thanks for letting me. My pleasure. I know you got to get you a workout. I'm going to go get some legs. So if you want to stop by, uh, the armory and you can try out some of the equipment too. It's the armory. Is the Jimmy going to be training? Have you ever heard of it? No. It's like five minutes from here. It's five minutes from here. Yeah. No other name. Just the armory. I can Google it. Just Google the armory. It'll probably say it's like six or seven minute drive from here. All right. Sweet. Well, I definitely am going to have to get in the back workout with my new toy. Yeah. Definitely. Come through and, uh, then you can try the wedge while you're there too. So we're going to be doing some legs. All right. So I'm like, I did chest already today, so I'd have to do another day. Yeah. All right. Just stop by. Just if you want to stop by and just hang out and at least try it out. I do have to do legs. I think Saturday. Okay. Maybe I can, uh, maybe I can stop by and, uh, make sure you can have it for your work. That would be fucking cool to try out the new leg equipment on Saturday. That would be sweet. Okay. Let me know. We'll try to coordinate it, but. All right. Cool. Yeah. Thank you for having me and thank you guys. I don't know if we're still on or not. Thank you guys for, uh, also, uh, having me on and let me party, be part of your ecosystem. I truly, uh, truly appreciate, uh, everybody who watched. Yeah. I mean, we don't always get such a luminary on the podcast and we don't always do podcasts in person. So you were the first podcast in person. Oh, that's awesome. Nope. Well, I'm sure there'll be many more accoladed, uh, individuals to follow. So you had to start the bar low just so you can get, you get better people on here. I had to have someone. Let's get ourselves like, you know, just a little practice rep. We might not even release this. I want to get the most entertaining person in first so that I can do the worst job and no one would notice. You can just make the edit all you. I just, just, just, I just yap. But, uh, yeah. Thank you, man. I really appreciate it. My pleasure, man. Thanks for coming. Yeah, man.