 DR. Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors Motors in each of millions of human brain cells. So it absolutely is, without a doubt, the most exciting time in my scientific career just because we have so much data and that's really why my main effort is to bring it all together and see what we can understand when we can see the whole picture. In the study, we look at how neurons are born in the cortex, which is the surface of our brain that we think with, in order to get a deeper understanding of brain diseases. Everyone studying any cell today should have access to all the data that's been generated that's relevant to that kind of cell. So many of the treatments we use for brain disease today were discovered many years ago and often even by accident. With the advent of the generation of data at unbelievable scales now from brain cells we now have the collective ability, collective meaning all the different researchers and all these different data sets, of bringing them together to create real new therapeutics for brain disease. And that's what's so exciting to me is to see how the product of all this data coming together and combining it with the revolution of AI to generate a whole new wave of brain disease treatment. We can study individual cells and their molecular workings at a greater level than we ever have before. We can study millions of those cells as the brain is being constructed. On the other end, we have the revolution of modeling these things in a dish with the cerebral organoids using induced pluripotent stem cell systems. Understanding how this great machine is built between our ears is really our road to understanding how to fix it when it does go wrong.