 NAY rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt recently has played a really pivotal role at Tongji University School of Medicine in Shanghai, where he's helped transform this School of Medicine into a globally competitive academic health science center. He's currently a distinguished professor of neurology and regenerative medicine there, as well as the dean and the director of the Brain and Spinal Cord Clinical Research Center. However, personally, I came to know Dr. Zhang through scientific innovations prior to his move to China, and that was when he was at the University of Nebraska Medical Center, where I think you were there for over 20 years. It was when he was at Nebraska, we collaborated on studies examining the regulation of glutamate through inhibition of glutaminase, inhibition as a therapeutic strategy for neuro HIV and other neurodegenerative disorders. He even visited our lab in Baltimore when we were at Guilford Pharmaceuticals, I think back in 2003, so over 25 years ago. And I think he'll be interested to hear about the progress we've made since then on designing drugs to focus on inhibiting microglial glutaminase. At Nebraska, when he was at Nebraska, in addition to leading a very highly productive research program, Dr. Zhang held several senior leadership roles, including being the Associate Vice Chancellor for Academic Affairs and Associate Dean for Graduate Students. He's also a member of the European Academy of Arts and Science and has authored over 250 publications. As background, he earned his PhD in Neurology in Shanghai and then completed most of his advanced research training here in the United States, including postdoctoral work in all our favorite areas, Neuropharmacology, Neuroimmunology, and in Neurovirology. And his research has really been focused on the neuroinflammation and stem cell-based therapies for neurodegenerative diseases, and particularly our interest in this P30 seminar series in HIV-associated neurological disorders. And so, super excited to have him today to join us. And please join me in welcoming him. He's going to speak on aging, microglial glutaminase, and neurodegenerative disorders. So welcome, Jailen. I'll turn it over to you. Thank you very much, Bob, for your very kind invitation. And I also thank you very much for this very nice introduction about me. And I'm so glad to meet you online. And I will truly looking forward to meet you, your group in person. And I read and a lot of exciting work from your group and also your collaborators. And I'm just, you know, be happy to be here. And I'm looking forward to hear your feedback and the critics to the work we've been doing. And so clearly, we are really, you know, today I'm covering, you know, three part in the background and also for the AD and the inflammation. And also I'm talking a little bit about the PND that which is very interesting we are working on because that can be done clinically as well. So we are really facing an aging society and China has entered a deeper aging stage, which is by large scales and, you know, age associated disease such as neurodegenerative disorders and become a huge obstacle to human health. We are facing aging, you know, in a different organs start aging differently, like a brain and lungs start very early and the skin and the muscle and in the kidney, you know, they start different ages start of the aging process. And this age really associated with many mechanisms. It could be genetic, could be, you know, cellular, you know, also the metabolic. Clearly the chronic inflammation, oxide stress and the neuroendocrine, and also the epigenetics and also immunosystem imbalance play a very important role for this process of aging process. And for the mechanism, and we know that aging brain aging could be, you know, damage or the increase in your inflammation or the abnormal protein deposition for it. For neurodegenerative disease, we actually know the Alzheimer's disease and also infectious related and cognitive disorders. That's truly leading the clinical problem is dementia for that. So the others could be, you know, many of the others will talk about later for it. The AD is clearly is the most common age related, you know, neurodegenerative disease and like a leading cause of dementia. The typical pathological things, including the A-beta, you know, plaque and also the phosphorylated tau, you know, tangles, and statistically indicate that annual cost of the health care for AD is as high as more than 800 million billions. And for treatment for AD, there's not very much. And, you know, age over 65 in China, you know, in total operation is already more than 12% in Shanghai is even higher, more than 23%. So Shanghai is ranked the first in terms of aging has entered a super aging society. And there is a for AD clearly is high incidence, you know, if it's over a 65, there could be about 5%. If 80, 80 years old, it could be 20%. So it's truly related aging related related. So although FDA recently approved like, you know, those A-beta antibodies and most drug developed based on the A-beta or tau actually cannot have a very much of a therapeutic effect. We're looking forward in China doing a lot of clinical therapeutic usage of this and waiting to end of this year. Chinese neurologist, the ologist society is going to give a summary how those antibodies worked in our clinical trials in that. Clearly, it is really essential to understanding the pathological of AD and dementia from a new perspective. And the microglia driven new inflammation, as we all know, a lot of people in the audience and it's a key pathological features and also pathogenic factors of dementia. New inflammation just different than many things, including the new generations and blood and blood damage and also a demyelation as well. So microglia are truly responsible for A-beta plaque, phospholid tau or trim 2 dysregulation or infection or peripheral inflammation. So microglia is truly activations under the regulation of the information ligand receptor in intracellular enzyme and also those transcript factors. So intracellular enzyme form really a good collecting part between the extracellular pathogen, you know, and also intracellular response of a microglia. So as you know, a lot of people in the audience familiar with glutamate is locating in the memory of the mitochondria, they could can hydrolyzed glutamine into the glutamate, which is a key molecule for cellular energy and, you know, also for the metabolism. They can contain GS1 and GS2 and GS1 is a dominant GS member within the CNS of that. So GS1, you know, composed of two isosomes. One is the GS1 C-terminal called GAC, another one is the KGAs, which is the kidney type of GS1. And GS1 with the neurons could transfer the conversion of the glutamine to glutamate. The function of a molecular GS1 in microglia, which is still a lot of research and which is our group is really focusing on that. So, you know, as Barbara mentioned in many years ago when I was in Nebraska, you know, Dr. Sean also in the group in the meeting today. Dr. Genderman also, you know, which our chair of this, we are working on the beginning of that is HIV dementia is which is known as HIV associated, you know, with neurocognitive disorders, about 20% of adults and 50% children have that HIV, which is in the brain early stage and there's a major cells in the brain, which is the microglia. So we can focus on these things, how that major cells in the brain, which is microglia, would involve in the interactions with exercise, with neurons, with the problem, battery damages, how that would be. But they invented cells and major cells in the brain, which is microglia. That work was in 1998 when Dr. Genderman and, you know, actually we work on one of the HIV young patient. The patient is over 20 years old and which is she did not know she got HIV infection, but the heart therapy, including the ibuprofen and, you know, after one month treatment, we can see an improvement, also in the MRI, finding the patient truly reversed from dementia. She went back to work as a kind of a teacher because we know microglia is major cells in the brain infected by HIV. If you with the heart therapy get rid of the virus, get also anti-inflammation, you can reverse a young patient from dementia. That's truly give us hope. If we talk about cochlear, that might be the way to help with the disease such as dementia as well. So, you know, clearly can detect that many of cytokine in the CSF. And lately in Shanghai, when we have COVID, we see we collected 215 cases of COVID-19 and also 2050 cases of a control group. We can see the cognitive function score of patients with COVID was significantly reduced. And we specifically see those patients over 50 years old have a severe, serious cognitive dysfunctions. Female patients have a more severe cognitive dysfunction than the male patient. So in this way, and as we know, also COVID-19 is also a double-stranded RNA virus as well. So clearly the virus in related HIV dementia could be related to such as like a microglia inflammation in the brain and also can cause those age people with cognitive impairment as well. So, so then talk about it was the AD part of that. So GLS-1 located in mitochondria, you know, they have a brain function, brain region of the GLS-1, which is brain enriched. And GLS-2 and the KGA due to the alternative splicing. What we see earlier, we can see GLS-1 is HOP activated in HIV dementia. And specifically in GAC is highly expressed in HIV dementia patient as well. The glutamate is accumulating HIV dementia as well. And lately we determine the dementia of the patient, we see the glutamate in the serum as well for that. So lately we did the AD mice. We can see GLS-1 is highly expressed in microglia of the AD mice. And operation of the GLS-1 expression is occlusive of the microglia of AD mice. Then we further we can see that GLS can promote the expression of the prone informative factors and it can be, you know, over expression of that can see more of an increase of those informed factors too. So if we, in the transgenic mice of GLS can induce cognitive decline. And that decline actually is using a nesting conjecture of the GAC in that process as well. So later on we condition a lockout of GLS-1 in microglia. We can see an improvement of that cognitive impairment of AD mice by the specifically condition lockout of that. This data is not published yet. The following of those data is not published yet. I will go really quickly and just share with you and we can see condition lockout can keep the microglia activation and abeta accumulation. And that condition lockout can reduce neural damage in AD mice. And the GLS inhibitor can also, you can see the improved cognitive performance of AD mice of that. And using the inhibitor of that, we can see that, you know, neural inflammation was inhibited as well for that. We can see that can repress with the CbH3-9. You can see the repressed mitochondria damage. And we further detect if the GLS can interact with what kind of protein in the AD. We checked on that. We can see that GLS-1 can mediate the interaction of the VDAC and the HKAs. And that's by this different things we can see that interaction of those proteins. And that can see that, you know, using the HK1 flag and, you know, with the GAC-HRA, we can see this interaction as well. So we can see that GLS-1 can mediate mitochondria localization of HKAs. And GLS-1 can modulate that metabolism of the microglia in this process. So, you know, clearly, we can see also see that GLS-1 can control the mitochondrial memory potentials and the ETC proteins. And they can regulate the mitochondria, you know, myelophagia of that process in terms of mitochondrial fission and the multitude for that. So we can see also see that GLS can enhance the oxid stress of the microglia. And they can see they can enhance the extracellular. If we overexpress the GAC, you can see the increase of the extracellular vesicle release from microglia as well. This one published. So we can see that GLS-1 inhibitor can block the EV release from microglia using the CB839 for that process. And we can see that GLS-induced EV release is actually is glutamine dependent of this process. And also, interestingly, we can see the alpha kilo can actually, you know, reverse the inhibition of the microglia by the peptides, CB839. And the alpha kilo is involved in this process for that through the EV detections. We can see GLS can increase the inflammation potential of the microglia EV. Later on, we overexpress the GLS. We can see the increase of the prone inflammatory micro-NAS in the EV as well. So in this work, what do we see? We can see the GLS condition lockout of the microglia. We can see the reverse of the behavior and also the, you know, pathological changes in this AD mice in this process. And this actually we feel if we truly talking on microglia glutaminase, that might be a could be a very important therapeutic potential for AD and for the process. So, you know, I'm giving a little bit talk about this, you know, of, you know, PND in this way as well later for that, you know, but we, before we talk about that, and, you know, we, I would mention some kind of effort in our clinical team and also our basic research team in terms of how we come after AD with a could be potential AD therapeutic strategy for this process. And clearly we have a cohort of AD cohort in our Tongji hospital. We have the over 3000 MCI and AD and cohort. We are established community and clinical cohort to see if we can help with the multi model of the database biomarkers in this, including the blood serum markers and also including the CSF markers to see help with kind of a early screening and diagnosis of cognitive impairment. We also develop the wearable EEG devices and brain function detection system to help the some indicators of cognitive impairment of early screening and diagnosis for that. We actually have a kind of a kind of a design remote brain health assessment and for this medical impairment detection based on the smartwatch and smart phones and to using the wearable EEG and the wearable, you know, things for this detection to see if that can help for the detection of the early incidents with the rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt rigt 55 in our Pudong district. Now we have more than 7,000 patient cohort in these things for this brain aging process. See how the brain aging, we're leading into potential cognitive impairment. See if some of those biomarkers can see those multi-scale, multi-dimension changes in the brain during the aging process, which can be clinically testable for that process. So for the intervention strategy, and what we see is clearly, as I mentioned, GLC-1 can be one of the most important parts. I'm truly looking forward to discuss with Barbara and yours, and to see a rose glutamine antagonist for that will be very important. Second thing, those axons mediate new inflammation and cognitive impairment, that could be a potential target. We also work on the long brain access. We are working on the pulmonary hypertension patient, over 1,000 patients. We look at the difference between the pulmonary hypertension with cognitive impairment, and the pulmonary hypertension. We also have a pulmonary hypertension patient, we have a very many of the pulmonary hypertension patients. Over 1,000 patients we have collected in this trial to see if the new target strategy in terms of brain non-access for this process of that. For the normal things, we can use axon, injection of axon, you know, using a new stem cells axon for these normal things. Then we can also in situ injection of the catholic particles, helping with the treatment of the antioxidant, antioxidant, and using a part of the insulin or the RVG things for this administration of axon for this process. The second part of that, we try to identify this different biofluid and using this biomarkers helping testing, see if this can be helpful for, see the improvement in our clinical cohort for that process. And using protein biomimic instances of the catalytic material using somatic cell reprogrammed induced new stem cell EV for a process and also using that new stem EV for the therapeutic strategy in our animal motor study. And also the, we're in the process using a human RMPC for that process for the potential human trial for that. And clearly using designing of the new screening of the drugs using the organelle based drug version platform and see if the new drugs can be for targeting we are testing for the process. And clearly also the non-pharmaceutical approaches, which is for the, you know, for the, you know, for the, you know, for the non-pharmacological approaches in the testing of that, of this. And clearly that with, you know, AI plus the BCI based technology, which is a testing by this different testing in the group for this thing, see if that can be helpful for the therapeutic potential as well. So what do we believe that because AD is a very challenge disease, we feel like what we see over, you know, almost 30 years ago now, and we can see the heart therapy can be good for HIV dementia. And what we can hope if we can using a model approaches for AD for that could be combination of the blood flow to improvement, which is we see drugs testing in our pulmonary hypertension patient to helping with also helping with, you know, brain blood flow to improvement for that in combination of the development of the, such as like a new informant inhibition, like, you know, glutamate inhibitor, with kind of a, you know, stem cell derived and the treatment for that. And those things in combination can help with the peripheral and brain interactions of improvement for that process. Clearly, those pathogenic factors in relation with A-beta things of that, or in terms of a new strategy in neural modulation with TMS or DBS for this, or with the new technology with the BCI based cognitive training of that, that. So we hope with one or two or three of those combinations, we would come with a hope for the treatment of dementia, which we don't have any good drugs right now for the therapy for it. So, you know, inclusion of the brain enhancement truly into the Chinese national health strategy and application of the brain enhancement of the multi-dimensional with from the passive treatment to the active prevention to explore interdisciplinary integrations and the clinical translation of this new MAD strategy in our basic and translational and also some of those cohort studies for that. So we do have a, you know, innovation center for basic research and brain aging and association and also critically with interaction with our Shankar Anastasiology and the brain function labs with together with our Tongji Brain Center, we are working on this goal for that process. I'd like to mention to Barbara and also colleagues that we do have a brain aging glial and a neurodegenerative disease. You know, we have been doing this in the past three years. This year's will be, you know, in November, you know, six to eight in Shanghai. And I have invited Michael Preece and, you know, a few colleagues, they agreed to come over. And I'd like to also extend my warm welcome to Barbara. If you can come to China Shanghai this coming November. And I hope after Trump visit in, in April and, you know, since maybe tension, maybe release a little bit for that. And this, I believe this meeting will be helpful promoting the interactions, collaboration, discussions among groups in different part of the world for that process. So for that part, we do have the internal mechanism, how that will be in terms of microchlea, an external mechanism could be through different part of that infection or interactions or potential intervention for the process. We believe that MAT can be the new hope for dementia treatment for that. I'm going to spend a little bit of few minutes about the PND, which is, that's a very interesting part. I do believe the PND is a really important human can be done clinically, you know, how that will be called the impairment can be improved by different means in clinical for that process. And that is truly of the, you know, you know, how that associated with operation with anesthesiology, related to the neurocognitive disorders, which is in half the cognitive impairment, and I believe that a PND for that. The PND is a condition characterized by the cognitive impairment affect the older people after surgery and anesthesia. And actually, you know, that can be age related. And there is a, you know, in the many different things can be related and also the anesthesiology. And if you have the age higher, when older than 65, and they can have a high incidence of rate, they would double of the, you know, for that for the heart cardiac surgery, even the incidence can be about a quarter for that. It's a severe disease and a burden and, you know, you know, increase of 80 risk about more than 10 fold of that incidence of this post operative complication as well. So there is a cognitive dysfunction patient during the, you know, perioperative period, and you can see the AD and the PND, and there is the aphthalic relationship with all with aging group and, and also surgery with aging group can have high incidence of the PND as well. There is a clinical magnification for that. In terms of potential mechanism, clearly, new inflammation can also be important in this process as well. So the PND is can be, you know, degeneration of the, of the many of similar of the clearly new information can be a key pathological factors as well. The microglysis are activating PND. So the specific magnet also remain under investigation in this process. So we did see of the GLS-1 level also increasing our PND microglia and also the, can promote the excellent release informally trigger the microglia activation. And also we look at another pathway, brief error as LCN2, which is the key markers of the, excuse me, of the reactive exercise in uh, pro, uh, promoting the informally response and uh, LCN2 level increase the PND and a lock, lockdown of the exercise LCN2 can rescue the cognitive dysfunction PND and uh, uh, Merck-TK inhibitor can also help with PND as well for that. So GLS-1 clearly, we'll talk about GLS-1 release and uh, trigger the microdegregation, how that relate to the PND process as well. So, for that, we first with, uh, you know, see how that help with the, uh, uh, kind of a biomarkers associated with PND, because they do have a diagnosis challenges of the, uh, neuropsychiatry, a skill with the brain images, with EEG, and also with the biological fluid biomarkers of that in the process. Relake of the objective and, uh, unified diagnosis and predict of the PND and also clinical predict and make of the infective diagnosis, prevention and treatment for the PND. Uh, so to discover PND biomarker with the high sensitivity and specificity, so our group and Dr. Liu, which is the chair of anesthesiology of the 20 hospital with over 25 of the chair of the, uh, uh, anesthesiology and with, uh, neurologic people together, we come up with a kind of a, uh, kind of a biomarkers imaging markers, EEG biomarkers and the molecule biomarkers for the PND, uh, detections. And we are just for the first phase, just published in the last year for that. We're looking forward to, to do more of a cohort study in this process, have a large scale of a clinical cohort based construction of this prediction of that and to see if that can be helpful for this different, uh, uh, dimension prediction model for the PND, which is that's really associated with aging and with operation, operation related for that process. And we just have a paper, uh, recently accepted with the TMS based, uh, the PND, uh, innovations, uh, using the, uh, uh, you know, TMS treatment to improve the patient, the short-term memory of this studies after surgery, and they can inhibit the extensive activation mercury in the mice. And, uh, also they reduce the mitochondria, uh, by fishing in mice of that process. So this clearly, uh, with TMS can be beneficial for this process. And, uh, you know, clearly the other means of the music therapies and the others can be helpful as well for that. So for that part, I just give a very brief introduction of the PND, which is, it can be multi-dimensional prediction model for that. And also for the, uh, related with, uh, uh, you know, interventions in terms of the, uh, model, uh, animal model studies in terms of magnetist study, uh, uh, and still, uh, undergoing, uh, in, in the lab and in our group for that process. So, uh, I'd like to really thank the people, uh, in my group, uh, since I returned to China, as a full-time, uh, uh, you know, uh, faculties in, uh, about nine years ago, and, uh, which is October of 2016. And I would have, uh, my, uh, in a professor, Xia Xiaohuan, who actually with Drew Bing and Wang Yi and Xi Xingri. And those are the faculty members, Zhang Xiaoming, and Gaogu, they're faculty member in our group. And also to have a postdoc fellow and Li Yun, and, um, uh, uh, uh, which is have a, one of the nature aging paper, uh, uh, you know, in terms of mitochondria relationship with, uh, aging and, uh, neurodegeneration of that. And those graduate student and our clinical team and, uh, chair of the neurology, Li Yunxia, and also with, uh, uh, postdoc fellow and, uh, junior faculty, Li Cui and, uh, Zheng Xiaoran. And, uh, they are working on the cohort of this, uh, uh, you know, study with our, uh, you know, MCI patient and also with, uh, aging group in Pudong district for that. With our anesthesiology department, the chair of anesthesiology chair of department of the Liu Jinghui, who was my postdoc in Nebraska. Now she's a chair for, uh, uh, uh, anesthesiology department. She's heading a team specifically with the group of the scientists in anesthesiology, basic research for this process. So I do feel the, uh, basic and clinical research together with neurology and anesthesiology help with the work and with potential mechanism investigation, the target for therapy, and also the new area for the PND. Uh, that could be something, uh, helping with our AD research as well. So I'd like to stop here to take any question you may have. And, uh, if I cannot address question, I will go after the, you go after Barbara because it's two, uh, four, one 40 AM in China right now. So thank you very much for your attention. Uh, very, very, very nice, uh, Xialin for that excellent, um, presentation and run through a tremendous amount of data with GLS and with Alzheimer's and, uh, in the PND. Um, especially given that it's one 30 in the morning, I'm sure there's lots, I have lots of questions, but I'd like to open it up to folks, um, on the call to ask questions. I see, Xialin, you've already unmuted, so I'll start with you. And then next Marcus, um, you, you could go after Xialin. Yeah. Thank you, Dr. Cheng. What a wonderful talk. Really learned a lot. Yeah. So I know you also work on a lot of the disease conditions for the role of myocular glutamate. So my first question is, uh, what do you think is a key function role of myocular glutamines in the context of the AD, uh, PND, or even the chronic stress condition? Are there common factors? Are there common pathways which you would highlight? This is my first question. Uh, second question is, I would like to learn your valuable opinion on what is the role of myocular glutamines in mediating the microglia neural interaction? Yeah, that's my two questions. Thank you. This is actually, uh, two very important questions. And, um, um, through the many years of a study, and, uh, I truly come to myocular glutamines in the context of the! I'm going to move a belief that, uh, uh, I'm going to move a belief that, uh, I'm going to move a belief that, uh, I'm going to move a belief that, uh, uh, uh, a bit, uh, besides, they have the function of a transfer glutamine to glutamate. Clearly there is a additional function of glutamines, which is more of the GAC in myocular, uh, uh, right now the inhibitors are more focused on transfer the glutamine to glutamate. That inhibitor actually worked in animal models in AD, in, uh, in depression, and also in, uh, HIV model as well for that. Uh, uh, we are still, uh, actually try to figure out what is the other function of a GAC in microglia. I don't have a clear answer for that since yet. So I, I would also like to hear your opinions and also Barbara's opinion in this process. So if I can say for your first question, one for that, but clearly the, the inflammatory response driven by the GAC glutaminase is very important. is it's actually is a facilitate that, uh, pro-inflammatory, uh, uh, acid acid decade of this microglia in the brain. But, but, you know, at the beginning that might be, this is good at the beginning, at the beginning that might be good, but, you know, during the chronic process, even in our animal model study in the, you know, 80 model and also in depression model. And I believe your group is doing the similar things too, that, you know, that kind of a chronic, uh, informative response process being initiated or be continued by the glutaminase could be bad, uh, for this process that we'll see from the EV studies from our, uh, you know, some of this work is under review right now, our mitochondria EV studies as well for that process. So I think that could be, things we need to still aware, you know, need to be more investigation in this process. Um, in terms of a second question, it's also, uh, if we look at the, animal model work with our study, I'm sure, with your study within your glutamine antagonist, with, uh, CBH3, 9 of that as well. And, uh, this, uh, inhibitor, uh, is, is, is, is working for that. And also our condition lockout of mice is working as well. So, so that, that's further confirm our hypothesis. If we balance that, the chronic, in formulation response, driven by the glutamase, that might be beneficial for this process in microchlea. So if I can say that, uh, I'm not sure. I'm still, we're still working on that. I, I still don't know what is the exact, exact mechanism for that process. Yeah. I'm not sure if I just question Dr. Zhu. Yeah. Thank you. Marcus, you want to go next? Oh yeah. Thanks. Hi, Julian. It's great to see you after quite some time. Hey, Marcus, how are you? Oh, oh, long time. Well, this was, this was a real tour de force, you know, through your research program. I mean, it's fantastic to see. I mean, you have, you can, you know, address a lot of questions now at, at so many levels, right. And I mean, really between the model systems and the, and, and, and real life. I'm also intrigued that you, that you, you know, come upon lipocalin, because we have been studying lipocalin too, you know, in the context of HIV. And I think there is still, it's really interesting to see, because I think it's like many of the factors and, and this leads to the question, the question that I have is that lipocalin is, you know, somewhat at a crossroads, right. You can have, we can see it can have some protective, the function because it seems to come up also as a factor that limits inflammatory responses, right. And this is, and you see, and it's, you know, very nicely fits with what you see, you know, people have observed it postoperatively in, for example, in people, but also they have seen it in upregulated in people who have had a cardiac event and is linked to, to depression, right. So there is clearly this, this, this link to, you know, the talk or the interaction between the periphery and, and the central nervous system. And coming back to your glutamine is because this is really fascinating. And if you think about that, you know, neurotransmission in general, and also in particular, grammaturgic neurotransmission is so tight, needs to be so tightly controlled. Right. And, and then, you know, and this is like a longstanding, no question that I ask a lot of the people who work on this is, you know, the, you know, we have, and you remember this, we have, we know, there's a lot of discussion that excited toxicity plays a role, right. It was one of the mechanisms. And this is why you think, you know, controlling glutamate levels might be a critical component in, in limiting this. Right. At the other hand, if you look in neurodegenerative, you know, in diseases or impairment, people don't have too much glutamate. They have usually too little glutamate. Right. So, and that indicates, then it goes back to, so why, why is that sounds like, you know, a paradox almost. Right. But I think it points to the point. So I was wondering when you have glutaminase activity, so what actually happens to the glutamine glutamate, where does it go in the cells? Right. And where do you see this activity? Is it just, is it all, you know, in microglia, you would wonder, is it cytosolic? Because we know in neurons, everything, it's gets, you know, sequester to vesicles. How does it work? You know, if you, if you think about microglia, how they regulate, is this just basically that they increase, basically, the principle increase the pool of glutamate, which could be, if you think about the situation where there isn't enough glutamate, right? Might that be a beneficial effect? Or, you know, as long as it doesn't, you know, over activate the cells, right? And basically, it's out of control. And because that then feeds back to the, to the, you know, where do, where does glutamate act? You know, it acts, of course, on the excitatory pathways, but it also acts on some of the inhibitory pathways, right? So, so I was just wondering what you think, how, how does, how does, where is the glutamate going? And, and what, what is the idea about its, its regulatory function? This is a, you know, it's a tough question. Um, it's a tough question. So, because at the beginning, we all believe, or we, at least we believe, glutamate play a very important role in the process. We actually, detect in our, in vitro, model, in our HIV model of that, we can see a very, good, of increase of glutamate, in HIV infection, macrophages. And also, we see the inhibitor, when that's how we, started working with the, uh, TAKESH, and, you know, using their inhibitor, for our process. We see, we, what we measure, in the process, is a measure, the glutamate, accumulation, in our, in vitro model for that. So, I still believe, this is the, you know, excess glutamate, would play, some roles in the process. Because, as we know, that the mimetine, which is the NMDA, received the lousine inhibitor, in, now in the AD disease, uh, model, and also in the AD, uh, patient, they're still working with early stage, of, uh, of the, uh, you know, AD patient as well for that. So, but, the more and more we, work on, the glutaminase, in, macroglia and macrophage, what do we see, that, the increase, of the macroglia, in the protein level, is not, the, uh, KGA. It is, in, more, in GAC. That GAC, we try to, uh, make the crystal structure, of GAC, we tried, very hard, of that, because they have a very short form. We, I spent a lot of money on that too, in China on that, but we still cannot, the crystal structure, of the GAC very well on that. So, we try to, see if the GAC, would have the, more than, different functions, than the glutamate to glutamate, functions in the process. We see an increase in inflammation, we see an increase in form, in fact, we see a lot of EV increase, but, you know, at this stage, we still, cannot see, there are new functions. there is a one group, by the, uh, Xiamen University's, uh, Chen Xiaofeng, they are trying to see, there is a G, glutamate, new function in microglia as well. They are still also working on that, as well for that process. So, so, so, so, let me, your question is, I would say, it does glutamine, glutamate play a role? I would say they still play a role, but do they play the, most of the role, all of the role, I still doubt about it. So, we are still trying to figure that out. But that, that is a very, you know, that is very important of that. Hopefully, we can, finally figure that out for that. What's the, the other function of the GAC in microglia for the process? Yeah. Okay, we will stay tuned for, for updates. Yeah, but that's a very good, it's so nice to see you, and after so many years. So, great. Good to see you, yeah. Thank you. Welcome to Shanghai, come to Shanghai, and we can have more discussions. Tekashi, you want to go next? I think your hand is yours. Yes, hi, Jiren, really nice talk. I'm really excited to see that you are really, making us wonderful transition to the trans-regional research, you know. This is very exciting. So, question I have, I saw in one of your slides, that changes in the metabolism landscape, upon activation of microglia, where you have more glycolysis, and less oxidative phosphorylation. And that reminds me of exactly something happening in cancer cells. And because of that, for the cancer cells, they have other targets beyond the gut terminase, especially on the process of glycolysis and other mitochondria enzymes. can you also see the possibility of other therapeutic targets that could be able to deal with this microglia activation, besides gut terminase? Takeshi, you asked a good question, you asked a good question. No. No. So, so, so, so, um, I still, you know, interesting work is people is being working on the gut terminase is, one is in AD or depression in microglia. The other is also working on the cancer too. Yeah. So, so I do believe this is actually, uh, there will be, uh, good connection there as well for it. Right. Yeah. So, so, so, so, so, so, so this is clearly, this is, uh, is beyond, besides the gut terminase, there is, uh, also the others in there as well, as well too. Okay. All right. Thank you. But this is very good. And I, uh, you know, it's, uh, um, you know, you, you, you, you, you took me to the inhibitor of gut terminase. And, you know, you, you remember you send all those inhibitors with, you know, you know, you, you only know, those code. And after we release the code and the, you release the code, we can see, uh, exciting inhibition of that. Right. So, yeah. So in general, we likes inhibitors. Uh, so just wondering if there's any other targets that, that could be useful in this, especially in a glycolysis, because some of those targets, the, pathway, we may already have a good inhibitors, but we can have some more talk on the offline. Yeah. Nice talk. Thank you. That's great. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Yeah. So then I had a question. You went through very quickly, the data on the GLS conditional knockouts in the microglia, and you compared that to the efficacy you got, um, with the CB 839, but you went through it so fast. I couldn't, I couldn't get the end results. Did you see similar efficacy with the knockout and the drug? And the reason I asked this too, is those drugs are really lousy brain penetrant. You know, when we do brain to plasma ratio, they're quite weak. And so did you measure how much of the CB 839 got into the brain? And was it sufficient to target engage? Um, so anyway, a comparison between the knockout and the drug, and then also, what do you know about the drug exposure necessary to see the efficacy you observed? Yeah. Very good question, Barbara. We see better of the condition lockout, clearly is much better than the drugs for sure. That's true. That's a young answer for that. And also we, you know, for the drugs and, I saw that the, the penetration of the blood and berries is not very good. And, but we, we, we surprised to see that it worked, but it's not as, as a good, efficacy as compared to the condition knockout of that as well. So, so that to, to, to simply address your question for that process. Yeah. Did you have to give higher doses than was used for cancer? Then given the fact that you get so low brain penetration, was your doses high? With the cancer part of that. And the clearly, you know, the cancer part of that is they, they need to be a good, good, good, good conservation for the cancer treatment as, as the people do that. And that drugs, I need to ask, ask for that too. That drug thing, the company for that, produce that drug for the cancer clinical trials, stopped in the stage two, right? Yeah. They, they went bankrupt. Yeah. Calothera. Yeah. I, I know what's going on with the drugs and any people took, picked up on that afterwards or not. Calothera was completely focused on, an oncology and the data was very modest. They had better data when they combined with other oncology treatments, but as a single agent, and even in combination, the data was just not that robust. And so I think investors backed out and the company is folded. So I'm not aware of anything continuing with that in oncology. There is, and you already pointed this out, several people that are looking at the same class of compounds for AD and for depression. But again, the, the difficulty from a drug perspective is they just don't penetrate the brain very well. And so you have to give high doses to get enough there. You know, about things very interesting. I'm not sure why. And in the AD mice, even the drugs, the penetration brain is not very good, but in the AD mice, we can see a good significant decrease of those brain formation and a cognitive impairment. And though, this is a very surprising of us about, but it's not as high efficacy as compared to the condition of narcotic for that. But we do see, do see that. You know, I don't know why, but you know, that's why, you know, I like to collaborate with you, with your new conjugated inhibitor to see, to compare that, it'll be good for that, you know, clearly. Yeah. And I think to Tkashi's point about asking about other things that could be affecting the microglia, the, in addition to glutaminates that might be beneficial. I continue to be struck by the fact that when we use selective GLS-1 inhibitors, they're not as effective as when we use more global and broader glutamine antagonists, they weren't as effective in cancer and they're not as effective in brain. So there, there definitely are other activities that I think are contributing or beneficial. Yes. Yes. That's, that's what I believe too. You know, we feel why, because we, and I did have about two to three years being stuck in mycophage and the regulation of glutaminates in HIV and information driven operation of, of that, that we finally realized it's not the, you know, PGA, but it was GAC. That was actually, the guy actually helped me in Colorado and, you know, he, he, now he retired now. He, he's been very helpful for that process. Yeah. Yeah. Well, this was wonderful. And I'm just looking, we're coming to that, to the hour. And so I just want to thank you so much for participating today. And I know everyone really enjoyed that presentation. So thank you. Thank you very much. Thank you very much Barbara. Thank you, Jared. Nice. And then before, before we go, Caroline, can you, can you say what's up next week? So there's no seminar because it's, it's Croy. Oh, but then, so the next one is on March 4th and it's Marcus call. Oh, well, excellent. All right. Oh my God. I'm looking forward to hear the Michael next time. All right. Yeah. And, and, and John, if you'd like to get on our, our list, although in general, it'll be 1 AM at your time to, to contribute, we can, we can certainly send you, um, and maybe Caroline, you can send him the, the link to be able to, to join. Please. But thank you very much. Really. The great. Thank you very much. Really wonderful today. Thank you. Thank you, Jared. A lot of people. Yeah. Yeah. So. Bye bye. Bye bye. Thank you. Thank you. Dr. John. Thank you very much. Dr.