 drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogasm drogas fibrillation, what are their symptoms, and then we will dive into what are the key aspects of atrial fibrillation management. And lastly, we'll go into a discussion about atrial fibrillation clinic. So atrial fibrillation, again, is the most common arrhythmia, and it's an irregularly irregular rhythm. So on the left of your screen, you see kind of a normal conduction system in the heart electrical system in the heart, where the heartbeat is initiated in the top right chamber of the heart from the sinus node. This is an electrical bundle of cells. And electrical impulses are then conducted throughout the top right chamber to this another place called AV node, which is a bundle of cells that conducts electricity from the top chambers of the heart to the bottom chambers of the heart. And electrical impulses are also conducted from the right top chamber to the left top chamber of the heart. What happens in atrial fibrillation is that there are some spots in the, mostly in the top left chamber of the heart, where the veins from the lung, the pulmonary veins join in and connect with the top left chamber of the heart. And those cells can generate electrical impulses, which in a chaotic manner. And that's what initiates atrial fibrillation. And then it propagates irregularly irregular rhythm in the whole heart. And this is kind of a small animation of just to visualize how the top chambers, instead of contracting, they are querying. And, you know, what causes atrial fibrillation is the kind of big question. We don't understand fully a lot of the causes, but the most important risk factor is aging. So as we age and, you know, have growth and changes in the heart, the normal cells get replaced sometimes with the abnormal cells. And that is causing atrial fibrillation to happen more often as we get older. The other contributing factors is genetics and some genes that we may be born with. And if atrial fibrillation is detected before age 45, that's when we are thinking that genes may be some of the contributing factors why a person develops atrial fibrillation early on. And we usually recommend to do genetic testing at that stage. The other factors include lifestyle factors, such as, you know, being overweight and lack of exercise. We'll talk about all of this later on, high blood pressure, sleep apnea, and alcohol is a kind of one of the major lifestyle factors along with smoking. And medical conditions. Sometimes if people are very sick, those things can contribute to atrial fibrillation, such as having thyroid abnormalities, or being really sick, you know, having infection or other diseases, or having surgery of different types, that can temporarily increase the risk of atrial fibrillation. And then I'm not going to go into varied details of this busy slide, but, you know, there are, again, changes at the cellular level inside the heart in this top left chamber that leads to heart being susceptible for initiating and then propagating atrial fibrillation. It's very common. So if we leave, you know, long enough, one in four to five people will develop atrial fibrillation over a lifetime. And it's projected that the number of people with atrial fibrillation is going to increase over time as we have, you know, aging population and the comorbidities that are associated with aging. You know, AFib, it's associated, the reason we are worried about it in addition to, you know, having symptoms, and we'll cover symptoms, is that it increases risk of stroke, which needs management to decrease the risk of stroke, it's associated with increased risk of heart attack, weak heart muscle, increased hospitalizations. So we, that this is a reason why we put in efforts to decrease these complications associated with AFib. One of the important things to understand in an atrial fibrillation is a progressive disease. So it starts from being just at risk, which is many of us, you know, when you have high blood pressure, when you have diabetes, and, you know, any comorbidities, that those things increase, puts us at risk of developing atrial fibrillation. Then some of us develop symptoms, symptoms such as, you know, few extra heartbeats or runs of extra heartbeats. And those are signs that AFib is about to develop, but it's not there yet. It's called pre-atrial fibrillation. And then finally, we have diagnosis of atrial fibrillation. And permanent atrial fibrillation is if you with your doctor decide that, you know, there is no more, you know, you're not going to try to get back to normal rhythm. And we'll talk about some of the times that that can be, that can be the solution. So types of atrial fibrillation. So atrial fibrillation types are paroxysmal and persistent. Those are just fancy terms. Paroxysmal means at atrial fibrillation that comes and goes. And it, you know, every time it comes on, it lasts less than seven days. And then it goes into persistent atrial fibrillation when, you know, atrial fibrillation happens more than seven days. You know, sometimes atrial fibrillation starts with that paroxysmal episodes when the AFib comes and goes, and then it progresses to persistent atrial fibrillation. So the more atrial fibrillation is in the heart, is happening in the heart, the normal cells are getting replaced with abnormal cells and it propagates more atrial fibrillation. So it's a vicious cycle. The more AFib you have, the more likely that it's going to stay and then heart getting harder to control. And then longstanding persistent, if you is, if AFib is present more than one year, and then permanent is, as I mentioned earlier, when we are deciding, it's not like a physiologic state, but we're deciding that we're not going to restore the normal rhythm. AFib symptoms are very, you know, variable. It's very individual. Everyone feels AFib differently, and some people don't have any symptoms at all. Feeling tired, usually not having as much energy is a very common symptom. Not being able to do things that we used to do before, having heart racing, shortness of breath, or chest discomfort, some of the other symptoms that people may have. But again, it's varies widely among different people. So now, how do we make diagnosis of atrial fibrillation? So we need to have a documented tracing, or like the tracing of the heart activation that confirms that there is atrial fibrillation. So it's either done by electrocardiogram, or heart monitors. Sometimes people wear those patch monitors that can pick up atrial fibrillation. Sometimes people have implanted devices like pacemakers or defibrillators that has a, you know, electrical wire in the top chamber of the heart, and that can detect atrial fibrillation. And more, you know, recently, smart technologies, such as smart devices that you may wear with your wrist, or, you know, have sensors on the back of the small device that can record the electrocardiogram. The other, you know, the other way of detecting atrial fibrillation is this photo flood ismography, which is not an electrocardiogram. This is, you know, any wearable devices like watches, they emit lights, and then they measure the change in the pulse wave into the, in the wrist as the blood is flowing. And then it detects whether this is regular, as in the top tracing here, or it is irregular, as in the bottom tracing there. As you can imagine, there can be many factors while this may look irregular. So there's, you know, all these manufacturers that went through the FDA clearance for this type of devices, went through rigorous testing and algorithm development to make sure that their, their kind of algorithms are accurate for detecting atrial fibrillation, but this is not like, you know, 100%. And I will show you, you know, this is just quickly, like, you know, huge study where people who are just wearing an Apple watch, half million people, about half percent get not got notification that they had atrial fibrillation. And eventually, out of those people who got the notification, only 34% got actual diagnosis of atrial fibrillation on the patch monitor that they were wearing for seven days. Now, that doesn't mean that it was all falsely positive, but it means that, you know, that they may not be having AFib episode when they were wearing the patch monitor. And sometimes this can be this, you know, we have to follow up with the actual recording of the electrocardiogram to make the AFib diagnosis. And this is a very similar study with a Fitbit. And the kind of same result, 1% out of almost half a million patients got the notification and 32% got diagnosed officially with the atrial fibrillation afterwards. And then this is reiterating the comment that if you get an irregular rhythm notification on the watch to contact the physician for the more test, for more testing. And the other tools that these wearable technologies have are actual tracings of the ECGs. And these can be reviewed by clinician. And that's the diagnosis of AFib can also be made by the tracings obtained by wearable technology. As you can see, there's like a comparison of different types of watches and devices. I will point your attention to this in conclusive tracings. There's a lot of times, you know, that the tracing is not good enough to interpret the signal because of the noise. And it's not always that it tells you that it's AFib. It's truly AFib and it tells you it's sinus rhythm, it's sinus rhythm. So there is definitely a value of examining the tracings by the clinician. And moving on to the pillars of atrial fibrillation management. So the main three goals whenever we get diagnosis of atrial fibrillation is to focus on stroke prevention, risk factor modification, how we can prevent the progression of atrial fibrillation, and then symptom management. So first, stroke prevention. It's very important to protect the brain. And the stroke is brain damage, which is caused by the blood flow not going to the brain. So what happens is that when the top chambers are fibrillating, the blood clot can form and that blood clot can move to the brain and cause stroke or any other organs and cause the damage there. So what the options are, either blood thinners, pills, or sometimes people may be eligible for procedure where this stroke prevention can be performed through the procedure. But it depends on your individual risks. And the risk of stroke is assessed by the CHADS-VASC score. On the right of the screen, you see the list of medical conditions, which gives us ability to calculate the annual risk of stroke. On the left of the screen, there is a picture of the heart that is cut out. And you see this kind of a pouch that is coming out. It's called left atrial appendage. And it's like an appendix that we have in the intestines. And this is the area where with atrial fibrillation, there's a slow flow in there and the blood clots can form. So, and your physician will, or clinician, will calculate your specific stroke risk and balance it with your leading risk to make a decision about initiating the blood thinners for stroke prevention. And one quick study that I will highlight is that we're currently doing a study at Johns Hopkins. We are one of the sites for this large randomized study where you can get an Apple Watch directed anticoagulation. So if you have infrequent atrial fibrillation episodes, the watch can monitor for presence of atrial fibrillation and only take it for 30 days around the time when atrial fibrillation is experienced. And the other group is going to take blood thinners normally as they would. And then we'll have an answer hopefully in a few years on whether this is going to be an effective approach Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr.! Dr. 도! 도! 도 도 도 atrial fibrillation recurrence was less and lower, 60% versus 80% among people who did this exercise program and achieved the 210 minutes of exercise per week. And this was also another study of addressing risk factors such as exercise, weight loss, alcohol reduction, smoking cessation after catheter ablation. And I'll talk to you what catheter ablation is, a procedure to treat atrial fibrillation. If you did this program for a risk factor modification, you had better outcomes compared to usual care in terms of recurrence of atrial fibrillation. This is also very strong evidence about alcohol. So there was a study of 140 adults who were drinking more than 10 standard drinks per week. And if you compare the group who was recommended to us in the group of abstaining from alcohol completely for six months versus the people who continued drinking, there was significant reduction in atrial fibrillation recurrence among those who stopped drinking. So overall, these studies have led, and many others have led to recommendations that weight loss of 10%, alcohol reduction or abstinence, we usually say less than two to three drinks per week, smoking cessation, 210 minutes of moderate intensity exercise, controlling your blood pressure, and screening for sleep apnea and treatment are important to prevent, help improve outcomes of atrial fibrillation. And we, you know, it's hard to make behavior changes, and we understand that. And this is why we did some sessions with the patients with atrial fibrillation and their health partners to brainstorm on how, what are the ways how we can help modify this risk factors. And we developed this virtual program, leveraging education and tracking of the medications and health metrics with the smartphone app, as well as smartwatch, black pressure monitor scale, and virtual coaching. And the study is currently in progress at Hopkins, where we are evaluating the efficacy of this and reducing atrial fibrillation recurrence after ablation. So stay tuned for results. In terms of the last pillar, but very important is symptom management. And for most, this means restoring or maintaining normal heart rhythm. And there's a few ways how we can do this. So how we can maintain the normal rhythm is enterorhythmic medications and catheter ablation, where cardioversion is also one of the ways if someone is in AFib for prolonged period of time, more than seven days, or they have very significant symptoms, even for a few days, it can be a short term kind of a band-aid solution. So enterorhythmic medications, they are different types and different classes of enterorhythmic medications. They all come with their own contraindications, what are the health conditions that you cannot use them for, and they usually have a few different side effects. So it's very individualized, you know, what which enterorhythmic medications people may be eligible for. Next is our catheter ablation, which is a procedure that is done in the electrophysiology lab. We put the big IVs in the vein, in the leg, and through those big IVs, put the catheters all the way up to the heart. And you can see on this picture on the right, this is a picture of the top left chamber of the heart. You can see the veins, the red, depicted in red, coming from the lungs to the heart. And around those veins, as I mentioned earlier, those usually the triggers for atrial fibrillation. So we put our catheters there to deliver electrical impulses. Currently, you know, most of us are doing this with a pulse field ablation, which is a new kind of approach for delivering electrical impulses to create holes in the cells that are causing atrial fibrillation and get rid of them. And then we create an electrical map of the heart after we do the ablation to make sure that those areas are now silent and are not able to generate electrical impulses anymore. That, you know, there's no cure to atrial fibrillation per se, meaning, you know, atrial fibrillation ablation success rate is about 70% at one year for people with a paroxysmal AFib, the AFib that comes and goes, and 60% among people with a paroxysmal AFib that is a persistent type, but is more effective than medications and making, you know, increasing chances of being free from atrial fibrillation. And then the cardioversion is a procedure where the pads are placed on the chest, you know, a patient is put to sleep, and electrical impulses is delivered to restart the heart basically. And that leads to restoration of normal rhythm. You never know, depending on how long a person has had AFib, what comorbidities are present, that, you know, there may be a recurrence immediately or, you know, a few months later, you know, or down the road even farther. But this is not a, like, this is not a fix. This is kind of a more of a band-aid intervention. I do want to highlight one of the studies and, you know, I will, trust me, I will explain this, you know, busy slide. But this was a big, big study that was conducted in multiple centers about 2,700 patients who had atrial fibrillation diagnosed within the last 12 months. And they compared if, you know, the rhythm was controlled, early rhythm control, which was done with the antiarrhythmic drugs or ablation. And then control group just got medications to control the heart rate. And after five years, the trial was actually stopped because restoring normal rhythm with either medications or ablation reduced the outcome of, you know, death from the heart issues, stroke, weak heart muscle, admissions to the hospital from weak heart muscle or heart attack. So, this was a big study where, okay, so, you know, restoring normal rhythm is important. And then the second important study was the one comparing whether you do this with ablation versus medications. And this was among patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. And what they found that if you did ablation versus antiarrhythmic drugs, the risk of recurrence of atrial fibrillation at one year was much lower in the group that had ablation than antiarrhythmic, who took antiarrhythmic medications. And similarly, the risk of progression from paroxysmal to persistent atrial fibrillation was less in the group that received ablation compared to the medications alone. And there were more side effects in the group that received medications. And then kind of last but not least, you know, some people are not eligible for rhythm control or restoring normal rhythm for one reason or the other. So, how we can control the heart rate is with medications. Our last resort, if, you know, sometimes people have multiple ablations of medications or AFib for a very long time, we can put wires, you know, pacemaker, basically wires in the top chamber of the heart, bottom chamber of the heart on the right and left side, and disconnect the connection between electrical connection between the top and bottom chambers of the heart. So, that doesn't get rid of AFib. You know, the top chambers are still in AFib, but it prevents heart rate to be high. So, that may be a solution for some. Okay. Okay. And then lastly, we're moving into atrial fibrillation clinic. And I want to emphasize that atrial fibrillation clinic is where, you know, clinicians there are dedicated. You know, atrial fibrillation is very, as you can see, everyone has different journeys and there is multiple components to care. So, you need specialists who understand every aspect of atrial fibrillation management and are able to provide the guideline-directed care. And in fact, you know, it has been shown by studies that people who get care in the atrial fibrillation clinics, it decreases risk of complications from AFib, even mortality associated with, you know, even mortality in the group who has been receiving care in atrial fibrillation clinics. So, at Johns Hopkins, we have atrial fibrillation clinic currently in two locations, and we're expanding at Johns Hopkins Outpatient Clinic. Carly, she's here, and she's going to be joining us for the Q&A session as well. So, she's at the Outpatient Clinic at main campus, and she will be also starting clinic in Glen Burnie starting September. Tara Monplacer, she's also a fantastic NP, specializing in atrial fibrillation, has clinic at Bayview. And Linda Burnieman, fantastic NP, also at Bayview. And she's going to be also opening the clinic in White Marsh starting July of this year. So, to make an appointment, and we'll leave this, you know, this will be recorded and you'll have access to this. To make an appointment, you would need to call this number through the central scheduling, and you will be directed to schedule an appointment. We also have, you know, in electrophysiology department, we have a clinical trials unit where we have a opportunity to offer patients through this trial unit latest and greatest technology and new ideas of how we can improve atrial fibrillation management. So, you know, we offer patients who are eligible for different studies to participate if they are a good fit. And in summary, you know, atrial fibrillation is very common. It's associated with complications. And as we, you know, it's a progressive disease, starts with AFib that, you know, comes and goes and then progresses to AFib that stays longer and then becomes persistent. And it's important, three pillars of management is stroke prevention, modifying lifestyle, and controlling symptoms. And it's important that if you're diagnosed with atrial fibrillation that, you know, you're seen by a specialist who specializes in atrial fibrillation. I want to thank everyone. We have an amazing EP group. Some of our electrophysiologists are here in this picture. And it takes a village to have, you know, everyone specializing in different aspects of electrophysiology here. We are going to now open it to questions. So, you can put your questions in the chat. And we're going to try to get through as many of them as we can. Thank you. Okay. Okay. So, the first question we have looks like, is there an advantage to early ablation even if the patient is only minimally symptomatic? Yeah. That is a great question. You know, minimally symptomatic would technically be still considered symptomatic and still would be considered in that group that has symptoms. One is very, very important thing in terms of, I want to go back to that slide. 30% of people who had, you know, in the, is this, this, this study where they looked at controlling, restoring normal rhythm versus staying in atrial fibrillation. They had no symptoms. It was asymptomatic patients. So, it is, while there's no dedicated studies in this specific population who have absolutely no symptoms, it is, you know, we can potentially extrapolate the results of this, you know, from this study that it could be beneficial, even in this group who is minimally symptomatic. But we definitely need more symptomatic. But we definitely need more studies to say definitively that, yes, you will benefit from ablation, even if you have minimal symptoms. The next question we have is, if I have the ablation at age 59, how long will it last? Well, I wish that's, I wish we knew that. And, you know, I think that, you know, one, it depends on type of atrial fibrillation that one has, you know, whether it's paroxysmal or persistent. As I mentioned earlier, people who have paroxysmal AFib and get ablation relatively early on the disease course. The success rates for ablation is higher than people who have atrial fibrillation that is persistent. And it also, you know, now probably we're going to have more tools with the artificial intelligence and so forth where we can maybe more precisely predict individualized risk of recurrence. But currently, there is no, you know, specific tools that we have to predict individualized risk of recurrence. Okay, the next one is, as an AFib patient, if my resting heart rate is over 100, is it safe for me to exercise? Yes, and Carly, feel free to take any questions. As, you know, Dr. Isakase said, we do recommend cardiovascular exercise to help with AFib and with reducing other, you know, cardiovascular risks. Now, we do focus a lot on rate control. So it is important, you know, that, you know, your heart rate when an AFib is better controlled. So, you know, it depends on how high over 100 and what we tell you kind of to do, you know, and how symptomatic you are as well. So I think it depends on how you're feeling and, you know, other factors, you know, is the pumping function of your heart normal and things like that. So we individualize every single patient and we answer all these questions in clinic based on, you know, what you look like. Exactly. I completely agree. Just go by how you feel because your heart rate is going to be higher in AFib than sinus rhythm with exercise. Looks like the next question is about the Cardia device. Yeah. So I can tell you about that. Yeah. So, you know, it is one of the smart devices that comes in different shapes and forms now. Like one is, I think, like even in a credit card shape. And then the other one is like a small rectangular device where you kind of put the fingers on different sides and then it records the electrocardiogram. And, you know, it can be useful. I would use it as together within your discussion with your clinician, whether, you know, you're exactly right that it has to be helpful. Like how does it help? It doesn't help everyone. It will help if you're specifically looking for something. For example, if you want to correlate your symptoms with AFib episodes, that may be a good one where, you know, okay, so I feel like really tired this afternoon. Like, and let me check my rhythm is this atrial fibrillation. So Cardia device or any other smartwatch device that can generate an electrocardiogram can be helpful in this case. The other situations is to, you know, someone had atrial fibrillation when they were in the hospital with some other acute illness. And then now it's been three months and you're wondering if you were having atrial fibrillation even outside of those, that time period. So, and that can be used to monitor for any presence of any atrial fibrillation. So it is very individualized for what we use it for. And it's important to have that discussion with the clinician how you're going to use it. The next one's talking about if you're resting heart rates in the low 40s, are there any antiarrhythmic medications that would work? This is tricky. We do get this sometimes. You know, low 40s is low, but some people aren't super symptomatic from that. However, all the medications that we use to treat AFib are going to make your heart rate go lower. So typically for these patients, I would recommend an ablation over an antiarrhythmic drug. Yeah, I agree. Does medication or ablation have greater success or is it generally mix or both? So, yeah, that's a great question. So it really depends on the individualized type of atrial fibrillation. You know, as I showed earlier the study where they looked at ablation versus medication, you know, ablation was superior and more effective in reducing the recurrence of atrial fibrillation. And that trial was done among patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation. So whether it's the same for persistent, we don't know, but we do know that even in persistence, ablation substantially reduces the amount of AFib one has. So it really depends on also comorbidities, like what else is going on in the body. Like, you know, if there is other health factors that are happening that may not make someone as a best candidate for ablation. So, and then current guidelines from 2023 do recommend ablation that we can offer in people who have paroxysmal AFib that don't have multiple comorbidities and first-line intervention. And even, you know, that's something that the path that we choose and sometimes in persistent patients as well. So next one looks like what's the effect of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy on AFib and vice versa? Yeah. Do you want to take that or I can? You go ahead. I see this overlapping. Yeah. I think, yeah. Well, you know, hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, you know, is affecting the muscle in the atrium as well. And the risk of stroke goes higher with the hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. So we no longer consider that traspas score. If you have hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, you know, everyone needs to be in a blood thinner. And then also with the hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, it's, you know, less likely for people to tolerate atrial fibrillation. So that's why we are more aggressive in restoring normal rhythm when there is an underlying hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. So it does affect those kind of two pillars of AFib management. And I will say that some of the medications that we use to treat AFib, we can't use in patients with that condition. So that's another thing to keep in mind. Does daily sodium and water consumption have a known impact on AFib? No, not that I'm aware of. Yeah, I agree. The only thing would be like if you're, you know, eating a lot of sodium and then you have high blood pressure, high blood pressure is a risk factor for AFib. But yeah. Yeah. What's the difference between AFib and AFlutter? Good question. Yeah. Yeah. As Dr. Isakad, they said AFib comes from an area in the top left chamber of the heart around the four pulmonary veins. Atrial flutter is another type of heart rhythm abnormality that comes from the top chamber of the heart. But it can come from either the right or the left side, depending on, you know, what the EKG looks like and, you know, when they go in there and where it's coming from. So atrial flutter also is usually a more regular rhythm. Sometimes it can be a regular, but patients feel different typically when they're in AFib versus when they're in atrial flutter. So it helps to see the EKG and, but the main difference is where it's coming from in the heart. Okay. If I had an ablation, but went back into AFib after a few months, can I get another ablation to avoid meds? Yeah, that's a good question. So it really depends on how soon after ablation, like the first two to three months, like it used to be three months when we were doing ablations with the thermal energy, which is heat or cold. Now with pulse field ablation, that it's now two months that is considered healing phase where, because we worked in the heart, there is some inflammation that we generally create. So there's the recurrence, risk of recurrence in that healing phase, which is not really considered as a failure of procedure. But if it's beyond that time, you know, it's probably worse to, you know, maybe try, you know, depending on the situation, either try meds temporarily and see if it truly is back. And then if it's truly back, then yes, people can certainly get redo ablations. Carly, you want to take this one, next one? Yes. Yes. Okay. What's an ideal BP for an AFib patient? So controlled. We definitely, you know, our goal is less than 140 over 80. So, you know, we want to keep your blood pressure definitely controlled. It's not going to be different for AFib versus, you know, the rest of the population. Right. Right. Is there any connection between AFib and valve disease? Well, certainly, you know, any structural changes in the heart when there is, you know, structural disease, whether it's going to be valves or prior surgeries, that certainly creates, you know, increases the risk of atrial fibrillation. And sometimes depending on the degree of the valve disease, the valve disease may need to be addressed first or vice versa, just depending on what's the driving cause, driving source. But, and then if there is mechanical valves, then, or if people have rheumatic disease and that's causing severe valve problems, the blood thinner choice is different than in people who don't have valve disease. Okay. Okay. Okay. And then the next question is, my AFib stops after exercise, is that normal? You know, I love to hear this type of comments, you know, because everyone is so unique in kind of what the personalized potential triggers for atrial fibrillation can be. So, it is certainly like, you know, you probably have some more adrenaline driven type of AFib. And then kind of when the, you know, exercise stops, there's a right balance of sympathetic and parasympathetic nervous system that makes it stop. So, yes, it is very different. Different people have different triggers and things that can terminate atrial fibrillation. So, it's not, you know, it's not abnormal. Okay. So, next one is, is it normal for your chest area to be sore after an AFib episode or shock? So, after an, you know, during AFib or after episode, you know, it's, you know, your heart is running a marathon. So, there is, you know, as the same way as our muscles get kind of sore after running, you know, your heart also can feel sore with a rapid heart rate with atrial fibrillation. And by shock, if you mean like cardioversion, there can be some soreness from the, you know, the patch and electrical current that goes through it. But it should not persist for a long time. And if it doesn't, it does require a discussion with a clinician. And I think Carly is coming back. I'm so sorry. No problem. Yes. Okay. And then next question, do you want to take it? If you are back on normal. So, 15, you mentioned this one. I can't see. Okay. I can't see. I'll read the question for you. Sorry. You mentioned episode lasting less than seven days for paroxysmal AFib. Do you mean a continuous episode or occasional episodes, a few a day, lasting for short periods but occurring over a seven-day period? So, is this talking about paroxysmal? Yes. Not sure. So, yes. So, for paroxysmal AFib, it's when you go in and out of AFib. If you have an episode of AFib that lasts more than seven days, then we consider that persistent AFib, which is kind of our second stage of AFib. At that point, you typically require either a cardioversion or an anti-rhythm medication to get back into normal rhythm. So, at that point, you know, I usually, when I'm counseling my patients, I tell them, you know, if you know you go into AFib and it's lasting for more than seven days, please reach out to us so that we can get you back into normal rhythm. That's right. That's right. Okay. So, let me make sure. Are anticoagulation meds beneficial for AFib patients? Yeah. Absolutely. So, stroke prevention, as I mentioned, is one of the core pillars for atrial fibrillation management. So, it depends on individualized risk. So, your personalized risk will be calculated by your clinician and balanced with the risk of bleeding. And, you know, if their stroke risk is high and bleeding risk is low, you know, everyone should be on a blood thinner to prevent stroke. So, it says, can you talk about Watchman device? So, yeah. So, Watchman device is a device that goes into the left atrial appendage. So, when Dr. Isakadza was talking about where the clots sit that cause stroke in patients with AFib, it's that little dog ear off the side of the top left chamber of the heart. We call that the left atrial appendage. Dr. Berger here does a lot of our Watchman procedures. He compares it to an appendix. It doesn't really do much. It just causes issues. So, I like to use that kind of comparison for patients. A Watchman device is beneficial for patients that have a high stroke risk score requiring indefinite anticoagulation due to AFib, but can't tolerate a blood thinner or have issues with a blood thinner. So, a lot of patients come in, they have GI bleeds or frequent nose bleeds or things like that. We see a lot for Watchman. I agree. And then, you know, sometimes there's no more evidence that it can even be offered without, if there is no, you know, even if people can, don't have those contraindications to blood thinners. And it's with a shared decision making and talking with your clinician if that's the right solution for you. Can you comment generally on positive or negative effects of GLP-1s and heart, specifically AFib? Yeah, so, you know, there is a lot of evidence that weight loss, you know, more than 10% is decreasing risk of AFib recurrence. And we're now in the era where the GLP-1 drugs can certainly help people get there, and we have more people get there than we in the past could. So, this is certainly an important advancement in a way where GLP-1s can help with their weight loss, which then helps with their reduction in the atrial fibrillation progression. So, Carly, next one. The first question I can see is 21. Is that where we're at? 19. 19. I can't see that one yet. Sorry. Okay. With permanent AFib, do you recommend an ablation first or sleep apnea device implanted first? Oh, interesting. I actually, device implanted for sleep apnea. So, are we talking about Respire maybe? I don't see it, or Inspire, I'm sorry. We don't see a ton of those much anymore. So, I'm not exactly sure actually on that. You know, treatment of sleep apnea, we definitely recommend, regardless of the way that you choose to do that, because untreated sleep apnea can contribute to AFib. So, you know, as far as I know, there's no contraindication for, you know, procedure done for sleep apnea and an ablation for AFib, but I don't know if there's any sort of specific recommendations for which one to do first. Are you aware? Yeah, and Carly, I know you don't have that question in front of you. The question was actually about permanent AFib. So, for permanent AFib, we don't know. Oh, okay. Sorry. Yeah. No, no. Yeah. For permanent AFib, you know, we, you agree with your clinician that you're not going to, you know, try anything to restore normal rhythm. So, no, no ablation, no meds to restore the heart rhythm. You're just controlling the heart rate. Carly, do you see 20? 21 is the first one I see. I'm sorry. Do you offer a second opinions? Do you need to be seeing a cardiologist before coming to the clinic you run? How many locations do you have and where are they? So, that's a great question. Obviously, we are happy to see everyone first time or second opinion. And they don't, you don't need to see a cardiologist before coming to atrial fibrillation clinic. Carly, Tara, and Linda will take care of the atrial fibrillation and direct you to one of us, electrophysiologists, if there is an ablation that is indicated. So, in terms of locations, we currently have up and running at downtown Jones-Supply and South Patient Center and Bayview. And we're opening up coming very soon at White Marsh and Glen Burnie. And we'll be expanding even more. Yeah. So, now I can see the question. It's 21. Can you comment on breathing exercises, vagal maneuvers, box breathing, or cold on the face to lower your heart rate? So, yeah. So, a lot of patients do these, but it's mainly to get out of SVT. So, a different type of fast heart rhythm from the top chamber of the heart. You know, breathing exercises may help lower your heart rate when it's elevated. But in terms of getting you out of AFib, these are, you know, not, I haven't found effective maneuvers for patients unless it's a different type of SVT, fast heart rhythm from the top chamber. Right. Right. Right. Then, our next question is, how can you tell if you should go to the ER with palpitations last several hours? So, that's a great question. And we recommend, actually, in the AFib clinic, too, that everyone has their own plan with their clinician. What happens if you go in the AFib? So, whether it's taking an extra dose of medication, which may not be right for everyone, but with the kind of certain heart rate thresholds, you know, whether to try to manage it at home. Obviously, if anyone is experiencing symptoms that are life threatening, you know, about to pass out, you know, severe symptoms of any kind, like shortness of breath, etc., then should go to the ER. So, we try to have a plan, one, you know, make sure you have a plan with your clinician, what would be the next steps of our management and reach out to clinic during the, you know, reach out to the clinic for guidance if the symptoms are not severe. How many procedures have you seen on one patient if AFib occurs? Me, personally, I think I've seen four or five in one patient. Dr. Isakaze, how about you? Yes, same, you know, exactly. So, I think, you know, ablation procedures, you know, can be multiple and also, you know, cardioverses, I don't know, Carly, like 30 or something that we have. Yes, yes, a lot. Is there any connection between AFib and Lyme disease? How about left bundle branch block? Yeah, so I've definitely seen Lyme and left bundle branch block. You know, in terms of AFib, I've seen some overlap. I don't know the direct correlation. It might be like an inflammatory type response, but do you know anything further? Yeah, I think that's a good question for further research. I don't know if there's any, I'm not aware of any established connections and not like left bundle branch block and connection disease is not a risk factor for atrial fibrillation. Can you describe what AFib generally feels like, flutters, palpitations, queer? You want to take this one, Carly? Yeah, so every patient is very different. I will say I've seen a lot of patients that come in an AFib and they feel nothing at all. So always my first question is if I get an EKG and it's a new patient, I go in and I ask them how they're feeling today before telling them what their rhythm's like or what the rhythm is. But most commonly reported symptoms I feel are palpitations and fatigue. Those are the most common ones. And I will say the symptoms of AFib are only when you're in AFib. And so when you go back into normal rhythm, the symptoms should dissipate and go away. And so that's why we like to see how patients feel when they're in sinus rhythm versus AFib to determine, you know, how aggressive also with treatment that would be. Like AFib has to be at least 30 seconds in duration. So 10 seconds is usually not AFib. Yeah. And it can be that pre-atrial fibrillation, you know, that those runs that of arrhythmias that can be assigned that the, you know, the changes in the heart that is then kind of a substrate for atrial fibrillation to develop. Do you do virtual visits? I live in South Carolina. Yes, we do have telemedicine, but, you know, you would, when you call a line, you know, it depends also on the, you know, when people are out of state, I believe that's more challenging. Due to like reimbursement issues, but we definitely have telehealth, telehealth slots for patients who cannot come in in person. What are the newest antiarrhythmic drugs which are considered most successful or is ablation first time of treatment? I'm guessing first time of treatment, maybe. Noest antiarrhythmic drugs. I actually don't know. A lot of them are very old. They've been around for, at least since I've started working in 2019. So, we have a handful, not an indefinite number of antiarrhythmic drugs. I definitely have, you know, some that I favor and find more successful for some patients rather than others. But again, ablation is deemed more successful at suppressing AFib than antiarrhythmic drugs. Yeah, I agree with you, Carly, that, you know, antiarrhythmic drugs, there are some in development, but, you know, generally they've been around for a while. And, you know, there may be more coming, but right now there's not, like, a lot of new drugs that are out there. Can AFib cause blood clots? Certainly. Certainly. So, that's, you know, that's the earlobe type of kind of a structure attached to the top left chamber of the heart that I showed. And that's the spot where the blood clots can form in atrial fibrillation because the heart is beating irregularly. And that blood clot can then travel to either brain to cause stroke or other organs and cause damage there. So, that's why it's important that everyone discusses their own risk of blood clots and then is on prevention methods like either medications or a device to prevent those blood clots happening. Okay. It looks like we have time for a few more questions. Do AFib patients usually have high or low blood pressure? I mean, I've seen both. So, a lot of the, as we mentioned, some of the risk factors for AFib are hypertension. So, a lot of patients that come in with AFib have a history of hypertension. In terms of if your blood pressure is low or high in AFib, I mean, I've seen both. I will say, you know, for me, I think most commonly it's low, but I don't know if there's any sort of really correlation between that. Okay. Can you comment on the accuracy of Apple Watches and telling you you're an AFib? This is Dr. Sakadze's specialty. Yes. Yes. So, again, it really depends on the tracing, whether there is a lot of noise or not. And then, most of the time, you know, I will not kind of relay on the output, automated output, without examining the tracing kind of on my own. And then, I think that's a good question, because there can be some false positives and then false negatives, especially if people have a lot of extra beats coming from the top chamber or bottom chamber of the heart that can create some, you know, mistakes in how it's interpreted. But overall, it's pretty good. But if you are making a decision based on this, you need to, you know, have clinician review it. So, I think, thank you so much for, you know, so many great questions and for being with us and spending this time to discuss atrial fibrillation. Please fill out the survey and send an email if you have any additional questions. We're happy to respond to your questions. And then, for an appointment, this is a phone number at the end of the slide where you can call and schedule your appointment. Thank you very much. Thank you. Thank you.