 nassititititit. Hello. My name is Melinda Wu. I'm a pediatric endocrinologist at Johns Hopkins. At the 2025 North American Cystic Fibrosis Conference, I had the privilege of discussing women's health, specifically bone health. Other colleagues discussed CF specific concerns for pregnancy, lactation and menopause. People with cystic fibrosis are at increased risk for osteoporosis at a young age. Some studies of people with CF have shown that children do not accrue bone mass as quickly as healthy peers and that young adults are not maintaining their bone mass as their healthy peers are doing. There are many factors affecting the risk for and timing of when a person may develop bone disease. There is little data so far about contraceptive method and bone health for women with CF. In healthy women, the use of depoprogesterone injections can prevent bone accrual. In other populations at risk for osteoporosis, combined oral contraceptive pills may not provide sufficient estrogen for bone accrual. In our previous single center cross-sectional study, the use of contraception with progesterone and estrogen was associated with lower bone density. In our follow-up study, we found that the age at which estrogen-containing contraception was started affected the trajectory of bone density. At NACFC, I was able to present our recent findings from the case for CF study. The case for CF study is a cross-sectional study of self-reported contraception use since their first period in women with cystic fibrosis. These survey results from 551 women were then matched to national longitudinal patient registry data spanning 13 years. These participants were recruited from 10 sites, including Johns Hopkins. Overall, these women who participated were relatively healthy and representative of women in the United States with cystic fibrosis. They were young adults, majority white, taking CFTR modulators with normal BMI, as well as good lung function defined as greater than 70% predicted FEV1. First, we compared the registry data and a manual chart review of one-fifth of the participants. When comparing the registry-reported osteopenia and osteoporosis to low bone density as measured by DEXA, there was an 81% agreement between the registry and manual chart review. Then, we performed univariable and multivariable Cox proportional hazards models to examine the association of risk factors and developing bone disease in the following year. In univariable analysis, increasing age, lower BMI, lower FEV1, and the use of progesterone-only contraception were each significantly associated with an increased hazard of developing bone disease in the following year. However, when we did multivariable analysis, adjusting for age, BMI, FEV1, and contraceptive method, we found that only increasing age and lower BMI remained significant. But the case for CF study was specifically looking at the association of contraception and the risk of developing bone disease. And so, we followed up on our univariable result that the use of progesterone-only contraception methods was associated with an increased hazard of developing bone disease in the following year. And we specifically split out the use of systemic progesterone, like depoprogesterone injections, from locoprogesterone, like a progesterone-eluting intrauterine device, IUD. And then, we found that systemic progesterone was associated with an increased hazard of developing bone disease, like in the general population, but this did not reach statistical significance. Part of why we think that this result may be true is because participants in this study changed their contraceptive method of choice. And few participants persisted with any single contraceptive method for more than four years at a time, although they may have switched back and forth between different contraceptive methods. This was also a retrospective study relying on self-report and the recall from 13 years of prior medication use. And a thank you to my colleagues and collaborators at Johns Hopkins and Emory University and everybody in the Case for CF Osteoporosis group.