 The Fit and Healthy Kids Clinic is a clinic at Kennedy Krieger Institute that's multidisciplinary that was designed to treat kids that either have elevated BMI above the 95th percent of the average, ambul ambul ambul ambul ambulier ambulier ambulier ambulier ambulier ambulier ambulier ambul!! concern or that the BMI is already over the 95th percentile. Most of the kids and young adults that come and see us do have a cognitive or physical difference like the ones we spoke about, but it's not an absolute requirement. We're welcome to all children or young adults that need to come and see us. So the treatment options that we have for either rapidly rising weight or elevated weight in childhood is actually pretty broad. Sometimes the treatment is just lifestyle alone. And in the patients that we treat at Kennedy Krieger Institute, the lifestyle changes can actually be very complicated, which is why it requires a dedicated team that has experience with this population. Other times we do use medications and some of the pharmacotherapy that is typically associated with treating adolescent or young children with elevated weights. And those medications are at least five to six. It really depends. Sometimes it's not about adding a medication, but removing one or changing one that is actually promoting weight gain. The other parts of treatment involve whole health, right? So how is sleep? Do we have sleep at the end that needs to be addressed? Are we getting the right number of sleep hours? Sometimes it's about movement. Are we getting enough movement during the day? And so that's part of the lifestyle recommendations as well. And then other parts are about nutrition. How many in a child who, for instance, is only getting G-tube feeds? Can we modify the nutrition that they're getting through the G-tube? Or in somebody who has very picky eating, can we modify some of the types of foods that we're getting? And can that shift something? And sometimes it's just about basic education of what good nutrition is that may shift the curve. So what is the healthful eating activity and weight program? The healthful eating activity and weight program is a clinical program dedicated to supporting healthy living for individuals who have overweight or obesity. And in this program, we work one-on-one with patients. We also have group visits. And we try to develop a comprehensive strategy to support each individual's health goals. And this may involve multiple areas of support. So we encompass lifestyle interventions such as nutrition, physical activity, looking at behavioral health interventions, as well as sleep. And then we also may incorporate medications as part of our management. So our team is primarily comprised of obesity medicine specialists. These are individuals who have completed additional training in the pathophysiology and treatment of obesity. In addition to that, we collaborate very closely with bariatric surgeons, as well as gastroenterology to offer different types of treatment modalities, including endobariatrics and bariatric surgery. We also work closely with nutrition through dietitians, as well as behavioral health with clinical psychologists as needed. And lastly, we also collaborate with hepatology and endocrinology as two commonly used specialties. So our program has patients who are 16 years and older. And generally, our patients are looking to achieve some form of weight loss support. And they may also have some coexisting medical conditions as well. So children with disabilities are at a higher risk of being overweight because they have different needs than other kids. That's one of the biggest factors. So sometimes that looks like different feeding patterns or different nutrition plans or pickiness of eating. The textures or colors or taste of foods may be very sensitive to that. And so that needs to be adjusted. Food as a love language is very important in this population too, like most of the population. But sometimes it may be the only real connection time between the caregivers and the kids. And so sometimes that has to be addressed. The physical activity needs are different of this population. They may be sensitive to large crowds or sensitive to sweating or they don't like a way a certain activity makes them feel. So they're less likely to do it. So the general inherent physical activity that some kids have by going out and playing with their friends or playing on a sports team may be different in this population. So their activity may be lower. There may be more screen time because that might be a way to modify behavior or to reward good behavior as the screen time. And so sometimes the screen time is higher, which means less activity. The sleep may be more abnormal than typical. So sleep apnea may be more common. Some kids have central sleep apnea. Some kids, because of the way that their brain works, it's hard for them to fall asleep or they wake up early. So they get less hours of sleep, which changes the metabolism. And then finally, a lot of these kids are on medications that promote weight gain. And that makes it really challenging to be at a healthy weight if you're on a medication that promotes weight gain or elevated sugars or increased eating. So all of those things have to be addressed during the clinic visit. So overweight or obesity are conditions that we have come to understand as truly complex and multifactorial. There are many drivers and one of the primary drivers for individuals may be genetics. But then you layer on top of someone's baseline genetic predisposition that they're living in a specific environment that is going to have specific factors like what type of food access, cultural preferences, knowledge do they have. And then in addition, like their neighborhood environment, how physically active are their parents or their siblings, that environment, right? And then all of the trajectories and things that happen in life for that person. And so you essentially have, you know, someone's baseline genetic composition or their genes, and then you have the environment in which they live in and they grow up in. And if you combine both of those things together, we have this concept known as epigenetics where, you know, there's a predisposition and then there's environment altogether, you know, there's something that develops over time. And so we can end up seeing that somebody who perhaps is initially predisposed to weight gain, you know, in an environment where they have access to more, you know, processed food that are a little bit higher in calories, lower in nutrient density, less access to physical activity, higher stress levels. You know, these are just examples of drivers. And that person over time can then, you know, manifest with overweight and obesity. That's one example of a scenario, but gives an, you know, just an idea of how this is really a complex problem. So overweight and obesity have traditionally been defined by something known as body mass index, or BMI. And this essentially is a measure of somebody's height as measured by their surface area and their weight. And so someone's height and weight is put into this calculation that is their body mass index. And we don't need to go into the full history, but essentially these thresholds have been used at a population level to be able to predict risk of early mortality and also early morbidity. And morbidity just refers to having some conditions or complications of health that are related to that weight gain or that increase in body mass index over time. I will say there's a lot of nuance that is now, you know, I think more readily understood and hopefully incorporated into medical practice beyond just that BMI measurement. But by strict BMI criteria, there are specific kind of thresholds of 25 to 29 for non-South Asians, so everyone else. That would classify someone as having overweight and then above 30 as classifying someone as having obesity. Now, with all of that said, there are subsequent classification schemes that have been created to really better further define someone's actual health status and health risks. So a referring practitioner, whether a primary care doctor or a subspecialist, should understand that obesity is a complex disease and multifactorial and lives within some sort of a home environment. And so an understanding the part of the family and the child is very important before making a referral. I think sometimes referrals are made, you know, with the intention of doing something good for a child. But if a child and or their family is really not ready to commit to working on something that is hard and is a long journey, then it's not they're not going to be successful in it. And so I think having that, you know, really honest kind of discussion with the family and making sure that they understand, like, this is why we're doing this. We really want to support your kid developing in a way that's healthy for the rest of their life and support healthy habits and just a healthy growth trajectory for them. That's really the intention. The intention is not fixating on a specific number that's perfect. It's really all around kind of health.