 I got into medicine and physical medicine to expand on my application of biomechanics in patient care, to give the patient a nudge in the right direction to allow the human body to heal itself, maybe with a medication, maybe with an intervention, but I find it very rewarding to give the patient the opportunity to heal and to get back to the things that they enjoy doing the most. My name is Dr. John Manor. I am a physician here at Johns Hopkins, and I hold board certifications in physical medicine and rehabilitation, as well as interventional pain medicine. My practice focuses on the treatment of any and all painful conditions that people may experience, and I do that through a variety of methods, including medications, interventions such as joint injections, peripheral nerve injections, implantation of stimulators, and nerve ablations. Prior to medical school, I was an athletic trainer doing a lot of musculoskeletal medicine, so it was a natural fit for me to take that biomechanical knowledge and apply it as a physical medicine physician, expanding my toolbox, growing my skill set, and applying the entire gamut of patient care to musculoskeletal injuries, but as well as any other painful condition. When approaching patient care, I like to take a whole patient approach, because as a biomechanist, there are so many cases where one problem is fed into by another throughout the body, and so I do my best to take my time, listen to my patients, and truly find the root of their problem. One of the things I enjoy most about working for Johns Hopkins is the collegial nature of this institution and the access to a myriad of specialists that can help with patient care. As a pain medicine physician, my patients tend to be quite complex, and having access to any and every specialty you can think of is critical for my patients. So while as a pain medicine physician, I hope you never need my care, I'm happy to treat you as best I can and direct you to anybody else that you may need to see as well. you