 naringin. Welcome to Medicine Made General. A podcast for patients. A podcast for patients. Brought to you by the Johns Hopkins Division of General Internal Medicine. I'm Katie Cavendiss-Croley. And I'm here with my co-host. Dr. B. Malasher. Thank you. Katie. I hope you're doing well. Today. We are. Thrilled to have. Dr. Charlene. She. A. Sleep. A. Sleep. Sleep. B. B. Oh, thank you so much for having me. We're so excited to have you. Thank you again. So I wanted to get started. You know, there's a lot being said about the importance of getting enough sleep. Charlene, I was hoping you could speak on the potential health consequences for people who don't get enough. Absolutely. And I love to have this type of platform to push that sleep really is the other vital sign that needs to be added to our list of other crucial vital signs. It is something that is like the steering wheel of a car. And I like to always say to patients, you know, the steering wheel isn't there. Sure, the car may be able to turn on, but it has reckless direction potentially. And so that that's really what sleep is. You need it to not just function, but function at your best. And for the whole engine of your body to function at its best. And we don't want people to get behind a steering wheel if they haven't had enough sleep. Exactly. Exactly. So it has meanings on so many literal and figurative levels. Yes. So, you know, Charlene, I have patients who I've seen over the years who will say to me, yeah, I get five hours of sleep a night and that's enough for me. I am I've been doing this my whole life and that's OK. So, you know, how much is enough and how do people know what the right amount of sleep is? Yeah. So I'm going to go back to that the car that doesn't have a steering wheel. So, again, that person with five hours, sure, they may be able to turn on that car. But if the steering wheel isn't there, that the handling isn't going to be that great. They're not going to be able to go in the directions they need to go. And so we have a very few there are a percentage of people. It's a small percentage of people who are actually short sleepers. And and we sort of qualify that as five hours or less. But it is a very, very small percentage of people. So most of the people who are endorsing that they get five hours of sleep and doing well, they really aren't. They are functioning, but they're not functioning at their best. And really, the best way for a person to do that is an experiment on themselves, you know, and have those opportunities, say, when you're on vacation and you can sleep in, like give your your body that opportunity to sleep as long as it wants and to wake up without an alarm clock. And I and then I challenge those folks. Is it still five hours? If it's still five hours to two weeks later, because, you know, a lot of times you have to pay back your sleep, your body's trying to catch up. Then maybe that's the case for you. But most people, that's not. There are more people walking around saying they only need five hours of sleep and are actually sleep deprived. Hmm. So I am I will say I'm guilty of this, you know, just with, you know, having a full time job and motherhood and all these other things. You know, I kind of have adopted at times the mindset of catching up on miss sleep. Is there such a thing like on the weekends getting to sleep in a little bit? Can you talk more about that? Sure. Sure. So there there is some research to suggest that you cannot completely catch up on your sleep. However, the next option is if you cannot get the sleep in a consolidated way when you can, it's better to get get that sleep somewhere than no sleep at all. So there is a cumulative effect of what we call long term partial chronic sleep deprivation. So as when you can, it's really important. So those folks that I can only catch up on the weekends, I tell my patients, take it because I'll take that over nothing. You know, that that is great. You know, the thing that has changed over the last number of years is the availability of these wearables where where you can kind of track your sleep. What do you think of those? And, you know, I've had patients say to me, well, you know, and they start showing me these graphs and, you know, and I almost think sometimes they get a little obsessed about it. But I'm curious as to whether you recommend them and and how you recommend people use them. That's a fabulous question. So, yes, the number of wearables or devices or not even wearables, they call them nearables because it's like actually in your room and maybe tracking some things. It's just flooded the market. And I have two views on this. And it comes back to taking that and personalizing it to the patient. And that's AI love the idea that it is actually brought attention to the importance of sleep and people recognize that. Oh, again, this needs to be the next vital sign. We've got blood pressure cuffs and every home. But, you know, it needs to be that. But it folks need to understand what you do with that information. So, A, many of these devices have not been FDA approved as a device that's diagnostic or is, you know, telling you the depth of what they claim they can do. That's changing. I think that they are becoming certainly more valid. And there's some, you know, for instance, like the Apple iWatch or Apple Watch and those sorts of things starting to get into like cardiac arrhythmias and that sort of thing. And so I think that that this is a moving target. But generally speaking, most are not validated. Also, generally speaking, if what they are reasonably effective at doing, some of the wearables is telling you if you're asleep or you're not. They're not really like the folks who are like, I only got 25 minutes of slow wave sleep because that's what my watch told me. No, I mean, it's really not that precise at this point. So that's enough for when people hyper focus on that. Like I try to say, no, no, no, no, it's not going to do that. The other limitation to it is that even those that have been validated, they are typically validated in young, healthy people. So if you do not check all of those boxes, you have to remember that this still has to be extrapolated. This is not does not totally reflect you. The other thing is from. So this is why, as you can see, I love this question. It comes up all the time is the other thing is that much of the technology that's used to figure that out is based on activity motion. Okay. Okay. And so they use that as sort of the surrogate marker to then translate that into your sleeper. So imagine this is the this can be the problem, too. If you are and many people can be very active sleepers, they're they're like, you know, shifting all over the bed, but they are actually in deep sleep. Well, guess what that monitor is going to say they're awake. And then you have some people, particularly those who suffer with chronic insomnia, they babysit it like laying completely still staring at the ceiling going, here we go again for another night. But because the activity is lower, it will register it as sleeping. So that's the other thing that folks need to be aware of. And then finally, you are spot on that sometimes people get overly fixated on the numbers. And that is a concept that we've become very familiar with in the sleep world, and it's called the quantified self. So you're spending more time like looking at how many steps you did outside than actually enjoying the experience of actually being outside, doing the activity and that sort of thing. And this has become such an issue in sleep that it's now a sleep disorder. And it's called orthosomnia. And it is official sleep disorder. And it is essentially when patients come in and they say, I have insomnia. I'm really having problems with my sleep because my Fitbit told me so. My Fitbit told me I have insomnia. And so that has become now something that we have to, you know, sort of step back and untangle and have some very similar conversations as to what we, what I just mentioned there as to the caveats. Orthosomnia, I had not heard of that. That is, I feel like I started to, I tried the wearable route at one point, but I had a tendency to just rip it off in the middle of the night because it was just uncomfortable, I guess. So then that was stressing me out because I'm like, how can I track my sleep if I'm not wearing my watch? So thank you for that background. That's very, very helpful. I did want to just say, you know, daylight saving time was this month. Just going back to sleep as a whole, you know, that one hour shift, it really does throw a lot of people off. I know I've been feeling the effects of it. Why is that? So, so, so yeah, so there, the American Academy of Sleep Medicine, sleep specialists, particularly in the circadian rhythm, subspecialty of sleep have really been pushing for getting rid of daylight savings time. And that's because there's actually been pretty established data that traffic accidents are higher for like that first week after daylight savings time kicks in and particularly Monday. And I just spoke to a colleague yesterday who does hybrid at Hopkins and said, oh my gosh, it was horrible. It was horrible. I don't understand why it took me twice the amount of time. There were all these accidents. And I was like, well, no, from now on, when it's a Monday after daylight savings time, that's the, probably the day, the hybrid day that you work from home because this is pretty, pretty common. But folks, and think about jet lag. Some folks, it can take as much as one to three days per hour shift to be able to, for their circadian rhythm to readjust. So think of it as like a mini jet lag. So those folks are, you know, going to bed later because they think they're, you know, their body clock says it's later and now they have to wake up earlier. So they're actually shaving off on both sides, right? Of when they go to sleep and when they wake up. So imagine for some people, it could take as much as a week for them to adjust. And that's where you have problems with reaction time for driving and attention when they're driving and that sort of thing. If you don't mind indulging me, I will say this though. Can I say a little bit more about the daylight savings time? Absolutely, please. So where folks may not be as aware, a lot of people have heard of like the sleep field trying to push for that. But what folks may not be aware of is that what the sleep field is promoting is getting rid of daylight savings time. That means that when the clocks fall back in November, it stays there. That is actually in opposition to what the general public usually feels, which is, you know, they hate losing that hour. But you know what? Overall, they love getting an extra hour of sun. Yeah, give you the sunshine. Right, right. And so that's where I don't think people understand that both folks, like, you know, are both sides of the science and the public domain. But they don't understand one wants to retain one aspect and the other ones. So I think that's why it's always going to be a bit controversial. And history has shown that actually it was tried in the 70s in the States and people didn't like it. They wanted their sunlight back. And that's why it was reversed. So, you know, this is going this is a debate that I think is going to be around for a long time. And I am not sure people, the public really kind of has made that connection. Just to extend on it. So could we just stay in daylight savings time the entire year? So I we could. Now, I think that's what the general public would want. The science suggests that actually it should be the opposite because no daylight savings time is actually more in sync with our natural circadian rhythm ebbs and flows. And so we're working against it with daylight savings time. But but people love and I'm I'm sorry, I have to admit, I love it, too. I was so excited last yesterday when it was, you know, the sun was still out at seven o'clock. So, you know, I think that's that's the issue is the what is physiologically best and what socially is best. Now, the other part of keeping daylight savings time and not going back is then you have issues in the fall with children being like at the bus stop when it's almost pitch black, you know, pitch dark. So, you know, that's it's all of these things that has made it very difficult to find a good medium. And that's incredibly helpful because I'm just trying to think through it. I mean, I'm like most people that, oh, I love the sun that it's it's out when I get home now, you know. So, you know, that's always fantastic. But I can see the other side side of it, especially when you bring up the idea of of children being in the dark on a bus stop. Right. So. So. Going back to, you know, I mean, I think all of us at some one point or another have problems sleeping. Right. When when do you classify it as really insomnia or clinical insomnia? And and when when should it be a when should the patient say, hey, I probably do need to see somebody about this. Yes. So every one of us will have an occasional bad night's sleep. It's going to happen. We've we're worried about an exam tomorrow or we've got it. We were worried we're going to miss a flight or whatever. So everybody's going to have that. So everybody will have insomnia symptoms. That is normal. It's common. When insomnia becomes a syndrome is when this they're having these difficulties at least three times a week for at least three months. Plus, plus that is equated to daytime function. Like it's affecting their daytime functioning. You have to have all of three of these to be then considered. Hmm. This is enough of a problem in my. Quality of life plus at that point, potentially enough of a problem that if since it's happening so frequently and chronically that it can have health. Ramifications that's when it's a good time to probably discuss with, you know, your health care provider. So, I'm just curious, you know, what would you say are the most common sleep disorders you see patients for? Um, so the most common sleep disorder is actually the one we introduced the session with, which is the chronic insufficient sleep. So behavioral sleep deprivation is actually the most common one, not just in the U.S., but worldwide. Um, so we're actually doing this to ourselves. Um, and we have many distractions for that and we can, that we can talk about that too. Um, and then the second most common sleep disorder in this U.S. and in, um, the world is insomnia. After that, the most common one seen in a sleep clinic is sleep apnea. So there is a bit of a disconnect and this is where education is so important that of course we need to have more people be identified for their sleep apnea. But we really have a problem where there are a lot of people still recognizing that what they're doing and depriving themselves of sleep is hurting them. Um, yeah, that's interesting that, that a lot of people do equate because, you know, a lot of people will test positive for sleep apnea, whether it's mild, moderate or severe. And they think that that's the solution to their sleeping when it may not be at all. So that's a great point. Um, you know, I, and, and this is kind of a, a long, probably answered, but, um, or the question I have is really, you know, let's say that I go to you and I, I say, you know what? I've been having three times a week, more than three times a week. Um, I, I have difficulty sleeping. It's been going on for six months. Um, and, um, and now it's affecting my, uh, functioning at work. Um, how do you, I mean, how do you go about evaluating and or treating, um, someone who, who comes in saying that? Um, yes, so this is what is, um, wonderful about sleep is that, um, five people can have the same exact disorder, but how they got there can be totally different. So, um, this is where it's, you know, hopefully our medical students may be listening to, but you got to talk to the patient. Got to listen to the patient and, um, find out, um, in painstaking detail. I wouldn't understand your typical day. Start. We'll start with what is your routine to go to sleep? When does it start? What are you doing? What, when are the electronics turned off? All of those things. Um, and then once you're asleep, tell me what happens. Have you gone up to get to the bathroom? Are you have dogs in the bed or pets in the bed? Or is your bed partner waking you up? Because maybe they're snoring. So it, you know, there are so, so many different ways that people could have gotten to this bad place with their sleep. And even that same person, the, um, factors that are, that are affecting them now may be very different than when it was 10 years ago. So it's just so important to talk to the patients with that. Then, um, that allows you to identify what are disruptors to their sleep. Um, maybe, and again, it may be, um, uh, they, uh, unaware that five hours of sleep is not appropriate. Or maybe they're unaware that, you know, um, going to sleep at nine o'clock during the week, because you know, you have to wake up and then going to sleep at 1 a.m. Um, on the weekends, cause you might, may be more of a night owl. It is that that's, that's going to be a problem. Your body needs that routine and it may be speaking to a circadian rhythm issue, right? Um, others could be, um, and, you know, I could go on and on about this, but I, I want to throw this one out there is that, um, women, um, who have insomnia can be either blown off as well. You're just, you're worried about a lot of things. You got a lot of stuff going on. Oh, you know, depressed and anxious, you know, no, that's what it is. Just relax a or B. The other one, um, is that sleep apnea in women is more likely to present as insomnia. Then, um, sleep apnea is in men, which we know is to, is more likely to have, um, snoring and it's disrupting everybody. So it's easier for it to be, to draw the attention of bed partners, family members, and say, please fix this person. Cause it's disrupting everyone. So in, so for women that can be the pain. So that's why it was, you're talking to somebody about their insomnia. You want to know, I want to know everything. Are you some, any, you said you have insomnia. Does anybody ever say that you snore that you, you know, do you wake up gasping and choking? So you have to, you want to hear every single bit of detail. And so I tell patients, you, you, you first start, you tell me everything you think I need to know. And then I'm going to follow up with questions to fill the gaps on other things that I think may be helpful that you may have never connected the dots. Very interesting. So for the people who have such trouble falling asleep, staying asleep, you know, they might start considering medication. So we're talking like sleeping pills here, for example, you know, what are your thoughts on those? Are those harmful, helpful? So any medication should not be just taken without weighing all the pros and cons of that. In the case of insomnia, if it's chronic insomnia and, and remember, chronic insomnia is what I described, but you can have insomnia symptoms even from other sleep disorders. Right. Right. So you can have restless leg syndrome because, you know, you, you're, you have this uncontrollable urge to move your legs is at the core of why you can't sleep. So that, you know, do you see? So, and then, and the same with sleep apnea, right? So you really have to tease out, if possible, what's the underlying etiology before you say it's idiopathic insomnia or insomnia that we don't have any other explanation for other than just that physiologically you can't sleep as well. Once you get, you rule those out or you address those and somebody you're left with this, that they, they, they just, they're not a good sleeper at this moment. We need to help them. So the, the first line treatment for insomnia is not medication and best practices with the, according to NIH, American Sleep Academy, American College of Physicians, it's cognitive behavioral treatment intervention. So it's kind of addressing some of the things that I mentioned that you try to pull out of the interview and you, and you try to tackle those to really prime that person's sleep drive to be as robust as possible. And then, and then after that, if need be, you may start to entertain medications, but you have to start for there first. Could you, could you, could you go more into that a little bit? Like what is, so who does cognitive behavioral therapy for, for insomnia? And is it really just asking more and more questions? Like you were talking about, about their patterns and trying to have them come to a conclusion about their patterns or maybe you can give a little bit more information. Cause I don't think many people, you know, a lot of patients are just saying, oh, can I, I've heard about the Z-drape. Drugs or whatever, right? So, so maybe you could just expound on the PCBT a little bit. Sure. And, you know, we are extremely fortunate at Hopkins that we have probably at least maybe a third or a quarter of the practicing cognitive behavioral sleep psychologists in the state. Um, so it is a, um, fellowship trained, um, uh, skill or, um, fellowship trained expertise. Uh, and it really does involve when people say, well, I've, I've done sleep hygiene. I know I need to take the television out of my room. So it, that's only one of seven of the techniques that's involved in actually sleep hygiene in and of itself is actually considered a placebo. Just doing it by itself doesn't really change anything. And that's why we use it as, as such for studies as the placebo arm. There are things that they will do is a, um, techniques like, um, chronotherapy. So trying to, to synchronize your circadian rhythm and, uh, and figure that out and to help identify the timing that you should be going to sleep and waking up, um, sleep restriction. So this is a situation where, um, though they can look at, they want to have folks do a diary of perhaps like a month of sleeping and how much time they're spending in bed versus how much time they're spending sleeping in bed. And if there's a big gap, then they will restrict that time. So the time that's spent in bed is spent sleeping. And there, there is a cognitive element to that because again, your brain needs to get, um, you know, see that association. There are, you know, um, other things, relaxation therapy. Um, and that could be, you know, things like guided, uh, mindful meditation, guided imagery that can be helpful. Um, so, and then there's the cognitive aspect of like, some people get to the point where they've been tortured for so long. They have negative, like, like negative connotations and cognitive thoughts surrounding sleep. How is that unpacked? So that, so it's all like those, those are just some of the examples of how, um, the approaches that can be used. And you really, again, you personalize it to the patient. That, that is, that's incredible. And I think, um, uh, I do think that that's probably something that people really don't know a whole lot about, uh, because it's always trying to get that quick fix, that medication, uh, that can help me sleep. Um, so thank you. Thank you for that. Thank you for that. Yeah. Well, and just zooming out really quick on the topic of sleep, you know, I would be interested to know, what would you say is, you know, one common myth that you encounter with patients about sleep? And, you know, what would you wish people would stop believing? Yeah, that as adults, as we move into our more of our twilight years, and this is becoming increasingly more something I can relate to, is that you need less sleep. That's not true. You may not be as efficient as sleeper, but the amount of sleep you need does not change. It does not change at all. So that's the big myth. Oh, yeah, I'm older. You know, no, no, no. Like things like your circadian rhythm may shift. Like so that whole idea that, oh, yeah, you know, grandparents may like to have dinner earlier in the evening, go to sleeper. That's a circadian shift. But the amount of time that's needed does not change. And if there's fragmentation in their sleep, that can also be the reason why, you know, at both extremes of our ends of our lifespan, we need to nap. That can be the reason at the more of the twilight period end of our lifespan is because if we have more fragmentation, naturally that happens. As we get older, we need to catch up on that when we're napping. So I'm a huge proponent of naps. And as long as it doesn't affect your sleep at night, it's a good thing. Well, thank you so much. And thank you to our listeners. This has been Medicine Made General from GIM at Johns Hopkins. Thank you for tuning in to our podcast. We hope you found this conversation helpful. Until next time, stay informed, stay healthy.