 id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id id La Jolla, where he also had an appointment in the Department of Psychiatry at UCSD. So I'm sure many of you are familiar with at least some aspect of his very large body of work. He's widely recognized in the neuro-HIV and neuroimmune fields. Not the numbers are everything, but he has an H-endex of 40, and his work has been cited over 8,600 times. His lab investigates the mechanisms of chronic infection and persistence in both HIV and now COVID as well, with a focus on immune signaling that can tip the brain toward injury or protection. And he also investigates the influence of drugs of abuse on neuroplasticity and host pathogen interactions. I found an article he was quoted on about the interactions between HIV intertrophiles and methamphetamines, where he described the biology as an unpredictable storm, which is such a perfect metaphor for this kind of work, because it has messy inputs and nonlinear biology, but also very real stakes. So if you're not familiar with all of his papers, Dr. Kahl is also a regular attendee of this seminar series. And it's hard not to notice that he consistently contributes and asks insightful, constructive questions to help move science forward, but also to help build a sense of community where we know that we should all feel comfortable to interact and ask questions. So today we get to hear him speak again, and we get to be the ones asking him questions. His talk will be on Efren signaling in microglia and implications for neuro-HIV. So thank you for joining us, Dr. Kahl, and the Zoom floor is yours. Yeah, thank you, Dr. Gassner. Thank you very much for this very nice introduction. No, I'm really happy to be here. I really enjoy this seminar series. I think it's great to have that, you know, in a great forum to discuss science. And so I feel really lucky to, you know, to have a chance to present you with some of the work that we've been doing in there. And I will know may have to introduce today, you know, a little bit FB2, Efren B1 signaling in microglia and indication in neuro-HIV as the title says. Let me see how I'm sorry, my computer is a little bit slow. Okay, so let me start with just, you know, introducing a little bit the people who have contributed to this. Can you see my cursor? Yes. Sorry. Yeah. Okay. Okay, great. Okay. So what I'm presenting today is really work of primarily, you know, done by one of the graduate students in the lab who recently graduated and now decided to go into industry together with who is now actually his wife, Samantha. So Jeff and Samantha, you know, basically put their heads together as graduate students. And so, and they are in two different labs and we're, you know, discussing, starting to discuss science. And then, you know, one day, Jeff came to me and said, you know, we've looked at the data. And so we came up on this, you know, so afferents and it just happens to be that Samantha's supervisor, Dr. Rene Ather, who is another collaborator in this story, actually works on afferents. So, afferents were pretty new to us at the, at the beginning of this, but not totally unfamiliar because we had noticed that they were, that they came up in gene expression studies that we have done and then in the bioinformatics analysis. So we didn't see too much of a different regulation of them, of these components, but they seem to have a prominent role in some of the gene networks. Now, I have all the work I'm talking about today is really embedded in, you know, a work that, you know, a lot of other people have contributed to over time. And so we are really thankful for have all these collaborators. So the ones shown in red here, I know, involved in the study or have contributed to the study, including Ben Gelman with through the NNTC and Amanda Roberts, who is, you know, our collaborator on all things animal models and behavior. And of course, finally, I want to acknowledge the NIH and the funding sources. Without those, you know, we really couldn't do a lot of this work. Okay, so let's get into some of the, for those, if there are any, or if there is anyone who is not so familiar with this, just, you know, for those who know all this, please forgive me if I just, you know, tell you something that you know anyway. But for those who are maybe newer participants, just briefly something about HIV, neuro-HIV, neurocognitive impairment, and this term HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder. So the prevalence in HIV, even, you know, in 2025 is about worldwide 40, 40.8 million people in the US, it seems to be fairly stable, I think, over the years. So some of you probably know this better than me, about 1.1 to 1.2 million. And it looks like the latest numbers from CDC and HIV.gov say that 87% of HIV-positive individuals actually know about the infection. So we have still about, you know, 30% of people who might not even know. And of those, 67%, you know, seem to be virally suppressed. And again, you know, some of you who work actually with patients, maybe, you know, correct me if these numbers are, if you know about different numbers. It looks like that even though with very good treatment, about 30 to 60% of HIV patients, depending on the court, experience still neurological complications, including neurocognitive impairment. And, you know, summarily, we often still refer to this as neuroaids. In the earlier times now, for many years now, we talk more about neuro HIV, since AIDS has become simply less frequent. So, and the HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders still also seem to appear eventually in about 50% of HIV patients, right? So the categories, you know, many of you are very familiar with that beforehand, asymptomatic neurocognitive impairment, mild, and then knee dementia as the most severe component. Now, a colleague from Johns Hopkins, so almost 10 years ago, right, they published what, what is really, I think, striking that in between the pre-card era and the card era, very, which works really, really well to suppress one, you know, while propagation, we still however have, you know, about 50% of people who have some level of impairment, dementia is much less, but mild neurocognitive impairment, then ache, asymptomatic, neurocognitive impairment still have increased. So you wonder why these numbers don't really go down, when we still have only about half of the people who actually show no impairment. So, and even so, a lot fewer people now become come to autopsy, luckily, because people live longer with HIV, those who come or analyzed seem to have show still neuropathological abnormalities in about 80% of the cases. So, again, so this is what, you know, what is still occurring. And even so, these major neuropathological signs, which include like loss of dental synapses and gliosis, you know, like, mycoglial activation, astrocyte activation, astrocytocel, so still do occur apparently, despite, you know, suppression of the viruses. So, I'm now showing you something that's also, you know, kind of older, but it still seems to hold true to this to this day. HIV infection, of course, always occurs in the periphery. But the virus makes the way into the brain apparently very quickly where it's passed on to local mycoglia, which then can pretty quickly, you know, start not only to produce virus. Overall, it seems like mycoglial cells produce relatively little virus, but they become activated, and they release factors that can pretty directly affect neurons. This includes the viral proteins themselves, but also neurotoxins, and they also produce, and as a part of the immune response, you know, and activation cytokines, in particular chemokines. Now, those then also have a role in the activation of astrocytes. Now, we know, and this is, you know, there's still, I think, debate about this, that the virus sometimes makes their way into astrocytes, even so astrocytes don't seem to be, you know, good at producing. So, it's not, doesn't seem to be a productive infection. However, astrocytes in this scenario also change dramatically, you know, reducing the amount of growth factors they produce, they might also, there, there's play an important role in glutamate or in, in general, in neurotransmitter homostasis. So, they may change that. And in extreme cases, you know, it's been reported that it might be impossible to start to release glutamate. What they also produce sometimes is this oxidative species, like NO, which also then, you know, can hit neurons. So, you get basically a situation where the microglia, as well as the astrocytes, start to compromise neuronal function. In neurons, we still see that there is problems with calcium homeostasis, apparently, that glutamate, you know, glutamate release or response to glutamate may go up, which I always, since I entered the field found a little bit, you know, kind of surprising, because, you know, a lot of data indicate that people who actually have no cognitive impairment have not too much, they have rather less glutamate. But this is not necessarily inclusive. So, this situation we can also discuss the details, it's very interesting to see. But again, these mechanisms still apply after so many years, where we have good treatment for HIV. Now, the interesting thing about mycoglia is that even if only a few of these cells are infected, they can also they don't need to be infected actually to become a problem, because they also just recognize some viral proteins, which is sufficient actually to get them to produce neurotoxins. So, this setting still seems to store a lot of the data that we find, still fit with this kind of model. So, we are now basically trying to better understand what are exactly the molecular and cellular mechanisms in this setting. So, CIAD, again, very important in blocking HIV infection. And what I will be talking about today is basically something where we will see where HIV might be the initiating factor. But even if we then remove HIV from the picture, some of the processes that have been initiated might actually go on independently of this and can still cause trouble potentially. So, and this is where we now have to introduce aferin and aferin signaling. So, aferin and aferin signaling is in principle, why not so much study in the context of HIV. But there are some interesting characters of the system, because we have here basically what is called these ligands, which are actually in most cases, membrane bound, they are either GPI- anchored or really membrane proteins, and they can also be released. So, they are solving a function of, so these are basically considered the ligands. And then we have the receptors in the F, A, B. So, this is a whole family of proteins. It's not only these are just some of them. And the functionally interesting part is that these molecules actually mediate bi-directional signaling. So, this is generally first referred to as reverse signaling when actually the ligand signal through, you know, interaction with the receptor signals back into the ligand producing cell. And we know about that they signal in terms of adhesion, cell migration, proliferations, and, you know, people have looked a lot, oops, sorry, some of the pathways in there. So, and then if the receptor is activated, we also get forward signaling, which also influences adhesion, synaptic plasticity, neural outdoors, and proliferation. So, in the nervous system, we know a lot of this. In fact, best known functions of the system, we said the bi-directional signal in cell-cell contact, is synaptic plasticity, cell migration, cell adhesion, and repulsion. So, they play a role in both. And this has been studied in particular in the context of neural development in cancer. Now, more recently, it has been, you know, recognized that these factors also seem to play a function in inflammation. So, there we are probably still in for some interesting discoveries, and because this part has been relatively understudied a little bit. So, how did we get back into this? So, let me again back up a little bit. Initially, we got then into this, as I mentioned before, because we have done, we have been doing a lot of studies with the transgenic mouse model for HIV-assorted injury. And this is the HIV GP-1-20 transgenic mouse that expresses in astrocytes under a GF-MP promoter. The Leonard Mookie generated this mouse, well, 30 years ago. And, but it still has a very reliable phenotype. And then you can see loss of dendrites, loss of synapses, activated mycoglia, astrocytosis. You see compromised neogenesis in these mice, you see behavioral changes. So, there are also electrophysiological alterations. They are not so, you can't, you know, a lot of these neuropathological things fit very well with what has been observed in humans. And electrophysiological alterations are a little bit more difficult to compare directly. But, and then there are also endocrine system alterations. The same is true here. But finally, what we found, now it's also quite some years ago, that there's a significant overlap in differential gene expression with human HIV brains. And these mouse brains. And finally, we saw in this context that Fb2 and the ligands Fnb, the gene name is Fnb, for afference B, are components of the top functional neural networks. So, okay, so we thought, okay, after Jeff came and talked about this, let's, let's take a look at what is known about Fnb2 in the periphery and driving inflammation. So, there have been some studies, this came, this came out in 2018, that showed that Fnb2 was prominently expressed in liver inflammation and fibrosis in a mouse model of tetrachloride carbon, which is, you know, a very pronounced liver toxin. But the same study observed that actually Fnb2 was upregulated in human liver cirrhosis models. So, and then they found a whole, they looked at the whole panel of inflammatory or, you know, inflammation related factors. And they found that there was significant regulation of this. And they also did some of the studies in Fnb2 knockout animals, they could see that a lot of these factors, um, were significantly downregulated. So, and overall, they found that, um, Fnb2 seemed to promote inflammation, if they end and fibrosis, and if they blocked it, or basically knocked it out, a lot of this inflammatory responses and the fibrosis were actually, um, avoided. Now, we went back, um, then to the NNTC cohort. And this is where, you know, Dr. Ben-Gellman was really important to it, to help us, you know, to obtain samples here from the NNTC that we have been, using in a couple of studies. This is most based really on mRNA expression here, um, and use mostly, quantitative, uh, reverse transcription PCR. This, this quote, um, that he has this, you know, characterized also in other publications, includes non-infected controls, as well as a group of HIV patients. Most of these have, um, been hard treated, but they are not, not morally suppressed, uh, for the most part. Okay. From those samples, when Jeff started to look at it, initially said, oh, okay, you know, if we just look at non-infected with HIV, there's not really much, there's maybe a little bit higher, but it was not significant. However, once he started to separate the samples out by brain samples, with brain pathology and without brain pathology, you could see that in the samples without brain pathology, everything you do was basically normal, but expression was up in those that showed, uh, brain pathology. Okay. We said, okay, so maybe there is something to that. So, and then as we looked more through the data, it became clear that F3 and B2 expression actually did correlate with, um, M-I-N expression in the CNS, um, and, um, and also with the DNA in the, uh, in the context. So that was, okay, so there might be another link. So it's just correlation, right? We don't know any cause link, but it indicated that, uh, you know, maybe, uh, really efforts do play a role in this context. And then as, uh, Jeff went further into this, he also found that Efrain was basically inversely core or abstract, um, executive domain scores. So at some behavioral or some correlation with behavioral outcomes, as well as verbal fluency here. Okay. So these, my correlations may not look really dramatic or the P-well is not very high, but it indicated that, you know, that there might be something going on in this case. Now, then we were not the only ones, as it turns out, looking at this, there was a study by Euforoff and I will use samples from the Manhattan Green Bank and look particularly, particularly the anterior cingulate and, and also the chordate. And they found also actually something, um, here. So they didn't look, they didn't really differentiate between neuropathology or not that what we did in our study, but they found that F-rmb2 was upright, more upright actually in those who had showed cognitive impairment and, um, and also, you know, um, uh, correlated with worse motors T scores, as well as abstract executive functional T scores. So, so now there was basically some independent, um, you know, um, indication that the efforts might play a role, you know, or could be contributing to some of the effects, um, in the, in the brains of you, of people living with HIV. Again, so far, all correlation, you know, it doesn't mean that, you know, that there's any functional role into this. And this was really what we were wondering about. So the question was, does this access really play a mechanistic role in brain injury potentially, um, or, you know, by, uh, injury by HIV, in fact, yourself, or perhaps the host response, right? Because the efforts are part of the host response. So we also were wondering, so where exactly are the locations of the studies so far didn't really indicate, and then really get down to the question of what does it really do? So we went back to the mouse model, right? And, um, so we had, and we went back to some of the tissues that we had actually banged from earlier studies. Um, and you may, I don't know, you may remember, some of you may remember that we, a few years back, we did a study where we, you know, tried to figure out if interferon beta could actually be protective. And we found that intranasal interferon beta treatment of the mice could actually prevent, um, toxicity relatively, we were surprised it worked really well and at a relatively short. So we went back to some of these samples and what it turns out that in different binner treatment as well as, um, the gp120, the presence of the gp120 seemed to increase the expression of efferine B1 in the CA1 region, and you can see, but also in particular in microglia. So again, not very dramatic effect, and I'm showing you here the data that basically has all the data points here, um, because, you know, it is shows a little bit more what the distribution is. So it, the effect is not, I mean, it reaches, if you look at all the data points, you know, significance for the total CA in the microglia, the different beta does almost noise, there is the trend, but with the transgenic, so you have this operation. Now, our collaborator Dr. Ethel was really excited when she saw this because she said, Oh, we didn't really know that interference might be regulating, um, the system. So that okay to us, it was also completely new, but we were a little bit, um, less, no, um, Dr. Peter Tonecki- you know, bias in any way because we really didn't know what to expect at this point. Um, meanwhile, if you go look at the literature, so people have been looking at, um, efferine in the context of the innate immune response, of course, but, um, there isn't really, there's no understanding that and interference, the interference system directly regulates the system. Okay, so that was, you know, another interesting question is coming up. And this is why I'm showing here that, you know, a little bit just a simplified scheme of, you know, what the interference response in HIV infection, might look at what we know, the AI system, you know, and then Jeff true signaling, and finally, we get I have three and I have seven activated in order to get some of the type one interference themselves expressed, but also some of them then in response to the interference that can add out the green or paratrain. And then, um, so if now one, two, and then basically trigger also some of the expression of the interference response proteins, um, or the interference stimulated genes are they often referred to. So when we looked then at some samples, because we had also done studies with the interferon beta knockout. So what we saw then, and again, these effects are not very dramatic, but for the ligand we could see there was a trend that in the interferon beta knockout, this is our GP120, um, that there was a reduction in the expression and the homostatic or baseline expression, and it was really significant actually for Fb2. So this was another indication that the interference system and the efferent system might actually be interacting, and that the interference system might actually play a regulatory role in the system. So, and then looking more into what happens in the interferon beta knockout, of course, maybe less surprising is that, um, it downregulates also the expression of IF7. Initially, we thought, you know, let's just look at some of this as a control. Um, but we can really see that the GP120 actually was, is driving in these brains, I have several expression, but if we knock out interferon beta, it's, it's basically, um, back to baseline. And, um, this is true in the cortex and also, and also in the hippocampus. Yeah. So, um, okay, so this is kind of what you would expect, right? So, um, but it also pointed to raise some interesting question about what IRF7 because IRF7 is also known to be regulating, you know, some aspects of HIV infection, um, and is part of the host response. So Jeff and Samantha, we were just discussing this look, let's see what, if IRF7 has any more role in this, right? So, um, first of all, going back to the NNTC samples, you know, it's not surprising perhaps that IRF7 is upregulated with, with the HIV infection is kind of what you would expect. But again, similar to what happened with FB2, it's actually in people who have no brain pathology, it's actually not significantly upregulated, but it is significantly upregulated in the people who have brain pathology. So this is surprising similarity with what, with what we saw with the F3 and B2 in this case, right? And then looking at IRF7 and F3 and B1, you know, the ligand S1 as a receptor, FB2, we again saw that there's a pretty good correlation in the expression, um, for these two factors. Again, it's only correlations, but it raised, you know, aggression, do they have anything to do with each other in terms of function, right? So, and so as we started then to, you know, move a little bit more into IRF7, we can, and we went back into a microglia model, we used here first the HMC3 cells, and looked a little bit, um, what happens here. So if you expose these cells to interferon better, right, you get IRF7 upregulated that you would expect, and the SIR and A4, I have seven shows that you can completely, you know, prevent this basically. So the level, actually the baselines level really go down, um, with the SIR and A4, so the SIR works really well, right? So what consequences has it otherwise? Now, if we look at FB2, it's actually surprising, because if we knock down IRF7, FB1 is even more upregulated, right? Um, and yeah, um, in response to interferon better, that, that was interesting. So it looks like IRF7 actually puts the, perhaps the brakes on FB2 expression. The same happens off with, if it won, right, another interferon stimulated gene, um, IRF7, reducing IRF7, basically takes off the brakes. And then most interestingly, interferon better itself, induces more interferon better in these microglia cells. Again, if we put IRF, if we knock down IRF7, we basically take the brakes off on this. So IRF7, you know, basically turns out, or looks like, a negative feedback regulator for some of these pathways related to interferon better signaling, as well as efferent signaling, um, or efferent expression at least. Yeah. So again, our collaborator, Dr. Ethel, was really excited about this, because that, and for the efferent field, this was apparently completely new, right? So at this point, where are we? Um, interferon better than, um, HIV Gb120 and interferon better than interferon better than interferon better than interferon better than the efferent, uh, the efferent B1, FB2, RNA expression levels. Efferent B1 and microglia is, um, no, seems to be regulated by HIV Gb120 and interferon better. This is what we basically conclude from the mouse model. Again, if it's relatively moderate, and microglia interferon better if it one, if it is mediated, um, by type one, interferon master regulator IRF7, basically. So in particular, no, in terms of, it looks like a negative feedback loop, right? And, uh, okay, so far, so good. Um, but what does it mean, right? Um, so what really does this access now do? We, now they're ready and we have some regulation that links it to the, we know that interferons themselves have a pretty pronounced effect on, on what is happening in HIV infection. Um, but now it was, so what is really going on functionally here with, or is anything going on really functionally with FB1 in terms of inflammation or neurotoxicity, you know, considering what people had been observing in the periphery. So we went back then and used here, then a system that our collaborator, um, um, you know, as I had, at the often that is commonly used apparently in the F3 field that you basically pre-cluster FB2, um, recombinant protein with a specific antibody. This is, um, fusion protein of FB2 with FC part. So with an antibody against the FC part, you can basically aggregate it. So you find, you basically, you know, produce an aggregate that is actually only temporarily stable. So there's a certain time limit to this. You, you basically prepare these aggregates and then you need to put them onto the cells in order to get the stimulation. And they're stable for maybe up to two hours. And then they basically become inactive. Um, these, these aggregates, but it is an established way to basically, um, you know, basically trigger or the, you know, perform FB2 dependent stimulation of cells. So we applied this here to the microglia and then we basically let the cells go for 24 hours, um, and then connected to cells as well as swelling, but here in particular, you know, look first at the RNA, um, and did some RNA sequencing just to see what, how do the cell respond. And to make a long story short, so this is just showing some of the, um, you know, innate immune response genes, including actually some of the interferon response genes, but they're also like complement components, interleukins, um, six. So here's basically showing what we see. IL-6 is upregulated significantly. And CD68 in the cells is also a marker also of activation of these cells. So on the right side, we see a little bit like heat map of this, you know, how these, um, these are three experiments here, the vehicle treatments, and then the FB2 treatments there. And yeah, there's some variability between the batches, but you can see it's, it's pretty consistent how they, how they respond. So it basically indicated that FB2 activation can drive, you know, and some components of an antiviral, but at the same time also an inflammatory response in microglia. And yeah, so if you then analyze this a little bit more, you know, just some bio of the bioinformatics, what you can see specifically. So clearly even an interesting, this is just the FB2, it does, you know, trigger some components of the interferon better response. So there seems to be more of a link perhaps, um, unexpected link between the afferent signaling and, and what interferon does, um, negative regulation of biogenomics. So this would all fit with this. And so there is, seems to be a strong aspect of antiviral immune response, but, um, there is also clearly like cytokine-related, uh, signaling pathways, right? Um, so that, uh, point to some aspect of really inflammatory activation. So it's a little bit, a network here that we used, um, you know, that IPA gives one of the top networks here. Um, again, we do not yet know what all of these, um, factors, you know, exactly contributed, but you can see that some of these factors significantly upregulated, um, but there's also certain factors that are inhibited. So what this whole, you know, expression pattern basically suggests is that we are looking here at something that is, you know, speaks towards the balance of antiviral activity versus inflammatory response, right? Um, in there. So in order then to further see, um, how much of this is might be actually really driven by efferent B1, we went on, Jeff went on really to try out the knockout of efferent B1 and then perform the FB2 treatment in the, in the mycoglite cells. So, um, again, was in some, using some SIRNA to knock down efferent B1 and then, you know, stimulate the knockdown cells as well, um, as the, as the wild type of controlled cells with efferent mere, as we saw before. And again, um, we looked for some of the sequences as well, multiple accesses, and eventually also we wanted to look, does it have any role in neurotoxicity? So let's look at this. Um, when we just, let's look a little bit at how effective is actually the SIRNA knockdown, and it leads even with the best SIRNA, we get about A-50. So we don't get a complete knockdown in there, but we get A-50% knockdown. And this is reflected also at the protein level, really that there is. So we couldn't find any SIRNA that would really completely knock it down. Um, but okay, so we had A-50% knockdown. We would think that perhaps this is sufficient to see some biological effect as well. So going back then, and this is not, um, gene expression here, this is, this looking at some of the multiplex assay, um, the cicatome in terms of the, of the proteins that are affected by this. So you have here, and the vagal, the F-ring or the control, basically FB2 stimulation and this, um, and then compared to what we see, um, in the SIRNA knockdown of FB1. So we can see that, you know, there is a gradual difference. Um, it's not a complete prevention of induction of some of these, you know, immune factors, um, or, um, interval response factors. And we can see here or, um, factors that have, you know, some of them have linked to, to normal injury too, like, like the MMPs, for example, and here's just some examples. So the IP10, for example, you get, you get, you know, just, you get a knockdown, not a complete, you know, down to baseline, but this is a significant reduction of the expression of this, um, GMCSF was, you know, one of the, some, some of the most, um, pronounced effects, eotaxin as well, as well as, uh, MMP9. So some of the factors that are really down again. So again, if you're not on FB1 and stimulate FB2, so it's clearly there seems to be a role for FB2, FB1 signaling in driving some of these factors and, uh, expression. Yeah. So, um, if we now look, um, at this, does it have any relevance in those anti-violin and effects and, um, inflammation on actual HIV infection? So Jeff, then, and this is still a work in progress, but, um, in one of the first or last experiments that he did during his PhD work and one of the, you know, first experiments, uh, leading into this field, we went back to, um, IPC derived microglia here, and those are the ones from Fujifilm CDI. Um, so, and then they, so you put them in culture, you active, um, infect them with HIV and this experiment went, uh, over 12 days. So during this time, you know, we measured, um, P24 just to make sure that they have, um, in fact, and the infection actually works quite well. Um, this actually surprising well in, in these, uh, mycoglial cells. So this is something for a different, a different talk, um, HIV infection of this, um, IPC induced microglia. So, but we collected, you know, supernatants, um, over time, and then at the end of the 12 days, basically the cells first, in this case, really to, to look at, um, what is there, anything happening with, with, um, HIV. So, and what we can see here, so it's just looking at two of the ins here, this was why GP120 and TAD were, look at, um, RT-PCR, and you can see F3 and B2, um, expression. So this is not the perfect way to, to show that, but, um, Jeff put, when Jeff put this together, but you can see there's a significant drop in GP120, uh, message, as well as in the TAD message after stimulation with FB2. There is, it's not that it goes completely down, but there is a reduction of this. So that basically fits with the idea that the F3 and B2 response might be part of, or component of the antiviral response that, that we can see, right? So again, this speaks to the balance, you know, the system or the brain maybe, you know, tries to do, um, something or terms to limit, um, the, um, common infection. And one of the components might be actually the offering, um, signaling that is contributing to this. So, um, but now getting to the other side, because neural injury, is there anything going on? Um, is there any role for this actually in the, in the neural injury? So here we also, um, started then to work with IPC derived neurons and astrocyte co-cultures. Again, for, in this case, it was, they were also used, um, used the cells that are basically available from Fujifilm CDI. Um, and then, so we triggered again, microglia, um, with effrin B1, SIR and A, and then, um, or control RNA, and then stimulate them with FB2, collected the supernatants, and then transferred those supernatants onto these IPC derived neurons and astrocyte co-consciousness. So let's see what happens then. So what we can actually see here is that, oops, wrong direction, that in fact, effrin B2 stimulation does cause some neurotoxicity, these cells to produce some neurotoxicity, right? Um, so again, um, we, we haven't, you know, played around with, with some of the concentrations, this was just, um, you know, something that, that seemed to work pretty well, but it indicates that with this antiviral, you know, limited antiviral response, we might already see, um, you know, some, with undesired effect of, of neuronal injury in this. And so, and that is basically becomes, um, ameliorated, namely reduced if we, um, knock down effrin B1. So it is, looks really like that effrin B1, FB2 signaling might contribute to antiviral response, but at the expense of also be able to causing some neurotoxicity. So, um, then, you know, to wrap this up, basically what we think is happening here, um, that effrin B2 can, you know, contribute to HIV induced neuronal injury because simply HIV infection triggers this. But as you saw in the, in the model system, this is basically, um, we no longer need to have HIV in there. Basically, the effrin B2 signaling alone would be sufficient to, um, trigger the cells, um, to become, you know, yeah, to keep up some antiviral response, but also actually to get some neurotoxicity here. So, um, I didn't show you on this data, you know, F1B2 actually also induces NF-cover B signaling, which, you know, may feed into the inflammatory responses. And it also, you know, has this, so, expect, you know, this antiviral response, again, at the expense, um, an antiviral response response at the expense of an inflammatory and neurotoxic response. So, if we were then to basically reduce F2 signal, for example, by, no, in this case, the SII there for F2, for F1B1, um, in microglia, then we might be able to, um, reduce, we would probably reduce the antiviral response of the microglia themselves. Um, but we would also perhaps, um, be able to really reduce some of the neurotoxicity. The question really then comes as, is there a way to, you know, think not in terms of a switch of on and off, but rather, um, to modulate it, you know, like to tune the response of the cells, um, to reduce it just enough to prevent neurotoxicity. So the question, the jury's still out on this. Um, but the other important point is theory that this system seems to be, you know, able to work, you know, once and then the inflammatory response or the expression of these factors are basically initiated by HIV. We can take away HIV basically. So we can, if you have viral suppression, but if you might no longer have HIV that, that pushes or triggers the system, but if the system it's, is already activated and has basically become a self maintaining inflammatory response, you might still see some of the, of the problems that we're, what we're just looking at here. Okay. And I think this, um, basically ends the story and I would be happy to answer or discuss some questions. Thank you. Thank you. We don't have any questions in the chat yet, but if people want to put them in the chat, I can read them out if you're more comfortable that way, or feel free to unmute yourselves and ask. I hope I wasn't going too fast. Hello. Hello. Hi, Peter. Hey, Marcus. How are you? Good. How are you? That was great. Thank you. Um, I wanted to ask, so you were talking earlier at the, at the beginning, you talked about how GP120 and interferon beta both act on FB1, FB2 and FB1, right? Mm-hmm. The expression, they, they seem to drive the expression. But I was wondering, do you think that GP120 acts on the cell to drive changes and interfere on beta that then act on FB1? Like, are they sequential? Are they, do they just happen to use the same pathway? If you do them together, is the pathway enhanced or is there overlap? Like, how do the two interact? Cause it seems unlikely that they both do exactly the same thing, but don't interact with each other. No, it's, it's, it's a really good question. And so we, we don't know, we cannot, except, we cannot totally exclude that the GP120 protein itself, you know, contriving this. But what we actually suspect is that in the transgenic mouse, because in the transferring mouse, we see an interference response, in different beta response, and we see a signature of an interference response. So we suspect that because the transferring model does actually express, you know, the original viral sequence, RNA sequence, and we suspect that this might be driving an interference response, and that might then be driving the, the efferent response. Because you've probably done it with a non-HIV associated interferon driver as a control, right? Do you see the same effect, right? I'm wondering if it is this specific to GP120, or is it more likely just a general aspect of response to the body saying, oh, there's virus here? Yes. And it might, you know, I don't think this is necessarily specific to HIV. I think this can happen with other viruses as well. In fact, so there's, there's some literature out there suggesting that EBV, you know, just, um, triggering something similar in B cells, right? And the B cell setting, and, um, endothelial cells as well. Um, so no, I think this is, we might here be looking at something that is just a part of the host response to viruses. And it just happens to be that in this case, the HIV is the virus. And it's also in the brain, uh, that it just, you know, and, you know, you could imagine that, you know, and I, we were wondering too, is, you know, has anyone looked in the context of herpes viruses or, you know, or some of the other viruses to make it into the brain? And honestly, we don't know. Okay. Cool. Thanks, Marcus. Sure. Hi, Marcus. I'll go ahead and jump on. Oh, okay. Hi, good. Yeah. Enjoyed a little bit late, but I'm glad I didn't miss it. Very, very interesting work, uh, in this role of the efferent B, the ligand, in the, um, in the receptor. And so in your co-culture systems, um, so you've looked at neurocytotoxicity. So have you also looked at, you know, what happens to, to astrocytes? Yes. Good. Good. Interesting question. So this is actually something that is still, you know, work ongoing. So, and, um, because initially when we talked to our collaborator, Irina Espel, so she had been looking at this in the context of traumatic brain injury. And in that context, actually, it looks like that the FB2 is primarily expressed, um, you know, an increased in expression in astrocytes. So, um, this is kind of why, you know, we can, we see it in the stainings in the mouse also. It is, it also overlaps with astrocytes. It seems to be interesting. It's actually FB2 is also expressed in microglia themselves, right? So there is, seems to be a component of paratrine as well, and of probably some autocrine signaling in there, depending actually on how exactly the cells are stimulated. So it's a really good question. So at this point, we think that it most likely, um, we suspect that, um, because, so we were a little bit limited because the FB2 antibodies were, we haven't really found one that is that good, um, you know, to do some of the staining and, um, but, um, the FB1 worked really well. So this is where we can see the ligand, but, um, so, um, our collaborator now has a knockout for astrocytes, specifically knockout. So this is something we would like to, to see, um, try, but, you know, we're moving away a little bit from the transgenic models. So this is why the mouse work is basically, you know, um, basically a little bit on hold right now because everything moving more into humanized mouse models, but it, the transgenic models really have still this, you know, have some advantages in that you have, you know, you can just cross-breed them with some of the, of the other genetic knockouts, right? And then, so this is something we would like to do. So. Great. Thank you so much. Sure. Yeah. There is a question for you in the chat that I'll read out from Dr. Chakwani. He asks if the, um, FB2 treated microglia released neurotoxic factors, if you know what they are in the conditioned media, if, if you have an idea of what might be driving the neuronal death, and if there's any effect after clearing HIV with antiretroviral treatment, and how long the effect might remain. Oh, okay. Good. All good question. Thanks. Um, so, um, we have, we have not specifically narrowed down, um, you know, which of the facts. So there is a whole panel of factors, factors that are released in response to FB2, uh, things. So this is what I, you know, showed in the second term. So, and there are several candidates there that have been implicated in neurotoxicity, you know, anywhere from IP10 to, or CXL10 to MMP9, you know, um, so it's, um, we think our hypothesis, it's not one single factor. It might be a whole panel of factors that might actually, you know, act on the neurons then, but we haven't, you know, um, this is, it's a really good question that would be interesting enough to drill down a little bit more on, um, is there, is there a factor that is particularly important in this? Um, at the same time, you know, we see also induction of some of these. So we know that, for example, from earlier work that CCL4 and, and even CCL5, um, can be neuroprotective factors. It depends on how much of them is expressed. Um, and CCL5 has, is, um, an interesting factor because whether or not it is protective depends actually on that you have enough and that it's, you know, early enough induced. We learned this from the interferon interference response because what we find was in the interferon beta, the protective effect of interferon beta strongly depends, seems to depend on CCL4. And this, um, was initially a little bit surprising because we knew, I mean, we know that CCL5 is also considered to be a good antiviral factor, but it simply needs longer to be induced. Um, CCL4, CCL3 come up very quickly in the interferon response, whereas CCL5 just needs a little bit longer to be induced. But if it reaches high enough levels, eventually then, you know, it, it can be neuroprotective as well as antiviral, right? In there. So, um, and coming back. So then there, the other factors that are induced, um, you would, I mean, in the past year, you would try to, you know, fish out some of these factors, just reduced to, to see, you know, how many factors do you need removed to prevent, uh, toxicity or is there some of the, of the receptors for some of the factors that you can, you know, um, that you can block. And then that might indicate, no, that there is, um, that they play a critical role in the toxicity. But again, in the broader case, we think it's not only one factor that, if we think it's a whole panel of factors that these cells release in response to FB2 signaling and, um, that the aggregate of these factors might be the problem for the neurons. Thank you. There's a hand raised. Do you want to? Oh yeah. Elicio. Elicio. Elicio. Hey, hi, Marcos. Good to see you. I'm sorry. I covered my camera. Good to see you Marcos. Then really interesting presentation. Then the EFRIM receptor and the ligand, similar to the question that Amanda did, then they are essential also for synaptic formation, axon guidance and stuff like that. Do you have any data in synapsic strength and stuff like that related to that? Yeah, no, really good question. And, um, you know, also for stem cells, because in the animal, probably one of the places that they are more expressive where in the subventricular zone and stuff like that, that has not been proven that is essential for a memory, but looks so excited. And that is like, wow. You know, you have, it's a really good point. And then, so we know, we can see in the mouse, you know, where it is up. We can see that there's a loss of presynaptic terminals, right? So, and, um, and this is something that, you know, has been observed in postmodern specimen of humans as well, right? It could just be driven by every absolute, I think after this data, yes, you would wonder, right? And this is exactly, this is exactly. In that sense that you expect that you want to see synapse, an axon, a shrinking or growing and stuff like that, depending on the expression of GP 120. And that can give you a really nice mechanism. It's beautiful. Yes, no, absolutely. You know, in fact, you know, you for our friend and colleagues, you know, then that looked at also some of the anti-sums also were proposing, we're asking a kind of a similar question, right? And I think it's again, it comes down to that we know that the system is really important for, you know, for neural guidance for, you know, synapse formation, maintaining and probably for plasticity, neural plasticity as well. So this is why, you know, it is, I mean, here in terms of, for example, you think, okay, yeah, no, maybe we could, you know, if we could target something specifically to the mycomia, if we are worried that they are, you know, causing, you know, no toxicity. And, but yes, you would always be concerned, you know, if we interfere with the system, does, how does it affect actually neural plasticity, right? But if you think about this, so what I think emerges, you know, from your work and work of, you know, all of us in the field is that we see these changes in inflammatory factors and antiviral factors, right? And that a lot, we learn more that a lot of the cytokines and innate immune factors, like anything from the complement components to to these, do not only have, you know, effects in terms of the immune system, you know, maintaining, but they also have some other physiological effects, right? So... For the point of development, Marcus, I think it is amazing, the data, and this is so important, Thank you. For development, migration, that is beautiful. Yeah, I think, I think, you know, the question that we end up with is, you know, it is, again, this is why, and this is why I was saying, you know, it's, we're looking here not on an on and off system. We look, we, it's really probably about modulating it and tuning it, you know, and just to the right level, right? And, and, and coming back to this kind of having a balance between having, you know, enough viral control versus, you know, not having too much inflammation and, and, and hopefully no neuro toxicity, right? Ideally. And, and I think now it would be, you know, I mean, since we see, you know, our, you know, like data and data from your referrals in the NC what indicate that actually, there is something that can, you know, if F1B2 in particular now is not upregulated, right? That at least correlates, at least no, with less or no impairment, right? Functional impairment. So, yeah, so maybe this is, if you, if there would be a way to return things to baseline levels, right? Not switching them off, but returning to baseline level. Maybe this is something, you know, but the question is how to achieve that. Because it looks like the antivirals, if, even if they're good in surprisingly, may not be able to do that, right? Good to see you, man. Thank you. Thank you. I'm glad you got a lot of questions. I have one too. Could you add like a, an e-phase or an MEA sort of experimental paradigm to your same condition media type of experimental setup? Yes, we would love to do this. In fact, we are, we are, we are talking to a colleague who, who just recently joined, um, UCR, who is, um, um, we're thinking about some MEA experiments, nervousness, um, microelectrode arrays. Um, we would really love to do this right now. We, we haven't been had the chance to do that, but, but you're absolutely right. I think this would be really helpful in order to get to see how it affects actually just neural signal, because we also know, we know, we know now, I mean, many of us have seen that, that a lot of things happen in neurons and changes, function changes occur before we lose the neurons or before they, you know, or we lose, or they, you know, the structural integrity of the neurons is affected, right? So, I absolutely agree. I mean, electrophysiology would be a really, really nice way to look at this. Oh, I think, oh, there was, there was... Terrible luck and my internet went out just as you were answering the question. But I look forward to... Could you hear me? ...listen to the recording. Oh, okay. No, I was just saying, you know, you're absolutely right. I mean, electrophysiology, I think, would be really interesting now to go and we have... So we have, I have a colleague who has just recently joined and who is interested also in doing this kind of, in a different context, she looks at a new inflammation, completely independent of HIV infection, but we're basically thinking about the same type of event. And you're absolutely right. I mean, electrophysiology would probably be really nice to see. But you can do it on your cell culture, but also slices and the mouse model to look at... Right. ...lc or something. If you end up going down this line, I would love to help with analysis with all of my... Oh, okay. ...we'll see, we'll see. We may... Yeah, yeah, no, I appreciate that because we really may need that. No, thank you. Well, thank you for your talk today. I think everyone was very interested in it. I see Carolyn came off of... Thank you. Came off... Came on camera. Do we... Were you going to take an announcement? Yes. So next week's talk is Cerebral Blood Flow and Blood Brain Barrier Permeability in Chronically HIV-Infected Mice on ART. And it's with Amanda Brown from Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and J.H. Khan. Thank you. All right. Thank you again so much, Dr. Kahl. We will... Thank you. Thank you. Every week from now. You next week. Thank you. Bye. Bye, Marcus. Great job. Thank you. Bye.