tiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertiertier to palliative medicine? Sure. Thank you for having me. First off, so in what I do, I basically treat a wide area of folks who come to the hospital with different serious illnesses and try to improve their quality of life. And the reason I had gotten into palliative medicine, I think, is not just from the patient care, but also through my lived experience. I had a history of going through cancer as well as really carrying some grief from my own personal experiences, death in the family. And I think that absolutely sort of shaped my understanding of how illness affects not just the patient, but the whole family. And so it was quite important to me to really help others in the way that my experiences shaped my worldview. Thank you. Thank you for sharing that. Maybe, and you kind of talked about a little bit in the previous answer, but there's palliative medicine and then there's hospice. Yes. Can you just briefly explain what the difference between the two is? Yeah, sure. So it's a pretty common occurrence where people mistake the two. They actually think palliative is hospice and hospice is palliative. They actually often hear the word palliative care and automatically assume it's end of life or something bad. But really palliative care is about helping people live as well as possible while they're going through a serious illness. So the palliative team actually works alongside patients, doctors together and not replace them or take them away. So one of the key things that we focus on is how to help patients improve quality of life. One of the big things that palliative care does is also to help people navigate medical decisions. So trying to understand more about the person outside of their diagnosis, who they are, what's important to them. We ask questions like, does your care reflect what you want and your goals? So at the end of the day, what I feel like palliative care does is try to help people feel more like themselves and trying to stay in control when it feels like the disease is controlling them. And hospice, hospice is a little different. So hospice, I think, explain it, it's a resource that people are entitled to under their insurance benefit. And that resource really helps focus on staying comfortable and not suffering at the very end of life. So often it's less than six months projected in a terminal illness. I see. Thank you for that clarification. And I love that you brought up, you know, that palliative helps make decisions about health care. One big reason that we have you on the podcast today, Ivy, is because National Healthcare Decisions Day, that's held annually every April 16th. And that day specifically encourages patients and providers to discuss advanced care planning. I was hoping maybe we could get a little bit more into what does advanced care planning mean? So advanced care planning, it honestly, it's exactly what it sounds like. It's essentially planning ahead for a situation that we aren't hoping for. But at its core, it's really empowering people's voices to be heard if one day they couldn't speak for themselves. So often there's two parts. The first part is choosing somebody they trust to make medical decisions for them when they can't. And then the second part is essentially sharing what you would or wouldn't want in different serious situations. And we can get into that a little bit further. But advanced care planning, it's often reflected in a document, what's called an advanced directive. But really, I think what's really important is to have the conversations, right? Starting the conversations. Because, you know, if you haven't talked about it and discuss these things with your loved ones, in a time of crisis, people are, you know, grasping for, they're having to make hard decisions without really knowing what the person would have wanted. And that can also look like feeling a burden of decision making. I can share an example. I remember when I cared for a father who had a pretty devastating stroke. He couldn't speak for himself. And he had adult children who were, you know, obviously heartbroken, had a lot of guilt in trying to decide what to do. But we looked back and we found that he actually had completed an advanced directive months earlier, unbeknownst to them. And he had written in a state like that, he would not want to be kept alive on machines, or get a feeding tube. So what could have been a pretty heavy decision for the children, you know, to carry that, to carry the weight of decision making. Instead, they were really able to honor their dad's wishes and, and advocate for him. So I think in many ways, that's what advanced care planning is, it's a way of bringing clarity, and guiding the people that you love, as well as your medical teams, right, to do what you have what, what you would have wanted. Thank you. You know, and this, this is a little bit of an extension of that, is, so the term healthcare power of attorney, and living will, right, in addition to advanced directive. So I guess, two, two parts to this is, is kind of telling folks, you know, what's really important for them to do. And, you know, I know a lot of people really don't think about this and want to think about it. And I wonder how you approach people who are hesitant to actually put down on paper what they want. Mm hmm. Well, I'll answer the first part, which is, I think you had asked like healthcare agent, what, what that is. So, that is when a patient names and documents who they would trust to make decisions on their behalf, if they were unable to. And actually, in Maryland State, we allow for a verbal decision. So, if the patient gives us a name verbally, a doctor and one other person can actually witness that and document it and it will legally qualify as their healthcare agent paperwork. In terms of what's in, you asked like what's important in, in terms of thinking about advanced directives. Is that, that was your question? Sorry. Yeah. So the, I mean, you had mentioned that, you know, the advanced directives is really people thinking about what they want, you know, later in life. And, and I know that a lot of people don't do it. And so, you know, how do you kind of try to talk to people about it as far as, you know, what should they look for when they're thinking about what they want? You know, what their wishes really are? Got it. I, so to be quite honest, I think the conversation on advanced care planning, it's really best to have when things are actually going well and stable. And what I mean by that is, you know, a lot of times I see people in, in the hospital when there's a crisis and an acute situation. And often times, you know, understandably emotions are heightened and decisions need to be made fairly quickly. So I actually encourage it's best to have these conversations when things are going well. And how I encourage that is really, first of all, setting a tone that's serious, a serious conversation, but also gentle, because obviously, it can be uncomfortable, perhaps starting with a story, a experience of a different family member or friend, you know, perhaps grandma, you know, who was sick unexpectedly, it made me realize it's important to talk about this. So really framing it as as not giving up, but how do we love and prepare for a scenario we don't want. And I think part of it, it's, you know, these conversations, they don't have to be perfect, it just has to be a start. Thank you for that. I think, you know, as I listen to this, I can't help but put myself in this scenario. So say I were to sit down today, what would you say are some of the most important decisions that I should think through when creating an advanced directive? Yes, so the I think one of the most important decisions and what we mentioned earlier is actually choosing a healthcare agent. You can either name one person, you can also name a backup person in case your first choice is unavailable, or you can even name multiple people with shared decision making power together. And that choice is really, really crucial, right? Because, you know, part of love, again, is protecting the people we care about from having to guess what we would have wanted. So I think that's really one of the most important things that you can identify and or the decision that you can, sorry, the decision that you can make. Most advanced directives, they will have questions specific, like I mentioned, a few serious situations, such as if somebody were in a permanent unconscious state, or otherwise known as a vegetative state, if they were terminally ill, or if they were at the end of life and dying. And in those situations, there are a few key decisions that people think about. Would you want to be kept alive on a breathing machine or other forms of life support? Would you want attempts at CPR if your heart stopped? Would you want a feeding tube if you couldn't eat on your own? And then perhaps at what point comfort-focused care or something like hospice would feel most consistent with your wishes? So in my mind, that's like, when are the burdens of medicine too high for little benefit? Because we know that medicine can do things to you or to someone, but not necessarily for someone. So I think those are sort of the key decisions to think through. What matters most to you, what quality of life means to you, and how you would want decisions made if that time came. Dr. Justin Marchegiani You know, that's interesting the way you put it, the burden of medicine. And I wonder whether you have an example of a time where you wish a patient would have thought about their advanced care planning and then they did not and how that may have affected things. Dr. I think about a patient who had advanced dementia. This gentleman who was having just awful episodes of aspiration. So aspiration is when food and liquids go into the lungs where it shouldn't. And over time, his cognitive decline was very severe. Basically, he unfortunately couldn't have meaningful engagement or communication with his wife. And his wife was really trying to do everything she could for him out of love. She actually ended up agreeing to a feeding tube because she was terrified that without it, he would starve. But even with the feeding tube, he actually continued to aspirate. So much so that he ended up in the critical care setting on a ventilator, ultimately passed away. And what stayed with me was really how much distress that his wife carried for several months, really leading up to that point. She had given up her job to take care of him full time. She was clearly, you know, vacillating between emotions and trying to help him, but also not, you know, have him suffer. So there was a lot of guilt. So, you know, that example, it made me wish that they had been able to have more conversations earlier. What quality of life meant to him, you know, what he would or wouldn't have wanted, because we know dementia is a terminal illness, right? It does progress to that sort of state, unfortunately. So really how to think about these interventions like feeding tubes when we know that with the terminal illness that it's inevitable. So, again, I think these conversations, right, if they happen ahead of time, really there's suffering for both the patient and their loved ones. So it's important to have these discussions. Yeah. Well, and these discussions, too, I mean, they can be uncomfortable, they can be awkward. And you started to touch on this earlier. I would like to go back to this just to make sure we're covering this well. You know, what are some ways you recommend starting these conversations with loved ones, family member, you know, to understand what their wishes are? Yes, it can be very uncomfortable. It, you know, I would say that, of course, starting the discussion again when things are stable and going well. So I think people probably find the discomfort in that, you know, no one really wants to think about death and their end of life. Or they may not just prioritize it, right? We all have busy schedules. It doesn't seem urgent to have these sorts of conversations. But I think what's important to keep in mind is that, you know, health care crisis can happen to anyone and unexpectedly. I always say disease does not discriminate. So, again, it's really about being prepared for anything, prepared to protect also the ones that you love. You know, I'll share that I have an advanced directive. My husband has one. My mother has one as well. And, yeah, really having a serious tone to the conversation, but bringing it up in a gentle way, perhaps through a shared experience by someone else. I think that would be a really meaningful and engaging approach. That's interesting that you have an advanced directive and the audience doesn't know that you are quite young and you have an advanced directive, which is fantastic. And I have a health care power of attorney. I need to do better with putting out my wishes. I've talked to my children who, you know, are in their low 20s about it. But I really should formalize it so that so it's very clear for them. And I'm wondering, Ivy, if if how what's the first step someone should take practically? Right. So to to get this underway. Yeah. So first off, any of your providers can actually provide you with an official document. And there are free forms available also online. So Maryland attorney general dot gov is one of the websites. There's also prepare for your care dot com. I personally like prepare for your care dot com because it's there's pictures, color print, large words that are readable. And there's one basically for every specific state. I know there's other documents like five wishes people may have heard of. But essentially, your primary care provider or any provider can give these free documents to you. Now, you can complete it with your loved ones. It's official once the document is witnessed and signed by two people often. And you can also hire a lawyer that can draw out these documents for you. But that generally comes with a cost and has to be notarized. Thank you for breaking that down into practical steps. You know, I think hypothetically here, you know, for listeners who may be putting this off, what would you say to them to encourage them to take that first step? Yeah. Yeah. You know, as I shared before, it can be uncomfortable. But I'll say talking about serious things does not manifest it. Right. It just makes or it doesn't make it happen. So it just makes you more prepared. So even starting the conversation can be very meaningful and bring peace of mind to your loved ones. You can also always change your mind in decisions. You know, this process, it's an iterative process. It's a delicate process. The first step is often the hardest. So, again, a health crisis can happen unexpectedly. Just starting the conversation is really key with your loved ones. Thank you so much. And thank you to our listeners. This is Medicine Made General from GIM at Johns Hopkins. Thank you for tuning into our podcast. We hope you found this conversation helpful. Until next time, stay informed, stay healthy.