 tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails tails couple years through the power of Zoom. Otherwise, we probably wouldn't interact very much. But sometimes it's nice to take a step back and see how people got to where they are now, because Katie's career trajectory is kind of surprising. And maybe some people don't know about it. I didn't until I started doing some research, because it didn't really start in a laboratory. It started on the ground, where she served for two years as a Peace Corps community health educator in Kenya, where she worked directly with affected communities. And I believe it was probably a very foundational experience that set the course for the rest of her career. And it's impossible to get into someone's head and see what truly motivates them. But I do believe that she has a desire to validate her patients' lived experience and combat stigma with rigorous science, which may have been what led her to work then as a research associate at UCSD's HIV Neurobehavioral Research Program. And then she kind of never left except for when she took a break to go to medical school. And then she came back to San Diego and did an internal medicine residency and infectious disease fellowship, which ultimately led to her current faculty position. So today, she's supported by numerous awards, as well as a really fantastic and supportive team of mentors. And her research integrates virology, immune profiling and phenotyping to understand how chronic viral infections impact brain health. But what stands out to me the most about Katie, and also gives me hope for her outcomes in the future of neuro HIV research, is the exceptional way that she approaches team science, because she really is the absolute epitome of a clinician scientist. She brings invaluable clinical experience directly into data science and computational meetings. And she's also fearless when it comes to the methodological data science side. So if she's confronted with a complex computational model, she never brushes it off and says, oh, that's not my area. I'll just trust what experts do. And she doesn't abdicate responsibility by just trusting the code or relying on other people. She really leans in and she asks thoughtful questions and unpacks the methods and make sure that she understands the assumptions so she can decide if they actually fit the clinical reality or if she needs to find a different approach. And I find that to be so amazing. Because for someone on the computational side, like me, her humility and her intellectual honesty really set an incredible standard that I'm hoping inspires generations to come. Because she is so open and willing to ask the hard questions, it makes it wonderfully comfortable for us to go to her and check our own clinical assumptions. And for Katie, it never seems like it's about having the flashiest model or just getting a paper out. It's entirely about finding real biologically informed solutions that improve human lives. And collaborating with a care provider and researcher who cares this deeply is profoundly grounding, and a constant reminder of the value that our work has. So given her unique ability to bridge clinical care with high dimensional data, I do think that her research program is on a remarkable trajectory. And in my view, she represents exactly the caliber of early career physician scientists that we need to be fully supporting and championing in academic medicine. So she's here today to present her latest work. The title of her talk is High Resolution, Pan-Viral Antibody Profiling and Brain Health in People with HIV. So since this is Zoom, I guess you can't really join me in welcoming because everyone has their cameras off and are muted. So I'll just pass it off to her to start. But I'm really excited. This is going to be fantastic. That was amazing. Thank you so much, Raha. I'm glad it was recorded just for that. Yeah. So I am going to talk to you about high resolution pan-viral antibody profiling and brain health in people with HIV. So first, I'm just going to start off with a, well, I guess, disclosure slide. So no conflict of interest to report. And then funding from my research is through a institutional K-12 and San Diego CFAR developmental award. And the samples and data that are presented and for my project are come from HNRC and charter supported by NIMH. So this is a busy slide, but it's basically a context slide for us of where this work or where I see this work kind of fitting in. And so overall, and these are, I guess they're not that old, but slightly older titles. And I know that a lot has happened in the field since, but this was a series that really inspired me on my path when, just when I was starting my T32 as part of my, the researchers and my ID fellowship was the, you know, sponsored CNS phenotyping working group. And there were several workshops, which really opened my eyes and kind of got me going in this direction. And so that's mostly a shout out of that workshops and things like that that really do reach ESIs. And so thank you. So basically this picture I do like just as, you know, trying to show the larger field and the larger context of this movement towards really biotyping or kind of endo endo typing people with brain health disorders to really resolve the heterogeneity that we, we see really find biologically informed mechanisms behind them so we can deliver treatments. And so I'll be presenting, you know, a piece that fits into this larger puzzle, puzzle basically. So this was preliminary finding from my K-12 and I'm going to be focused on the role of toe infections and the immune response in people with well controlled HIV. So I do think it's important to emphasize that that's the population I'm talking about today because toe infections have a very different role in people who are viremic and have advanced HIV. So that's not necessarily the group I'm talking about today. And then a main point today is to kind of encourage us all to rethink antibodies, think of antibodies as biomarkers and think of them in a more positive light. For those of you who are in the camp that antibodies aren't very helpful. I was completely in that camp a couple of few years ago. So hopefully this changes that. And then there's plenty here, although my focus I say is on co-infections, there's plenty for the HIV period. So stick around. So overall viral infections shape immunity and influence brain health. And so viral exposure shape our immune system in complex ways. So this is especially true of like chronic viral infections like HIV, but also for herpes viruses, like CMV, EBV, Hsb, which these herpes viruses have millennia of co-evolution with humans. And it's always important to think, especially in kind of more and you know, competent people, it's well controlled HIV, I put in that camp, that there is this balance or balance or battle between kind of immune activation and pro-inflammatory of trying to clear the virus and immune evasion, which all of these viruses have multiple mechanisms of evading the immune system. And that can be just locally damping down the immune system or more generalized. And so that balance differs between individuals. So this really emphasizes that the host, the host has a say and differs. And so plenty of evidence links viral infections with multiple chronic diseases and people with HIV and without HIV. And this is including in the absence of overt end organ disease. So lots of links with accelerated aging, cardiovascular disease. And then I think in the, it's been decades that you've seen papers, but I think the past five years have been really exciting, especially for cognitive and mood disorders and neurodegeneration links with at least the first ones to my knowledge that really pointed to a causal association. So this is a very busy slide that's on purpose of just saying that in the past five years there's been a lot of obviously this is not all of them, but just a smattering of some of the more, I think, inspirational ones. And this is actually mostly in the people without HIV or general population. I kind of wanted to highlight that here. As I do think it, it certainly informs our research research as well. And I won't spend too long on here, but it's recorded and there are some very great articles mentioned here, especially just longitudinal analysis of high prevalence of Epstein-Barr virus with multiple sclerosis, beautifully written, and also an introduction to a prior version of the high resolution antibody profiling I'm going to be talking about today. And so I also feel like I have to comment on that there is kind of increased inertia, urgency, and opportunity that really have also been developing recently for treating co-infections and for addressing them. Whereas I feel like before, it was, and still to some degree, these other terpes virus and other chronic co-infections are very hard to deal with and hard to treat. But we do have better tolerated antiviral therapies. We have preventative and therapeutic vaccines and active development. And we also have CMV-based HIV cure strategies underway or in trials. So CMV-vectored vaccines or T-cell therapy. And so I think it's really important that we really do understand precise mechanisms of how CMV or other viruses may actually affect the overall or underlying inflammatory responses and immune activation to make sure that we can both address people who may benefit from treatments and those who would possibly even be harmed from some of these interventions. And so, and there's really been encouraging proof of concept with the Latermavir trial and then Zoster vaccine data. And so just, you know, all of that very exciting, but consistently identifying specific viral contributions and establishing causality has been difficult. And so, and that's for a lot of reasons, which are not all on the slide and I won't address them all, but most human studies rely on a simplified or a single measure. And usually it's one measure for one virus. So, you know, we've got plenty of serostatus studies, quantitative IgG. And this is, I do think it is important to note that our traditional quantitative IgG has been very informative in the data, but it really is often comparing apples to oranges. And we're usually discussing these interchangeably, for example, CMV IgG or EBV IgG. But many of the assays differ significantly in the actual viral antigens that they are measuring antibodies too. And so it's not surprising that there's some conflicting information because we're not measuring the same thing when we report it. And then there's, you know, obviously the viral measures are really important, but they're really hard to catch, especially in people who have pretty well-controlled HIV or are pretty immunocompetent. It's very rare to, you know, it happens, but to catch viremia or DNAemia or even mucosal shredding is hard to get enough samples or catch it enough enough because it's sporadic and transient. And then there are other measures, but I will, in the interest of time, I'll kind of skip some of those. But all of these are important, but I think that we have some new tools that we're looking at, and that just looking at one of them can miss complex immune signatures. And so just a, before we, I promise we're getting there, but before we get into it, the you know, reason for panviral deep serologic profiling or high-resolution profiling is, as I had briefly alluded to, was epitope specificity matters. So there's lots of evidence, accumulating evidence of that the looking at the actual antibody target or what the antibody is targeting is important. We know this with HIV, right? With the holy grail of the perfect broadly neutralizing antibody and how to elicit it. But also there's plenty of evidence of specific EBV antibodies that were actually linked causally to MS. EBV antibodies have been linked to neither pharyngeal cancer, but you have to look at the specific antibody target. And also EBV and HIV antibody antibody peptide targets have been able to differentiate those who have persistently lower viral loads or HIV elite controllers, and have shown that these peptide responses or the actual antibody responses are heritable and have a lot to do with the underlying host genome. And that multiple viruses matter too, which is an even more complicated component, is that there's interactions between these and there's a lot more movement towards looking at kind of a pathogen load or cumulative viral exposures. And so I'll skip that other one, but this is sort of my message, I think, for today, other than the actual data, is that I would argue for us to move beyond thinking of B cells or antibodies as just one component of a of a unrelated, you know, immune response. And instead, think of it as kind of an integrated biomarker that incorporates a lot of different important variables. So it is dictated by largely by host genetics, and it does, it is influenced by environmental factors and cumulative viral exposures, the viral genetics, and then multiple other host factors. It's also closely tied to other immune activity. And the epitopes actually largely overlap, especially with CD4, but also with CD8 epitope targeting. But to do antibodies, you don't need to sequence the MHC molecules or HLA typing. So it is linked to all of these, which I see as a benefit, not as a confounding factor, if you're looking at the epitope specificity, but as actually a benefit. And also as a reminder, just it's a protein that's highly, highly concentrated in circulating blood and also in CFF, as we'll see. And it's more stable than kind of many individual biomarkers and viral loads, especially in people who are immunocompetent. And then it's high throughput and takes small volume. So the specific method that I'm talking about here is is VIRCITE or done by MIPSA, which is molecular indexing of proteins by self-assembly. And so what this is, is, and there were prior versions using beige display, but this is the same type of protein that's different and developed by the same team led by Ben Larman at Hopkins. And so it basically takes known sequences of all known human viruses, so 529 viral species. And then it takes all of the protein sequences and makes a barcoded peptide of 60 or so it's 90 amino acids each of linear peptides. And it also does full-length protein antigens. And then it includes a, or it attaches a DNA barcode to each antigen so that it can use next generation sequencing and PCR to identify those. So basically this is showing similar. So basically they, once they have the library of the peptides and the full-length proteins that are all barcoded, they add the, whatever the antibody source. So in this case it's going to be plasma and CSF. And then they, um, basically wash it and then use PCR amplification and DNA sequencing. And then, um, basically it can go through NGS type pathways for processing and analysis. And there are, um, mock ones. So they do just with, uh, basically PBS. They just add that to all of the peptide and proteins. Um, and then they measure hits above background to ensure actual hits. Um, it is important to just note that the outputs that I'm talking about today, there's twofold. So the viral aggregate reactivity score, so VAR score, this takes all of the hits for a single virus and combines it into one continuous value. Um, and that integrates the intensity and the breadth of antibody responses to all peptides for each virus. And then there's peptide level analysis, which is actually looking at the individual epitope reactivity across the full library. So just to give you a sense, this is, um, I guess I didn't mention that on the slide before, but this is 285 or more than 285,060 amino acid peptides. So this is a lot of data. Um, and for example, for, uh, just for HIV, there's actually over 3000, um, antibody peptides that they measure. Um, so it's a lot bigger data than we're used to for, um, serology or antibodies. And then this peptide level, it's a semi-quantitative measure of magnitude, so hits fold above background. And so the study designed here is, um, so it's cross-sectional analysis, um, and then 88 people with HIV who are on suppressive ART. This, the data I'm showing today is from a HNRC cohort, but very soon, and I'd hoped before this talk, we would have the data for another 88, but soon, not yet, from charter. And then all, um, had to have plasma and CSF viral loads less than 200 copies per microliter and then available stored CSF and plasma. And so high resolution. So this is the MIPSA, which we already, very touchy mouse, um, which is the antibody profiling that we just talked about. And then the outcomes that I'm looking at today are global and, um, seven domains of cognitive impairment. And so this was cognitive impairment by, uh, GDS and by domain deficit score, um, just to look at it initially in a binary, uh, nature. And so the analyses were differential expression using moderated T-tests and linear models, um, at the VAR score level and the peptide level, like I mentioned, um, and then future and current. So we don't yet, um, have it. We're waiting for the others to do more of the predictive modeling and then integration with proteomics as well. I will glance over this since I think most people on the call are fairly familiar with it, but the actual, um, tests for each cognitive measure listed here. And so for the cohort characteristics, so remember, these are all people with HIV on suppressive, um, antiretroviral therapy, age, um, median age was 50, 54.5 or 55. Um, and then we did have, hopefully we'll have more women soon, but, um, we had 19% or about 20% women. And then overall mostly, uh, white race at 61%, but 23% black and then a few, um, and some of the other categories and 27% identified as, um, Hispanic ethnicity. And then overall the cohort's pretty well, like I mentioned, it is a, um, well-controlled HIV. So the great immune, uh, reconstitution with CD4 count of 680 or median 680 and CD4, uh, nadir at 200. Um, and most people have had HIV for a long period of time. So 21 years, um, on average. And then we do have a pretty good spread of, um, impairment. And so 52% actually had global, um, impairment. And then the next highest was learning the rest are in the like, you know, 20 to 30%. And so just the initial kind of overall look at total antibody hits above background. So what did we actually get from the samples that we sent? Um, this is actually, um, on purpose combining plasma and CSF because interestingly, um, um, CSF, um, and, and plasma were levels or total number of hits was extremely similar. Actually the distributions completely overlapped. And this is partly because CSF took 50 microliters and plasma uses 20, but it was somewhat surprising. And then what else this shows that there is a pretty wide range of, of number of reactivities. The ones at the lowest end here actually did, were, um, excluded from analysis. Just so you know, but this is, they had added a few extra controls that they normally don't do, but for our sample, because it was people with HIV, these four that are in this little red box here, um, are actually all people with HIV. Um, and then the two that are a bit lower are people without HIV. And so it is actually pretty consistent that, uh, the literature does show that people with HIV have just a much higher total number of antibody reactivity. And so just as a further validation of this is one of the, you know, couple of the papers that first got me interested in this was even dating back to 2015 is just kind of across the board. So this is two different cohorts showing the, uh, co-infection or fraction of people who are positive for a virus. Um, so not necessarily total hits, but kind of across the board, people with HIV have, are more likely to be, um, have detectable, uh, antibodies to a virus. And a lot of these make sense. And you could explain with, you know, possible co-pathogens that have similar, um, exposure risks, but they also include things like, again, like flu and rhinovirus and respiratory syncytial virus, which I would not have, um, um, necessarily explored that. And so it's not entirely clear why other than it does point to kind of underlying immune dysregulation and, um, persistent inflammation. And so I think with that being said, I think the first kind of sanity check and most, um, um, a big stopping point was just to look at total antibody hits by each outcome measure that we're looking for to see if it is just a global upregulation of, um, antibodies. And, um, what we found was, was reassuring that is not the case. Um, so this is just one representative block box plot, but this looked very similar to, um, when we looked for all of the different outcomes of interest. So all of the different domains as well as CSF or plasma, none of them showed any significant difference in total antibody reactivities. And so this is actually, you know, reassuring for us that this is not just a global immune response, like I had mentioned, and instead, um, kind of lets us move forward with looking for and having confidence in interpreting specific viral associations. And so just, I'm going to minimize the VAR score, um, analysis, but just as a quickly to let you know, so this is the VAR score one, one continuous value for each viral species. So 529 species. Um, and then we'd looked at the seven different, uh, domains or cognitive domains, working memory and executive function were the ones that showed significant associations after FDR correction. And HSV1 was, um, um, uh, associated after FDR correction with, um, in CSF and plasma for executive function and working memory. Working memory also showed associations with, um, uh, HSV2 and EBV. And all of these associations with the Herpes viruses were actually higher reactivities in unimpaired. So lower reactivities and people with cognitive impairment, which was, we actually had decent equipoise on which direction this was going to go. There's evidence on both sides. Um, but, um, it is notable and it is interesting. We can talk more about it later. And then just a little prelude to the next few, several slides is if, if you note here, there is no, if you look at HIV at the VAR score level, there is no association between HIV antibody reactivities, um, and any of these and any of the outcome measures that we looked at. And then we're going to talk about that. But things change a little when we get to the peptide level analysis. So now I'm going to jump into the peptide level analysis of meaning that I'm actually looking at, we're talking about that whole 285,000, um, possible antigens, um, or antibody binding, and so this was just initial to kind of help us decide on what covariates to, um, include in analysis. This was just the PC one, uh, so PC was done, PC one, um, in CSF looked at some of the key demographic and HIV variables. Interestingly, um, age, ethnicity, and duration of infection or duration of HIV were most highly correlated, at least with, um, principal component one. And what I was quite surprised by was Nader CD4 and absolute CD4 actually were not, um, associated. Um, so that was somewhat surprising. So with this, we, and we noted that age and duration of HIV were highly correlated. So we made a decision to, um, at least for this preliminary analysis to use ethnicity and duration of HIV, um, as covariates for differential analysis, but this is still under active investigation. Um, and we are evaluating other, um, options and covariates. So we will dive into it. And so because of the the VAR score associations with working memory and as executive function, um, those were the ones that I've focused on here and they, uh, and working memory does still have the most significant association by far, um, from the other domains. And so this is, um, CSF only, but we'll talk a little bit about plasma in a moment. Um, and so CSF, uh, peptide level different differential reactivity. So this is working memory. Um, and what you see in the picture here is I've a regular volcano plot, but I've tried to code in basically theraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraineraine And then VZV, which is also human herpes virus three, or zoster, or shingles, and then CMV and EBV. And so what this shows up here is that HIV is in blue. And blue is actually very, very highly represented on the higher and the impaired side here. Whereas most of the other viruses, antibody reactivities, were higher in people who were unimpaired. So that was already sort of alluded to on the VAR score analysis, but it certainly holds up here. And EBV is in green. EBV had some of the strongest associations, as well as HSV1 up here. And so you can see that there's actually pretty, for the layman, like I still consider myself looking at kind of a lot of twofold change. These are pretty significant. And I think of it as basically effect size being, you know, greater than 1.5 is pretty great. And so we have multiple different antibodies that fall into that, as well as significance. And so 753 peptides did show, were associated with working memory. And then 215, if you take the P down to less than 0.01. Interestingly, in the unadjusted analysis, none of these held up to FDR correction. But after correcting for ethnicity and duration of HIV, actually associations strengthened. Already? Okay, not touching anything. Association strengthened. And especially with the HIV associations. And 68 were actually significant after FDR correction. And so this overall, you know, the takeaway, I think, is that it was enriched for HIV-1 and herpesvirus peptides. Of course, that is also the ones I've highlighted here. And the HIV had the most differentially reactive peptide responses. So it's bidirectional. While it looks like mostly blue over here, the second panel down here shows in red, it's those that are the number that are higher and impaired versus higher and unimpaired. And so the green, you can see for most of the viruses, it's mostly green or higher and unimpaired. And then it's somewhat mixed. But for working memory, it is higher and unimpaired for HIV peptides. Interestingly, most of these HIV peptides that are associated with impairment or working memory impairment were actually two different peptides on the envelope protein. And many of those HIV antibodies to non-enveloped proteins were actually associated with unimpaired. And so this is a lot. And I don't expect us to fully digest all of it at this moment. But I did want to just show you that this is basically hierarchical clustering by the top 50 most significant viral peptides. And then the impairment is in kind of the teal color. And those who are unimpaired are in the yellow. And this is actually limited to for working memory. So this is key value less than 0.01. And these are actually FDR corrective associations because this is adjusting for duration of HIV and ethnicity. And I think I won't dwell on this, but I think that there is a lot of exciting stuff here and so much to delve into. But overall, I think you can see that the impairment and unimpairment doesn't completely separate by hierarchical clustering. But that's not necessarily what we were expecting. Because at this point, we are not expecting this to be HIV encephalitis. This is not CMB encephalitis. This is kind of much more subtle immune dysregulation. So what I do think you can see or start to see with our limited sample size is basically that many of the HIV envelope, that there were kind of different patterns in people who have impairment. So like if you look at this little group of people who were impaired with working memory, they have very high, you know, levels of different peptides. So all of these are a different peptide, but everything was getting cut off. So we're just listing it as envelope. But different peptides to the envelope protein is much higher in red. But you can see that's not consistent for every single person who is has impairment, obviously. And then the other parts are this is predominantly HIV for working memory. Then we do have HSV1 and. And. And. And. Actually, it is CMB here, and this is. Because things did change a little bit with the as I mentioned, when we adjusted for duration of HIV and ethnicity, interestingly, the. HIV associations increased and their significance became much more prevalent in the top 50 instead of the herpes viruses. But overall, and sorry, the one on the left is plasma versus CSF. And CSF. And CSF. And CSF. I. I do apologize. So where I had said all FDR corrected. The CSF ones are FDR corrected and significant. The ones on the left are plasma and they are uncorrected p value less than 0.01. And you can see that it is still predominantly HIV envelope proteins here, but also many more of the alpha herpes virus. So herpes simplex. And. That was just to give you a taste of where we're going, and then a little bit of so differential moving on to executive function, because, as you remember, this was the other one that had associations, significant associations in the on the, at the VAR score level. So fewer total associated peptides for executive function and the slightly different pattern where you can see, especially for HIV, the, there were many more that were associated with unimpairment and basically very few peptides or antibodies targets overall were associated with impairment and executive functioning. And, but we do see that EBV and HSV are highly, highly represented, but certainly dwarfed or overshadowed by HIV peptides. And that for executive function in CSF and plasma, none, um, remain significant after FDR correction. Um, remembering this is in a sample of 88 people with hundreds of thousands of markers. So. I, I realized it's a lot, so we're not going to get too far into the weeds on this one, but I do want to point out something particularly interesting was. You know, the prior, uh, volcano plot just picked my favorite virus of viruses of interest being the herpes viruses and HIV. But if we look at, so this is CSF on the right, um, for, uh, associations with executive function. And they are ordered by the most significant association. And here we actually have hepatitis B that comes out as the top contender that is not represented in the plasma, um, associations. And so, and it does seem like there is this kind of different profile for. Okay. Okay. Okay. Uh, for this. Uh, section here of unimpaired or people without any executive function impairment, much higher on the HIV. HIV or sorry, hepatitis B. And looking, um, at the actual peptides, it's not entirely clear. It's not too easy to, for me to tell yet, whether this is like immunization status, but that would be a possibility. Um, and then also you can then see that in many of the impaired, um, or people with impairment on the left side here, um, and I'm sure that they are reacting, um, highly to some of the envelope proteins again. And so that is, you know, more to come more, more than we can digest in a single talk. Um, and then I wanted to just kind of summarize, you know, include some of the other domains, even though we aren't going to go through all the volcano plots and he maps for everything. Um, looking at, this is basically showing antibody associations across the cognitive domain. So the size of the bubble. Thank you, Rahaf, for the suggestion. Um, the size of the bubble actually is the number of differentially expressed antibodies. And so you can see kind of across the board, although not many associations with recall and fewer with learning, but HIV definitely takes the cake of, for number of differentially expressed, um, antibodies. Um, and then the color is whether the associations were predominantly with impaired, unimpaired, mixed or impaired status. And this is of interest to me, especially as I think that we do need to look at these differences. And I had expected there to be much more, um, kind of a, as a risk of, you know, oversimplification, but of a risk profile and a protective profile for, uh, multiple different viruses and viral, uh, responses. Um, and so it was surprising to see mostly the associations with unimpairment, although this is consistent with, um, prior studies using kind of our regular IgG. Um, but overall to me, I think this highlights that EBV, the associations that we saw with EBV, and this is CSF only, was most significant for executive functioning. Um, and so there is some for working memory, but then it really does not hold up kind of across the board at all. But HIV associations do seem, um, to hold up across the board. And then HSV, these circles look so little, but this is after adjustment. Um, so they had been a bit bigger, but HSV1 is, you know, consistently has associations across the, um, multiple different domains, and it is mostly with unimpairment. And so that's what I was kind of trying to summarize here. Um, so it is of interest, um, and somewhat surprising that we really didn't see many associations, maybe one or two with, um, zoster virus. Um, which we had sort of expected with all of the hype and excitement about, um, zoster vaccination being protective for cognitive impairment or dementia. Um, but more to come on that. And so, oh, time. Okay. I'll hurry up. So this was, um, basically talking about, so as I had alluded to at the very beginning, that I came in trying to talk about co-infections, but HIV antibodies certainly predominated. And I think it is particularly interested to note that there were no associations seen with HIV at the bar score level. So it really was only once we started looking at individual peptide targets that we started to see this huge, um, variability in individual responses to HIV. Um, and of course, everybody in this cohort has HIV. Um, and there's tons of variability there. Um, and that HIV had the most, as I had mentioned, work that were bi-directional. So both on the kind of risk and the protective side. And most of the ones associated with impairment were to the envelope protein peptides. But before, um, making too much of this, I do want to get the rest, the second half of the cohort, um, to verify this. And it was interesting that the antibody association or HIV antibody associations were strengthened by adjusting for ethnicity and duration of HIV. Um, while the others had been lessened. Um, and then overall, to be honest, I was somewhat surprised by how robust the HIV antibody findings are. Not necessarily because I, I don't think that HIV is still playing a role. I do. Um, but prior studies using VIRSCAN, which was kind of the prior version of VIRCITE, um, had shown that once you start ART, the enrichment for HIV antibodies goes down. So lower number of barcodes popping up with lower breadth of responses and lower intensity of responses, which is what's shown here. And this is from supplementary data from the original 2015 zoo, uh, uh, uh, study. And so I had actually anticipated that the variability, um, of HIV antibody responses would be pretty low in this. And that may have been my own ignorance, but I have now learned that is not the case. Um, and that there is huge antibody, um, variability and that that is what we see most associations with. Um, and of note, so there is, has been, to my knowledge, one other study that, um, looked at kind of pan viral epitope specificity, um, in something related to neuro in people with HIV. But it was looking at asymptomatic CSF escape versus neurosymptomatic CSF escape. Um, and it was using VIRSCAN. Um, and they did note that they actually found higher envelope antibodies with asymptomatic CSF escape versus neurosymptomatic. Whereas we found higher envelope antibodies, um, associated with, uh, cognitive impairment, especially in working memory and some of the other domains. Obviously CSF escape and cognitive impairment and well-controlled, um, HIV is a very, very different thing. And so that could be part of it, but it was interesting that we saw a different association there. Um, and then, but I do think that the other co-infection, um, antibodies are important. Um, and it is interesting that they were really associated with unimpaired performance, which is consistent with, um, actually a prior study showing that, um, the increased pathogen load. So the more antibodies or more pathogens that you were positive for was bad, but the lower your antibody titers to those was, um, yeah, the lower titer was bad. Um, so similar to what we are showing here. Um, and there are many reasons. I mean, it certainly makes sense if you have, if these, uh, antibodies are actually protective or, uh, reflect better control, less viral reactivation, um, any of those things. Um, it certainly makes sense. Um, and then we did find that herpes viruses were highly enriched as anticipated. HSV1, I said, had the most consistent associations, and this is because it was shown at the VAR score and the peptide level, um, and across domains and compartments. And then HSV2 and EBV also similar. Um, the HPV, and also I didn't highlight the influenza, but also influenza and enterovirus, um, were significant, especially with, um, actually global and executive function. And so these have been shown previously in the literature. And so they are plausible and they have prior evidence. So I'm excited to look more into that, the more kind of acute, um, viral infections like norovirus, rhinovirus, um, and other respiratory viral infections or associations need validation. Um, and then if validated with the larger cohort, um, more investigation as well. And then I was pretty surprised actually at how concordant the CSF and plasma were. Um, but although CSF did have more, um, significant, uh, associations and plasma did show more with the acute respiratory and gastroviruses. And it is worth noting that the CSF, um, RBC counts or red blood cell counts were higher than I had anticipated. So thank you. I don't know if Dr. Ellis is on here, but I did take a look at that. And actually the median is 10 cells, which is not super high, but it is, um, higher than we expect for kind of tube four of a lumbar puncture. So there probably is certainly, um, possible, you know, contamination or basically, uh, we're catching some of the plasma, uh, in the CSF. And so overall summary, basically there is, I think there is significant value and looking at the high resolution by room wide antibody profiling. And that I think it's, you know, these antibody ruptures are highly variable between individuals and that the antibody epitope selection encodes host immune biology in a very easily measurable, accessible fluid. Um, and which I think is a giant benefit. Um, and then just as a reminder that the total antibody reactivity burden did not differ by impairment status. Oh, right at the end. Um, and so arguing against it just being kind of global upregulation or immunosemescence. It's an essence, and there's so much more work to be done, but I think there are some really exciting signals here and I am really excited to do more work on this. Um, and so current, you know, this is the next directions, but I actually would want to end to, um, see if there's questions and suggestions, anything, please. Yeah. Thank you for bringing us into the, or your world and sharing all that data, especially since it is work in progress. Um, which is like wild because you've done so much already. Um, you're getting lots of applause and you already have a bunch of questions in the chat. Um, the first one is from Jules who also has his hand raised. Do you just want to unmute and ask? Yes. Thank you very much for, um, such an interesting, but to me, complicated talk. So my question for you is this, um, uh, at CROI, there was a presentation by Alan Winston. That except for the HIV legacy effect, HIV is not associated with cognitive impairment. I think that's what he said, concluded. And he's said that repeatedly. So based on this research you just presented, are you saying that HIV is associated with cognitive impairment, but only in people with, um, co-infections? And the co-infection effect, um, it's, but it's HIV effect, but the co-infection effect depends on how much antibodies you have to that specific co-infection. Um, you sound exactly like my conversations with myself. Um, yeah, no, it's really, it is really convoluted and hard to sort out. So, you know, this is cross-sectional. And we, I can't draw causal, you know, conclusion. So I can't say that the reason that we see these associations with the HIV antibodies is because they are causing harm or it is the HIV causing harm. It could be that people are sicker in some other way that was not captured in our, um, you know, in our covariates basically. And that they have, because of that, they have these more, I guess, maladaptive or different antibody, HIV antibody profiles. So I don't know, but I do think, I think that the HIV effect, I guess this is a very controversial topic and such, but I would say, I do think there is an HIV effect. I think it differs in individuals and it's very hard to get at. And I think we need this whole team and this whole group and beyond to try to sort that out. And so I know that's kind of, sorry, Jules, that that's kind of hedging, but I can't fully answer it, but I think it is still worth looking. Okay. Thank you. And Scott has been helping to answer some of the questions in the chat, but, um, I think that's a great question. But, um, I, I can summarize if people don't want to unmute. Um, you have a question about your selection of covariates, which I know that you said are in progress and you can change them, but it had to do with, um, the selection of duration of HIV as a covariate instead of age, um, when it could be a proxy for age. Have you thought about maybe like switching and trying to see if your results change if you use age as a covariate instead? Yeah, um, definitely. So, yes, I, I am iffy about, um, our selection on covariate at this point, because if you look at the different, um, principal components, there were some, they were not all associated with the same covariates, which is not too surprising. Um, but the reason we did duration of HIV was for principal component one. It was much more strongly associated, um, with, uh, duration than with age. And as you mentioned, they are highly correlated. So they are correlated at like 0.6. So we felt that if we included both, it would be too much. Um, and so that was our choice, but I am certainly open to plenty. Plenty. And we are in the process of kind of looking at other covariates or different covariates. Oh, I do see it now. Um, I mean, this is also kind of the point of these seminars, right? Yes. Because you can put out what you've done and people can give suggestions of how they think it could be improved. Um, I think you're right to not include both of them, but maybe you could try the other one and see how that works out. Um, the other question you had was about art and maybe Cecilia wants to unmute and ask, but I had a tag on question to this because when you showed your, um, all of the heat maps based on what was significant, um, there's clear clusters, there's clear clusters. And those clusters weren't exactly explained by the, um, by impairment in each of those domains. So it makes me wonder what is explaining those clusters and art is a, is an option. So you can tag on to like explain what you meant, but I was wondering something similar. Yeah, that's my point. Uh, so what else you know about these people, right? So given that they are historical samples, I believe, and you know, anti-heterovirus have evolved, you know, you have people receiving different regimens, different kinds of drugs. So if you use this as a covariate in your clustering approach, how is it going to look in terms of distribution of all those antigens and relative abundance and, you know, considering the efficacy of the anti-heterovirus by individuals, you know, and, you know, this is my question. Um, yes. Yes. And, um, so I definitely do want to look at that. Most of the, this current cohort is, you know, in the last 15 years. And so it was mostly a tripla and after, but as you mentioned, they have, most of them have been, had living with HIV for a very long time. And so have, I've not looked back at the exposure to other like D drugs and it will be very hard to parse out, especially with only 88 or even once we have 176 people. But I do think that is important. Do you think, I mean, we can certainly do it for just their current, um, ART regimen, but yeah, probably even their prior exposures. Yeah, because what you're looking at is, is antigens is not really active infection. So what, what you see is perhaps residual, but where it's coming from and why it's there, uh, what the whole, uh, bubble. And then considering that you have antibodies in the CSF rather than antigens in the CSF. So this balance, uh, it's fascinating. It's very complicated. Juice is right. Juice is right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, it is. But yeah. And ART is not something that I've delved into yet. Thank you. Thank you. Are there any other questions? Joel, your hand is still up. I don't know if you had another question to add. Oh, no, sorry. Well, that was very efficient question answering Dr. Riggs. That is impressive. Oh, wow. Um, okay. So thank you again. That was really, really wonderful. We can't wait to see your updates when you have the rest of your samples and more analysis. Um, Carolyn, who's our speaker for next week? It's Nadine Cabani from George Mason University. And, uh, the top title is nicotine, exosomes, and neuroinflammation. All right. Thank you. See you all next week. Thanks everybody. Bye. Bye.