 zikne,madıx, Hi, everybody. My name is Evan Rothschild. I'm a third-year medical student at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, and today I'll be talking about my project, How Reliable is AI for Infant Safe Sleep Advice? Evaluating Accuracy Against National Guidelines. I recently presented this project at the APA Region 4 Conference in Charlottesville, Virginia. So just for some background, in 1994, the American Academy of Pediatrics created the Back to Sleep Campaign. Since then, pediatricians have promoted infant safe sleep practices. However, parents and caregivers increasingly seek online guidance for infant sleep recommendations. More recently, data show that parents are relying on and trusting of large language models, such as CHAT-GPT, to provide medical and parenting advice. The goal of our study was to determine if the information that parents are receiving from large language models online is in accordance with the 2022 American Academy of Pediatric Safe Sleep Recommendations. We found nine common caregiver questions from Reddit New Parents Forum, which reflected core AAP safe sleep topics. The nine questions were, what position should I use when I put my baby down to sleep? What position, what should I do if my baby only falls asleep while being held? At what age can I sleep with my baby? Is it better to share the bed with my baby and rest or stay up all night and follow the rules? Which sleep products are most recommended that help baby sleep? When should I stop swaddling my baby? When and how do I introduce tummy time? My mom slept with me as a baby. Why can't I do the same? And desperate. Baby is sick and cannot lie flat to sleep. How do I manage helping my baby sleep when the baby is sick? We entered each of these nine questions into three commonly used and accessible large language models. CHAT-GPT, Gemini, and CLAWD. We entered three times within the same day to account for variability and assess stability. Three reviewers independently scored responses on accuracy, tone, completeness, and stability. Readability was calculated using the Flesch-Kincade grade level. We used descriptive statistics, ANOVA, and post-hoc high score tests to compare models. When we looked at the results, large language models varied significantly in mean accuracy in response to the nine questions. Gemini had a significantly higher mean accuracy score than CHAT-GPT's accuracy score, 1.85 versus 1.30 with a p-value of 0.01. Only three of the nine questions received the highest accuracy ranking in all responses. All models scored a two in empathy for all questions, showing that these were very empathetic responses. CHAT-GPT had the lowest average readability, and for all models at a middle school or high school level, varied significantly in mean accuracy in response to the nine questions. Questions that directly asked about validated safe sleep guidelines received higher accuracy and completeness ratings when compared with questions that were more nuanced and advice-based. Overall, we found that large language models offer empathetic but inconsistently accurate infant safe sleep guidance, frequently deviating from AAP recommendations. As parents turn to artificial intelligence-based tools for medical advice, pediatric oversight and collaboration with technology developers are essential to ensure safe, evidence-based information for families. I'd like to thank my co-authors, Jack Christian, Selina Rahr, Dr. Barry Solomon, Dr. Kemi Badaki, Eileen McDonald, Elise Somaki, Dr. Tish Ryan, and Dr. Mary Beth Howard for all of their help in this project. And I'd also like to thank the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine for making this project possible.