 ptrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtr at Johns Hopkins with subsequent fellows training in vitreo retinal surgery at Duke University. She was awarded an early stage investigator K award to receive graduate training for clinician scientists where she studied here for getting a master's of science and applied health sciences in informatics in our program. And her research is now supported by the National Eye Institute and research to prevent blindness is focused on promoting health equity in diabetic retinopathy care using informatics tools. Dr. Kai has quickly become a prominent leader in our in the Odyssey community for observational health data science and informatics. Her work focuses on bridging the gap between eye clinical eye care and global data standards ensuring that vision related outcomes are accurately represented in large-scale observational research. She does this in two ways. She plays a pivotal role in the Odyssey eye care and vision research working group working to map ophthalmology specific EHR data to the OMOP common data mill. And she's also led two large Odyssey evidence network studies, which have been multicenter studies to investigate treatments for retinal diseases and glaucoma aiming to identify disparities in care and optimize patient outcomes across diverse populations. At Johns Hopkins, Dr. Kai balances her informatics research with a dedicated clinical practice. Her academic pursuits focus on social determinants of health and how social economic factors influence the progression of blinding eye diseases. Cindy, thank you so much for coming today and presenting for us. Great. Thanks, Paul. Thanks so much for that very kind introduction. It's really a pleasure for me to give this grand rounds talk. Let me just make sure my slides are advancing. Does that, is that working? It looks great. All right, perfect. So these are the objectives of the, of the talk. Yeah, so maybe this is a little bit of an unusual informatics grand rounds and that it's going to be informatics tools from the perspective of a clinician. So like Paul mentioned, I'm a clinician by training, I'm a practicing vitro mental surgeon here at Hopkins. And early on in my career, I got the applied health sciences informatics masters here at Hopkins. And all this talk will kind of be about the journey of how I discovered this field and I'm going to be a going to be a part of a vision vision. I'm going to be a vision vision. I'm going to be a vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision vision the end of the day, you know, everything that I do is for the purpose of improving outcomes for my patients. So as a retina specialist, we see patients with diabetes and monitor them for diabetic retinopathy. And what I was noticing in my clinical practice was that we'd see patients with diabetes, kind of follow them for a period of time, and then all of a sudden, they would disappear for years and have a lapse in care. And by the time they come back, they develop this end stage disease with, for example, a tractional retinal detachment. And as a surgeon, I can fix this tractional retinal detachment and put the retina back where it belongs. But the vision outcomes, even after repairing this detachment, is not as good as if we had just prevented the retinal detachment from happening in the first place. And we actually do have great treatments to prevent this end stage complication. So a couple of insights that I had were, you know, these lapses in care, especially for diabetic patients, really are missed opportunities for early intervention. And when you talk to patients, you know, everyone cares about their eyesight, everyone is scared about losing vision. And it's a lot of times these other social factors that are preventing them from returning for care. So people talk about the fact that they can't find transportation to bring them to the clinic, or they have caregiver responsibilities for young children or their older parents or things like that, that prevent them from seeking eye care. And what was also really interesting to me was that for as much information as I enter into the electronic health record as a clinician, the electronic health record really wasn't giving me information back. It wasn't telling me when my patients with diabetes were having these lapses in care. And it certainly wasn't telling me if patients were at high risk for having lapses in care. And so zooming out of just my clinic, like really diabetic retinopathy is a problem nationally and really internationally. So even among, you know, even in the US, it's still the number one cause of vision loss among the working age adults and affects millions of patients. And these estimates are only going up because the number of patients with diabetes is going up year after year. And the way I think about, you know, diabetic retinopathy, it's in two components. So as soon as patients with diabetes, particularly patients with type 2 diabetes are diagnosed, they're recommended to get an eye screening to see the staging of their retinopathy. And even after the screening, they're supposed to ideally get at least annual eye exams and annual follow-up for whatever they have. Because at the end of the day, you know, these patients have to go to the eye doctor because all the treatments that we have to prevent blindness and all that follow-up really needs to happen in the eye clinic. So getting patients with diabetes to the clinic is really a fundamental problem. And so my clinical experience really has informed how I would like to tackle this problem of reducing vision loss from diabetes. And so my research program, like Paul mentioned earlier, is really focused around, you know, assessing and addressing social determinants of health because we know that's really important, you know, both on the individual level as well as the neighborhood level. And we'll talk a little bit more about that in a little bit. And really leveraging of our electronic health record, figuring out how we can use it to identify patients who are at high risk for lapses in care and vision loss from diabetes. And because, you know, vision loss from diabetes is such a national and international problem. What I would really like to do is share those electronic health record prediction models with other institutions and other clinics, because all those clinics will benefit. So to start talking a little bit about, you know, social determinants of health, they're the conditions in which people live, work, play, and the wider set of social structures and economic systems that shape the conditions of daily living. And they really play critical roles in health behaviors and health outcomes, either in a positive or a negative way. And they can affect patients on the individual level, or they can affect groups of patients and what we what I call kind of the neighborhood level. And you obviously social determinants of health are important from a health equity perspective. And you might be thinking from an informatics perspective, like, why are we even talking about this? But I think because they're so important in health outcomes and behaviors, that's one of the important reasons to think about this as we're, you know, thinking through informatics solutions. And so we've shown that social determinants of health are important for a wide range of diabetic retinopathy health behaviors and vision outcomes as well. In this particular study, we were looking at individual level social determinants of health and kind of annual eye exams on the national level. So we use pool data from the National Health Interview Survey of adults with diabetes. And the NHIS is a cool survey because it's a cross-sectional household interview run by the CDC. And because the the multi-stage area probability sampling allows for national representativeness. And so we leveraged 55 questions from the from NHIS to represent these various domains of social determinants of health following the Kaiser Family Foundation, ranging from economic stability, neighborhood and physical environment, education, food, community and social context, and the healthcare system. And our outcome was this question that asked patients whether or not they had seen an eye care provider in the preceding 12 months. So we're calling this self-reported eye care utilization. And so examples of adverse SDOH across each of these domains included, for example, an adverse SDOH in the economic stability domain was if the patients reported difficulty paying medical bills or having a low family income. Adverse SDOH in the neighborhood and physical environment was renting as opposed to owning a home. And in the education domain was having less than high school education or poor English language proficiency. So food insecurity, psychological distress, or being uninsured or not having a usual source of care. So we identified over 20,000 adults with diabetes in this pooled in his survey, but which represented a weighted sample of over 27 million patients. And 43% of them reported not seeing an eye care specialist in the preceding 12 months, which is roughly what other studies estimate as well. And what we found was that at having an adverse SDOH across each of the Kaiser Family Foundation domains was associated with lower odds of eye care utilization in the past 12 months. And we also looked at SDOH in aggregate and found that having just an increased overall burden of adverse SDOH was associated with lower odds of eye care utilization. And again, it was statistically significant in terms of a trend. So the N-HIS survey is obviously very powerful because it allows for national representativeness. But as you might have been able to tell, some of the questions were a little bit broad and not necessarily specific for eye care. And there weren't as many details in the SDOH survey as we would have liked. And so we've done other studies. This particular one is a little bit closer to home. It's using data from the Washington, D.C. Medicaid beneficiaries. This was a post hoc analysis of a prospectively collected cohort. And this cohort underwent a very comprehensive SDOH screening. And we found for this study, not having a regular doctor for health needs or having poor housing conditions was associated with not getting an eye exam in the two-year post-study enrollment period. So because we're asking more detailed questions, we're starting to get a sense of what potential targets we could intervene on to change, you know, to improve eye care utilization among patients with diabetes. But at the end of the day, what I want to create is an intervention for our Hopkins population. So because that's the case, it's still really important to ask patients that we ultimately want to intervene on. So this was a prospective survey of patients with diabetes who get eye care at Hopkins. And what we're showing here is a heat map of the association between the various SDOH variables that we included in this instrument on the log odds scale. And what you can see here, perhaps not surprisingly, is that many of these variables are correlated. So not having, you know, the highest degree earned was very correlated with the highest level of school, not surprisingly. And time without insurance was very correlated with not having insurance. And so it makes analyzing SDOH variables a little bit tricky. So in this case, we use a statistical technique called latent class analysis, which is a statistical clustering procedure to identify different social risk groups. And we found that patients generally fell into one of three groups. The first group were patients who had the least burden of adverse SDOH. They generally had financial security. They did have insurance. Their only adverse SDOH really was not having perhaps knowledge about diabetic retinopathy. Group two looked a little bit different. They started to have financial insecurity and difficulty with transportation, but this group did have insurance. And this is in contrast with group three, who had the most adverse SDOH. They had financial insecurity, often didn't have a high school degree, and this group also did not have insurance. I think this study emphasizes to me what's well known in the health equity literature, that in order to really effectively intervene on adverse SDOH, you need multidimensional interventions. Because at least in the ophthalmology space, a lot of people talk about improving education for diabetic retinopathy. But as you can see here, I think that type of intervention could work for patients who fell into group one, but perhaps wouldn't work for patients who are in group two or three. So really just keeping in mind the necessary, the need for multidimensional interventions of adverse SDOH. And not surprisingly, these different social risk groups were associated with vision outcomes. So patients in groups two and three were much more likely to have a history of lapses in their diabetic retinopathy care, and more often had vision that was worse than 2040, or having vision impairment. So social determinants of health can also affect groups of patients, what we consider what we call neighborhood level SDOH. And there are a whole bunch of different variables that describe neighborhood level SDOH. Our group has tended to use one that's called the Area Deprivation Index, which is a factor variable based on all of these different census data that you can see listed here. And a higher ADI indicates more socioeconomic deprivation. And we know this is important because areas of higher socioeconomic deprivation with concentrated poverty often lack public transportation and lack healthy access to healthy foods. So you can immediately see how that can affect health outcomes and health behaviors. And so we have shown the importance of neighborhood level SDOH for a variety of these diabetic retinopathy outcomes as well. In this particular study, we showed that patients from more from neighborhoods with more socioeconomic deprivation had a greater predictive probability of having lapses in care. And in this study that was done at two different academic institutions, again, patients coming from neighborhoods with more socioeconomic deprivation had a higher predictive probability for having proliferative diabetic retinopathy, which is the more severe form of diabetic retinopathy compared to non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy. So we'll come back to the SDOH idea a little bit later on in the talk. And I wanted to switch gears a little bit to talking about data. I think the topic that this audience is super excited about, and specifically big data, where there's a whole lot of volume, variety, velocity, and variability. And like I mentioned earlier, one of the challenges that I was seeing as a clinician was that patients would come in for diabetic retinopathy care and would have a lapse in that care and not return for a period of time. And what I was realizing was that actually being able to even define a lapse in diabetic retinopathy care in the electronic health record is a big data problem. And that's because, you know, ophthalmology is really a multi, it's multi-specialty. You know, sometimes our patients with diabetes will come in for their diabetic retinopathy screening or treatment, as you can see in these, you know, vertical red bars. But sometimes they come in for their other ophthalmic problems, like glaucoma or cataracts, as indicated by these blue bars. And from the data and from, because the fact that I, you know, did my training here, I know that these patients with diabetes are not really getting their retinopathy checked at these other visits. And so in order to define a lapse in diabetic retinopathy care, we had to do one of two things. First, we had to identify and isolate all the office visits that were only about their, that, you know, talked about their diabetic retinopathy screening or treatment. And we couldn't rely just on structured data in the form of ICD codes, because we were missing about half of those office visits. So we really had to turn to natural language processing of the free, the provider free text notes in order to isolate all the visits relevant for their diabetic retinopathy. And then the second thing we had to do was figure out when the provider even wanted the patient to return. So again, some of that information is in the structured checkout portion of the electronic health record, but a lot of it was buried in the provider free text notes. And once you have these two pieces of information, when the provider wants the patient to come back and when the provider, when the patient actually returned, and you can create these various thresholds. And we created this based on the literature. And so, you know, this patient, this provider wanted the patient to come back in four weeks, this person didn't do so until 12. And that, you know, was beyond the pre-specified threshold of 10 weeks. So this was considered a lapse in diabetic retinopathy care. So when we applied this definition to our patients with diabetes who come here for at Hopkins, we were finding that over a quarter of patients were having a lapse in diabetic retinopathy care. So we can do better for our patients. And it differed by race and ethnicity. We found that patients who were non-Hispanic, Black, Hispanic, or other had a much higher odds of having a lapse in diabetic retinopathy care compared to otherwise similar non-Hispanic white patients. And we know from the literature that having a lapse in care is associated with worse vision outcomes. And that's particularly true for patients who have complications from their retinopathy, for example, diabetic macular edema or the proliferative diabetic retinopathy who are undergoing active treatment. And similarly, in our population, having a lapse in care was associated with having vision impairment compared to patients who, you know, did not have a lapse in care. And this was true across patients of all different subgroups and diabetic retinopathy severity and treatment statuses. So now that we can define lapse in care, another really useful thing for us to be able to do is predict who is likely to have a lapse in care. So we've used random force models to see if we can predict lapses in care. And we used electronic health record variables such as, you know, socio-demographic characteristics, ophthalmic characteristics, and wait times and lead times. And we also tested models where we additionally added, you know, whether or not the patient had a history of lapses in care, and also added neighborhood level SDOH variables, like for example, the ADI that we had talked about earlier. And what we found was basically, yes, the area under the curve was close to 0.78. So we are able to predict who is likely to have a lapse in care. So this is important information. And so because being able to predict who's going to have a lapse in care is useful, you know, you can imagine a world in which for those particular high risk patients, you can offer them additional social resources or, you know, opportunities to bring them back in for care and reduce these lapses in care. And because vision loss from diabetes is really a national, international problem, we would like to be able to, you know, disseminate these predictive algorithms to other institutions that benefit their patients as well. But there are many data challenges in terms of disseminating these predictive algorithms. As this crowd knows, every the data, you know, data and various data sources can look very different. I think this is an example that Paul used in one of his intro to PMAP classes. But take example, take for example, the variable sex, it can be coded as male and female in one data source, and just M and F and another data source, or even with numbers in the third data source. So if your predictive algorithm uses sex as a variable, if you want to change it for data source two, and number three, you have to update that line of code. Now imagine doing that for the 10,000 variables that you're using in your predictive model, and trying to do that for 100 different data sources, that it becomes a problem that's just not scalable. And so the solution to this is to get all of your data to look the same, so that whatever algorithm you develop at data source number one can be easily deployable to the other data sources. And so that's where a common data model comes in, it organizes and standardizes data by imposing a common structure and vocabulary. And one of the commonly used one these days is the OMOP Common Data Model, or the Observational Medical Outcomes Partnership Common Data Model, and that's managed by the Odyssey community, the observational health, data sciences, and informatics community. So the Odyssey community really is a global community, it's kind of unified in this vision to improve health through observational research. And at its core, it's a global federated data network. I think the last estimates suggest that there are close to about a billion unique records in this global network. So it's a very powerful community and data network. And so I just wanted to share, you know, two network studies that, you know, Paul kind of mentioned earlier, to demonstrate how big data can be useful for ophthalmology research. And when I give this talk to the ophthalmology audience, I also, you know, promote the Odyssey approach and suggest that their way of doing observational health studies really should be more widely adopted across ophthalmology. So one of the first projects that we did was to look at the risk of kidney failure among patients who are getting intravitreal anti-VEGF medications. So we know that anti-vascular endothelial growth factor medications, when given systemically, have known adverse kidney side effects, including acute kidney injury and proteinuria, which are major risk factors for kidney failure. And we give these medications very commonly to treat a number of eye diseases, including diabetic retinopathy and all the related complications. And when we give these medications inside the eye, there is some systemic absorption. It's probably the greatest with bevacizumab and Aflabirceps, and it's the least with ranibizumab. So this has led some practicing ophthalmologists and retina specialists to preferentially suggest the use of ranibizumab for patients who are at high risk for kidney failure, for example, are patients with diabetes. And so that was the question that we asked in the Odyssey community. Is there any evidence to that practice pattern? Is the risk of kidney failure really different among patients who are getting ranibizumab, Aflabirceps, and Bevacizumab? And because of all the amazing infrastructure that's in place between the data model and all the open source tooling, we were able to ask this question across 12 different, very diverse databases in a matter of nine weeks. And you can see here, our administrative claims databases span from commercial claims to Medicaid claims, even claims from Japan, as well as included aggregated EHR data, Optum, VA, and individual EHRs like Hopkins and Stanford. We identified over 240,000 new users of monthly intravitual anti-VEGF medications, and found that in pairwise comparison, we really are not seeing a difference in the risk of kidney failure among patients who are receiving these three anti-VEGF medications. So this study answered a really important clinical question that, you know, we have as retina specialists treating these patients. And so for me, I no longer have to recommend the use of ranibizumab for patients that I'm worried are a higher risk for kidney failure. So one of the second network studies that we did in ophthalmology that was useful was looking at the association between semaglutide and non-arteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy or NAION, which is a blinding eye disease. So semaglutide is a GLP-1 receptor agonist that has many benefits in reducing cardiovascular and kidney complications, and it's recommended by the American Diabetes Association as one of the preferred treatments of patients with type 2 diabetes. And so July of 2024, a paper came out in JAMA ophthalmology that suggested patients who were on semaglutide had a four-fold increased risk for developing this potential irreversible blinding eye disease, NAION, compared to patients who were on non-GLP-1 receptor agonists. And they found that this was quite a common complication. The cumulative incidence of NAION among the semaglutide cohort was over 6%. There were limitations to this study. It was done at a single academic center that was a major referral center for NAION, and even the authors, you know, really said that in order to confirm, refute, or refine their findings, there need to be other studies, essentially. But the lay press kind of went a little bit wild with this information. And there were all of these papers that came out right afterwards, you know, warning people that this popular weight loss drug, semaglutide, is linked to irreversible vision loss. And it got to the point where our governing bodies of the American Academy of Ophthalmology and the North American Neuroophthalmology Society had to issue a public statement, again, reminding patients that the study was done at just a single large eye hospital that was a major referral center, and that at this time, they were not recommending patients stop taking semaglutide. And since that paper came out, there was a whole host of other observational studies that came out in the literature. And not surprisingly, we were seeing just a lot of different conflicting results. There were some studies that suggested there did seem to be a higher increased risk, and others that said, no, there is no difference in risk of semaglutide to other medications. And of course, it's really hard to compare between all these different observational studies, because there are different data sources. They often use different study designs or cohort definitions, and certainly analytic approaches as well. And so the Odyssey, for any Odyssey network study, it addresses a lot of these challenges, you know, for any network study that's done in Odyssey, there has to be a pre-specified protocol. So you can't p-hack, you can't, you know, invent comparisons later on, it has to be written before you even conduct the study. And all the phenotypes that are created are computable. So any other researcher who has access to OMAL common data, data can easily just rerun your phenotype. And no one has to guess what your phenotype looks like computationally based on the words that you're writing on the page. And all the tools that are developed are all open source. And in a single study, we're able to test different databases, outcomes, study designs, and sensitivities. So really improving the rigor and the reliability of network studies. And so we asked the same question in the Odyssey network. Does exposure to semaglutide confer a different risk of NAION compared to other GLP-1 receptor agonists or non-GLP-1 receptor agonist type 2 diabetes medications? And we tested this in multiple databases, looked at multiple different outcomes and study designs. So we included adults with type 2 diabetes who were exposed to semaglutide, dualaglutide, and exanatide, which were the GLP-1 receptor agonists, and the pagliflozin, citagliptin, and glupazide that were the non-GLP-1 receptor agonists. And we created two different phenotypes for NAION because there is no ICD code for NAION. So you kind of have to use these other rules and definitions to create a more reliable phenotype. And we looked at two different study designs, an active comparator, new user cohort analysis, as well as a self-controlled case series analysis. So in the active comparator, new user cohort analysis, we looked at, you know, patients with type 2 diabetes who were new users of semaglutide and on it as second line treatment for their type 2 diabetes after metformin. And we compared them to propensity score match new users of these other medications. We used large-scale propensity score matching and Cox proportional hazards models to estimate the risk. And for the self-controlled case series analysis, we took all patients with NAION and estimated the incidence rate ratio for NAION during semaglutide exposure compared to non-exposure using Poisson regression. And we did that similarly for each of these other medications. And as with other Odyssey Network studies, there was a whole set of study diagnostics for both analyses. And only the databases that passed all study diagnostics were included in the Bayesian random effects meta-analysis. And so for this study, we included 14 different databases. Again, a very diverse set of administrative claims databases and electronic health records, as you can see here, similar to the anti-VEGF study mentioned earlier. And for this study, we were able to get results in just four and a half weeks. Again, because of the tremendous infrastructure that exists in the Odyssey community. We found an incidence rate of NAION that was much smaller than the previous study. It was on the order of 100,000 person years as opposed to 100 person years in the prior study. And these estimates were much closer to what had been historically reported in the literature for, you know, incidents of NAION. And in the active comparator new user cohort analysis, we did not see a difference in risk of NAION comparing semaglutide to the other GLP-1 receptor agonists or the non-GLP-1 receptor agonists. And that was consistent, you know, the similar across either definition of NAION or outcome. The self-controlled case series analysis told a different story. So in looking at semaglutide, we found that there did appear to be an increased rate of NAION comparing semaglutide exposure to non-exposure. And that was consistent across both definitions of NAION. And we did not see an increased risk of NAION when we looked at the self-controlled case series analysis for the other GLP-1 receptor agonists, dual-glutide or exenatide, nor any of the non-GLP-1 receptor agonists listed here. So this study led us to also conclude that there does seem to be a small increased risk of NAION among patients with type 2 diabetes exposed to semaglutide, but it is much smaller than previously reported, probably on the order of 1.3, 1.5 as compared to 4. And the incidence rate of NAION is also much smaller than previously reported. Again, on the order of 100,000 person years, as opposed to 100,000 person years. And so our work and others led the EMA to convene a safety committee to review all the data. And they did conclude that NAION does appear to be a very rare side effect of medications with semaglutide. And they recommended that these medications update their basically black box warning. But again, you know, AAO and the NANOS have helped interpret these findings for clinical care, and they currently do not support a blanket recommendation for all patients to immediately stop taking semaglutide if they develop NAION. It really needs to be an individualized conversation between the provider and the patient, and it kind of depends on the patient's risk tolerance and things like that. So hopefully that demonstrates, you know, the Odyssey community is really powerful. It can answer some really clinically relevant and meaningful and timely questions and help influence care. But one of the things that we were noticing is that there are only a certain limited number of types of studies that can really be done in the Odyssey community right now, because there are still a lot of, we need to build capacity to do more vision research in the Odyssey community. So this was one of the earlier projects that we had done where we did a gap analysis to look at what's missing in OMOP essentially for vision research. So we took Kaleidoscope. This is basically the representation of the ophthalmic exam in EPIC. And we tried to match each of these fields and values to standard concepts in the OMOP vocabulary. And so the way we did it was we had a postdoc do the primary mapping. And there were two of us who had clinical training, clinical ophthalmology training, as well as informatics training, review the mappings and grade the mappings, basically answering this question of how well did the OMOP concept represent our source EHR data element. And we used the HL7 FHIR equivalent map equivalents to describe this relationship. So this is an example here. So in the EHR, there's a field called tonometry of the right eye, which can be mapped to intraocular pressure of the right eye. And that is an equal mapping. But there were other concepts like visual acuity of the right eye measured at distance with correction that we could only map to something like corrected visual acuity. And this is considered a wider mapping because this OMOP standard concept is missing things like the fact that this is in the right eye and it was measured at distance, which are two really important details that give us meaning for this visual acuity measure. In this example, the upper hortiolum of the right eyelid got mapped to internal hortiolum, which is a narrower equivalence because it's introducing this in this new concept of internal hortiolum as opposed to external. And there were some concepts that were just not unmatched. We couldn't find anything that was even remotely close to describing what we needed here. And so when we looked at the EPIC kaleidoscope, only about a quarter of concepts could be mapped equally into OMOP. A lot of them were wider, either missing laterality concepts or other concepts, and a lot of them were unmatched. So which really suggests to us more work needs to be done to build out capacity within Odyssey to do vision related research. And so we've kind of taken two different approaches to this problem of building capacity. So we know that OMOP draws from standard terminology like SNOMED and LOINC. So we have been working with those agencies, organizations to add terms that we need. And so in this project here, SNOMED had formed an eye care clinical reference group. And one of the first projects they did was to focus on glaucoma examination concept representation. And they did a project that was similar to the one that I described earlier, where they took all the exam elements relevant for glaucoma that was represented in EPIC and Metasoft and tried to map it to SNOMED and again labeled it with this HL7 concept map equivalence. And for all the ones that they couldn't map equally, they surveyed 10 different glaucoma specialists from multiple institutions to ask them, what is the significance of this gap? And do we basically do we need to add terminology into SNOMED? And at the end result of this project was that they added these various terms into the SNOMED CT and they got buy-in from the American Academy of Ophthalmology Glaucoma Committee as well as American Glaucoma Society to really endorse and say these are really critical concepts that we need to do better glaucoma research. And so these new terms got added into the SNOMED International and it went live in July 2023, which is really exciting. So we've been working with SNOMED and LOINC to add additional concepts. And the other approach that we've taken is to kind of focus on one extractable value. Because for things like visual acuity, there's about a billion different visual acuities in the EHR. For the purposes of doing, you know, large-scale research, you probably don't need every single one of them. You kind of just need one good visual acuity to represent, you know, the outcome. And so what is visual acuity? You cannot go to the eye doctor without getting your visual acuity measured. It is part of the comprehensive ophthalmic exam. It determines visual clarity and sharpness of vision. And it's basically testing the ability of the eye to distinguish between different optotypes, which are these letters and symbols done at a standard distance. And the whole goal of my field is to improve vision. And visual acuity is the endpoint of all clinical trials trying to answer this question of is drug A better than drug B at treating whatever disease? The endpoint is visual acuity. But visual acuity is really complicated. There is no standard ontology to describe how it's collected and all the complexities of it. So to give you a sense of the complexity, you know, the result of it can be recorded in Snellen ratio. It could be recorded in ETRS letters or Logmar or a Yeager or even a decimal. At least it depends which eye you're testing, either the right or the left eye or both eyes simultaneously. It depends on the chart that you're using, whether there have been additions to the chart like crowding, how far you're placing the chart from the eye. It depends what, you know, what you're putting in front of the eye. Are patients wearing their habitual correction? Are you doing a refraction? Are you using a pinhole? And of course, the state of the patient. And so, you know, like I mentioned, there's no, there's probably no need to represent every single different type of visual acuity in OMAP for us to do research. Maybe the thing to do would be just to look at all available possible visual acuities for a given patient at a given encounter for a given eye and extracts the best recorded one and use that for research. And so, this has been work that's, you know, ongoing since January 2025 to try to come to agreement for identifying what is that singular visual acuity value in the EHR that's most useful for ophthalmic research. And I'm happy to say that after a year of debating, we have finally come to a consensus and we are working on incorporating our ETL rules into the Themis conventions. And we're hoping, and we have one of our work group members work on creating the script for Epic and we're hoping to deploy it hopefully soon. So, because, you know, I did my master's here at Biz and I am giving the Biz grand rounds, I couldn't possibly give this talk without reference to Harold's informatics stack. The Harold here goes. I think what strikes me as I keep doing this work in, you know, using, trying to generate large scale evidence to improve vision outcomes is how much work has to be done both below the line and above the line. I think maybe personality wise, I love thinking about data standards. I love getting into the weeds of what an ETL script would look like or what the rules are. But at the end of the day, if you don't get buy-in from your stakeholders, like in this case, we needed our eye care vision research work group members to agree, or, you know, in the glaucoma example, you really needed buy-in from the American Glaucoma Society. So you need buy-in from individuals above the line to really make these solutions, you know, effective. So I think this is my, you know, one of my teaching points for our informatics students. Like maybe you'd be more comfortable working below the line and looking at data standards or algorithms or whatever, but just keep in mind that in order for your work to be really effective, you have to be thinking above the line, or in the very least, you have to partner with someone who's really good at above the line work. So trying to, you know, tie all of this stuff together. So how do we, how do these ideas come together? How do we integrate SDOH with the big data work that we're doing to really improve outcomes for our patients? Because that's what I ultimately want to do. So by increasing capacity of the Odyssey community to do vision re related research, there, there's a world in which we can build our prediction algorithms for predicting which patients are going to have in their diet care, or who's going to have poor vision outcomes on the OMOP data model, so that I can now disseminate it across all the data partners who are in this global Odyssey community. So that's the vision, that's why we're trying to expand capacity and do this work in Odyssey. And of course, you know, at the end of the day, we have to go back to the patients, because this we're trying to do this for our patients. So we've gone back to the patients to ask them, you know, is this an important thing for you? And like I mentioned earlier, unanimously, people want their vision to be improved, they don't want to lose their vision. We've asked them if it's okay, if they're comfortable, you know, talking and addressing social determinants of health issues in the context of their eye visit, and most patients are perfectly comfortable with that. And so I think a potential solution could be an EHR integrated tool that predicts when patients will have a lapse in care, and connecting those high risk patients with, for example, a community health worker, who are trusted members of the community in which they serve, who have a lot of knowledge about community resources, and can work as a liaison between community members and healthcare. And so we've launched a pilot study in at Hopkins for our patients at Wilmer, and most patients are very enthusiastic about working with a community health worker. And we're just analyzing data from our phase two of the pilot. And so the vision, you know, for the future, and what I'm kind of building towards, is a world in which, you know, when a patient with diabetes walks into my clinic to get their eyes checked, in the background, there's a prediction model that's working, that's, you know, using their socio demographic EHR data, their neighborhood level SCOH data, maybe put in some individual SCOH data in there, and will tell me if this patient is at high risk for not coming back for their diabetic retinopathy follow-up, or who are at very high risk for having vision loss. And I have this information at the point of care, so that I can refer them, for example, to a community health worker, who could do a social needs assessment of these high risk patients and get them linked to resources, so that our patients are coming back for care, they do not have a lapse in their care, I can institute interventions early on, as soon as they become, you know, at risk, to prevent these horrible late stage complications, like retinal detachments, and ultimately improve vision for our patients with diabetes. So I know we covered a lot of ground, from social determinants of health ideas, to health equity, to data, to informatics, because I think the most effective solution for this very real clinical problem of vision loss from diabetes probably lies at the intersection of all of these different disciplines. So hopefully this has been a useful talk to give, you know, ideas for our medical students or clinical trainees, the potential research direction and the clinical disease that you are interested in. And as it's a service as a reminder for our informatics students as well, to really find that clinical partner to work with, because they can tell you where the real problems are, so that you can start developing real solutions to help real patients. Thank you. Cindy, thank you. That was truly an amazing story. And it really is over a very short period of time of just a few number of years. And so I do want to go back to where you started was, okay, so you're talking to a trainee who wants to build a successful academic career where they want to be a clinician, but they also want to be able to partner with their patients and be able to build a career around it. So how would you advise them for finding, how did you, or how do you advise them on choosing what problem to find and what steps to take to be able to take this type of journey? Yeah, that's a great question, Paul. I think when you are a clinician, you will realize that there is an endless number of problems that can be solved, which is great. There's always going to be a need for what you do. And then in terms of how to do it effectively, I think the NIH Career Development Awards, the K-Series grants are tremendous because they protect your time, particularly in the early stage career phase to go get that education. Because as you know, like you don't know what you don't know, you don't know it until you learn it. So I think there's so much value in just, you know, picking an area, you know, is it informatics, is it an MPH and just like dive deep and just learn about all these different skills and disciplines that you don't really have exposure to in medical school. And then ideas will come to you. And in terms of seeing how that new knowledge can fix the problems that you're already seeing. And of course, having mentors along the way, like Paul and Harold, who help sort of guide you, you know, corral your crazy ideas into things that are, you know, doable, and just keep going. And I couldn't agree more. The other one I wanted to just illustrate is that network study was really complicated. There was terms in there like equipose and covariate balance. Did you know all that stuff going into conducting a network study? Yeah, absolutely not. I mean, you know, as a first author, I'm supposed to know. But I think, you know, these, I think that's what's really special about the Odyssey community, because it really is a group of people with all different types of expertise. And what's really been fun for me as a clinician is that you partner with that biostatistical expert who tells me what equipose is and what number I need to be looking at. And so it's the synthesis of, you know, people who care about this one vision of improving, you know, health using large scale data, but from very different approaches and coming together and teaching each other and working towards like a shared project. So that's been, I think, a huge value of the Odyssey community. I would agree. You have to go in with a real appreciation for team science for doing this, because it is really amazing what the product ends up looking like when you do. That was really exciting. Ben? Yeah, thank you, Cindy. A very excellent and comprehensive presentation of all your work that we will be using in education capacity. I was thinking about some questions that come up when we talk about these studies that you've done. And I want to kind of repeat it and ask it in a new way, too. So the new user active control and the self-controlled case series methods in the same study, it comes up a lot. Well, which one is better for what scenario? And obviously you employed both. Can you say more about like using those in the same study? And is that something that you think we will continue to do moving forward? Yeah. You know, I think this is where having that biostats partner is really helpful because there are diseases and especially outcomes for which it makes sense and ones for which the self-controlled case series in particular doesn't make sense. And for these particular ones, we thought it did make sense. But like, for example, the anti-veg F1, we did not use the self-controlled case series because for that one, it didn't make sense. But I think it's a constant conversation. And in some ways, it relieves the pressure on you as an individual. You really do not have to know everything. And you don't have to know, you don't have to be the expert on every single aspect of these network studies. But it is incumbent on you as, you know, the person organizing these network studies to know who to go to to answer these really important questions. So I, it's hard to give a blanket rule other than, you know, it's probably different for every study and to go to the source and people who understand these methodologies a lot better than you or I might. And on, thank you. And on that note, the sensitive and specific version of a key cohort definition or phenotype. I remember you mentioning that part of that might've been influenced by disagreement from the community coming together as to how exactly to define type two diabetes, for example, which we already defined, you know, in a previous study, but just to move on and have, okay, well, we can represent it in two ways. So for moving forward and, you know, to an informaticist, like it makes sense. I like including both of those. Did you have a sense of how that was received by like the journal reviewers or the clinical readership? Is that something that what seemed like a positive or a negative, or how is that received by the intended audience? Yeah, that's a great question. You know, for it just, it depends on your outcome and it depends on the phenotype and how hard it is to represent that phenotype. Dr. Jennifer Langeman, Ph.D.: And structured codes. Like, so NAION is really hard because there is no singular ICD code to represent NAION, which is why we had to jump through all of these hoops. And if you look at any NAION study using structured diagnoses, that's always a criticism. Like, are you sure you're capturing all of those cases? You know, I think in terms of the rigor of the study, it's important to look at different phenotypes for sure. It does make the writing and the conveying of the summary of the results a little bit more challenging for the clinical audience. Dr. Jennifer Langeman, Ph.D.: And you know, that's where I think partnering with a clinical person is important, but really figuring out how to distill the super complicated results that have like 50 different tables into a couple of one-liners that the clinician will remember. Yes, increased risk, small, low incidence, move on. Like that's really the clinical brain just like whole three pieces of information, you know? Dr. Jennifer Langeman, Ph.D.: I just, yeah, just additional comment. I really like that approach because in informatics, there's kind of the, you know, you have the phenotyping problem you have to solve first and then you can answer whatever questions, use those phenotypes. And it's always, to me, I still kind of struggle with, do I do one and then that's a paper, and then the other, and then that's a paper? Do I try to cram it all in? And I think this is an elegant way to make it, you know, simple enough, but also flexible enough to still have some degree of sense of how the phenotypes might affect your outcomes and your results. So I just, I learn a lot from you. So thank you for sharing your work and letting me be a part of it. Dr. Jennifer Langeman, Ph.D.: We got a question online from George Kim on the current state or what the next steps are for terminology and ophthalmology. Is that being led at the society level in partnership with SNOMED or is there, is this something that you're helping, you know, helping us try to add more concepts into the SNOMED terminology? Dr. Jennifer Langeman, Ph.D.: Yeah, great question. So this is where, you know, buy-in, stakeholder, multi-stakeholder buy-in is so important. So our group of, in the eye care vision research work group within the Odyssey community, we're starting to be known in the ophthalmology community as a group of people, group of informatic, informaticians, and clinicians who care about standards, which is not something that, shockingly, not all clinicians care about data standards. So we're becoming really known for that. And the eye care vision research work group, that was formed at the behest of the American Academy of Ophthalmology of people within that bigger national organization who understands the importance of standards. So that's just a long-winded way of saying each of our group members now have ended up getting involved in all of these different efforts, either in SNOMED and LOINC with the American Academy of Ophthalmology and FIRE, etc. All we have, you know, fingers in all of these different things. And we're all trying to come together and kind of update each other on these various different efforts in our, you know, monthly meetings. So if you're interested, please join. It's a free open science society. So even within Odyssey, do you have a member that's part of like the Odyssey vocabulary team? Because that's really where they are, you know, getting it, trying to look for non-standard and standard concepts to pull in. Yeah. So we don't have like a standing member who's in the vocabulary group, but all this stuff that I was describing with the best recorded visual acuity, we worked really closely with the vocabulary group to get that concept added in. And as of this, you know, most recent vocabulary refresh, we do have it added in. So we worked really closely with Ana and her whole team to make that happen. Excellent. And I did get another general question from George on the state of how is AI impacting the state of screening in eye care in the US? Yes. Great question. Yes. So there are now FDA approved autonomous AI devices that can screen for diabetic retinopathy. You know, they've been in use for a few years and, you know, the adoption has been on the low side of certain institutions and clinics are using it, but it's certainly not, not, not everyone, but I think it just shows that increasingly AI can help us do some of the screening. However, the screening output from all of these devices is sent to the eye care provider or not sent to the eye care provider. So at the end of the day, you still have to figure out how to get these patients with diabetes to the eye care provider. So until the practice of medicine changes, I think getting patients into the clinic will still be a fundamental problem. Very true. Doesn't, doesn't solve some of the basic things that, well, it's great having a better detection methodology if we can have a little broader reach. I like the idea of having it in more general care settings for, for screening purposes that, that could be outside of the eye care setting that could help, help us be able to catch people that might be in a lapse area. Great. Well, Cindy, thank you so much for giving today's grand rounds. That was really informative. And thank you very much. And with that, we will conclude this grand rounds. All right. Thanks for having me. Thank you.