 alter bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear bear on any position anywhere in the country. Furthermore, our goal is to create people who are fantastic educators and who can do research and quality improvement like the back of their hand. People who are very familiar with all these things so that when they leave this program, they can find a job pretty much anywhere. The real principle here is we're trying to graduate people who can be leaders in the field of hospital pediatrics. To get there, one of our core values is really autonomy and guidance. We wanna give you the opportunity to spread your wings when you're ready to do so, and give you the opportunity to do and see the things you wanna see, but also provide you the guidance necessary for you to understand what you actually need to do in order to get where you wanna go. So, and also be aware of what kinds of jobs are out there and what you need to do. So it's a really comprehensive thing where we're trying to prepare you for a career in the field and also give you all the skills that's necessary to be an awesome leader in the field and a real impactful person throughout your career. The PHM faculty at Hopkins is a team, and we're gonna work together to get you where you need to go. We have expertise in a wide variety of things. We have researchers who conducted prospective randomized controlled trials. We have quality improvement people who are black belts in Six Sigma and provide you all the expertise you'll need to be an outstanding QI person. We have people who've done legislative advocacy, who've testified at the national house and Senate. We have people who have worked at the state level to get real foundational legislation through. We have people who have invented and patented devices and marketed them, created companies. We have all kinds of expertise. So we can bring this with us to train you in whatever you need to do. Additionally, what sets us apart is among the faculty are some real leaders. We have a previous chair of the section on hospital medicine, a first author on national guideline, a one of the leaders of the VIP network is here. So you're gonna have opportunity to work together with national leaders to really figure out where the field is going and how you can best be prepared, but also to give you the skills to become a national leader in the field. And those connections are super important in terms of building your career. Regarding the curriculum, I hope you'll look through the website and see what's out there and what our curriculum looks like, but it boils down to essentially a third, a third, a third. So a third of your time, you'll be on service on the hospital as service. And that will be both at our community site and in our main hospital. A third of the time you'll be doing research or QI, working towards your ultimate production of a paper, which you've either submitted or has been published in the field. And that's one of the graduation requirements. And then a third of the time is really up to you. And you can use that time to continue to work on your research or QI. You can use that time to do extra rotations in clinical stuff. You can learn POCUS, you can go abroad. You can pretty much do anything that fits within vaguely the field of hospital medicine. And I promise to be very sort of liberal about that as you think about your career, because I wanna have as much flexibility to help you go where you need to go. One of the key things during fellowship is to create lifelong relationships. And that occurs at national meetings where you'll bump into other fellows and other young faculty who are trying to do projects. And we're gonna hope that you start to work with them and bridge that gap. So you have a resource, other people in the field that you can talk to about projects that you can partner with at other institutions. Also, mentorships is really important. So I promise you, if you come here, you're gonna be stuck with me for the rest of your life, emailing you and seeing how things are going. But really all of us here are going to be really invested in your lifelong experience. You're creating a cohort of colleagues that you can go forward with in all of your endeavors. Wellness is critical in our careers and everything we do. And wellness is more than just having the time to go out with friends on a Saturday night. Wellness is also about enjoying your job. And a lot of your time with us is going to be spent on thinking about what makes you happy and how you can make sure that your career involves happiness. Let me give you an example. Right now you might be thinking to yourself, I don't really like research. And when you think about your research, it was an experience, let's say in college where you were just pipetting and didn't really understand why you were doing it, doing some sort of work in a laboratory. That's not what research is about. And that's certainly not what research in PHM is about. Research in PHM is about finding a problem and wondering how to fix it. Just today we were asking, well, if a prepotent is better for cannabis hyperemesis, has anybody studied this? Should we do a retrospective cohort study? If we figured out it was, we could be massively impactful in terms of shortening hospitalization for those kids who come in with hyperemesis. And that was just today's thought. So there's lots of opportunities to ask these kinds of questions and answer them so that we can really improve the lives of children. Flip side, if you're into QI, it may be that you know that steroids aren't indicated in bronchiolitis, but everyone's giving them anyway. How can you change culture in a hospital to get people to accommodate and do more evidence-based care? These are the kinds of skill sets that we want to engender. And by engendering those skill sets, by having fun answering questions, you start to create wellness by virtue of the fact that you're enjoying your work. The goal here is to maintain happiness in your career. And by doing and finding a way to work that into your career, it creates wellness in the face of a full-time job. And that's one of the big things we have to work on together. So one question you might be asking is, is Hopkins the right place for you? I don't know the answer to that question. What I can say is, we are looking for people who enjoy learning. We're looking for people who enjoy the process. We're looking for people who wanna have fun during fellowship and not just view it as a step in the right direction to some necessity that they haven't really considered there carefully. I would love to take people who have extreme experience in research or QI and beef things up. I would also like to take people who are excited to learn and have no experience and wanna start from scratch. And we will walk you through the process. We will hold your hand. There won't be any mysteries. We can get you to the point where you're comfortable with those things. We're also really interested in people who are thinking outside the box. Maybe you wanna do global health. Maybe you wanna do something else. We'll work with anyone who's interested in pursuing something. Because we have such an amazing varied team, we can accommodate learning in all kinds of areas. I hope that gives you a good general introduction. Look through the website, check things out. Please do not hesitate to contact us if you have any questions or concerns about the program. And hopefully we'll see you on the interview trail. Good luck in your journey.