 hrma-2-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification-rification So, unsurprisingly, pretty common amongst a lot of hospitalists, when I was a resident, I ended up liking everything. I really especially liked acute care, children who are hospitalized, and then ultimately I really enjoyed working with children with medical complexity, especially when they're hospitalized. And that's a pretty common thing, especially in academic centers as a growing majority of patients are medically complex and need hospitalization. And I loved really running the gambit of seeing both infants all the way up to adolescents. I think they all presented with unique challenges. And I also loved a field that really prioritized medical education. I think a lot of the most salient times of learning as a resident came at the bedside and came during rounds. And so, I really wanted to pursue a field in which education wasn't just a thing that you did, but was really at the forefront of your practice. And so, I chose PHM as a career. What is your favorite role in Johns Hopkins? So I think something that's unique about Johns Hopkins is really its emphasis on both mentorship and sponsorship, especially in someone who is interested in scholarly work and in academics. And I think throughout my time at Hopkins, I was really surrounded by mentors who didn't want to just, you know, make me kind of do the things that they wanted to do, but really wanted to identify what my goals were, what made me excited and interested, and really give me the skills and the tools that I needed to really advance my career. And so, I think the emphasis on really learner-centric mentorship and sponsorship was something that I had already experienced at Johns Hopkins and something that I wanted to continue to have as I was emerging as someone who was interested in PHM and wanted to start a career in PHM. So I think throughout my time as a fellow, I wasn't seen just as a trainee or someone who, you know, is clearly a learner. I think what I was, what was surprising to me is how much of a colleague I felt when I joined the fellowship. And especially when I was on the wards, I think, you know, kind of different from when I was a resident. The attending really saw me as someone who was really an emerging attending and really encouraged me in my own autonomy and really tried to grow me as a leader and how to not just, you know, get the things right on rounds, how to make the best care for patients, but really how do I start emerging as a team leader and really started to equip me. So really seeing me as a colleague, as someone who is going to be sharing within the field of PHM, I thought that was really incredible and something that I really cherished during fellowship. So I did a number of different projects during fellowship. One of my main projects in fellowship is really looking and exploring caregivers and their experience as they care for children with medical complexity, especially when they're hospitalized. I think there's been a lot of research in children with medical complexity or children with special health care needs, especially in caregiver burnout and their specific needs, mostly in the outpatient realm. But that question has not really been fully explored during an acute hospitalization. And so what I wanted to do was a mixed method study that looked at both the parents and their experiences during the hospitalization, but also to serve as a needs assessment. If we were going to co-design an intervention to really impact and improve caregivers experience as they were both either in their first time in the hospital or their 12th, their 20th time in the hospital with their child, how do we really improve their experience and their overall well-being? And so to really co-design it, I wanted to do this as a needs assessment to really understand their experiences and to try to create an intervention together that would benefit them. So I think one of the many things I learned during fellowship is it really takes a village to really set off a career in academia. What I learned is that although I did have experiences in research and in scholarship and residency and even in medical school, I realized that in order to really take the next step of a question that I had, I didn't have all the skills. I needed more mentorship, for example, in survey design and how do I really pursue a qualitative project? What kind of themes? What kind of methodology do I need to grow in? And so I really needed to find mentors in those specific expertise and create a coaching atmosphere in which I could really have a team to really push an intervention or a question forward. So I think that understanding that it really does take a village to pursue a specific question. I think that skill of both asking and understanding where are the deficits, where are the things where I need specific mentors or coaches in this area to really continue a question into the next phase and really continue a process until you really get to an intervention or a finding. And so I think that was really important during fellowship and I really received a lot of mentorship in the areas that I feel like I had a deficit in. And so I think having that mindset will continue to benefit me as I continue in my career. So I think that's a great question. I think personally for me, during fellowship, I had my first child and we were able to grow our family and of course I think part of wellness is, you know, having, being able to do the things in life that you want to do. And I think also an important thing about wellbeing, especially as someone who's in a trainee and someone who's early career is, do I get to pursue the sort of things in work that I think is really exciting? And I think one of the greatest things about the fellowship is really having a learner-centric model, which is instead of really, you know, giving you experiences and saying, hey, this is important for you to do as a fellow. Really the fellowship has the flexibility to really step back and ask, you know, what is, you've had this experience as a hospitalist, you know, in residency, you've learned certain skills. So how do, what are the things that get you excited? Because there's many things to pursue in PHM, whether it's QI, education, even more clinical expertise, whether that's POCUS, whether that's sedation. And they really step back and ask, you know, what's, what makes you excited and how do we give you the skills and the tools to really pursue that niche and to take that forward. And so to really have that experience, that flexibility and to really cater the curriculum to really develop in the skills that I thought were exciting. I think that also really added to my wellbeing to know that I was, I was supported in my own goals as I continued my career. So if you're interested in a program that is going to identify you as an emerging leader and emerging scholar in pediatric hospital medicine, if you want a program who is not going to only improve your skills as a hospitalist, both clinically, but also improve your skills as an emerging scholar. And if you want a program that will identify and really meet your goals within that career, I think this is the great, a great program for you.