 naringin, Hi, I'm Barsha, I'm the first year fellow here at Hopkins and happy to talk about my experiences. The exciting thing that brought me here compared to other programs when I was looking, making my rank list and everything together, is the fact that it was a little bit newer compared to other places. The big drive was everything could be tailored to what I wanted rather than a preset kind of curriculum that has everything kind of be like this is what we want to do as a fellow. It really was more of what can I find for myself as a fellow instead and really tailored to my own experiences and interests. I feel like I've been extremely supportive. I feel like any time there's been something that I need help with or I need a resource for, if the person I go to can't find it, they will find someone that can and I have yet to find a roadblock that I haven't been able to actually get through because everyone's so well connected to people and they're very happy to let you become connected and the second I've reached out to someone, no one's turned me away. It's been very open arms, come join me and then I have other stuff if you want to join me too. Yeah, the support's been so, so great. I feel like with Brian it's so easy to just reach out, ask anything, to be able to send the text, make the call. I mean the amount of random phone calls you get where it's just the check-in or about something fast is so comforting to know someone's always there for you. Even with Zena, like the text that I sent to her about random things everyone's known well when it's like not within like the, I need a formal email for, but even with emails her response time is so fast. And same thing again, if she's not sure where to go, she will direct you exactly where to go and I haven't had too many issues at all and I've always felt like everyone's been there to help me through anything I need from like the smallest things to the biggest thing. Currently, I'm working on one big project for QI since that's one of the things I'm actively interested in. So it started off with research looking at specifically our Spanish speaking patients here that undergo appendectomies with our surgical division. We noticed that a lot of them don't get discharge instructions in their preferred language and we don't love that for our patients in terms of health equity altogether. So we're working on doing a QI project now to try to implement a standardized instruction first for English patients and then turn that into Spanish that our Spanish speaking patients can get comparable discharge instructions as well. Awesome. So I do research in that also for us to see health outcomes and now I'm trying to work on another project still in the grassroots of it. I'm trying to see if we can figure out within the realm of again kind of health equity access to care to see if we can see if patients have kind of like a proxy to see whether we can determine if their home health system or their home health access is actually beneficial for them and they're utilizing it correctly to them to be able to apply to see how they do with hospitalizations in general. I'm still trying to figure that out what I want to do. I think I have a wide reach of what I'm interested in. I like the QI work, but I don't know if I want to be a QI champion in reality. I love the health equity work, but do I want to be someone who's known for that. I love to do things. I know research might not, it's not the strongest, but I think I'm finding ways where I'm seeing things that I like more and more in it. And I think that's the biggest thing now is I'm liking too much and I'm still having to figure out what am I actually truly passionate for. And right now my passions are still too spread. So I'm hoping as I do more projects and as I do more work, I'll have more clear vision of my future. I think there's great work life balance here. Anytime that I've had problems come up in life that I feel like in residency, I've kind of had to power through to prioritize the work part rather than the life part. Here I've been able to find that healthy balance where work gets done, but I can still live life at the same time, whether it be positive things or negative things. I haven't had to compromise so far because everything's been so everyone's been willing to work with me to make sure that I can reach that balance really well. I would say keep open minds for everywhere that you're looking for because some places can seem so great based on having everything put together, maybe what they want for you. But then in reality, it's hard to tell what you truly want. So I would say look for what's available, look for what's there and know that wherever you go will be good. And here is a great place because everything is available for you.