 veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc veloc at the University of Colorado Health Science Center. He's really developed a leading research program in neuro-HIV where he uses innovative MEG-based, I can never say it, Tony, but MEG-based dynamic functional mapping. It's resulted in over 350 publications in journals and top journals, PNAS, Brain Biological Psychiatry, and he served as PI or MPI on well over a dozen NIH and NSF-funded R01 awards. He currently leads two NIH P20 centers, and he mentors multiple NIH-funded trainees. They've all been extremely successful, and his research really focuses on HIV-related inflammation and brain dysfunction, the impact of substance use in people with HIV, and comparisons between people without HIV and Alzheimer's-related cognitive impairment. So with that, I'm going to hand it over to you, Tony. I'm super excited to hear your talk, and then I'll kind of pop back on and help moderate at the end, okay? Awesome. Well, thank you for the very great introduction. The, uh, um, make sure my slides come through this time. Yes, awesome. Okay. All right. Are you seeing them? Yep. Great. Um, so, uh, uh, thank you for the very friendly introduction, and, uh, thanks for, uh, to everyone who was, um, involved in inviting me to speak today. The, uh, it's always great to, I think, talk at these, uh, NIMH, uh, um, HIV-AIDS centers. Um, I think they're really a great thing. It's a, uh, good way of leveraging, um, the resources at institutions. And, uh, from my own perspective, my first, um, uh, research funding as a faculty member actually came from one of these, uh, P30 centers. And it really had a huge impact on my career as far as, uh, just the funds, but then also, uh, the mentorship that I got through, um, the, that center as I was, uh, kind of launching my career, um, as a faculty member. So, uh, very excited to, uh, to speak today about some of our, um, the historic and also recent work in inflammation and, uh, cognitive impairment in people with HIV. Uh, so first off, uh, support and disclosure. So, uh, pretty simple from my perspective. Um, the, my laboratory, uh, is, um, funded by the NIH. Some of our, um, methods has been historically funded through the NSF. But for the most part, we're funded by NIDA, NIMH, and the Office of the Director in regards to some of our instrumentation. So the data I'm going to present today is mostly collected at the Institute for Human Neuroscience. So most of the tools we use here for neuro-HIV research, MRI, which I'll talk a little bit about at the end, some of the recent stuff we're doing. We also use PET imaging. There's a state-of-the-art PET scanner in Omaha that we share with another institution and use quite a bit. And then most of the work I'll present today is NEG, or Magnetoencephalyography, which is the instrumentation shown there to the right. So the Magnetoencephalyography has a lot of really cool advantages. It's not nearly as common as MRI, but it's totally non-invasive like standard research MRI. It's totally silent, which is, of course, a slight benefit over MRI. It has good spatial precision, usually about three to five millimeters for modern systems. The spatial precision does vary based on how people process the data. And then it has excellent temporal precision, so typically millisecond precision is attainable. A really unique feature is that it's an absolute measure of local electrical activity in populations of neurons. So unlike EEG and some of the other techniques, even most fMRI, that's a relative measure. MEG gives you absolute measures that you can directly interpret, which is really powerful in many contexts. It's also, as I mentioned, a pretty rare technique still. So I did a PubMed search last night, and it looks like there's still only about maybe 35 MEG studies published that are examining neuro-HIV. As far as the signal origins, pardon the 1980s figures here, but the physics doesn't change too much. So anytime you have electrical current, whether it be in light power lines or active neurons, you have a magnetic field that goes around that current in a very standard way following the right-hand rule. So the way MEG works is that you have populations of neurons. You have primary currents that are in the apical dendrites. Each of those neurons is creating a magnetic field when it has current flow. Those magnetic fields locally summate because magnetic fields are superimposable. And when a population of neurons is synchronously active and large enough, that generates a magnetic field that can be measured outside the head. And that's what we're doing in MEG. So let's see my pointer here. There we go. So over here, this is the chirogenic DUAR. So MEG uses liquid helium for cooling. You can see the person that has their head in this example array. So in our system, there's 306 magnetic sensors. They're being bathed in liquid helium. So they're superconducting temperatures, negative 450 degrees Fahrenheit. The liquid helium is just a few centimeters from the scalp during the actual recording, but there's really strong thermal shielding there. So it feels cool to the head, but not uncomfortable. And essentially what's the basis of the measurement, the neurons I spoke about, they're giving off magnetic fields. Those magnetic fields hit these superconducting sensors, and then that induces a current. And we're in the sensor, and we're quantifying that current at each of the 306 locations. So in regards to analysis, so some of the studies you might see, like, out in the literature, they actually stay in sensor space for MEG, which they're actually just kind of interpreting the magnetic fields they measure. There's nothing wrong with that, except that the spatial precision is not really what's possible through more advanced signal processing methods. So the technique we use is called beamforming. And basically what we do is we take the head, we divide it into voxels, so very similar to, like, a functional MRI scan. Our standard voxel size is 4x4x4 millimeters. That's user determined, so you could go finer, you could go higher. Depending on the cortical region, you can probably get beyond 4 millimeters in the paradigm. But 4 millimeters to us is just a good kind of middle of the road. The way this works is that you have a – we basically treat it where we have the 306 sensors. We're looking at, as a function of time, signal covariance across those sensors. And then we basically triangulate based on those patterns to estimate the amplitude of current that could have produced those signals per voxel across the whole brain volume. So what we're left with at the end of a recording is essentially a matrix of cubes or vertices if it's cortically constrained. And for each of those, you have a time series. The time series has the same temporal resolution as the original recording, so in our case, usually millisecond level. The way of understanding this time series is that it's a direct – excuse me, it's a complex signal. So there's lots of things intermixed in here, just kind of like if you were to have a radio that's, you know, without a tuner. So what we take is we do a time frequency decomposition of the signal and pull it into constituent signals. So like in this case, theta, alpha, beta, and gamma. And the way of thinking about this is that each of these are a different frequency of activity. So going back to the radio example, there's different neural events that are at different frequencies, just like there's different songs going on at different frequencies in a conventional radio. One of the reasons to decompose this is that because of the 1 over F rule, if you don't decompose it, you're basically only sensitive to the lowest frequency activity because it is going to be the strongest. So in neuro-HIV studies, the most common outcome measures are usually task-related neural oscillations. So these are really brain oscillations or changes in the signal power as a function of time related to some event in a cognitive experiment. So usually these are divided into delta, theta, and gamma frequencies. And during cognitive activity, you usually see increases in the power of those. That is time-locked to the cognitive event or stimulus event in sensory neuroscience. You also see alpha and beta responses. So these are usually power decreases. So when like a stimulus occurs, you can see in a specific brain area that alpha usually will decrease, particularly in the occipital cortex during visual paradigms and in the motor cortex for beta during motor paradigms. There's also spontaneous cortical activity. So spontaneous activity can be looked at a couple of different ways. So this is really just your seemingly random discharges and neuronal rhythms at rest. So you can have a resting state recording and estimate how much just spontaneous power there is in each of your voxels or vertices across the cortex. You can also look at the baseline and cognitive paradigm. So look at the time period that's occurring before the onset of the stimulus and see like whether the spontaneous activity during that period differs with aging or differs by group or things like that. You can also look at evoked responses, very similar to event related potentials or ERPs that are very commonly looked at in the EEG. Surprisingly, there's actually been very limited work in this area in neuro-HIV. I think it's just a lot of the people who were examining their HIV with MEG started looking at oscillations and that really caught on. And it's just kind of no one's really ever explored ERPs or also called event related fields sometimes in MEG. So kind of unpacking the differences between spontaneous activity and neural oscillations. So there was an influential study that was done about a decade ago by my graduate student at the time. And what this study was really looking at is the strength of beta responses during motor performance in older versus younger individuals. And what the study showed was that older individuals, the responses were about twice as strong. So you can see the maps here left and right. This is averaged across groups of about 30, I think, per condition or per age group, younger and older. So you can see the spatial distribution is very equivalent. And the images have been thresholded so that the size of the activation looks the same. But if you look at the scaling for the older individuals, it's about double. It is double of the younger. And if you look at the time frequency decomposition at the peak voxel, you can see it's much, much stronger right around the movement onset, which is time zero for the older individuals versus the younger. Now, if you pull out the time series of that peak voxel in each of the hemispheres, the left and the right, what you see is that the actual oscillatory amplitude, which is usually computed by normalizing the whole time series by the baseline in each person. So that's why you see here that it's like mean of zero prior to the movement. And then you have movement onset at zero and the sharp decrease in beta. So as you can see here, you see the big difference in older people versus younger who are shown in black, both in the left and the right precentral gyrus. But if you don't necessarily have to normalize the signal. So if you don't normalize it, it's called an absolute power time series. And then basically what you're just looking at is the overall signal power in that voxel as a function of time. And when you do that, you can see that the actual spontaneous beta in the baseline is much, much stronger in the older individuals versus the younger. And because of that, they have a much larger decrease when they go to move. And this decrease is the amplitude of the oscillation. It also correlates with lots of behavioral parameters. So the idea here is that basically spontaneous activity, the higher it is, particularly in alpha and beta, the worse it is for performance and the worse it is for as a proxy for brain health. The one thing about that, so this is looking at it as, you know, before an event. So since most of these experiments, a person is seeing stimuli like in a series. So, you know, let's say, you know, 50 trials or something like that. One could argue that these effects are due to the brain just not recovering as quickly from the stimulus. So to address that, we, and the same people looked at resting beta power. So this is just a person sitting in the scanner. We estimated the strength of beta activity in the same voxel across like a five-minute rest. And as you can see here, it's the same effect. So much, much stronger activity in older versus younger individuals. So really it's more just the nature of spontaneous activity versus how quickly it recovers. So one nice thing also about looking at spontaneous and oscillatory activities, now there's really a well-developed literature in regards to normative data. So this is a paper that one of my graduate students led a couple of years ago that was published in PNAS that looked at 430 individuals across the lifespan and the overall distribution of their spontaneous activity during rest. At the time, it was the largest study. Since then, there's been others that are larger. But essentially what it did was it divided the overall spectrum into canonical bands using what's the most common in the literature, and then computed maps for each of those, each of the canonical bands. That's what's shown here at the bottom. The relative map here is common in this literature, and it's an expression of how much power there is in each band relative to the total spectrum, whereas the absolute is the measure that's most commonly used in clinical neuroscience as the actual amplitude of spontaneous activity. But as you can see here, basically you have like theta is very strong in frontal cortex, whereas alpha is much stronger in occipital cortex, beta is stronger in motor cortex, and then gamma in prefrontal cortex. And delta, you typically see stronger in the frontal cortices, even though it's a little hard to distinguish here. So what this paper was looking at was just how the spontaneous activity varies across the lifespan. So here we're looking at the linear effects and where it peaks. So delta, the overall age effect from 6 to 84, which is peaking in the posterior left temporal. For theta, again, it's kind of a similar region. And then here's just your alpha. Notice that the actual overall pattern switches between theta and then alpha, beta, gamma. And just as you get older, there's essentially lower, well, actually the lower power in your lower frequencies and increases in power in the higher frequencies as you get older. And over here on the right is the actual absolute measures. So this is a relative on the left, absolute on the right, very similar. We also looked at the quadratic effects, so whether there was effects where it exceeded the quadratic explained significantly more variance than the linear effects. And so there we saw that that was true for delta, the sum theta depending on the region, the alpha, beta, and then gamma really kind of across the board. But the basic take-home here is just that the age-related effects on spontaneous activity are pretty well known. And the overall distribution in regards to strength that you would expect in different brain areas is also well mapped out. There's also been studies looking at the reliability of some of these indices. So Brandon Liu was one of my graduate students, now a resident at Brown in psychiatry. And some of the studies he did looked at how these maps vary across a three-year time period in controls. And so this is a map of just the distribution of alpha power. Again, you can see much stronger in the occipital, decreasing as you go forward. And then down here is a map of the ICC, interclass correlation, looking at just how consistent it is across the three years. And as you can see, it's pretty relatively high values. Each of these lines show an individual person. We did a later study, one of my research assistants in the lab who looked at whether this held for the task-related activity. And so here, this is a visual response. ICCs on the right axis, amplitude of the response is on the left, times on the X. And as you can see, the pretty robust reliability really across those time periods and even higher reliability for the lateral occipital alpha response, which is also really seen in almost every visual paradigm. So some of the early work that we did in neuro-HIV using these oscillatory and spontaneous metrics focused on visual attention. And so really the first paper I would say that was really had cool findings was published in BRAIN in 2018, led by a graduate student, Alex Weisman, at the time, who now directs his own lab in Vancouver. So this study involved three groups. I think it was a total of about 75 people split equally between the three groups. We had uninfected healthy controls, people with HIV who were unimpaired and then cognitively impaired persons with HIV. Each of the individuals did a visual spatial attention task during the MEG. So in this task, they're basically following this grid and responding in regards to its location on a screen. We look at reaction time and accuracy. So what we saw was really kind of a stair-step effect in reaction time in particular, where controls were the fastest and they were significantly faster than unimpaired people with HIV. And then both of those groups were significantly faster than cognitively impaired people with HIV. Accuracy-wise, the impaired group was significantly less accurate than both of the other groups who did not differ from each other. So we looked at the MEG signals. So as I mentioned, the first thing we do in all these analyses is really do a time-frequency decomposition to see where the actual responses are. And this uses a nonparametric permutation testing method since we're really doing tests on individual spectrograms. So what we found was that there was robust responses in theta, alpha, beta, and gamma. So we imaged those and then extracted the time series from the peak voxels bilaterally for each of those responses. And then we averaged them here just to show the basic time series of the theta response. And then next to that, the alpha response and then gamma down here in the bottom right. We also imaged the beta, but as you can see, this is really just a motor response. So we didn't spend too much time really looking at that. When we looked at the theta responses by group, what we found was really a stair-step effect that was very similar to the reaction time data, where we had strongest responses in controls, the marginally weaker responses in the unimpaired people with HIV, and then significantly weaker responses in the impaired group. Next, we looked at spontaneous activity in the same peak voxels. And so first we looked at the gamma frequency responses. And what we found here was that the spontaneous activity was much weaker in controls, so more of like your healthy response. And here, keep in mind that this is being computed before stimulus onset. So stimulus onset is at time zero. So this is basically the neural activity in these significant gamma response areas prior to the onset of the stimulus. So controls had the weakest, and then the people with HIV who were impaired and unimpaired had significantly elevated relative to controls, but did not differ from each other. When we looked at the peak alpha response, spontaneous-wise, again, this is the same time window, what we found was that spontaneous alpha activity was significantly elevated in the cognitively impaired people with HIV, and the unimpaired groups did not differ. Their spontaneous activity in regards to alpha was almost equal. In a related study, we looked at the selective attention function in three groups that had overlapping participant populations. So here in this paradigm, the task is basically that individuals focus on the fixation cross, and then a line of arrows appears. And the task is to respond left to right based on the direction of the arrow in the middle. And so there's both congruent and incongruent conditions. So in the incongruent condition, the flanking arrows are interfering, so they're pointing in the opposite direction. And in the congruent condition, all of the arrows are pointing in the same direction. So there's four possible trial types that are shown here. When we looked at the behavioral data, we found a significant flinker effect in all groups. So that's just that the interference is slowing down responses in each of the groups. So the task actually works is basically what that's saying. And then we also found that the controls were marginally faster than impaired people with HIV, and that both groups differed from the impaired group. When we look at the actual effect of interference, so what was the difference between the incongruent and the congruent condition? What we found was that the controls were the best at inhibiting the interference effect, whereas the unimpaired people with HIV were significantly worse, and then the impaired group was worse than both groups. So the first analysis we did was just looking at an ANOVA across both conditions. So we imaged the theta and the alpha responses, and then we conducted a voxel-wise whole brain ANOVA to pull out the significant peaks. So theta response, you can see really a collection of left hemispheric regions, whereas alpha responses, we had some of the regions you would expect, right inferior frontal gyrus, inferior parietal, left hemisphere, and then left hemispheric prefrontal cortex. So the first thing we did was focus on the theta responses and did a stepwise regression to see if neural activity in any of these regions predicted neuropsychological function. So what we found was the executive composite from a neuropsychological battery was predicted by the left inferior frontal responses. So as you can see here, each of the groups is plotted here with executive composite scores on the y-axis and the theta flinker interference effect on the x-axis. So this is basically extracted per person, and then we compute the difference between the congruent and incongruent conditions and plot that. And then the response in the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, it was predictive of the attention composite score. So same arrangement here as far as the scatter plot, except you have the attention composite on the y-axis and the same theta flinker interference for just a different voxel in regards to the MEG response. For alpha, we extracted the time series from each of the significant peaks and then looked for spontaneous differences. And similar to our earlier study, we saw that really across the board, alpha distinguished the three groups. So the unimpaired people with HIV frequently differed from impaired, and the controls differed from impaired. In certain regions, like left supermarginal and left angular, the three groups were either fully distinguished or at least marginally distinguished. On later work, we looked at whether the same patterns held in just basic sensory cortex. So we did some work looking at what's called somatosensory gating, where you stimulate the nerve. Here it's the right hand, so you stimulate it in like a pulse train. So stimulate it, wait 500 milliseconds, and stimulate it again. And the common finding is that the second stimulus, since it's identical, is gated, so much weaker. So this is over here is a spectrogram just showing robust responses for stimulation at zero, second at 500 milliseconds. So we imaged that response. As expected, it was strongly focused on the postcentral gyrus in the contralateral hemisphere. And then we plotted just the overall time series. And again, what we saw was that the strength of spontaneous activity really before the stimulus differentiated the groups, with the controls being the weakest, people with HIV who were unimpaired being slightly stronger, and then the impaired group being the strongest. We saw a similar pattern when we looked at doing the prefrontal region, just contrasting the groups. So here this is just plotted the impaired versus unimpaired group. And then extracting the peak voxel there, and then, whoops, correlating that with the CD4 Nader in each person. So higher Nader values being associated with really weaker spontaneous activity or more normal, which is what you would expect. We later extended this to a group with Alzheimer's disease. So this is what we call Alzheimer's spectrum disorder. So this is people with MCI as well as the mild to moderate Alzheimer's. So here what we found was using the same paradigm that, again, the cognitively impaired people with HIV exhibited the elevated spontaneous activity, but neither the controls nor the Alzheimer's patients exhibited that. They both actually were pretty similar on this variable. And then over here, you can see that the hand group was just at the mean level, significantly different from, again, controls and patients with Alzheimer's. Since then, we've really looked at these same oscillatory and spontaneous measures across a lot of different paradigms. So this was a paper published by my graduate student at the time in e-biomedicine looking at how attentional reorientation differs as a function of aging. And so this study had about 170 people in it. And what it really showed was just that the impaired group, their aging profile was quite different from the people with HIV who were unimpaired and controls. And that was true really across a large number of regions supporting attention processing. Whereas the people with HIV who were unimpaired and controls, really their aging trajectories were relatively similar. This is another study. I think here we had about 150 participants total in the study. And we're looking again at visual spatial attention as a function of aging in the three groups. We, in this much larger group, again, showed that the relationship with reaction time matched our earlier study in regards to just the stair-step effect between the three groups. All the groups showed aging effects, as would be expected. And then when we've imaged the maps and look at the, or imaged the responses and then looked at the relationships with age using a Fisher's R to Z transformation, what we found relatively widely was that the control and the unimpaired people with HIV exhibited really similar trajectories. Whereas the, the hang group often very much differed in regards to their overall aging trajectory with these brain responses. We've also looked at the responses in age-matched groups with Alzheimer's disease. So here we're just focusing on Alzheimer's spectrum disorder patients and cognitively impaired people with HIV. This is a selective attention task here on the left, published by a previous graduate student, just showing that the, the, in this, in theta responses, what we found was the Alzheimer's patients exhibited much stronger responses really across a network of regions helping support the task. And then in a separate study, in the alpha range, which is where we've seen probably a lot of our HIV effects in the past, we found, again, group differences between Alzheimer's spectrum disorder and cognitively impaired people with HIV. with here, the really reverse effect that the oscillations were stronger in the impaired HIV group. Note that alpha, the more negative, is actually a stronger response because the power in those oscillations decreases with increasing, with, in response to stimuli. The, we also extended these into some studies using molecular markers. So this was led by a former graduate student, Rachel Spooner, who now directs her own lab. So here, what we were really trying to do is see if differences we had observed in molecular markers between people with HIV and controls predicted some of our oscillatory and spontaneous measures. So the, some of the measures we used, spare respiratory capacity, which you can kind of understand is the dynamic range. So this is based on measures of mitochondrial function from a seahorse analyzer analysis. So what we showed in previous work was that, and I think in this paper as well, spare respiratory capacity is reduced in people with HIV. And then we also looked at some redox measures based on the EPR, electron paramagnetic resonance, to look at superoxide levels, which are typically elevated in people with HIV. and then all the people in this study also underwent MEG. They did a motor paradigm and we mapped out planning and execution responses as well as their behavior. So essentially, all this data was put into a structural equation model, a group-based path model. And what we found was really robust prediction of SRC to redox status to MEG responses, particularly in our controls, and that this pattern was, in some cases, reversed or just non-predictive in regards to the people with HIV, suggesting that just there's some uncoupling or abnormal coupling between these molecular measures, which, again, are abnormal in people with HIV and their brain responses in this task. Whoops. We've also done a lot of work, especially recently, looking at whether spontaneous activity is affected by the cannabis use. So in these studies, typically there's about 120, 100 to 120 participants. And what we're looking at is there's four groups, people with HIV who smoke relatively heavily. Usually the threshold is three times a week for three years. And then match controls who smoke that much. And then two groups, people with HIV and controls who do not consume cannabis. And so what these studies have shown is that particularly in people with HIV, cannabis tends to have a normalizing effect. So it suppresses spontaneous activity. So in this plot here on the selective attention task, the controls, you can see have the kind of mid-range spontaneous activity in the alpha, whereas the people with HIV who do not smoke cannabis have sharply elevated as we've shown in previous studies. And then the people with HIV who do smoke cannabis have actually significantly weaker responses than the controls. We showed a similar pattern in a study of somatosensory gating. So essentially looking at the same measures just now in the somatosensory cortex versus the left inferior frontal. I should also say that in the left inferior frontal there was a lot of correlations with substance use metrics in that study. Now, for the last part, I'm going to look at, review some of our just most recent work that's been looking at inflammation and trying to see whether inflammation is driving some of these oscillatory and spontaneous measures that we've been focused on now for many years. So one of my graduate students, Kelly McDonald, recently published a paper in the Journal of Neuroinflammation looking at these relationships in particular. So in this study, what we did, we looked at using a mesoscale analysis. We looked at levels of TNF alpha, CRP, and then IP10. And then to the, for the actual analysis to try to collapse that into a measure, we did a principal component analysis and derived a neuroinflammation index score. We then compared that neuroinflammation index score between our groups. And what we found was that overall, people with HIV had significantly elevated inflammation in these markers. All participants then underwent MEG. During the MEG, they completed what's called a Simon interference test. And so in the Simon test, you're looking at essentially cognitive interference. So people or participants look at a fixation cross and then three numbers appear. And their task is to respond as to the location of the odd number out. So two of the numbers are always zero. And then the third digit is one, two, or three. So in the Simon condition, there's interference. So here you see the three is in the position of where a two should be. And so typically what you see is when there's the interference versus the congruent where there's no interference, behavioral responses are less accurate and or slower. So behavioral-wise, both groups exhibited the significant Simon effect and that they were slower in responding to the Simon stimuli versus the congruent. There was also a trending interaction that the interference effect in the Simon task was greater in the people with HIV. There was also an accuracy effect across everyone, just that the people responded less accurate in the Simon condition versus the control condition. I should also say the overall sample was about, I believe, about 170 participants. As far as our MEG analyses, so we did a linear mixed effects model with all three variables at once. So we have essentially group as a variable, condition, Simon versus control, and then the neuroinflammation index as a continuous variable. And so what this showed was that there was really a group of regions in an early theta response. So this is more the first like 300 milliseconds of processing and then also a later window. So roughly, I think later window was like 350 to 600 milliseconds, and then there was also alpha. But anyway, on the locations of the interaction effects, you can see the visual cortex, prefrontal cortex, left and right. And then for each of these, you can see the top row here is Simon, and then second is the congruent condition. And then at the bottom, this is the late theta with Simon on top and congruent on the bottom. And basically just looking at the overall difference in regards to how inflammation is scaling with brain responses. with the differences in really a large number of regions serving tension function. There's also this alpha response in the superior parietal lobe showed correlations with disease duration. And lots of these responses, in particular, the theta responses showed relationships with reaction time and accuracy. And then finally, I should mention that the inflammatory index across all participants was coupled to the scores on the attention domain of the neuropsychological battery that all participants completed. And then most recently, we completed a study looking really at the three markers individually. So this is a different sample. I think here the overall grouping was closer to 100. But what we're finding here is really in CRP, IP10, and TNF alpha, the people with HIV show elevation in each of those markers. And then the actual experiment that these participants completed was an abstract reasoning experiment. So first, they look at a grid, they're focusing on a fixation cross, and there's a white box that's highlighted. And their job is to respond as to whether when the grid populates, whether the stimulus that's within the white box completes the overall pattern or whether it doesn't. And the overall pattern can be based on the orientation, color, or number. And all of those trial types are randomly intermixed. And then we collapse across all of them because the goal is just to look at abstract reasoning, not different types of reasoning. So the idea is just the three conditions there were just giving essentially more parameters by which the person has to match on. Makes the task a little harder. Behavioral-wise, the controls were more accurate than the people with HIV. There was no difference in reaction time between the groups. It was a pretty hard task, so usually on that order of about 2,000 to 2,200 milliseconds in regards to response time. Accuracy-wise across both groups was correlated with CRP. So the higher inflammation was coupled to lower accuracy. So this one, we took a slightly different approach in regards to the analysis. We did a whole-brain approach. We took the theta maps first, and then we correlated those with TNF-alpha doing a regression analysis. And then that gave us peaks. and then for the regions that were significantly coupled to TNF-alpha, we then did an ANCOVA to see if the degree of coupling between them differed by group. So for TNF-alpha, we saw the correlation between theta activity in the left inferior frontal, and this relationship differed in people with HIV versus controls, being much stronger in the controls in the people with HIV who showed almost no relationship. We also found a pattern with CRP. So here, the primary region we found was in gamma for the left inferior parietal. The relationship here also differed with being slightly stronger in people with HIV than controls, but it did reach significance. We also found a relationship between CRP and oscillatory gamma in the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, but this relationship did not differ by group. It was overall quite strong, just collapsed across. Next, we looked at any kind of links with behavior. So what we found here, we focused on the regions that showed significant relations with inflammation levels. So here, the only one of the peaks that actually showed a behavioral relationship was in the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and this was the relationship differed by group being stronger in controls than people with HIV. And then finally, let's see if I have time. Yeah, just very quickly. So recently, we've been looking at whether doing GABA and doing magnetic resonance spectroscopy focused on GABA and GLX measures to see if we can find relationships between neurotransmitter levels and the MEG oscillatory and spontaneous activities. So the work I'm going to talk about today is focusing on the primary visual cortex because a lot of our MEG data is really coming from visual paradigms, mostly attention tasks. So the first study we did in this area, which was led by a former postdoc, Alenia Salsono, looked at aging in a very large sample, I think it was about 150 participants, and what we found here was just that as individuals get older, their GABA levels decline and their GLX measures also decline with age. GLX is the signal for glutamate plus glutamine. And then here if you just focus on just young versus old, the younger also had significantly higher than older. That's kind of color scaled here in the scatter plots with the white being excluded from these just group bias comparisons. We also looked at the EI ratio or excitatory inhibitory ratio with the idea that these decreases in neurotransmitters, if they're coupled, that should show an actual organized decrease between the two different measures. And what we found was they are coupled, so the EI ratio is significantly negatively correlated with age. most recently we just finished a very similar study looking at people with HIV. So this is somewhat a pilot study looking at about 30 per group. And so what we found here was actually that GABA and GLX levels were elevated in people with HIV. HIV. And then we computed the EI ratio, but it showed no relationship in the people with HIV. Interestingly, we found that the GLX levels were positively correlated with disease duration in people with HIV. So higher GLX was found in those who had HIV longer. And we also across both groups found that GLX and another metabolite were negatively correlated with attention function. So essentially higher GLX was associated with worse attention function across both groups. So quick conclusions. So people with HIV exhibit elevated spontaneous neural activity relative to H-match controls, which is generally further accentuated in those with cognitive impairment. HIV reliably affects the impact of aging on neural activity serving cognitive task performance. Molecular indices of mitochondrial redox status and inflammation are frequently coupled to neural oscillations and spontaneous activity. And then regular cannabis use may have a normalizing effect on some functional brain alterations that are seen in people with HIV. And then I'm going to conclude just thinking in my lab. The lab typically have a selection of graduate students from local medical schools who do a large amount of work here. Many have graduated and went on to start their own labs. So I really appreciate all their efforts and that of the current team. And then also all the support we've received over the years. So thank you. Thank you, Tony. That was fabulous. I mean, I've never seen somebody more productive in being I mean, it's the quality of the studies, the sample sizes, and the fact that you're mentoring the next generation at such, you know, and looking at, you know, in many ways with the task base, you are kind of being able to focus on different cognitive abilities, even though I'm going to push, you know, push you on hand or not hand. We can think about that later. But seriously, it's just beyond impressive. I see Jules. Do you want to unmute yourself? We'll take questions. Okay. Hi. Yes. Thank you very much for a great talk. So my takeaway here is that you find that people with HIV and people who are aging with HIV have higher inflammation in the brain and other cognitive issues compared to negatives or younger people with HIV. So my question, and tell me, correct me if I'm wrong, and so my question is, you're not the only one to see this. Others have, but there's a lot of controversy in the field. So why is it that we don't seem to be able to recognize and clearly identify that people who are aging with HIV are actually suffering cognitive decline to the extent that it affects their daily living and functioning because a lot of people are disputing that these effects are having any real effect that are detectable. Can you address that? Yeah, sure. I guess from my perspective, there's a lot of studies showing that they do impact life. I mean, there's studies showing the unemployment numbers, the number who drive, things like that that are directly coupled to whether individuals with HIV have cognitive impairment or don't have cognitive impairment. improvement. And really, the last few studies, we've kind of moved on from splitting groups by whether they meet the Frescati criteria by hand. So we haven't done that in the recent few years. And instead, just looking at it as continuous variable. So really, just looking at how our measures, our neurophysiological measures are related to cognitive measures. And I will just say, like, really, all of our studies, we really across the board always find that people with HIV are significantly different from controls on all of our like Z composite scores from neuropsych. So I think there's still, I mean, no doubt if you dig into the details, there's a group of people with HIV who are showing no real impairments, but there's still a significant portion that routinely exhibit impairment. If I could just follow up, would you say that the impairment that you see is strictly due to the legacy effect or comorbidities, or is HIV a culprit, HIV itself? Have you studied that? So, I mean, we've showed relationships with, like, inflammation levels, you know, today. Now, whether that inflammation is a legacy effect or not, I think, you know, that's a debatable question, and where it's coming from. So, is that inflammation, you know, is it related to CR treatment? Is it just, you know, due to viral reservoirs, where is it actually coming from? There's also, you know, mitochondrial dysfunction is in the one study that I presented on. So, you know, there's a lot of molecular measures that are showing the differences and whether those differences are due to viral reservoirs or due to a legacy effect? That's a good question that is going to be hard to address. Thanks, Joel. I'm going to, I know we only have five, but, Pim? Yeah. Hi, Tony. Hi, Tim. Impressive work, impressive work. So, I'm really impressed as well by the large number of subjects that you have in all your studies. And knowing that you're in an area where I'm not sure that there are large numbers of people with HIV, I was wondering how often the same subjects featured in your experiments and whether at some point pooling all your experiments that you have would give a really, you know, unique profile or phenotype of these subjects and whether that is something that you've been trying to do or is that basically a grant that we can see coming forward? I like it, Tim. Yeah, great to hear from you, Pam. So, your first question, you're absolutely right. So, the HIV is not super common in Nebraska. One of the things that we do here, our advertising, especially with social media nowadays, has gotten quite sophisticated. So, in Omaha, we're too hours from Kansas City. We pull lots of participants from Kansas City by doing targeted advertising campaigns there. We have, in regards to repeated subjects, there's probably a core group of maybe 30, 25, 30, who have been in every one of our studies. But typically, each of the studies, the majority are new patients that we've came in contact with. And that's one of the reasons our most recent studies. We're having more women. The number of women we're able to reach with HIV has really increased, I would say, in the last five years. I don't know if that's our advertising campaign or what's driving it, but it's definitely increased. And then your last question in regards to pooling. So, one of the things we've done, it's actually really tricky. Some of, like, for example, mesoscale measures of inflammation, we have held those as constant as possible, even though we're not crazy about working with mesoscale, just because the prices have really increased. But we've held all that constant so we can do these pooling studies where we can go back in time and then pull all this to get really, you know, hundreds of people in the same study. And then the same with our MEG. We've kept a lot of things as standard as possible so that this data can be pooled, and we are planning to do those sorts of studies. Yeah, and just to kind of tack on that, Pam, you're right on. Like, if you harmonize everything and you identify these cognitive clusters, I mean, this is one of the only databases with MEG. So, worst thinking about. Fatah. Yes, so thank you very much, Tony. This is really great. My question is about the cannabis study. I didn't quite realize you had published this. I just looked at the paper. I'll read it more carefully later. But I'm a virologist, so I'm very much interested in effects of not so much the full-length virus, but also sorry, we couldn't see each other, not so much the full-length virus, but body parts of the virus, including the 5'n, that's the tar, and more specifically, NEF mRNA. So I'm wondering if you looked at these two parameters, and if not, we would be more than happy to test them for you. Yeah, we did not look at those parameters, but we do have samples from all of our participants, and so we would be very open to sharing those. One thing I will say just about the cannabis study, so our hypothesis is that a lot of those effects are actually due to the anti-inflammatory properties associated with aspects of cannabis. One of the things we've really had a hard time working with is that even though we can change some of the physiological markers through cannabis, in particular spontaneous activity, generally speaking, those individuals are not higher functioning than those who are not smoking cannabis. So it seems like some of the markers are being normalized, but overall their cognitive function is not being improved, and that could just be that it's related to other brain regions or other deficits. But in a lot of those studies, we were controlling for alcohol use, tobacco use, and lots of other things, so it's probably not just use of other substances. Thank you. Thanks, Rob was there. He may have robbed you there. Do you want to ask your question? I know we're just about at the top, but we'll squeeze this in. That was a great presentation and I learned a lot, so thank you. I guess my question is, it seems like the great opportunity here is to fuse this method with other imaging methods in a true multimodal integration. because you're able to capture a different dynamic of brain function than what we can get from ASL or possibly and probably even with resting state or other types of functional measures. So I'm curious, is that a direction that you're headed or what are your thoughts about doing it? You got there a little bit with the spectroscopy, but I'm curious about more modalities and whether or not you think it would be valuable to integrate the MEG data into more of a multimodal imaging approach? Sure, that's a great question. So we are right now focusing on integrating it with spectroscopy. One of the things we did in the past, we've integrated a lot of the measures with cortical thickness in the same brain region. So doing kind of a voxel by voxel analysis to see if differences in cortical thickness are contributing to some of the MEG measures. And some of that work is published. That said, we also, in a lot of these studies, we did collect high resolution diffusion imaging in resting state fMRI. We've published a little bit of the fMRI, but we have not just really had the bandwidth to integrate the diffusion or fMRI with the MEG. And I think that is a very promising area because the measures are very complementary. In particular, I didn't present it, but we have quite a few studies looking at functional connectivity with the dynamics. So trying to integrate that with the diffusion, to me, that's very intuitive, but we haven't done it. Yeah, I totally agree, especially in normal appearing white matter where you may be able to pick up signal before you're actually going to see it in abnormality on either a T2 flare or even a diffusion. So anyway, great presentation. Look forward to more outcomes. Thanks, Tony. Thank you everybody for participating today. Tony, again, amazing body of work. We're bringing you back because I always love to hear about the kind of updates. Caroline, what is the plan for next week? So next week is Katie Riggs from UC San Diego, and her talk is High-Resolution Pan-Viral Antibody Profiling in Brain Health in People with HIV. Awesome. So hopefully we'll see everybody here, same time, same place, and happy rest of your Wednesday. Bye, guys. Thanks, everyone.