 higiest causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa causa Solomon, Professor of Pediatrics and Division Director of General Pediatrics. We are excited to tell you about a recent study that we presented at the annual Region 4 Academic Pediatric Association meeting in Charlottesville, Virginia. The title of our study was Impact of Produce Home Delivery on Social Resource Connections and Well-Child Visit Attendance in Pediatric Primary Care. Our full team includes Amy Lee, Annie Garrido, Naomi Mao, Emma Vail, Andrea Young, and Melissa Lutz. Our research explores the impact of a produce home delivery program for families who screen positive for food insecurity in pediatric primary care. Hopkins Community Connection is an innovative social needs program integrated into Johns Hopkins affiliated clinics to identify and address essential needs of patients through universal social needs screening and navigation to community resources and public benefit programs. For over 19 years, clinicians and staffs have referred families to HCC, which is grounded in building mutually beneficial relationships with community partners in our surrounding communities. HCC advocates, Johns Hopkins undergraduates, and community health workers work one-on-one with patients and caregivers to ensure successful resource connections are made. As such, HCC has allowed our clinics to take a holistic, family-centered approach to providing health care. Based on the needs identified in our clinics, HCC has developed innovative approaches to addressing food, financial, and transportation insecurity, social determinants of health, and systemic causes of inequality, inequity, and disease. Food insecurity is a household-level economic and social condition of limited or uncertain access to food, the root causes of which can be multifaceted and complex. In the United States, one out of seven children are affected by food insecurity. In Baltimore, the food insecurity rate for children is closer to one in three. We know these children face higher risks for chronic health conditions, more emergency department use, and fewer completed well-child visits. Families may face daily stressors which impact their ability to engage in preventive care consistently. Resource navigation programs like HCC could alleviate barriers, link families to resources, and facilitate access to care. In the Harriet Lane Clinic, families are routinely screened for food insecurity and linked to HCC when a goal is identified. For our study over a two-year period, we looked at two groups of families who screened positive for food insecurity. One group received both resource navigation support through HCC and monthly produce deliveries from a community partner for six months. The other group received HCC resource navigation only. We wanted to understand whether something as simple as delivering healthy food regularly to a family's home for a short period of time could help strengthen their engagement with HCC and their connection to other social resources and even improve their child's well-child visit attendance. We used data from the electronic health record and the resource navigation platform to look at the differences between the two groups for the proportion of non-food resource connections as well as well-child visit attendance over the subsequent 12 months. We were excited to find that those who received home produce delivery had a higher proportion of non-food related resources. Although we were unable to show a significant difference in the statistical analysis, it appears children three years and older may be more likely to attend all recommended well visits. What we found is that for families with food insecurity, in addition to HCC resource navigation, produce delivery may serve as an approach that builds trust, strengthens relationship, and reduces barriers to care. Families who received produce deliveries were more likely to connect with other non-food related resources and they showed a trend toward better well-child visit attendance for kids three years and older. This suggests that a seamless, low barrier connection to food resources can satisfy a family's basic needs, providing additional capacity to engage with other resources that may require more time and more follow-up. Our key takeaway is simple, yet powerful. An effective resource navigation program should aim to provide tangible resources that meet patients' most pressing goals while supporting access to broader community services and benefits. This can increase engagement, build trust, and help families stay connected to preventive care. Something as basic as fresh produce delivered to a family's doorstep can have a ripple effect and strengthen a family's connections to the healthcare system and thereby supporting better health outcomes. We hope this research adds to the existing literature and inspires continued investment in programs that meet families where they are and addresses social needs as a routine part of providing high-quality healthcare. We hope this morning everyone here is here. Thank you.