 I immediately understood Elizabeth's objective to fill in the blanks for the doctors and nurses. So we're going to listen to the audio file. I have been treated like a non-person while being conscious. The genesis of Tim's was the brilliant brainchild of Elizabeth Tracy, who was one of our chaplains in the ICU during COVID. And she saw the isolation that was going on. A lot of the patients at that time that were going into the medical ICU all basically had the same disease process. They were all intubated. They all had breathing tubes and ventilators. The human connection was at the least compromised, if not lost during that time. Yes, that person in that room actually has had a life prior to coming to us and has a family that do take care of them and love them. So coming up with a way to build these bridges using technology and using a very simple interview tool was remarkably beneficial. And I saw it, I witnessed it. I was one of the early adopters. It raised morale for everybody. She worked at the Smithsonian. She was a tomboy, very short, but she could hit the softball out of the heart. Fast forward six years and we find that we still have continued utility of the usefulness of Tim's in all kinds of areas of medicine. We use it right now in the hospital and the medical intensive care unit, the neurosciences critical care unit, bed search floors. And we're trying to export it into the outpatient setting also. We have several studies that we've published and several more that are underway that are further validating the Tim's approach in many areas of medicine. These four simple questions that they don't take more than 10 minutes. And they mean so much for us as a team taking care of the patient because of how much we can learn in those four questions. Getting these recordings, we can quickly understand who it is we're caring for, understand how our big decisions are fitting into the values of this patient and can often give us insight into whether or not we need to rethink what we're doing based on what we're hearing. The human interaction remains remarkably necessary for delivering good patient care in any clinical setting. I don't know if I'm a good patient. I was a bad patient. It doesn't matter whether you're the physical therapist, the nurse, the respiratory therapist. Having the patient, their family, trust you and know that you know them as individuals is immeasurably important. Modern medicine is absolutely amazing. The scientific advancements we've made, the understanding of disease and the treatments and the things we can do. The very notion that we can just focus on the science and avoid the human side of medicine is extremely short-sighted. It's an absolute eye-opening experience. See how people's faces change immediately. I remember vividly one of our APPs and one of our residents cried. It was like an aha moment for a lot of us. Bringing humanity back to our interaction with them, it's so important for both sides, the team and the patient and their families. Sometimes I think that we distance ourselves from these patients and the tough experiences that they're going to as a self-defense mechanism, as a way of persevering because by disconnecting ourselves with becoming objective, so to speak. But truthfully what it does is it harms us. It harms us from participating in the most human aspects of our work. Every hospital should do this for everybody, you know? I think what is happening at Johns Hopkins is at the leading edge of changing the human piece in medicine. And it is long overdue and I am so grateful to this team for taking that lead. I'm very grateful to have that tool to improve how we help people. And how much it means to families that have doctors who actually care about them as humans, as individuals. We're actually caring for the patient, not for disease. If William Oster were here, he would be a strong advocate. He would be the most strong advocate for Tim's. And I think that is just fundamental to modern medicine, to who we are as doctors. And I think that is just fundamental to modern medicine. And I think that is just fundamental to modern medicine. And I think that is just fundamental to modern medicine. And I think that is just fundamental to modern medicine. And I think that is just fundamental to modern medicine. And I think that is just fundamental to modern medicine. And I think that is just fundamental to modern medicine. And I think that is just fundamental to modern medicine. And I think that is just fundamental to modern medicine.