 Quotexalobracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracidracid that that has for babies after delivery is that the lungs may not be developed normally, and there might be problems with breathing, because the space that the lungs normally require for development is basically occupied by other organs. So CDH is diagnosed by prenatal ultrasound. The more severe the CDH, typically the earlier you can see it. It may be diagnosed as early as 13 weeks of pregnancy. Typically two-thirds of the CDHs are seen by the 20-week anomaly ultrasound. Once a referral to the Center for Fetotherapy happens, there's a number of things that we do. Number one, we look at the severity of the CDH on imaging, both ultrasound and MRI, and we also look at any other associated abnormalities, either physical or genetic, that may have an additional impact on how the baby will do after delivery. And we involve all the pediatric care specialists that are involved with looking after the baby after delivery happens, so that the parents can have, you know, as complete as possible understanding what it entails to look after a baby with CDH and what all the steps are that are involved in looking after a baby. Yes, so when we address the severity of hernia, we look at a number of factors and they tell us different things. So one of the focuses is on measuring the lung size on ultrasound and getting an idea to what degree the lung is compressed. So that gives us an idea about how well the lung itself might function. The second part is looking at the side of the hernia. So a left-sided diaphragmatic hernia and the right-sided one express their severity in a different way because on a right-sided hernia, it is the liver that's herniated into the chest, and this is a more solid organ and provides a greater degree of lung compression and compromise of lung development. And the third important factor is whether there are any additional anomalies present, both physical or genetic. So it's really a multi-stage assessment that goes beyond just looking at the lung size. And all of these factors are important that are important for the lung size. And the impact outcome significantly. What is the impact outcome? All patients with CDH need to deliver at a CDH center that provides a pediatric CDH program. The fetal therapy centers that provide fetal therapy are subdivided in levels based on their ability to take care of maternal, fetal, neonatal, and pediatric needs. So a highest level fetal therapy center is able to offer fetal therapy, obstetric care, and post-delivery care in one location. When you look at the outcomes of pregnancies that have received fetal therapy, the patients significantly do better if all the resources are housed in one unit. And that is the scientific case to make for it. The other important thing is that it provides a far greater continuity for the family if they know all the caregivers from the minute they come into the center. These physicians are part of the care of the infant from when they reach Hopkins. So I think parents do feel more reassured by that. And it's a difficult enough journey to go on. So I think any piece of reassurance is actually important.