 cikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikikik right-sided diaphragmatic hernias, and this was previously not available. So for left-sided diaphragmatic hernias, it needs to be an isolated diaphragmatic hernia without any additional physical abnormalities and genetic abnormalities with a lung size that's less than 30% than expected. And for a right-sided diaphragmatic hernia, it's the same basic criteria, but a lung size smaller than 45%. And both of these hernia types, so right and left, are now eligible for fetal therapy. So fetal therapy for diaphragmatic hernia is done by a procedure that's called fetoscopic tracheal occlusion. This is a procedure where we go with a small camera into the uterus, into the windpipe of the baby, and put a small balloon in place that's inflated for a period about six weeks or so. During that period of time, the lung fluid that's normally produced cannot escape, and the backward pressure reverses some of the compression effects on the lung. The treatment consists of placing the balloon, observing the lung growth that you see, and then removing the balloon. And then the baby can deliver vaginally and gets the regular treatment afterwards, with a hope that the balloon occlusion has improved the overall lung function and outcome at the time of delivery. The risks of fetal therapy are related to that there is an intervention required to place the balloon in the trachea. So anytime you enter the uterus, there's a risk of preterm labor, rupture of membranes. There's the risk that the patient might go into preterm labor while the balloon is still in place. And if there needs to preterm delivery, then you need to have an emergency setup to really emergently remove the balloon. And after you remove the balloon, the baby still benefits from a period of maturation until term. So preterm birth is always bad for a baby with diaphragmatic hernia. So that is really one of the biggest adverse effects of this treatment. In terms of additional risks, well, there is also the risk that the balloon doesn't produce as much benefit as you would have hoped for. And all of these things are important considerations that we discuss with our parents. At the Johns Hopkins Center for Fetal Therapy, we have particularly emphasized the need to manage the risk for preterm labor and preterm birth. And we have achieved consistently over the last seven or eight years, a very good safety profile for fetal. Our patients deliver on average at 39 weeks, which is on average five weeks later than what is published in the literature. And this is an important advantage for our patients because they don't just have the benefit of fetal, but the baby also has the benefit of additional maturation and essentially be born as a term baby rather than a preterm baby. The standard treatment of CDH is operation, operative repair after delivery. When you compare babies that have similar severity of diaphragmatic hernia, and you compare the group that has received fetal or just standard postnatal care without fetal. The babies on fetal or that have received fetal seem to require less intensive care support to remain oxygenated. And that also translates into an earlier discharge home and less developmental impacts at age two years of life. both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both of you and both