 urnore ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur ur We will do a detailed assessment of the fetal anatomy. We review the risk for specific genetic defects. We get together with the family and explain to them what the imaging findings are. And we connect them with our neonatology and our pediatric surgery, and many times also our PICU team, so that they can get as full an understanding as possible with the care path of a diaphragmatic hernia baby from birth to discharge home. The delivery planning for pregnancies complicated with CDH actually encompasses a spectrum. One is the babies that have had fetal therapy, where we need to be prepared for any emergency delivery, so we have a call scheduled 24-7 for that. And then the pregnancies or the patients where we can have a planned delivery, you know, a term. And the planning is always when to deliver, how to deliver, and make sure that all the care teams are present at the time of delivery. They're aware of the severity of the hernia, any special consideration, and what the wishes of the family are. We try to guide how we deliver the patients on what the obstetric needs are. So a cesarean section is not necessarily required, although it might be convenient from the timing. We've been actually very successful and very happy with being able to deliver over 60% of a diaphragmatic hernias vaginally. One of the things that's unique about the fetal therapy center and how we operate in association with the pediatric partners in the fetal program is that we bring a lot of experience in fetal medicine to the table. So the first 48 hours of transition are very important for a neonate with CDH. And so we will make every effort to keep in contact with a managing pediatric team and have, you know, rounds where we discuss what are the prenatal details to consider, what was the delivery like, are there any other considerations that you need to take into account to optimize the transition of the baby. So that is how we participate. And we will stay in contact with our pediatric colleagues until the babies are typically discharged. So we will actually go up to the NICU and PICU and visit the babies and the families because we learn a lot from that as well. And it helps us to prepare the parents for, you know, that transition as good as we can. So our care team that looks after babies with diaphragmatic hernia is multidisciplinary. That means we have a very engaged social work team. We have nursing team. We have access to resources. And we do a personalized assessment of all families to see what is important for families, what support they may need. So our social worker actually meets with everybody. And we sort of make a needs assessment and see how we can best help our families. That can take the form of transportation support, accommodation. We have a good relationship with some of the local resources here. And also for babies that have a likely very difficult course after delivery, we also have access to palliative care and chaplain support for emotional and sort of spiritual help, which can be important for families as well. So we really try to tailor our support services to the needs of the family. We also have a very engaged parent advisory council that has a peer-to-peer program where our patients can get in contact with prior patients that were treated at the center. And they went through the journey of fetal treatment or standard treatment of CDH and then raising a child. Many of the families that we've seen have children that are 7, 8, 9, 10 years old now that hadn't very severe diaphragmatic hernias. And that can be very helpful for families to get that perspective.