 welcome everybody. So our goal today, hopefully is to focus a little bit on reproductive health for women in their 20s and 30s, we'll kind of talk generally about things to sort of look out for, what you can do when you see your OB-GYN, and what to expect from certain visits. So first, I just kind of like to touch on what an OB-GYN can do for everybody. One of the things that is primarily important, particularly in your 20s and 30s, is actually the annual exam. This is a lifetime exam where we expect to see you hopefully every year through menopause, but in your 20s and 30s, it can be a very good opportunity to meet your OB-GYN, to talk about things that are valuable to you each year, and to really figure out what's normal and when to start planning for certain things in your future. One of the things that I like everybody to know about is what we actually do during the primary care exam or the annual exam, and that typically includes talking about preventative care. It is truly a preventative care visit and we'll get into that. We can also talk a lot about birth control, we do breast exams, we'll talk about pap smears, vaccinations, and do basically an overall health evaluation. On top of that, OB-GYNs also perform two separate specialties, obstetrics and gynecology. Gynecology includes gynecologic and pelvic surgery, as well as in-office procedures and management of medical conditions, including PCOS, endometriosis, fibroids, and more. From the obstetrics standpoint, we do a lot of pre-pregnancy planning, pregnancy care, miscarriage and abortion care. We also manage labor and delivery and we manage the labor and delivery ER, which we call triage. So with regard to the annual gynecologic exam, sometimes people ask, well, why do I need to see a gynecologist every year, especially if I'm going to see an annual primary care doctor? At the gynecologic exam, we do several things. You can always expect a pelvic and a breast exam at minimum, just to be sure that those reproductive organs are developing and behaving normally. Additionally, when it's due, we do recommend a pap smear that is not routinely every year and we'll kind of talk about that as we go through. We also have an opportunity during this visit to discuss birth control and refills if you're already on it or initiating one if you choose to be starting it. We also recommend STD testing typically and we'll talk more about that and we'll touch on vaccinations and talk about cancer screening guidelines, all of which are specific to reproductive health and women's health in particular and are very separate from the routine annual exam for adults, which we still recommend you do as well every year. So let's start first with the breast exam. One of the things that I always talk about with patients is when to worry about your breasts. I don't expect you to routinely be performing a breast exam at home. It's a little bit difficult to do sometimes or to know what you're looking for, but part of the benefit of coming to your yearly exam is having that breast exam done and I usually try to walk my patients through what to expect when they are feeling their breasts. So when you're doing your breast exam, you really want to make sure that you're covering all the quadrants of the breast all the way to the axilla or the armpit because breast tissue can extend there and typically if you're noticing lumps, skin dimpling, changes in skin color or texture, discharge from the nipples or changes to the nipple formation, those are all warning signs that should prompt you to get an evaluation from your gynecologist and to really be able to ask for help. Now, what is a pap smear and how often do you need one of these? Typically, pap smears are a test to screen for cervical cancer and so they actually do not need to be performed every year if your previous pap smear was normal within a certain duration of time. If your pap smear is abnormal, however, that recommendation can change. So the pap smear itself basically screens for changes to the cell architecture on the cervix. So we basically look to see how are the cells on the cervix changing from what their normal formation or architecture should look like. If there's no change, that's great, that means it's normal. And if there is change, we categorize that in terms of how far away they are from the normal architecture, so low or high grade or unknown. Additionally, for patients over 30, we routinely check for HPV because HPV is the known cause of cervical cancers and pre-cancers, which we'll kind of get into later. Now, for patients under age 30, so my patients in their 20s, we don't routinely check for HPV unless the cells are abnormal. And the reason for that is that often under age 30, our bodies are really able to fight back HPV and can often basically get rid of the infection on their own. Now, after age 30, our immune systems are a little bit less good at that. And so that's why we end up testing for it more often. Based on the results of that pap smear on the cytology, which is the cell architecture, and on the HPV testing, if you're over age 30, we determine how frequently you need any pap smear is going forward. People with abnormal pap smears can sometimes require further testing or more frequent pap smears. Often, if the test is abnormal, and particularly if we think it is concerning for a pre-cancer or a cancer, we recommend a procedure called a colposcopy, where we look at the cervix with a special microscope called a colpuscope. And from there, we will take cervical biopsies to basically make an assessment on whether or not a surgical procedure to remove any areas of concern is necessary, or whether a patient can have a pap smear the following year. So it is very important to do your pap smear. And even though there are guidelines to space them out, patients who have abnormalities actually need closer follow-up. Now, how can you prevent cervical cancer? We touched very briefly on HPV. HPV is the number one cause of cervical cancer. It causes the cells on the cervix to change. We know that 80 to 90% of sexually active people will eventually get HPV. And like I talked about earlier, most people will have the immune system to be able to combat that. However, as we get older, and HPV can hang around longer, it has more time to basically start changing the architecture of those cells. One way to protect yourself from HPV is to use condoms and, you know, be careful in having intercourse with other people. But the other is also to get the HPV vaccine. And this is really the best tool we have against cervical cancer. The HPV vaccine covers the highest risk strains of the virus and essentially protects you from the ones that are most likely to cause cervical cancer. It is approved for both men and women and children, actually. And so we do strongly recommend that. The routine timeline to get it is typically for children between ages 11 and 12. And at one point, the guidelines actually were able to give adults the vaccine up until age 26. Most recently, we've actually been approved to give that vaccine to adults up to age 45. And depending on a person's behavior or sexual behavior, we may actually recommend getting it later in life. I personally recommend that anyone who hasn't received the vaccine and is eligible for it should strongly consider getting it because it is a cancer preventing vaccine. The other thing to note is that smoking is actually one of the most important manageable things we can do to prevent cervical cancer. Quitting smoking actually significantly reduces cervical cancer because we know that smoking and nicotine actually impact our body's ability to repair itself. So quitting smoking in general prevents many different cancers, including, of course, lung cancer, but actually may be surprising for you to know. Also, quitting smoking prevents cervical cancer. These data may not quite be extrapolated to vaping. I think I would have to look up that information, but I did get asked that recently. However, the nicotine data does stand because vaping that contains nicotine does impact our ability to combat certain cancers and actually may impact our overall health and well-being. So generally, if you can, quitting smoking is the best thing you can do for your health overall and certainly can protect you from cancers, including cervical cancer. Another thing that we like to talk about at our annual exam is birth control. We can always talk about this at any time of the year as well, and so I often set up visits with patients to discuss the best contraceptive for them, and we even do those as video visits, actually, if it's easy for you to do from home. There are a lot of different types of contraceptives. This screenshot is from a website I really love called Bedsider.org. It's a free resource and really allows you to compare all the different types of birth control available to you. We typically organize our birth controls based on the most reliable to least reliable. Among our most reliable are what we call our long-acting, reversible contraceptives. So that includes things like the intrauterine device and the nexplanon or arm implant. After that are some of our other longer-acting contraceptives, which, you know, I would say are slow release hormones, but are not quite as long-acting as those two, meaning that they're not in the order of years. That includes the depopravera shot, which is every three months, the nuvarang, which can be replaced monthly. Then subsequently, we have the birth control patch, which can be used weekly, and the birth control pill, which is daily. A lot of different medications there. The pill, the patch, and the ring all contain both estrogen and progesterone, and so are considered combined contraceptives, versus the birth control shot, the nexplanon, and the IUD, which contain progesterone only. This can be important for people with certain medical conditions, and so it's very important to talk to your doctor about which hormonal contraceptive may be a good option for you. There are also some non-hormonal contraceptives, including the copper IUD, which is a great option for people who are contraindicated against hormones. Some people with certain medical conditions, for example. However, the copper IUD does cause some very heavy menstrual cycles, so it's not quite for everybody. There are also gels that we can use that are non-hormonal, that are an option and can be prescribed. There are also, of course, options to use things like condoms, internal and external diaphragms, and spermacidal gels with cups. So these are all options. I would say that the barrier contraceptives are best for preventing STIs, but may not always be the most reliable for preventing pregnancy. And the final method is, of course, and that's the phone on the very far end, is fertility awareness. This is not always the most reliable form of contraceptive because it is very user dependent and can be difficult to assess your personal cycle tracking to figure out when you might be ovulating. And often works, I think, about 77% of the time, which if you compare to the IUD, for example, which works about 99.5% of the time, is a very big difference in terms of efficacy. So just something to consider there in terms of why we recommend contraceptives that do contain hormones because they can guarantee that you prevent pregnancy if that's your desire. What about discharge? Question I get frequently. So just a reminder that some discharge is normal, right? So cervical mucus generally has a texture and can be clear and watery, often can even be white and a little bit thicker during certain portions of the cycle and thinner, for example, when one is ovulating. Typically, when you're on your cycle, of course, you can notice some red discharge, which would be your menstrual blood. However, other red bleeding or times can actually be associated with bleeding from other areas. For example, if one has an injury or a recent surgery or things like that, brown is typically the color of old blood. So most of us are used to seeing that at the end of our cycle. Pink can be a sign of spotting or irritation at the vagina or cervix. And the ones that are more concerning, I would say, would be green, which often can be a sign of an STD. Gray, which can be a sign of bacterial vaginosis or a certain imbalance of the discharge in the vagina, typically associated with a fishy odor. And then sometimes yellow, if there's maybe either blood in it or green tint to it, odor or things like that, then maybe a little bit suspicious. The number one thing to look out for is that if you're having itching, irritation, in addition to discharge, that warrant an evaluation, particularly for STDs, bacterial vaginosis, or yeast. So when should you get STD testing? I like this little chart because it helps me to know and it helps my patients know kind of the incubation period for different STDs, meaning when I when you get exposed to one, how long does it take for your initial test to show up positively, right? So gonorrhea and chlamydia you can see within a couple weeks, you would know if you had it or not, if you were to get tested. Something like hepatitis, hepatitis B or C can take several months. HIV can take months to see, often about one month. HPV can be hard to say really, you may be able to see that on the pap smear, but if your body is very good at fighting it, you may never test positive. Cifilis can take about a month to three months. Trichomonas can take one to four weeks. And herpes lesions, actually, we may not be able to test for unless you actually have active lesions. And so these are all kind of great timelines to sort of understand. And for this reason, this is why I recommend that if you have multiple partners, you try to get tested every six months or at the very minimum every year. In general, it's a good practice that if you have a new partner, you have STD testing before, and your partner also has STD testing before engaging in intercourse, and you're able to show each other negative results if you choose to have intercourse together with or without protection, although we always strongly recommend using protection to save yourself the hassle of worrying about an STD. So just a good chart if you want to keep this one in the back in your back pocket. How do you get tested for STDs? So lots of different ways. The big thing to know is, for example, for gonorrhea and chlamydia and trichomonas, these can often be tested with a vaginal swab or sometimes a urine test. Typically, the swab is really the most reliable method, but a urine test is actually quite good as well. For other STDs, however, we do have to do blood tests, and that includes syphilis, hepatitis, and HIV. There are some oral swabs for HIV as well, but again, the serology is really our best method. For the pap smear, that's where we test for HPV, so that's your cervical cytology. And then for herpes, which is a difficult one, I know it says blood test here. The blood test really tests to see if you've ever been exposed to herpes, and so it may come up positive even if you are not somebody who actively has lesions or has ever had an outbreak. It would, for example, come up positive if you're somebody who has a cold sore, for example. However, if you have a genital lesion and you're concerned about about herpes virus, we generally recommend that you come in and we actually swab that lesion and send it for viral testing. And that way we can actually see if that lesion is shedding the HSV or herpes virus. And so that's a really important distinction is that the blood test may not tell you if you actively have it or if you've just been exposed. Now, with regard to your cycle, what do you, like, why do you have to worry about this? When is it time to see your gynecologist? And what's normal? In general, your period should be considered a vital sign. Missing your period, repeatedly, is concerning. And I have a little caveat here, unless you are on birth control. If you are on birth control, we're basically controlling your cycle and controlling the lining of your uterus. And for that reason, it is okay if you do not have a period. There's no reason why you need to shed blood and you do not need to have a period every month if you have a contraceptive that is basically controlling the levels of hormone and controlling the lining of your uterus. And potentially, if you're on the pill, controlling ovulation. Now, if you're not on medication that could be causing this, then you should talk to your OBGYN. And the reason for that is plentiful, right? If you're missing your period, the number one cause is often pregnancy. So that should be where your mind goes first. But let's say you have a negative pregnancy test. What else could it be? Some patients, particularly in their early 30s, can experience early ovarian failure. So if you've gone months without having a cycle, that's very concerning and should be evaluated. PCOS is another common condition even in patients among their 20s. And should be something that you have your doctor evaluate for if you are not having regular cycles and you're missing several months. This is a disorder basically where you are not ovulating monthly. And that's why the period can be very erratic. Eating disorders. Sometimes if you do not have enough of a caloric intake, your body is trying to basically preserve its functions for the most valuable things in the body. And it basically puts the period as a low priority. And so some of those patients will have absent menses. Excessive athletic activity, same thing. If you're, you know, burning a lot of calories and your body's trying to save the calories for what it thinks is important and vital, meaning your brain and lungs and heart, it's going to basically try to diminish the things that it feels are less important. And that starts with your cycle a lot of the time. Thyroid disease, stress, anatomic variations, and abnormalities. So sometimes people who have different anatomy or have congenital anomalies, they may never have noticed. Delayed puberty. So if you're 20 years old and you still haven't gotten a cycle for some reason, that that should warrant evaluation. And so much more. And so it's our job to try to figure out why you're not having a cycle. And if you're ever concerned, the OBGYN is the right person to see. And on the side there, I've got a lovely graph here of our usual hormonal cycle. It is a very synchronized and beautiful communication between the brain, the ovaries, and the uterus, all to make menstruation happen. Okay. So back to your period as a vital sign. If you have heavy periods, that can also indicate certain health issues that could be treated medically or surgically. We usually group these into two different kind of causes. One is structural causes. So structural causes I usually think of as anatomic abnormalities. So this picture is very handy here. Apollo, for example, which is a benign growth of the endometrium. Adenomyosis, which is where the lining of the uterus, the endometrium, kind of starts to grow into the muscular portion and cause some pain or heavy cycles. Lyoma, which is another word for fibroids, those are benign tumors of the muscle portion of the uterus, very common, do not have cancerous potential. And then malignancy, you know, if you could have something that's abnormal and growing there. I will say for most young women, malignancy is the rarest, often for postmenopausal women, heavy cycles or heavy bleeding after menopause is really where we start to worry about things like endometrial or uterine cancers. Nonstructural causes, these are typically things like bleeding disorders and ovulation, meaning not ovulating regularly or having problems with ovulation. So patients with PCOS who don't ovulate for several months, have a very thick lining, and then all of a sudden bleed quite a bit at the end of three or four months, just because their body is shedding that, for example. Endometrial causes, so things like infection of the endometrial lining, iatrogenic, so they have a picture of an IUD there. The copper IUD is the one I think of that causes quite heavy cycles, so that may be one. And then not otherwise classified, so things that are separate that we kind of find that are unrelated to the causes we already mentioned. Now, if your period is painful, that's kind of normal, but it should not be debilitating. If your period is debilitating to the point that you can't go to work, you can't go out with your friends, you can't do your normal day-to-day functions for a whole week every month, that's a problem, right? And it can be a sign that something is abnormal. Most commonly, this can be a sign of endometriosis or adenomyosis, and very rarely can be a sign of obstructive anatomy. To go over what these terms mean, endometriosis, which you can see on the far picture there, are basically where the lining of the uterus comes out through the fallopian tubes instead of just coming out through the vagina during your period. And essentially, you have period bleeding into the pelvis, which can cause implantations of the endometrial lining around the pelvis, leading to significant pain during your cycle, as well as potential pelvic pain down the line. Adenomyosis is where the lining of the uterus, that endometrium, starts to grow into the muscular portion of the uterus, so you could see that picture in the middle bottom there. And that lining actually, when it sheds, essentially irritates that muscle and causes a lot of pain during your cycle as well. And then finally, on the far end here, we have an example of an imperforate hymen, meaning somebody whose hymen is completely blocked and doesn't allow the period blood to come out. This is just one example of obstructive anatomy, but sometimes people can have abnormalities in the cervix or the uterus, scarring, things like that, that can cause the period not to come out normally. And then that causes significant pain as the bleeding collects either in the vagina, in the uterus, in the cervix, or other portions of the anatomy. And so, again, your period is a vital sign. If you're having such severe and debilitating pain, that's not normal. You know, some cramping is common, but should be alleviated with some Advil or Tylenol and a heating pad. And if it's not doing that, then it's time to see somebody for help. What about if sex is painful? I do see patients for this occasionally. And there are many, many reasons. These are just a few different examples. They can include nerve issues or musculoskeletal issues, painful bladder syndrome, problems with the blood pressure, painful bladder syndrome, problems with sensitivity at the opening of the vulva or the vestibule of the vagina. It can be because of an infection, which is often the most common cause, actually. It can be because of endometriosis and can be because of things like persistent general arousal disorder. So these are just a few causes, but there are certainly many more, and often this warrants an evaluation. So if you have persistently painful intercourse or you're not able to have sex because it is, you know, having to, because you're having to overcome so much pain to be able to even participate in it, then it's time to see a gynecologist. What if you have low libido? So sometimes I come in, you know, in their 30s, rarely in their 20s, but often in their 30s as we get older and, you know, libido can change. And a lot of times this does warrant an evaluation because there are many different causes. The most common are, of course, stress, depression, relationship problems, right? Aging is certainly a factor. But there are many other causes, including medications that you may be taking, drug and alcohol use, other sexual problems. Like, for example, if you're having pain, you're probably not going to have a very high libido because you probably don't want to participate if it's uncomfortable. Having recently had childbirth, for example, can affect those hormones. Sleep issues can certainly impact that. And then, of course, chronic diseases. So if you're having low libido, it's a really good idea to talk to your doctor because there are many things that we can do. And usually this involves a strong assessment from all these different psychosocial and multifactorial aspects to figure out exactly what's causing it, and often requires a multifactorial approach. So that may mean adjusting a medication, getting in with a sex therapist, and then working on things like, you know, drug and alcohol, and then also maybe starting a medication to help with libido. So lots of different things that we can certainly do. But if this is happening to you, it definitely warrants seeing a gynecologist. Do I need a hormone panel? I brought this up because I think it comes up very frequently, unfortunately, on the Internet these days. And the general answer is, no. Okay. Unless you're having an abnormal or absent period, the reality is that most likely you are fine. The reason for this is typically for that, you know, period to happen regularly each month, you saw that chart I shared with you earlier, there has to be a synchronized, beautiful dance between multiple hormones in your body to ensure that that period happens. If it's not happening, then that's where your cycle may be erratic or abnormal and warrants evaluation. Outside of that, it is unlikely that you're having a problem. That said, you know, it's always case to case dependent. So it never hurts to ask, but I just prepare everybody that most often a hormone panel won't answer the question that you're looking for, especially if you're having regular cycles. But certainly if you have other disorders, diabetes, thyroid, things like that, which are also hormones, then maybe those would warrant evaluation if you have other symptoms. But from a gynecologic perspective, if your period is normal, your gynecologic hormones are also normal. If your period is abnormal or painful or absent, then that warrant is talking to your doctor because it may warrant imaging, may warrant labs, may warrant an exam, but it's really case to case dependent. And then should I freeze my eggs? You know, this is a difficult question that I really get a lot from a lot of my patients. One of the recommendations I generally share is that if you are in your 20s or 30s, it's a really good time to think about this. The reason being, of course, that the younger we are when we freeze our eggs, the higher the quality of those eggs. As we get older, the quality and quantity of our eggs decreases and their ability to spontaneously conceive successfully while also having a low risk of a genetic or chromosomal abnormality decreases. In general, for most patients, if you're in your late 20s to early 30s and you're planning pregnancy, but maybe not right now and you're hoping to do it in the future, it's always a safe bet to talk to your gynecologist about whether it's a good option to freeze your eggs. In your early 20s, maybe it's a little early, but certainly, you know, thinking about family planning is always wise. And if you know it's something that you want to save for a lot further down the line, then it may be worth a conversation with your doctor as well. So what if you do want to be pregnant? We talked about birth control and preventing pregnancy. We talked about deferring pregnancy until later. But what if you want to be pregnant right now? Typically, if you'd like to be pregnant right now, I generally say start a prenatal vitamin, particularly one with 400 micrograms of folic acid, as we know that's important for protecting babies from abnormal development of the neural tube and brain system. I like this brand here, Nature Made, just because, and this is no plug, by the way, it just happens to be the one I take, but it is a very good one because it's the best bang for your buck. It has a lot of the nutrients that you need in it, has that folic acid that you need, and it's very affordable. So it's a really good option, includes everything that you need to take, and is a great place to start. And then I usually recommend scheduling a preconception visit with your OBGYN. At that preconception visit, we often talk about things like genetic testing options, which are typically recommended before you even try to conceive, since they can test you and your partner if it's something you desire. I especially recommend this for patients that either have a family history or from an ethnicity that has a known high risk for genetic anomalies, like specific ones. We also talk about things like timed intercourse, prediction of ovulation, and then we discuss routine screening and testing options to make sure that you are healthy, and also to offer things for your partner to be able to say, talk to their doctor about, in terms of ensuring that they're healthy as well. And of course, we talk about things like avoiding alcohol, drugs, and smoking in order to ensure the best opportunities for success. And then in addition to that, we also review all your medical conditions and medication regimens. Many things are not safe in pregnancy, many medications, and many skincare regimens actually, particularly things like retinol, which includes the vitamin A derivatives for your skin. So, retinol, tretinoins, all of those skin care things can often be harmful to a developing fetus. And so it's a really good opportunity for you to talk to your OBGYN and make sure that you're really on the safest regimen of medications, skincare things, that will really set you up for success pregnancy-wise as well. So, I strongly recommend this. And then when do you need to see a fertility specialist? We really touched earlier about egg freezing, so good to talk to your OBGYN about, and they can always help you get that referral. I usually recommend starting with your OBGYN because they can get you to the best place. We have an excellent fertility center as you see here pictured. But I also recommend generally for my patients over 35, if you are planning to get pregnant and have been trying for over six months and you aren't successful, then I recommend going to your OBGYN to get a referral to a fertility specialist. For patients under 35, if you've been trying for a year and you haven't been successful, then I recommend seeing your OBGYN to help you get in with a fertility-wise.  infertility specialist as well, as both of those can be indicators that you may have an infertility issue that needs evaluation. And often starting with your OBGYN is a good starting point, just because they can do some of the preliminary evaluation and also help you to get to where you need to be to get the best evaluation you need. So that's generally our discussion here. I think we're right about 30 minutes into our chat. We'll start asking questions, I think, here. So we'll go over them together. And I think we have one already. So we'll go ahead and start with that. But if you have any questions like we were saying earlier, please feel free to put them in the chat and we'll try to get to as many as we can. Okay, question number one, if I have had an IUD for five years and just started getting heavier periods, does this mean that the IUD is losing effectiveness? Okay, this is a really great question. So one, it depends on the type of IUD. If you have a hormonal IUD, meaning the progesterone on IUD, there are three different kinds. One that's three years, one that's five years, and one that's eight years long. The three-year one, if you've had it for five years, that is not working anymore. So time to get that one out. And probably to use a backup birth control like condoms. The five-year birth control, again, typically around, I find about four and a half to five years, you will find that bleeding resumes even if you're somebody who did not have periods with the IUD in place. And that can be an indicator that its time is running out. Now, with the eight-year IUD, however, you may start to have bleeding around year five. And that's because the amount of hormone is lighter than it was before or lesser than it was before. However, the contraceptive value still lasts for up to eight years. If you're somebody who's using it for bleeding control, I often recommend that if you start noticing bleeding around years five and six, that you can consider exchanging it early so that your bleeding does not become heavier with time, and you really just have that really good continuous bleeding control. So two different things. It's going to continue working as a birth control. It may not continue working as well for your bleeding. And then finally, for the non-hormonal IUD, that's good for about 10 years. That one really does increase bleeding, unfortunately. So may have done that from the beginning, but if it didn't, and it's suddenly starting to do so, you might consider one of the hormonal IUD options. Okay. Question number two. Is the HPV vaccine a one-time vaccine, or should we repeat it? This is an excellent question. So the HPV vaccine is actually a series. Typically when you are younger, so when you get it in that 11 or 12-year age window, it's a two-shot series. As an adult, in order to get the vaccine to really stick in our immune systems, it's actually a three-shot series. And they're typically several months apart. So you get it once, then you get it two months later, then you get it four months after the second shot. So that's three shots. Once you've done that whole series, you do not need to get it again. Occasionally, there have been some folks when they test for HPV and test positive that will consider getting another booster of it. There's not necessarily data to say that that's helpful, but certainly could be considered. Question number three. Can an OBGYN serve as a primary care provider for women, or is it important to have a separate PCP for general health needs? This is an excellent question. So I usually talk to patients about this because we do a really great job at managing most gynecologic primary issues. So we kind of talked about pap smear, breast cancer screenings, all kinds of things. And in your early 20s and 30s, we certainly can be a good source of care as a primary person to be managing you. However, as we get older and we develop things like hypertension, diabetes, weight issues, things like that, the gynecologist may not be the best person to manage your primary care conditions because we're not experts in every single aspect of health, although we certainly try to be. We are truly women's health and really reproductive health experts is how I would frame it. So sometimes I'll joke that I'm a below the belt doctor. So I do recommend very strongly that you have a primary care doctor to help manage other conditions. And often we actually work together primary care doctors and gynecologists to ensure that you have a very seamless care team and that you have a really good outcome for both things like high blood pressure, diabetes, no vaccinations, overall screenings, and then of course your reproductive health as they go hand in hand. Number four, I'm 41. Is it too late to think about freezing my eggs? This is a really good question. I think that it's best to talk to a fertility specialist when deciding to freeze your eggs. In general, the quantity and quality of our eggs decreases significantly after 35 and exponentially after age 40. Typically, a fertility specialist will do an assessment for each individual to see if there is an opportunity there to stimulate those ovaries and make them produce as many eggs as we can in order to retrieve them for preservation or egg freezing, if you will. And so I always recommend getting that evaluation done. If it's something that's really important to you and you hope to have children in the future, I say go for it. Go ahead and talk to them because you never know. You may be able to get a good outcome, but it's hard to guarantee, certainly. Number five, do we have to ask our doctor to do the HPV test with your pap smear? That is an excellent question. Typically your doctor will know that when your age guidelines are appropriate for HPV testing. If anyone, again, under age 30, HPV testing is reflex, meaning if your test is abnormal, the pathologist will then check for HPV to see if the HPV is what's causing that abnormality. And for patients over age 30, the HPV testing is routinely recommended and we routinely order that for you with your cytology, meaning with that cell assessment for the cervix. But you can always bring it up. It never hurts. All right. Number six, is it normal to experience more painful periods in your late 30s and is this a sign of perimenopause? Really good question. So generally speaking, perimenopause is typically the period leading up to menopause. For most women, this is in their mid to late 40s because the average age of menopause in the United States is 51. So thinking about that, I would say it's very unlikely for a young woman in their 30s to be experiencing perimenopause and heavy cycles is usually, heavier painful cycles are usually not the first indicator of that. That said, having a heavier painful cycle should warrant evaluation because it can indicate many things, including things like fibroids like we talked about. It can indicate things like adenomyosis. It could be even an ovarian cyst that could be causing some of that pain or discomfort during your cycle. And so it's best to see your gynecologist and get an exam. Number seven, do I need a referral from a gynecologist for a mammogram? Yes. So for your mammogram, you should absolutely see your gynecologist. Some primary care doctors will also offer that for you and that's appropriate as well. The mammogram screening starts at age 40. So we typically start doing breast exams for everybody every year that you see your gynecologist at your annual exam, just to be sure we're not missing anything. But the actual mammogram, which is that radiologic screening of the breast tissue, starts at age 40 at the earliest based on our screening guidelines. And typically it resumes every year essentially until about 75. So we have lots of time to get those mammograms done. That said, if you have a strong family history of breast cancer, meaning a first-degree relative, your mother, your grandmother, your sister who has had breast cancer before menopause, meaning before age 50, please share that with your doctor because that can actually indicate earlier screening for breast cancer. And they should know when to order that for you based on the age timeline for your family member. And also if your family has any history of genetic disorders like BRCA1 or 2, which put you at increased risk of breast cancer at a young age as well. Okay. Number 8, are there any long-term effects on fertility from using hormonal birth control for many years? No. This is a very common misconception online these days and it's not true. So generally speaking, your hormonal birth control is working for the duration of time that you were using it for. Again, hormonal birth control can vary significantly, right? It can look like the hormonal IUD, which is progesterone only, or the combined birth control pill, which is a daily medication, right? And so the duration of time that it works really depends on the formulation of the medication that you're on and does not have any impact on your long-term fertility. It works for the duration of the time that you're using it to prevent pregnancy so that you can safely defer your pregnancy for the future. That said, if you're using birth control all the way until you're age 40, it is not the birth control that was causing your infertility, but as we get older, the quality and quantity of our eggs decreases and so by the time you get to age 40, it would not be unexpected that your fertility has waned unrelated to whether you used a contraceptive or not. All right. And then we've reached our last question. Can lifestyle factors like stress or diet affect the regularity and symptoms of your menstrual cycle? Absolutely. So stress is certainly a big indicator of how the menstrual cycle can progress. We know that patients that experience extreme stress or duress can often find that their cycles are dysregulated, that they may have less reliable periods or more pain in general as related to other pain disorders as well, and that can certainly have an impact. The diet question is a little bit more difficult to assess. I would say less likely to impact menstrual cycle, but certainly can affect your symptoms. So if a food causes more significant bloating and you have it a lot during your cycle when you're already feeling bloating, that can certainly accentuate some of the symptoms that you may be experiencing from your menstrual cycle as well. But stress, we know absolutely can impact when you menstruate, how often, and so on and so forth. All right. Thank you guys all for coming. That was a really wonderful discussion. I was happy to have you all here. I think that was all the questions and all the time that we had for that. But I appreciate you all being here. And we'll have an opportunity to talk about requesting an appointment here. I think it's on our last slide. So you're more than welcome to call if you'd like to set up a time to see me or one of my colleagues, then we'd be happy to answer more of your questions in person that are specific to you. Yes. Thank you so much, Dr. Goma. And we hope everyone enjoyed today's presentation. And if everyone could stick around to fill out the survey, we would appreciate it. And a recording will be sent out to everyone probably early next week. Thank you again. Have a great weekend, everyone.