10 years of experience is the bare minimum someone should have to be giving any sort of training advice. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah's Strength and Fitness. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, and I'm aware a lot of people are not going to like that statement. A lot of people are not going to agree with that statement. Um, but that is how I feel in terms of personal trainers, anyone trying to be an influencer, um, any any of this sort of stuff. And any of you out there who are listening, if you are taking advice from people with less than a decade of experience, um I'm going to I'm going to fault you for that and I'm going to tell you right now that you are a fool. Okay? Uh and and let's be honest about it. You are a effing fool. If someone's been working out five years, I don't care what sort of good results they have due to their genetics and drugs or I'm sorry, they're natural. I don't care. You were taking advice from an inexperienced person in something very important like lifting weights. Keeping in mind bad information gets people hurt. We're not just talking about your results. We're talking about bad information literally causing injuries. Like how many of these influencers are you seeing who are still relative noobs who are getting major injuries and tears and problems, right? because they don't have the experience to even really know what they're doing for themselves and yet they have followings. You know, that's what blows my mind that people anyone listens to them. Like this is something that for you to learn the basics takes about a decade. Okay? Takes about a decade to really learn the basics. And if you've never coached other people, you have no business making fitness content, lifting content at all. None. I don't care if you've won the Mr. Olympia, you only So that's actually I care even less. And here's why. You have amazing genetics for what you're doing and you're using tons of drugs. Your information is probably not valid. If that's the entirety of your experience, not valid even for other people. You don't coach. Shouldn't be coaching others then. Definitely not for money. But people will do that. you know, someone who has a good physique. And I'll get guys who do that. They're like, "Well, I want to start making fitness content. How would you advise me to do it?" And I'm like, "So, what are you doing?" Like, "Well, I've been working out, you know, six years, seven years. They're on a little gear or two." They have good physique. They don't train anybody. And they have less than a decade of experience. You know, you shouldn't be giving advice. You're not qualified to give advice to a large audience. You lack the the personal experience to really understand things. It really does take a decade in the weight room to really get a grasp of what's going on. Um, same thing with coaching other people. Um, I've I've often said the same thing here. If you have less than two years of experience training other people, you have no business charging money for it. And I've stood by that statement for quite a few years. And again, it ruffles feathers. I get it. But you're a con man. Like, you know that, right? You have two less than two years of experience of teaching. I don't care what goofball certification you have. Certifications are worthless. They're meaningless. You don't have real experience already coaching other people in the weight room. You've not written programs for people, taught people, supervised people in the weight room. You have no business charging for your services. So people say, "Well, how do you get experience? By coaching for free, by teaching other people, teaching your friends, teaching your family, learning, doing that for a couple years." And I I think that's a fair rule. I personally think that you need to have coached several people for two years. Okay? You need to have personally coached at least three people for two years straight before you charge anything as a trainer. You do not have the experience to charge money for what you're doing. Sure, there are people who might hire you, but it doesn't make you not a con man. It's a case of faking it till you make it. That's what you're doing. But but you are a con man. You may not intend to be, but you don't have any experience. And then other people are paying you money to trust you with their health, with their results, okay? And you are woefully underqualified for that. It's different if it's free because they're not paying you in a professional manner. But you are not a professional. And again, I know that's tough for people to hear like, well, I want to be a trainer, but it's like, why do you think that you will be a good trainer? you don't have experience. Why do you think you'll be good at putting out fitness information? And I get people, well, I learned stuff watching you, but do you know how to implement it? Have you implemented it in your yourself for a decade? Have you implemented it in other people for two years? So, just because you learned some things listening to me or some other coaches, you lack the experience. And and I'm not being hypocritical. I had exceeded those experience levels when I first started making content. Okay? I already had over a dec I know people are like, "You've been doing this forever." I already had started training a decade before over a decade before. I had already been a personal trainer part-time. I was already coaching some people for free when I started my original channel. This is not the original stuff. I had already been coaching some people for free, okay? Some actual athletes. Like I was actually coaching a rugby team, some dudes, free of charge, just helping them out for two hours every Tuesday in the weight room, showing up and just teaching them for free. Teaching them to squat, deadlift, writing their basic programs. Okay, that was 13 years ago. So, I'm not saying this stuff to be mean. I'm telling people that you don't know what you don't know. And if you're at that level of inexperience, you're simply unqualified to give advice. And it's not like people say, "Well, they people have to get advice somewhere." They can get advice from people with 20 years of experience. You know how many of us out here put out content with 20, 25, 30 years of experience in the game? There's tons of us. We already we already exist. We don't need new content creators with no experience trying to teach. We don't need people trying to to tell other people then how to train who've never coached another human being in their life. We don't need any of those. There are hundreds of experienced coaches already doing all of this. There's other ways to go make money online. Social media is very profitable. And I'm not saying you still can't make money based on your look if you just have good genetics and you bunch trend. Sure. But it's not honest. It's charlatenary at that point. So just understand what you are. And again, I'm not being mean and you may not realize it. It's because you don't know what you don't know. And all of you out there getting advice, if you're getting advice from these people, you're a clown. Why are you doing that? Stop. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.