Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I'm going to briefly discuss for you guys kind of the three things you could eliminate or moderate from your diet that will handle 80% of your problems. Uh but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, it' be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribed, uh please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Thank you. So let's uh get over to this topic. You know, when I I do a video like this or make a statement like this, people will invariably get upset. They'll one they'll argue with it which is again ludicrous. Everything I'm saying here is extremely well supported by enormous amounts of evidence. Um or they'll get mad that I didn't add more to I want to add a fourth. I want to add a fifth. I want to add a 37th. And and I would say to guys, look, it's kind of one of those things where it's like I'm telling you if you do this it will get you 80% of your results. It it doesn't mean that we need to have all the details on the other 20%. because these are really really simple and this is stuff that almost anybody can easily do unless they have an addiction problem. Does that make sense? This is just like look this is the easy so super super easy uh stuff that will handle most of your stuff and if you just did these things um most of the rest of it will start to fall together anyways. I mean it doesn't mean there's not another 20% but people keep wanting to add 1% more. So they love to do that. It's going to happen. Watch. you guys will see what happens. Um, but I'm going to I'm going to cover it anyways. Um, so the thing is two things if you cut them out of your diet completely and then one if you moderate it will actually literally get you most your your results. And I think it's important to note that moderating the saturated fat because there's not necessarily benefits to taking it to zero, right? Unlike um right unlike alcohol, no degree of moderation actually stops all the negatives. Does that make sense? The the evidence on that is overwhelming. So again, saturated fat, we'll cover that near the end. All right. The the evidence for that is overwhelming. All the cancer researchers around the world have pretty well concluded um even one or two drinks a month is enough to significantly and measurably increase seven types of cancer. Like this is before you even get into all the other negatives. Like it alcohol is arguably the most poisonous thing we consume uh by a pretty large margin. Like so everyone who's worried about pesticides and all these other things um I'm not telling you not to ever worry about them. Let me make that. I'm not saying well you should just be drinking a gallon of pesticide. I'm not telling you something crazy like that. What I'm telling you is a couple of drinks a month is arguably probably a much more poisonous load for your liver and your body than probably any amount of pesticides you're likely to be consuming. Not saying 100% guaranteed, but pretty pretty likely other than some extreme cases, a couple drinks a month are going to actually be more poisonous. And I mean directly poisonous, you know, toxic to your liver and stuff. So, it's up there. But in terms of the carcinogenic effect, I mean even drinking in moderation, the the data is extremely clear on that. It is absolutely extremely carcinogenic even in very small quantities and it's an addictive poison, you know, and as far as everything else goes, all the other negatives, they all scale in a dose dependent manner from there. So it is one of those things that if you can just completely avoid it, it's it's massive. Like that one alone is just absolutely enormous. Absolutely enormous. And it's just it's the one thing that if everyone cut out of their diet completely and just completely abstained all your health and fitness stuff, you're you would be stacking the odds dramatically in your favor. It's up at the top of the list. And I don't want to say saturated fat isn't number two, but I'm going to throw it in number number three um for for reasons of you can get away with moderating it with no negatives. All right, refined sugars. People try to make some cases for well, you can moderate it, but there's still data showing minor risk even in moderation. What do you mean like one one sugar sweetened drink a week? Like one Coke, one Pepsi, one Dr. Pepp, whatever. One sugar sweetened beverage uh per week. Even the the most new meta analysis that came out this year said, "Yeah, that actually that one drink a week is enough to increase uh diabetes by something like 8%." One, just one. So, it kind of falls in that category of if you are evidence-based and you're looking at the actual evidence, you see what I'm saying? Even one a week is enough to cause measurable harm. It's not, hey, it's perfectly fine in moderation. Well, no. the risk goes down in moderation, but it's not zero if you go on the evidence. And that's my frustration. You know, you'll have stuff like that and it's like you'll have all these studies and you will literally have clowns. Well, I don't believe any research. I believe research is biased for big farmer or whatever. It's like, okay, so you're really telling me you're really telling me that you believe refined sugar and alcohol are healthy that that this is a conspiracy. Come on. Just stop. There's a major conspiracy by big pharma to stop you from drinking alcohol, which is a known poison and carcinogen. And they're they're trying to convince you not to eat refined sugar. They're trying to tell you, "Oh, no, high fructose corn syrup. You probably shouldn't be having that or table sugar." Yeah. You really think that there's a conspiracy to make you stop doing it because it's going to make you healthy? That is what you sound like when you say that. Just stop. Data is pretty overwhelming. plenty of studies we know refined sugars pretty bad not good really shouldn't be consuming them and the problem is is that that's the most recent data shows that in moderation it's still harmful all right same thing we come over to saturated fat saturated fat what we see in moderation isn't harmful in excess it is worse than refined sugar so that's kind of the point that of that balance there people then they get mad the people who are anti- sugar they're saturated fat they just loved my last statement they're going to hate hate me for this one. In moderation, saturated fat appears to be perfectly fine, appears to be neutral, not a positive or a real negative. Part of that moderation is how much fiber and vegetables and stuff are you eating with it? And the source of the saturated fat, the context matters, right? How refined is it? You know, in other words, a saturated fat in butter dramatically worse than whole milk, dramatically worse than what's in a steak, too. You know, um that's evident. That's what the data shows. But yeah, even steak in in excess absolutely a problem. Now, what I'm telling you is no one's getting hurt from eating a lean sirloin steak on you eat a 8 o sirloin every day. You have a healthy diet, plenty of vegetables, fruit, fiber, you're not going to see a negative on your blood work from a lean steak every day. You're just you're probably not. However, in excess, absolutely devastating. cardiovascular disease, insulin resistance, cancers, but cardiovascular reason and diabetes risk go up dramatically as soon as LDLC starts going up from it. And people love to argue against that. I'm sorry, but the data is very clear on that. So again, we're talking about evidence, not conspiracies. Um, so moderating saturated fat, good idea. In other words, few eggs a day, not going to hurt you. Lean lean sirloin steak once a day, not going to hurt you. eat putting butter on everything, eating, you know, 40 grams of saturated fat from a ribe eyes a day or bacon, it's going to hurt you. Moderate it, keep it reasonable, keep it in check. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.