These are the four exercises that if you only had 30 minutes to train, you could still get pretty jacked. Hey everybody, it's Jason Law here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. I did a video on this similar the other day was talking about how guys got jacked on super super squats. Did really well, more way more views than normal. Um, and I kind of do some of this, too. When I have days where I have limited time, it's cold, I don't really want to train as much, I kind of follow this template, but I still throw in maybe some curls or whatever. Uh, not uncommon for me, unless I want to do chins, but this works really, really well. This is a timeroven set of exercises. Um, and I mean, I could outline for you guys that really you would only need one hard set, close to failure to failure on most of this. Uh, but the four movements that would pretty much get you jacked as long as you progressively overloaded them. Uh, you'll see them here in the background. Obviously, the back squat. Uh, I'm doing the weighted pull-up here. Now, you can make it weighted chin up if biceps are more of a priority. No time for curls. Uh, that works really, really well there also, right? But I'm doing a weighted pull-up, a weighted dip, and then I'm doing a pullover with a plate. So, if you go look at the old school super squats, those are the four movements that are done. And people would say, well, well, how would this how would this work? Well, realistically, squats build your whole lower body. And the reason I'm saying these two with limited time to train, I want you to think about how quick the setup is. In other words, back squats, you just you simply need a rack. Okay? You simply need a rack. Like, there's there's not a lot going on other than the squats. There's no loading of real plates and unloading for the most part uh very very fast. In other words, you could transition through these movements with no no real uh downtime. Okay? And once you're warmed up from squats, and I think this throws people off, I don't even warm up on weighted pull-ups and dips. I just go straight to the weighted stuff at this point. I do high enough reps that you don't need it. Like, so you really don't have to have a warm-up. And if you're not strong enough to do weights on the the ladder, too, you don't need a warm-up. You can just walk over and do a set to failure and you're done. And that's the point. And even otherwise, just slapping a belt on and grabbing a plate uh and whatever weight plate that you use on these and just banging them out has no time. In other words, if you just have a belt handy, there's no setup. It takes you 10 seconds to slap that belt on and do that and just go do the movements, right? So, it's actually less work than even putting a bar in a rack. Um, so the reason I say this though is it's super time efficiency. You could walk in and do all four of these lifts with one really hard allout set in less than 30 minutes, including your warm-up. Uh, squats, I I So, again, I think it throws people off like, what do you mean? Well, squats, I do one rep with one plate. I do a rep with two plates, a rep of three plates, and I go to four plates and just do an allout set, right? just like 10, 11 reps on the 405. Um, but you don't need warm-ups for this stuff. If you're doing these for moderately high reps, you don't need warm-ups. If you're not going crazy heavy, if you're doing eight plus reps on all these, you don't need warm-ups. This is why it's super efficient. Three of these movements move your body through space, so the carryover is massive. Uh, but think about with the squat. The squat works the whole lower body. Do the hamstrings get a little neglected? Yes. But if it's not a big deal for you, not really a problem because again, limited time. Can we worry about say maximum hamstring development? Probably not. But you could always do something else in there. But we need to be clear. The squat does build the hamstrings, but it also builds your entire core, builds your abs, muscles, musculature of the back, the low back in addition to to all the muscles of the lower body uh with the biggest muscles in the entire body taking the brunt of the load. It's cool. You can get muscle and fitness just off of the squat. Okay. And then what else do we have? A pull-up or a chin-up. Well, again, another exercise moves the body through space. Pull-ups build your whole upper body. Anybody not understand that? You can build a decent upper body literally off nothing but pull-ups because everything gets worked to a greater or lesser extent. Obviously, we think of it as a lat exercise, but it works the whole back. It works the rear delts, the side delts, the traps, okay, in addition to the biceps, the forearms, your grip, but what else? It still hits the long head of the tricep and the upper chest. And it there's there's enough data to show it's enough to cause some growth on those. Okay? Plus, it puts you in traction. So, it helps with having done the squats first. You go right into a traction exercise. is it unloads the spine particularly if you hang a weight. Okay, same thing with then we go to the dip kind of reverses most of the upper body gets worked but it hammers the whole tricep and the chest. So, and it hits the front delt and to some extent the side delt. In other words, the dip works all the muscles of the upper body that got less stimulus on the pull-up or the chin-up. And it's arguably one of the best tricep and chest exercises ever invented. You could just do these back to back. In other words, as soon you can might need to warm up on the squats, you can do one set of squats, rest a couple minutes, regain your breath. If it's a really hard set, you're going to grow from it and go do your weighted pull-up or chin-up immediately. Everything is loosened up already in your whole back from setting that bar on your back. Okay, that's literally all the warm up you need. Like, I don't I don't warm up for pull-ups. Let me be clear. I just go straight to a 45 pound plate and crank out a dozen reps. Normal. Okay. The dip. But it works everything that gets missed. Works everything that gets missed. Uh because they're not really missed. They just get under stimulated. Your whole upper body can get jacked from those. Your whole lower body can get jacked from squats. And then throwing in the pullover adds some extra core work, some extra mobility work, okay? And that's I think that's the big deal. It also doubles down and hits those triceps, chest, lats, rear delts, and stuff again. Okay? But it hits all that from a different angle and it also builds a lot of support musculature, your core. So this is really where it shines. They make sure that long head of the tricep gets double downed on. Again, pecs and lats again. So, they've been hit by two different exercises. Okay. Helps with the shoulder mobility, helps with that stretch, and that will help with your pull-ups and other stuff. Also helps build your core for the squatting. Okay? It's a legitimate uh ab exercise for for the abs, intercostal serratus, all that support musculature on your squat. And it'll help just fill you out. It it it makes you thicker again because it works all those muscles of the of the torso and then really that long head of the tricep. And we can get pretty strong at them. I'm doing, you know, over 15 reps with a pair of plates at this point. Again, great exercise as a finisher and it's the only thing in here not moving your body through space. But if you just do these four and it takes no time, that's what you have to grasp. You can grab a dumbbell or your plates soon as you get done with the others and you can just walk over after a minute rest and go straight into a really hard set of the pullovers. Like seriously, a workout like this can be done less than 30 minutes. Depending on your squat warm-ups, less than 20 minutes. So, people who are on a very limited time economy, stuff like this works amazingly well. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.