Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals about the four movements that I believe would pretty much build uh most of the muscle in your body. Uh but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Thank you. Um and you know, when I make these statements, I am not saying you're going to be winning bodybuilding shows. I'm not saying you're going to have an Instagram ready physique. I want to be clear. What I'm saying is you will have a pretty good amount of muscle if you trained these four movements really hard, got good at them, you would actually probably be bigger with more overall muscle size development than most of the guys who go to the gym who might be doing 37 different movements. And that's that's the point I'm making. But again, um, assuming you actually legitimately put work into these for years and get proficient at them. And I'm also saying you don't that that there's no need to ever do anything else. In fact, I'll throw some caveats in for a few things that I think would get some people kind of the next tier, bring up a few of the weak links, and even even help these. Um, but those four movements are going to be the back squat, the deadlift, uh, the bench press, and the weighted pull-up. Okay? And notice when I say weighted pull-up, people will be like, "Oh, man. I can't even do a regular pull-up." Well, that's a problem, isn't it? It's why we have reverse bands. All right? You might want to do some reverse bands. I don't like the assist machines. I think they're garbage. I think reverse bands are dramatically better. A lot of ways to do them, right? A lot of ways to do them. I almost feel like uh I need to make a tutorial on that at some point, right? I need to make a little tutorial to show how to how to set up reverse bands really effectively. So, I digress. Back over to the point. Um, so why these movements? Well, the squat and the deadlift are are fairly obvious. They build all the muscle in the lower body. In fact, they build a lot of muscle the upper body. Okay? If if someone just wanted to be fit and healthy and gain muscle, not necessarily, you know, arms and chest, okay? Because those are much smaller muscles. And I don't think people realize that those muscles that they think of, you know, again, your arm muscles, your pecs, your chest, all that is is probably less than 10% of the muscle in your entire body. So, just be aware of that. So, if if we completely excluded those, which we're not, we got bench and pull-ups in there. Um, you could it would still be 90% of the muscle in your body if everything else was built. So, again, the squat and the deadlift, they work all the largest muscles. Your legs alone are around 70% of the muscle in your body. Squats and deadlifts work all of it. They work the quads, the glutes, uh the adductors, the hamstrings, and the calves. Okay, they will develop those areas. They also build the core, the trunk. They build a lot of musculature in the back, traps, lats to some extent, erectors, your abdominals, obliques, all these muscles get utilized on those either either still as an important mover or a dynamic stabilizer enough so that they've been found to build muscle in studies. Okay? Like that's that's not really debatable. It's been done in the lab, right? The upper body absolutely does grow significantly uh from the squat and the deadlift. Okay? And anyone who says they don't, sorry, there's studies proving they do where people only did the squat or only did the deadlift even side by side and their upper body grew. Okay, with MRIs and measurements. So again, you can't you can't claim they don't. You're just going to sound like an ignoramus. All right. Um, as far as in the upper body stuff, bench press and pull-ups, um, those two will build almost everything. Um, you can make a case for maybe the side delts or something not getting worked enough, you know, but bench press does what? Well, obviously the pecs, the front delts, and it will work the side delts to some extent. uh the triceps long head of the tricep gets neglected a little in theory but there I've seen even researchers point out that even the studies showing that there's some flaws in the studies as far as volume goes um you know I think I think it being more the case of you know they only did six total sets a week for the triceps in those studies and then when they added extensions they were doing 12 sets for triceps a week you know it's like that kind of matters doubling the volume. Yeah, the long head grew more on that. I've seen that suggested in those studies, but that's a whole another topic. Uh pull-ups will work the long head some on top of it, right? So, all those muscles get worked. A lot of stabilization still involved. You know, biceps, upper back, all of that enough to potentially give a small amount of size, particularly starting out. All right, pull-ups. Well, we work the entire back, the lats, the traps, romboids, rear delts. Can we make a case for side delts to some extent? I think we can. At least on EMG, all these back movements that work the rear delts work the side. Um, biceps, forearms, abdominals, a long head of the tricep absolutely gets stimulated on the pullup. Upper chest to some extent. We're getting a lot of fairly complete development. Um, now people will make a case for other stuff and it's like, uh, well, this is where at a certain point I would say, hey, maybe an overhead press. So, if you're like, well, it's not enough for my shoulders or even my triceps need even more work. Okay, an overhead press done. Overhead press done. That's it. We're sorted. Then we come to any other sport specific stuff you do. All right? like you see me doing here in the background doing that intentionally. U all right people will also make the case of you know the biceps on the pull-ups and it's like you have evidence of that because every study that compared the overhand grip a lat pull down to a curl found just as much muscle growth. Why wouldn't it pull up? What happens even on an EMG, even when they're looked at in an EMG, which is not the be all end all for hypertrophy, does a does a weighted pull-up not stimulate the bicep just as much as many types of curls did? It did. Okay. Are we really going to claim it's not going to build them at all? And the tricep is still the biggest part of the arm. And you got a lot of pressing potentially a lot of tricep because all these movements, both of these are hitting them. you throw an overhead press, well then now you're really double downing there and that will hit your side delt. Will hit the whole shoulder more, hit the even the upper trap more. Okay, so overhead press will resolve that. Then what about other stuff? What about your GPP? You start doing sled work, weighted carries, box jumps will will further develop the legs, but weighted carries and sleds, right? Weighted carries and sleds, let's make a case for that. Again, we going to claim that's not going to build more of the upper and lower body. Okay, you start adding any sort of general physical preparedness. You're good. So, really, we could come down to to doing five basic movements in if you wanted to throw some overhead work in and then start doing just general athletic conditioning stuff. You'll be super fit. And I'm saying this as someone who runs five miles most days. So, don't say, "Oh, what about cardio?" Yeah, you can't use that on me. I'm the wrong guy.