Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for another full body workout. Today was my birthday. I turned 49. First workout at the age of 49. It was a little too cold to be in my shorts until I got near the end of the workout. Then I went down to the shorts. I was like, "Oh man, it finally warmed up a little bit." Um, so I had the door closed, had sweats on. All right. Um, high bar squats. I got 11 reps. 405 for 11. Um, I was pretty happy with this, especially with that narrow stance. And that's come up a few times. People are like, "Why do you use that stance?" I'm like, "Because I get so much quad activation and it's super easy on my shoulders." That's the other thing. Um, but you guys can hear the plates of clinking um, in the shorts and reels I did first. I do that with, you know, without it muted because I'm not talking over in those. Um, overall pretty pretty happy with this. Uh, I don't even have any idea where this puts my max. I threw it in a one rep at max calculator the other day with the 10 of like the NSM whatevers and it like tried to tell me like a 560 squat. I don't think so. But, you know, um I'm just going to keep keep working with this. Like these 405 sets feel really good. I feel like they are working wonders for just building up my lower lower body and my core and everything. I'm going to keep at them. All right, benching. Here's what I did different. And I knew this was going to be a problem, especially I'm not used to wearing a shirt. Um, I'm not used to this grip. Again, I had said I've been gripping crazy crazy crazy wide lately. Like I'm all the way at the edge of meat legal, which means my index finger is barely at the edge of the ring. So now I took my pinkies into the rings because I was at my strongest here sometime back as far as my best 315 set. Oh my god, it took some getting used to. And I said I I was a little afraid when I went back to this I was going to feel weaker because I've got used to the other. But if I'm going to do this for power building purposes, I know I'm going to get more chest and tricep and everything out of this out of this grip. Okay, I know I'm going to. So, I wanted to just mess with it for a little while. And if I don't like it, I can take the grip back out wider. All right. Uh, so I did a back offset. I only got four there. I I probably I probably had the fifth, but again, that new grip, it felt a little a little catwampus. So, I'm just like, uh, let me just chill for a moment there. So, then I did a back offset right after 275 for another seven, which again, I've done mine with this with a wider grip. So, so again, it's going to take a moment to get used to, but I feel like if I get stronger at the dips, which I did today, okay, if we get stronger at the dips and I just start getting used to this new grip, which I feel like is going to give me a little more chest, right? I feel like I'm going to get a little more chest out of it. Even though I say that, I'm like, it in theory should work the chest more, but I felt a ton of tricep. I felt both, but man, did I feel those triceps on it today. Triceps were lit. because I'm so used to that ultra wide and to a lot of people that is still an ultra wide. That's what's funny. All right, deadlift. I replicated the performance from Friday in spite of the cold, in spite of not being used still putting rubbing socks on and all that. I got 500 for eight. And honestly, I almost went for a ninth. Like for a brief moment in my head, I'm like, do I hold it at the top or go for a ninth? Like, you know what? I'm just going to hold it. And if it holds good, then what does that tell me? If I'm able to hold that rep at the top on that that eighth rep, I know I'm in a good place on recovery. Let's run with it. But it killed my quads. So, between this and the high bar squats, I couldn't I couldn't belt squat. Like, my rep work went to crap. I did 11 reps uh last. So, I was really happy. I don't want to go on to negative. I was really happy with that set in the squats. I got to the belt squats, man. I put the 315 on and again I don't know if again it's just I'm not used to wearing all these clothes. Um I got six reps and it was excruciatingly heavy. Like excruciatingly heavy, right? Look at this. I felt like I was struggling from rep one. Look at the depth. I can't get depth. I can't get It's just like man. And then my quads just gave out. Like my quads just couldn't lock that last rep. I'm like, man, I had to pull myself up. And I don't know if it's just because again, I'm not used. I didn't get the foot position right or or but I think it's just the fatigue from the squat and the deadlift. Like I couldn't belt squat today, man. So, we got that PR on the high bar squat. We got a really clean deadlift and the belt squats were down. Um, reverse hypers. Pretty pretty much normal. I lose count of the reps, man. 50 60 something like that. Does it does it even matter? I don't know if it even matters anymore. I just do them. Um, but they're carrying over. I feel like these these are feeding the deadlift and they're also feeding that squat because a lot of times I do feel like uh my back and core and stuff sometimes will limit those high bar a little bit, but now everything's falling into place. I'm getting really used to that that high bar position and my shoulders are feeling good. That's the other thing too, you know, that I do want to think about in terms of that ability to overhead press. I do want to bring that grip in a little bit because my concern is, you know, is my ultra wide benching is it a factor? And it's it's like, man, I want to pursue the benching a lot, but I also have to look at it and go, I've benched with a closer grip than this. I've benched 365. I've also done 315 for eight before with that pinkies on the rings. I've done a 365, two second pause of pinkies on the rings. I did a close grip at a heavier weight, body weight at 365. So, you know, I'm like, let me just build it back up. Let's just build it back up. Let's come back inside the rings. And yeah, it's harder, but it's going to build more muscle. And in the end, if once I think once I get used to it, I think the strength will just start shooting up. We'll probably get to that sixth rep here soon, right? So, I feel like, let me just do this for a week or so, get adapted to it, bring those dips up a little bit, right? And I think we'll be good. So, pull-ups. I'm just like, I went yolo. I'm like, man, I know I only got six reps with 70 and then two rest pause. I'm like, let me just throw two plates on and let me just see what I can do. And I got three [clears throat] reps. And then I did a rest pause and got a a fourth rep. I couldn't do it there. Like, I stuck at the bottom. I got into that hang and I couldn't do the rep right. It just wasn't there. But we got a fourth one that way. Felt good though. Of course, it feels like all bicep to me. Like those those closed grip pull-ups feel like nothing. They feel like a curl. Like I can't tell them apart from a curl. But hey, that's not a bad thing. It's not like everyone's going to go, "Oh, Jason, man, your biceps might start growing faster than your lats." Horrible thing. All right, dips. I went deep as deep as I could go. Notice that that first rep, I just kind of sank it. I got eight reps with 90 lbs going deep. This is PR, right? I've got this just above parallel before. I've hit 10 with this one before, but I started going a lot deeper. I managed to get eight reps and then we hit failure, right? We That was the muscle failure. I was happy with that. I'm like, "Okay, we're in a good spot." There we go. I'm looking nice and thick there. Looking thick. Um then we did laterals. Did a set of laterals to failure. Um it was around 14. I kind of rest paused the last couple reps. Um like I said, I've gone up in the weight. Uh, so I feel like I think here a lot of this footage doesn't show as well, but definitely in the mirror in the mornings I'm looking way thicker and leaner up top. Like I can see it in the mirror. Um, so which is not normal for me. I normally don't think that. So we're making progress. Um, so I'm just going to keep chipping away at the body fat and the strength. I feel like I'm recmping while while the fat's going down. Um, again messing with the the lower carb approach. And like I said, because I'm doing that, I've had to scale all the volume back and just focus on large amounts of intensity, but it's working. Um, same thing, preacher curls. I think we got right around 12 and it was done. I do notice that right arm kind of slips out no matter what I do on that. And I don't there's nothing I can do about it, right? Just like my arms flare on the strictest barbell curls, even with an empty bar. Um, it seems like it happens even on the preacher girl there, too. There's nothing I can really do about it. I can't feel it. I can't It's If I didn't have this footage, I wouldn't know it's doing that at all. I can't tell. I feel like I've got my elbows pulled all the way in. You know, what do you do? Not worried about it, though. Um long as we took the muscle to failure and we did. So, I got around two reps and then we rest paused a couple reps right right there. I That's all I had. That was failure. Like, it came down. I couldn't even do it. I rested a couple seconds, grabbed two two more reps total. Uh, but overall, other than of course the benching, uh, you know, which I knew that would happen, super happy with the rest of the workout. Good birthday session. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.