Six sets of body part twice a week. It's about all most lifters can uh recover from. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. U quick reminder if you guys would please click like down below. Be greatly appreciate it if you would follow or subscribe to me if you aren't yet. Um I would appreciate that also. And please drop me a comment uh down below. Thank you so much. All right. So, over on this topic of recovery, um, again, context, not necessarily when we're running conjugate and you're having to program your max and speed work. We're talking just overall hypertrophy, uh, training, things like that. Again, this is not specific to powerlifting programming. We're just talking general training, general hypertrophy, getting big, getting jacked, getting in shape. All right? So, what that essentially means when I say that, I'm just telling you in my experience, the majority of lifters are not going to recover from anything beyond that. And in fact, it may start to impede your growth. Um, and I do say the six twice a week because I mean, we can talk about nine or 12 sets once a week, even 15 in some cases. If you're going to do a body part split once a week, um, then that can absolutely be viable. I've programmed tons and tons of of upper lower double frequency type training, tons of like three-day push pull legs for people um for different clients over the years depending upon kind of what their needs are, what they want, what they're trying to specialize in. But we're going to talk just a general hypertrophy. You know, usually usually like a 4day upper lower type thing works really really well. It's time proven. It's effective. Um, but when we start talking about total sets, what we start to find when you start exceeding about six sets in a workout, performance absolutely degrades. And this this is the biggest problem we run into with the body part split. Um, even in my very very successful clients on those body part splits, uh, you know, that that upper threshold for most of them, if they're not on drugs, you guys will notice they almost never go over about 9 or 10 cents. Um, just something I want to note that if you guys look at some of the vlogs and stuff for my actual natural guys, I rarely go over that. If we're doing like a three-day or a 4 day split, like a pushpull legs, I just don't go over that unless they're just um exceptionally high in their work capacity, their recovery, their lifestyle. So, so generally though, what we start to find, yeah, usually after about six sets, performance does start to degrade. So when performance starts to degrade, we are getting very very little training stimulus. Not saying zero, let me be clear. We do not mean zero. But if you're pushing really hard, um you know, junk volume can start to accumulate very easily after that. Now, particularly when we when we're doing more than one muscle group in there, you start doing an upper lower. Yeah, absolutely. So, what I find though, uh, this sort of setup, like if you're going to do a muscle twice a week, like six sets is really kind of almost the upper threshold. Like, I'm not even talking about uh minimums. Dude, the three works actually decently well, right? If it's hard, serious sets. But I think I should also clarify what what I mean uh by sets here because people are like only, you know, six sets. what are we talking about? Um I'm I'm saying that most on most of your big compounds unless they are truly really really effectively hitting multiple muscles um counting just one muscle. So when I when I do say that so the same thing if I talk about three in other words um a nice decently wide grip bench press we might only be counting it as a chest exercise. Make sense? Uh dips man dips are hard to call. I like to almost throw dips into both chest and triceps. I really do. It's hard not to. Uh so I can make exceptions for something like that. Same thing with uh with a squat. You can probably count a squat as a quad and a glute. You know, realistically speaking, but but generally most of your compounds are just counting one muscle. So in other words, an overhead press, we're probably just going to count it for delts, right? A row, I'm only going to count it for lats. Lats and traps, maybe, right? We're definitely going to count traps. A pull-up just lats. a chin up, I'd give it biceps and and lats. So, what you really have to look at when we're we're looking at that is case by case of of realistically how much load and stimulus is that muscle really getting from that from that exercise, you know? Uh I mean, we could even say on the bench, you could still count maybe the lateral tricep. I just wouldn't count it towards the long head ball. So when we talk about six sets twice a week in that context, meaning if you're only really counting the bench towards lateral tricep or or long head of the tricep, you know, we're not counting overhead pressing towards triceps or upper chest, so on and so forth, right? We're not counting pull-ups or rows for for biceps. This is the context in which I I talk about six sets. So, so realistically, I think when you when you start factoring in potential splashover, six sets twice a week is a lot because that means 12 sets, 12 total sets for the week, you know, on on a three to four day frequency to where that muscle is the primary mover. Not a not a major secondary, but the primary. Well, that's that's definitely a lot of volume. So, when we say that, people are thinking it's not a lot of volume, but it really and truly is. Okay, it is a lot of volume. So I mean example like let's say you do count the dip as both. So you're talking about doing a flat bench or or an incline three sets twice a week plus a dip for three sets twice a week plus a tricep extension like a laying extension or a rope press down. Okay, for three sets twice a week. So in that case now we're up to 12 sets for chest, 12 sets for tricep. But there's a lot of secondary stress. Okay. There's those muscles are still being worked with other movements. So, so that we do have a context for that. I mean, long head of the tricep is still going to get hit on a pull-up. Okay. Do would we count it towards that volume? No. But, but when you really start looking at that volume uh closely, we're getting tons of volume. That is actually really high volume training. If a lot of compounds are being used, if over half your exercises are compound movements, that's a lot. Really is. I mean, the same thing we start talking deadlifts and squats. What if we're only counting the deadlift towards the hamstrings in terms of the lower body? We're only counting the squat towards the quads, you know, and glutes. So, what happens if we throw a leg press in or a hamstring curl or reverse hyper? Do you see what I mean in terms of that overlap of volume? Are we going to pretend there's no stimulus to the quads from a conventional deadlift done for three sets? I don't think so. And that's really a ton of volume for the glutes. Any way you break that down, I mean, we're potentially doing over 20 sets for glutes. That's a lot of volume, guys. So, when I make those statements, that is really for a drug-free lifter, we're we're at the upper thresholds. And if you're trying to do more than that, very, very few of you are going to want to make progress from it. Very few of you are going to be able to fully recover from it. I'm not saying it's impossible. I'm saying most of you won't if you're actually training hard. We're at the upper thresholds. Like I could take using that same rule, we could take that down to three sets twice a week and most guys would make really good gains if we're only counting, you know, like a dip towards the pecs and a bench towards the pecs and so on. Okay. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.