Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to explain to you why 75 hard should be called 75 easy. Uh but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed, please do so. And if you'd be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Let's get over into the topic. Um, I've said this before, um, like on in Facebook posts and things like that, and I' I've actually said 75 hard should be renamed 75 easy or 75 Um, and the reason is not that it's not a reasonably difficult challenge. I don't like challenges like this in general. I think they're ridiculous. I think they're silly. I think the little boot camps people do are silly. um you know, we should simply be able to train. And let me qualify these statements. Um I train really hard three days a week. I squat, bench, and deadlift on those days. I And I'm almost 49 years old, right? You guys see me literally just do rep work with 315 on the bench. I do 500 plus for rep work on a back squat or on a on a deadlift regularly. You guys have seen me squat 500 this year. I run barefoot three to four days a week. I get out and run barefoot. I get a push a sled barefoot after my workouts. Keep [snorts] in mind, guys, I'm squatting and deadlifting three times a week and then push a sled after. It's not hard. A pretty clean diet. I don't eat junk food. It's not hard. This stuff is easy. It's not It really and truly isn't difficult. And that's the mindset that we have to adopt. It's just training. it becomes your normal. And I think the problem um and I'm going to take this over to to all this stuff like I'm only using this discussion, this little challenge as a proxy. Do you guys see the problem with it from a from a mindset and I'm a coach? I mean, I get people ready uh you know, for national level meets and stuff, right? I've coached some pretty elite lifters. You guys have seen videos over the years. Um, do you think we want them to see it as hard? Like, do you guys really think that champions and winners see what they do as hard? Do you think that's the right mindset for any of this? Or should you be telling yourself it's all easy? You know, and that's the problem with this. It's like the people have been told getting in shape is hard, eating eating really healthy is hard, lifting weights, doing cardio that it's really hard and they've convinced themselves of that. And I think that that hurts your progress. I think that if you believe these things are difficult, you will make them inherently more difficult. Okay? Instead of just making them into your habits, right? Because habits are what build discipline. Okay? And discipline carries you and motivation is gone. And and again, so what you have is a situation to where a group of little challenges. Oh, try to drink your gallon of water. Do you go do for this walk? It's like nothing about this is difficult. It's just time conssuming. It's just consistent. Like nothing on there is actually hard. But then it's been called that way because then people are like, "Well, it'll make you hard." No, it won't. Like let's be realistic. Let's be realistic. There's nothing on that list that's going to make you hard. Okay? Nothing on there is going to make you hard. Not like it's throwing you into a gladiator ring, okay? It's not like it's even a Marine Corps boot camp, right? I mean, you want to get hard. I don't know. Maybe go go go do basic in the Marine Corps might help. That might help. That might make you a little harder. But something like that aside, it's not going to make you hard. So people are doing this stuff though, but then they convince themsel even calling it hard is is just horrible mind programming. And and it shocks me that it doesn't actually shock me that people fall for it because they've been told over and over that anything fitness related is difficult. And quite frankly, I think it's it's pretty underwhelming. Um that's what's scary to me is that oh doing two 45 minute workouts a week, one of them has to be outdoors. What? Like you really think that you're going to get fit doing that a little? You know, I mean, that's the problem. I I wouldn't even put my most basic noviceses on something that ridiculous. We're going to train at least three days a week. I mean, ideally, I'd like you to do some cardio on top of that. Like, I'd like an hour three times a week from a complete beginner. Like complete absolute beginner. Okay. Drink a gallon of water a day. I mean, between all the fluids, most we acting like that's difficult. Follow a structured diet. you should be like these are the most basic of things. So, so read read, you know, whatever 10 pages of a book, okay? I mean, that's good for you mentally, but do you see where we're going with this? There's nothing hard. Like, this isn't even basic fitness. So, if 75 hard is is your introduction to anything fitness related, you're not going to get that good a results compared to someone who actually take it serious because it's not. It's it's this is again my mind is blown that something insanely easy is being called hard. It's I don't even think what I do is that hard to be honest. Oh, no. go put 500 lb on a bar and deadlift it for reps three days a week and go run barefoot a 5k in between the days off. You know, to me, this is this is just normal. That's a normal Monday. It's a normal Tuesday. It's not even difficult. You just get used to it. And I follow a structured diet. I mean, don't eat junk food, guys. Don't drink alcohol. This isn't difficult. But we've convinced ourselves it. And that's again the scary part. I feel that this is a BS endeavor that reinforces the lie. It's this lie that keeps people out of shape and unhealthy and weak. It's it's a lie. It's a bold-faced lie that training is hard. Okay? That doing cardio is hard, that lifting weights is hard, that eating clean is hard. It's not. These should just be your normal. Like if you were even a remotely healthy person. You would be underwhelmed by what's on that list. And that should be your normal. And that's the point I'm making. You know, like people who are trying to fall into this silly nonsense will think, are you saying that makes you hard? No. I'm saying everybody on earth should be able to do this. Like you should be able to lift weights heavy three days a week and go around three days a week. Okay, sorry. You should be able to avoid junk food and alcohol. This this should just be normal, average. And I don't see why everybody can't do that. Like there's nothing special about that. It's just if if you are serious about being fit and healthy, you're just simply going to do those things. But to tell yourself that they're hard is the opposite. And and notice my attitude towards it is that nonchalant. It really is. That's why I'm able to do it so easily because I believe that it's easy. That is one of the most fundamental things I as a coach who builds actual elite athletes is that we believe this is easy. Just go squat 500 lb, dude. Max effort lifts are not difficult. We just execute them. And I I program my people to see them that way. There's strategies we use in the programming to get them to that that point to where we remove the the the emotional attachment to a heavy lift and you just simply perform it. Um and and I would say most fitness things should be treated that way. So that's my big problem with stuff like this is that it reinforces the exact wrong idea. [snorts] by telling people this is going to make you hard. This is gonna do these things. But I'm like this is it really should be 75 Like I look at the stuff on that list and go none of this is difficult. Every human being could easily do this. They need to be doing more. Like it's it's it's underwhelming. And again, it reinforces the lie that getting into shape is hard. It's not. It absolutely isn't. It's It's easy if you simply decide it is and you just go do it. Okay? And that's the problem. Okay? Not 75 hard. It should just be called 75 doing less than the bare minimum. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.