Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I thought I would answer one of the frequent questions I get when people post up uh things they're trying to do with their training and they always say, "Hey Jason, is this enough for maximum muscle growth?" And the answer is of course not. Uh but if you guys would please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you aren't subscribed or following, please do so. And if you would be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that so much. All right. The reason I bring this up, you know, sometimes I'll propose stuff and I'll make videos and I'll say, "Look, if people did this, they would get really good gains. Guys would get really jacked. Most guys would have the best physique in the room. Uh, you know, especially a lot of my older dudes, you probably have the best physique at the pool party, right? Everything else probably be the strongest guy in the room, too, if you just did certain things." Okay? And then people will spin off that and they'll start linking stuff of going, "Is this enough for maximum growth? Is this enough for optimal gains?" And it's like they'll have eight sets of muscle group. And it's like I think people need to understand almost none of you should be worrying about maximum gains. Let's come back over to who I give that information for. If you just want to be really fit and you want to have a physique that the average person is really impressed by, right? The average general population person is really impressed by. or you want to have a physique that even the average gym noob comes in and they want to take advice from you. Do you need to worry about maximum gains? No. When do you need to worry about maximum muscle growth? When you decide to become a professional bodybuilder? Okay. And what people need to understand 80 85 90% of maximum gains is nowhere near not even remotely close to the level of dedication you need there. So yeah, when I'll put out a program be like, "Yeah, you could do full body two or three days a week. You could probably the only isolation you might need is some curls or whatever we throw in, okay, or some calves." That doesn't mean you're going to get maximum gains. It means you're going to get really, really good gains. That's what we're saying. Like, and for most guys out there, again, we need to be clear. That is all most people are seeking. Most people on this channel even are seeking of of any of the the people who are viewing in. But people come in and they ask these questions about maximum gains. And I'm like, I need to see your whole lifestyle. Because here's the thing, we could talk about, sure, what might produce maximum gains? Are you recovering from it? Are you sleeping eight, nine, 10 hours a night? Do you have your stress manager? Do you have a stressful job? Okay, you see where we're going with this? When we start talking about trying to make maximum gains in the gym, you're like, I want to squeeze every last percentage because that's what maximum means. Is your lifestyle geared around it? Do you sleep 8 to 10 hours a night? Do you have no cheatings? Like, is your diet all whole food so that you recover? You going to are you going to have perfect nutrition? Are you going to completely avoid and abstain from alcohol? Any anything recreationally that might interfere with recovery? Are you going to maintain a low stress level? Are you going to find the lowest stress job you can find with the least hours so that you can focus on your training and your sleep and your nutrition? People like, "No, no, I'm not going to do all that." Well, then quit worrying about maximum gains because that's what you were talking about because we could write all the programming in the world, but you're not going to recover from it. So, if you start talking about maximum gains, yeah, you're going to need to isolate everything. You're going to need big compounds, and you're probably, if you're chasing every last percentage, yes, you're going to need to isolate the long head of your triceps. You're probably going to need to isolate the soius of your calf, your rear delt. You're going to need to isolate certain parts of your hamstring potentially. Okay? Do you understand that? That's what maximal means. You're going to have to go through and make sure that every last head of every muscle is fully stimulated through the week. You're probably going to need more volume than we recommend to get 90 95% of your gains, right? Dude, a lot of you guys could get jacked off six, seven, eight sets a week per muscle group up to 10. But that's like 80 85 90% of your possible muscle growth. You probably need 15 to 20 really hard sets. Maybe some of your weak points might need a little more if you're chasing maximum gains. All right? Uh almost all the sets are probably going to need to be to failure or very very close to if you're chasing maximum gains. Okay? And so that's what people aren't understanding. They'll ask that and they'll say optimal. They'll say maximum. And it's like you're going to have to do all that. You may be spending three times as much time in the gym. You're you're going to have a lot of two-hour workouts. They might be three-hour workouts. You might be doing five or six of them a week. Okay? Do you understand? That's what maximum means. You're going to have to go through and stimulate everything. And then you're going to have to recover from it. So, you're not going to recover from it if you're not maximizing your lifestyle. All your stress is managed, your sleep is on point, recovery, maybe even doing whatever you have to do to recover, whatever extra soft tissue work. Okay. And so what I would point out to a lot of people when they're like, "Well, this is getting crazy. That's an obsession." But you said maximum, right? So again, at that point, unless you are somehow making your living off of it, if you unless you were somehow making your living off of it, worrying about maximum is really for most people a waste of time. You better be in perfect health, too. So you have that. And then I'm saying then at a certain point you're going to have to maximize drugs probably within the confines of what are you allowed to get away with. So again maximum is is not what most people should be chasing. And if you do if you're chasing truly maximum then you are looking at really serious dedicated probably competitive bodybuilding. You probably better figure out how you're going to make the money to pay for it and pay probably pay for the best coach. Because if you're having to ask somebody, you definitely need coaching. You're going to need to probably hire a full bodybuilding professional coach. You're going to need to hire them for that because you clearly don't know if you're asking about maximum. So that's my point. All right. The reality, most guys could do a lot less. They could do a lot of the training I talk about. They could be doing full body two, three times a week. They could do some plyometrics. They could do some GPP, right? They'll get phenomenal results. I got guys who do six, seven, eight sets a week per muscle group. Six to nine sets a week a muscle group. Three day push pull legs, four upper lowers or full bodies. Okay, they get great results. They get good results. It's not maximal, but their lifestyles aren't geared towards maximum. A lot of these guys have have wives, kids, busy careers, other hobbies. Okay. So, in that case, they're just like, "Dude, I just I just want to be strong and fit and jacked and healthy and athletic, and I want a good physique when I'm hanging out with the I want to have better better body than the other guys, and that's it." And for most people, you don't need that. You don't need maximum. If your goal is to just win regional meets and powerlifting, you don't need to obsess at that level. So when we start talking about maximum that's if you're not really a serious highle competitor in something for most people it is simply not worth it. A lot of younger guys who aren't doing that well it is for me. No I promise you it won't be eventually like it's it's going to fall to the wayside. Fitness should be part of our lifestyle. We should all be leading fit healthy athletic lifestyles. But really this idea of chasing maximum gains. Most of you are if if you're doing a minimalist program and you've only got seven exercises in it, you know, you're not getting maximum gains. You can get really really really good gains though that are way better than average. And that's that should be good enough for most people. And that's usually what we're talking about.