Simply avoiding adding extra fats or extra sugars to your foods is the best solution for weight management. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will click a like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you aren't following or subscribed, please do so and drop me a comment down under the video. I would appreciate that. Thank you so much. All right, so over to the uh to the topic. Um, for some reason this is lost on people. And and I've actually gone so far in the past as to say if we simply stopped adding added fats or added sugars to our foods, we wouldn't even have an obesity problem in America. Like it would completely go away. Now people say silly stuff like, "No, it's still calories and calories." But this is no. This is how you create calorie density and hyper palatability. And this is what people forget. Like let's not even get into the topic of inflammation. Let's not get into any of the topics of of metabolic resistance because we know some of these foods cause insulin resistance. We know these foods cause metabolic issues. We know all of that. Uh that is very very overwhelmingly obvious and particularly the more refined versions. In other words, yes, butter absolutely causes insulin resistance. Very well confirmed. But whole milk does not. makes sense dealing with a with a whole food versus an extremely extracted food that's just the fat and then you know it's been emulsified and things. Same things with refined sugars. Chewing on a piece of sugar cane doesn't cause the same effects in the body as consuming table sugar even though that's the source of it. Uh but let's set that stuff aside and let's just talk about calorie density and hyper palatability. Uh what makes foods hyper palatable? When you combine fatty with salty or you combine fatty with sweet. Well, how do we do that? Well, adding fats and then adding salt or taking an extremely fatty food and adding salt. Kind of see what I mean with things like bacon and butter right here. Do we see where we're going with that? Let's make something hyper palatable. Butter tastes so good out of food. Well, yeah, of course it does. is taking an extracted fat, a pure fat, adding salt to it, and then slapping it on top of something. Well, yeah, that makes it taste better. It's called hyper palletability, and it also dramatically increases the calorie density. Okay, hopefully this makes sense at this point. You know, it's kind of like, but these foods taste good. And it's like, well, you know, I'm sure if you're hooked on cocaine, I'm sure you would enjoy it also. But this is not helping your weight loss. This is not helping your body fat. And that's the point. Um, the same thing with adding the extra sweets. Well, we take foods and we add extra extra uh sugars to them. Well, if it was an artificial sweetener, it might add to the hyper palatability, but at least it's not adding to the calorie density. So, it's it's only a partial win. That's still a partial win, but that's the problem. We're adding large amounts of easy to overconume calories and enhancing the flavor, making us want to eat more of it. All right, this is this is the the biggest problem. This is why we have these issues. Um, and and it's very very straightforward. I mean, you're just adding empty calories. You're adding empty calories to your food. Now, the sugar itself wouldn't be an issue if you were on a nearly zero fat diet. You could probably get away with that. You're still going, now, don't get me wrong, the refined sugar is still going to have some negative metabolic effects, but we don't actually ever store it as fat. But that sugar will make you store any fat that you eat if you eat too much of of it. Um, so I mean in theory that one would be the lesser of two evils in this context, but very few people are following a diet that's only like 5% fat. They're just not. In which case, they could in theory get away with it. But again, still not optimal. Not optimal. So, let's let's get over and talk about um talk about the rest of it. So, you bring this up and then people will say stuff like, "Yeah, but I mean, what about olive oil? It's healthy. Can't I just add olive oil? Now, I know it's an added fat, but it's like no one's denying there's health benefits to olive oil, right? So, we're getting over into in this case, you're adding a fat that doesn't have any negative effects on inflammation. In fact, mildly anti-inflammatory. There's all sorts of beneficial stuff in it. All sorts of healthy stuff in and extravirgin olive oil, right? Doesn't mean it won't make you fat. Do you see the problem here? This is the difference that people are not grasping. They're not grasping the difference between health and optimizing body composition. Yes, there's overlap. Yes, there's overlap. But in the case of adding a bunch of olive oil to stuff, keep in mind, it's still a fat. You're still adding a bunch of a bunch of calories directly to your diet that your body can directly store as body fat relatively easily. And it's also going to be a fuel source to to that it can utilize instead of burning your body fat. So if you start going into calorie excess because of it, you're still going to get fat. I don't care how healthy it is, right? You add enough olive oil to your, you know, to your rice, um, it's going to start accumulating extra body fat in spite of the fact that it's a healthy fat, in spite of the fact that it's rich in antioxidants, polyphenols, you're just adding a bunch of liquid fat to your diet. Does it mean that the health benefits aren't there? Does it mean it won't lower inflammation? No, it'll still do those things, but it's still going to stick to your fat butt. Understand what we're saying here, guys. Hopefully, at this point, it's computing when you start adding these high calorie density things. And the only reason I bring up the refined sugars is because of the metabolic effects and then the extreme calorie density with the hyper palletability. Okay? Now, we start talking about adding any sort of your fats to your diet. I don't care if it's oil. I don't care if it's butter. I don't care if it's hormonal or cork and roof tallow or lard. Well, you're adding extra fats that you do not need. Well, this is how we get fat and it's very straightforward. Okay? And yes, it's still about calories in, calories out. When you start adding a bunch of hyper palatable tons of extra calories, this is how we overeat. Now, the metabolic side will affect the calories out. Now, that's the calories in. Now, the other effects of some of the stuff will impact the calories out. Of course, you know, metabolic effects, negative effects of some of these foods, but on this case, it's straight up hitting the calories in. You're just ramping the calories in up, particularly if it's in the form of fat calories. Not beneficial. This makes people fat. Why would you do this? And you don't have to cook with any of these. People say, "I don't know how to cook without adding fat." Are you serious? I've been doing this for 25 years. I don't find it hard to cook meat at all without added fats. Do you not know what fire is? Do you not grill? Do you not have an oven that you can bake it in? Uh do you not have a a grill? Like I put up pictures of my chicken all the time. I just put it in baking racks with little trays with grids on them. And I put it in the oven, season it, throw it in the oven at 425 until it's done. That's it. You don't have to add any oil. This is insane. You know, this is insane. But this is the problem. This is the problem. And people get so hung up into, well, I think this fat is healthy. Okay. So whether it is or not is largely irrelevant. So even if you conclude, for example, that the beef tallow is a healthy fat for whatever insane reason, you're still adding a bunch of empty extra fat calories to your food that is making it hyper palatable and more calorie dense. This will make you fat. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.