If you aren't making gains, adding more volume is not going to fix it. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, um I would appreciate it. If you aren't subscribed or following, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop a comment under my video, I would be grateful. Thank you so much. All right, let's get over to the topic. You know, people have this idea that because there is this association between gains and muscle growth and we know there are minimum volumes. Okay, let me be clear. I am not one of these people who are going to tell you something crazy from Mensor's latest stuff that he came out with before he died when he was high on meth and everything. Um, you know, where he starts, oh yeah, you know, we can grow up one set a week. No, look, if you've been training for years and you do one set a week, you are going to lose muscle. Okay, let me be clear. you will not keep the muscle you have, let alone maintain. You're gonna start shrinking. That's dumb. Okay? So, it's not what we're saying here, right? That's not what we're saying. All right? Fact, if you're doing enough volume to keep your muscle, adding more is not necessarily going to make you start making gains if you're not making them. Uh, but I digress. Back over over to that point. Okay. Yes, we have minimal volumes. Yes, we know that there is an association between training volume and muscle growth. However, what people have to understand, guys are like, well, I'm not making any gains, so I just need to train more. And it's like, h you probably need to train harder or train smarter or get your nutrition in order, your sleep in order. That this is probably the issue. or you need to be more patient because you know guys will feel like oh I haven't made much progress in a while so I'm not making any gains well it's like yeah I mean if you're seeing no progress on anything you need to adjust something but it's probably not more volume okay so what I mean as an example people are like yeah but a bunch of these researchers are saying uh they're saying you know high volume causes muscle growth causes more muscle growth but it's some research It's not all. So, we need to be we need to be clear on that. This is not one of those areas where all the research agrees. This is an area where certain circles and those they associate with are pushing this this particular narrative and they have some studies showing it that are debated and contested as far as their data gathering still. So, we need to be clear this is not a case of uh that this is agreed upon that this is what their evidence even shows. That is a point of contention. Right? Number one. Number two, none of these researchers who are even making these claims are telling you that these ultra high volumes are required for muscle growth. All right? Let me be clear. The most extreme ones that I know of who push the most extreme narratives I've possibly heard out of these evidence-based circles, okay? are that if your volumes get really low, right, you start doing like what some of us tell you, you can get away with five or six sets a week, right? So, five sets a week. I've seen the most extreme one of these guys I've said who pushes this 20 plus set says, and I quote, he thinks based upon his belief in the data, you're going to gain about half the muscle that you would offer the 20 sets if you or more if you only do five sets. He's like, you're going to lose half of your gains that you're going to make. So, do you see what I'm saying? And that's the most extreme one. And a lot of these these experts who are pushing this are not telling you that if you go from six or 10 sets or whatever to 20 or 30 or 40 that it's going to be double. They're like, you might gain we're thinking 3% 5% more growth. Well, that's a very small amount. So, you see where I'm going with this? They're all agreeing. Every single one of these researchers, to my knowledge, say that pretty much everybody can gain muscle off of five sets a week for a muscle group, five hard sets. Let me state that again. They all agree on that. So, even these high volume uh researchers and experts and PhDs all still agree universally that you can make good muscle growth on five sets. Even the ones who are promoting 25, 30, 40 sets a week, some of them say you you'll gain 10% less, some say 50% less. That's their opinion. Notice those opinions are varied. This tells you they don't have a lot of data. So if you're making zero, and so some of these people are saying, yeah, if you go to this higher volume, you might gain 10% more muscle if you're gaining zero. So, let's say that they're correct, and I don't believe that they are necessarily. Let's assume they are. So, you're over here. Yeah. So, that's a solution. I'm not making any gains. Well, what's 110% of zero? It's still zero. So, if whatever you're doing with less volume than than they're prescribing is not making any gains, then doubling your volume is still probably not going to fix it. Like if they are correct. All right, let me say that again. If these experts who are promoting the high volume are correct, and again it's a point of contention if they are. They're all like, "Yeah, so if you went from five sets to 20 sets, you'll gain maybe, you know, 10% more than you were gaining on the 5% or 20% or double." So if you weren't gaining anything, that's still nothing. means that your training is bad. There's something wrong with your training, right? There's something wrong with your training because you're not gaining anything. No progressive overload. And here's here's here's what I find as a coach. I have found repeatedly quite a few instances where people were doing 20, 25, 30 sets a week for a muscle, making zero progress, and I took them down to 10 and they start making gains. I find it's quite the opposite. If you're already doing enough training volume to gain muscle and you're in the fair amount of volume, it's not a volume issue and you're not gaining anything. Your training sucks. You're either training like crap, you're not sleeping, you're not resting, you're not eating correctly, something is wrong, or you have some undiagnosed medical issues. Okay? I find more often than not, I get people who are stuck who just kept adding volume and adding volume and adding volume and didn't get anywhere and they're just doing too much junk volume and there's no quality and they're just not gaining muscle. and I take them down to, you know, 10 or eight sets or whatever, we start progressively overloading again and all of a sudden they start making progress. So, the point I'm making here is that this is rarely the solution. The whole idea behind adding more and more volume is to try to squeeze out the last little bit of the gains. It's not to suddenly start making gains because if you aren't making gains on five sets or 10 sets or whatever a week you're already doing, the volume isn't the problem because that is enough to gain muscle. Everybody agrees on that. Nobody disagrees on that point. Universally accepted. So, it's not your volume. So, adding volume is not the solution. There's something else wrong in the equation. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.