Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about the advantages of full body training for drug-free lifters. Uh but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. And let's get over to this topic. Um this is something I said for decades. Um, and it's something I I promoted easily the first uh six, seven years I was making uh video content. Uh, that probably was really the way to go. And I'll admit, I've coached and used some other stuff in there, including body part splits, push pull legs, a lot of conjugate stuff. But I think ultimately in my experience, man, my clients even just do so well on full body, like my drugfree guys or my guys on just TRT. And and I think we can classify those in the same category in terms of muscle protein synthesis. And I and I think people they want to argue on that, but it's like look, if someone is in the normal testosterone range, if we're talking about muscle protein synthesis specifically, we're not talking about fluctuations. their training responses are going to be very pretty much identical to a drug-free lifter. Okay? So, yes, the same rules apply to them for programming. You know, otherwise, I'm going to tell you, you're going to have a lot of problems. Like, if you legitimately think, a lot of you guys are like, "Well, when I go on TRT one day, I'm going to train totally like a heavily enhanced lifter." Well, you're going to be in for a rude awakening. You're going to have to to make gains. you're going to have to train the same way you train natural. Okay, let's just be realistic to really get good progress. All right, so that aside, because I'll let people argue that all they want, but let's get over and talk about this. So, kind of what's happening with the full body, you know, and I'm not saying it's the beall end all. I'm just going to throw the advantages if we go off the variety of of different data we have. Muscles really only grow a couple days after you train them. Okay. Now I've seen certain people argue that certain types of hypertrophy can extend up to 72 hours uh so on right I mean we've seen these discussions so even then you're looking at the most extreme cases that I'm aware of maybe 72 hours that a muscle will continue to grow but most of that growth window is is by around that 24hour mark. Okay. So, if we're doing a full body three day a week routine, every muscle is going to get some stimulus, you know, every two to three days. Let's say you do it Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and then you take the weekend off. Okay? So, at most the weekend off, so three days, 72 hours. So, most of them are 48 hours apart. Um, in terms of total muscle protein synthesis, you're you're probably getting a little bit better of an uptime, number one. And I and I think that's higher on the list. Okay. Number two, you can recover easier. And I think, why is this matter? A lot of guys are like, "But I can handle four or five days a week, maybe, but then it interferes with your cardio and other stuff." Um, so, so something I want to point out with, with a lot of guys who have busier lives and you want to be fit because let's talk about if you're staying natural, you probably do because you want to be healthy. Like if if anyone out there was really serious about gains and they didn't care about their health, they probably would cash in their natty card. So, I'm gonna go out on a limb and say the odds are if you are choosing to stay natural, you probably care about your health. You're probably going to be active. You're probably going to have dedicated cardio sessions and things like that. Having these days off between lets you focus on these other things, let you focus on cardio and stuff more. So, we get a lot of recovery time in between. Um, and and I do think that that's an important consideration in this because you're only hitting only lifting every 48 hours at the most. You get a full day off that you can either spend recovering, you can spend doing some cardio. I like to run on most of my off days these days, right? I go out and jog, go run. Okay, so people do these things, right? This is beneficial. Um but as far as the muscle protein synthesis um I I think we could point out people say well if volume is equal but volume it wouldn't be equal. There is some data but these are not that good of studies either that if volume is equal that the frequency doesn't matter much but then some studies show that it still does and I think it comes back to that muscle protein synthesis. But here's what I'm I'm about to hit. Is volume really going to be equal? In other words, squatting three days a week, let's say you do uh three sets of squats Monday, Wednesday, Friday. And if you're not a novice, that's actually pretty intense. That's pretty difficult. All right, say you're doing this squatting. Okay, you're going to be able to lift more than if you tried to do nine sets of squats in one day. So, your volumes are not going to be equal. Le let's just be straight up. Let's let's assume you can do 275 for about I don't know five to eight reps. Just put it there. Okay. Just throwing a number out. And I don't think it's unreasonable numbers from for a lot of drug-free guys who are not super advanced yet. um your volumes are not going to be the same because you're able to do that for three sets. You're not doing it for nine. So even for the quads and glutes, you'd have to do more total work if you were to do all in one day or do it in two days. You're not hitting three sets of that five to eight reps with that. You're not going to do nine sets. Okay? Number one, what about all the other secondary muscles? And I think this is a big consideration. When we train full body, we tend to do only big compounds there. Let's say you come in and you squat three days a week. How many other muscles are growing besides just the quads and the glutes? A ton of them. Squats make a lot of stuff grow. Number two, the frequency is going to impact strength. So, because you're going to be able to do similar lifts more frequently, you're going to get more practice, you're going to get better progressive overload because the neural drive is going to be better. Okay? You're training the same movement patterns a little more frequently. Even if you do an alternating AB still every four days and you're hitting something very similar, a lot of guys like, "Well, I do an incline instead of a flat every other workout." Okay, that's a very similar movement pattern. There's movement pattern carryover. Right? See where we're going with all of that? But in terms of the volumes, they're not going to be equal. You're not going to replicate that same workload on a lower frequency that you're going to get by doing it three times a week with even just two to three sets. You're going to be able to squeeze the bigger exercises in more. Okay? So, think about that. Let's assume uh you know a a a full body workout for you might be I don't know the squat deadlift uh a dip and a pull-up, right? Dips and chin-ups. And then maybe you do some some laterals or something for your shoulders. And let's just say that's your five day a week. You do three sets of all those. Okay, those 15 set workouts are a ton. And then think about how much more muscles you're working doing that than if you came in and did a split with more smaller stuff. There's a ton of overlap. Okay? So those volumes through all the different muscles of the body are absolutely not going to be the same as if you just did nine or 10 sets for one muscle in a workout. Right? And I think we all get this. Oh, I do whatever for chest really. you can get the same chest and tricep you're going to get from nine sets of weighted dips a week, you know, maybe. But then how about all the other secondary muscles? So, I think the other thing it lends to is the fact that we're doing big exercises more frequently. We're getting a ton of spillover into other muscles that are being worked as secondary. And I think that's a big deal too for drugfree guys. Okay. So the volumes and things really are not equal. So the muscle protein synthesis is higher. The nervous system training for the movement patterns is higher. So better progressive overload. And then the nature of the training itself lends itself to huge overlap. And then more days we're usually free to just kind of rest or to do cardio. So there's a lot of advantages to it.