Alcohol destroys your gut health. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, again, one of those things where I talk a lot about alcohol, right? I'm coming up on, you know, seven years uh completely sober myself and as a coach, um, I see the same thing in my clients in terms of sobriety. Um, so this is something that always gets brought up, you know, and everyone wants to do these different diets because their gut health is terrible, right? Oh, my gut health is destroyed now. I can't handle fiber. I can't do this. And I mentioned that briefly in a the a video I also did before this should be in the rotation. I find that this when people stop drinking, their gut health problems start going away. And it makes sense. Okay, it makes sense. >> [clears throat] >> Alcohol kills bacteria. You know, drinking alcohol is still mildly sterilizing. When it's hitting your gut, hitting your gut biome, hitting hitting your the lining of your gut. It's going to kill healthy bacteria off. It is going to slightly sterilize that. Well, you need that. People don't always grasp that. Your gut bacteria, you are dead without it. Okay? So, we need to understand that if all of your gut bacteria die off, it will kill you and you're going to have no immune system, right? You have no immune system. Your brain's not going to properly produce neurotransmitters because a large number of that's facilitated in the gut uh by your gut biome. Okay? So, do we understand this? It also fermentss tons of your foods. There are tons of foods that without proper gut bacteria we don't handle properly. We don't properly digest. Uh things don't get broken down correctly. Okay. So if you are negatively disrupting your gut health in terms of the gut flora, the health problems are enormous. It's actually fatal if it gets too far. So we need to understand that. But digestion inability, mental illness, uh poor immune system, yeah, those are those are a definite giveaway that you already have some gut health problems. And this is not hypothetical. This is not Jason Blah speculating. This is getting pretty well documented. This is mainstream medical research. Okay? All health starts in the gut. Well, you're taking alcohol and you're putting it in there and disrupting the gut flora, right? There's that. Then there's the the fact that a couple things, the cancer aspect of it, um, and the inflammation, right? Does anyone not understand that alcohol causes things to get inflamed? It causes get inflammation of the esophagus, the stomach, the intestines, the colon. Right. It is extremely inflammatory. I mean, it's a poison. What do you expect? Like, everyone grasps it. I've said this before and then people will say, "Oh, that's a bit extreme." I've had people actually argue that alcohol is not a poison. Do you know how stupid you sound? You can't even pass a high school biology class if you argue again. Let me be clear. You will fail high school biology if you were too stupid to understand that alcohol is a poison. I don't mean it figuratively. I don't mean it as an exaggeration. No, biologically and medically it is poisonous. Why do you think your liver has to process it? Again, liver handles it's your largest filtration organ. It deals with most of the the poisons and toxins that get into our body. It's its primary job. Okay. Yes, it's poisonous. That's why your liver has to process it. So, people will argue something that's silly. And I'm like, so basically, you have a middle school level education if you don't understand that that that's not hyperbole. It's a biological fact. This is science, not morality saying that. It's not, oh, it's a religious or a moral thing. No, it's biologically a poison. Are you people can't be that stupid, but they clearly are. All right. So again, that's why we have liver problems from too much of it. But it doesn't take too much of it to create these other problems. Um, so again, inflammation of all of that. The other problem is it's a carcinogen. It's cancer-causing to anything it comes in contact with potentially, you know, and so again, if we're going to talk gut health, you're we're going to talk about your intestines and your colon, you know, this is what the leading cancer researchers have said around the world. It causes cancer and it's it's it's more extreme than we realized. So again this is this is a case of when you have all the researchers are saying yeah this is what our data is showing whether we like it or not it's it's measurable like one or two drinks a month causes a measurable spike in seven types of cancer you know all of them dealing with the digestive system but again I'm going to say part of gut health is not getting cancer in your colon and intestine right having cancerous tumors growing in your intestines is probably not good for your gut health either. Hope hopefully we can agree on that point. Any anybody disagree? Show of hands. You think that it's possible to have a healthy gut when there are cancerous tumors growing in it? Uh probably not. Hopefully we understand that. But yeah, and it scales with the amount that we we take in. Um so these sort of cancers are are largely alcohol induced cancer of the esophagus, the stomach, the intestines, the colon, right? I mean smoking hits some of those higher up too of course, right? But but alcohol it's a it is a carcinogen. It disrupts uh genes in and the cells that it can come in contact with, you know, and that's how cancers get started is certain disruptions of of and mutations of genes causes things to to get out of control. Do do a little digging. Hope people can go look this up. But yeah, so I mean it destroys gut health on multiple levels and it affects everything, you know. It affects everything. And it always blows my mind when people say something silly like, "Well, I need alcohol to be happy." Um, but but alcohol literally destroys happiness at the the brain chemistry level over time, right? It's it's almost impossible to maximize your happiness while consuming alcohol because it's a depress. a central nervous system depressant that destroys gut biome that affects neurotransmitters of the brain sec through a secondary pathway, right? This this insanity guys. So again, alcohol is completely destructive to gut health. So when we start having these conversations about irritable bowel syndrome, gut health problems, gut problems, well the first thing you should do is cut the alcohol out. like this is like the top of the list of things you could do to improve this. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys next time.