Alcohol is killing your gains. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. Um, if you aren't subscribed or following me, please do so. And please drop me a comment down below. Um, now when I make this statement, a lot of people um, they're going to disagree with me. There's a lot of cultural reasons, a lot of addiction reasons, um a lot of social reasons, all these things where people are going to disagree. But the simple reality is the the bulk of the scientific evidence, uh the bulk of the real world evidence just should tell you flat out alcohol even in moderation really has no place in a fitness lifestyle. It really doesn't. Uh that is the opinion of all the leading medical doctors and researchers around the world. like there is no safe intake of alcohol. That is what the data shows, you know, and before people jump in and it'd be really weird. People will say, "Oh, you're going to trust us." I'm like, "You're literally putting a poison in your body." Like there there is before we even get into the gain side of how it it absolutely destroys your fitness goals as far as your physique and body composition. Um, you even get into the other topic. I mean, let's let's just be frank. Let's cut through the through the BS. It is a poison. It is literally, not figuratively, not making any sort of uh weird statement, any hyperbole. Alcohol is literally a poison. Chemically, biologically to human beings, it is a poison. That is why your liver has to filter it. That's why you get sclerosis of the liver because your liver has to detoxify it. It is a poison that damages the tissues of your body and your liver has to process it to keep it from killing you. Okay? The only reason a couple of shots of whiskey do not kill you is because of your liver. You would die from the poisoning if your liver didn't handle it for you. The reason you get intoxicated and get a buzz is because it's poisoning your brain cells. Okay, that's that's not making a bizarre statement. That's not making an extreme claim. That is the actual reason. The buzz you get and the the feeling of euphoria, the you know the various the lightadedness, the loss of inhibitions is because it's a small amount of poison hitting your brain. You are poisoning your brain cells and that makes you high. It gives you a buzz from it. Okay? It's why you feel weird on it. It's why you feel woozy on it. It's a poison. All right? So, we we have to be clear on that. So, when we're talking about this from a from a fitness context um and a fitness perspective, it's like, well, what do you mean it's going to interfere with my gains? It's it's it's a poison. you are putting an actual real poison in your body. It's no different than if you from that perspective, a small dose of rat poison, uh drinking a bunch of pesticides, whatever. You're you're putting an actual poison in your body that damages your cells that your liver has to detoxify. So, so yes, that's going to impact your muscle growth. Okay? It's going to impact your muscle growth. Of course, it is. Uh so from that perspective right from that perspective think about that is a poison. So what do we know that it does in terms of of muscle? Let let's step back and look at just fitness fat body fat muscle growth recovery. What does alcohol do? It impedes muscle protein synthesis. the the toxic nature of it has been found in the lab to impede muscle growth. It has a small interference with it. It affects muscle protein synthesis. Therefore, any consumption of alcohol is going to negatively affect your training response. Okay? That's that's proven in the lab. Now, it's not to say, "Oh, we can't gain any muscle." People say, "But I I I've gained muscle and I know people who've gained muscle on it." Well, yeah, but you're gaining less. Provable. So, these same people, you know, people run around talking about, "I'm going to take this to get an advantage. I want a great workout. I'm going to take this protein. I'm going to do this and that." Trying to seek another 10% muscle growth somewhere, right? But they're drinking alcohol and it's the the alcohol itself is probably shutting down half of their gains. you're you're literally gaining half the muscle you could be gaining just from drinking. U so there's that the muscle protein synthesis side. What about the testosterone? Uh alcohol consumption does reduce testosterone production a little. Is it massive? No. In the grand scheme of things, is it going to add up? Yeah. Yeah. I mean it alcohol will reduce testosterone a bit. So all these people who are obsessed with testosterone, I mean, you're putting a poison into your body that is an endocrine disruptor, right? You're lowering your testosterone. So we have that. What about the the depression and the loss of inhibitions? Okay, alcohol is a depressant. Are we clear on that? It is a central nervous system depressant. Therefore, it will reduce motivation. It will reduce drive. It will reduce strictness with your diet. So again, if we are in the pursuit of muscle growth and gains, you see where we're going with this? You're directly reducing muscle protein synthesis. You're directly reducing recovery by making your liver detoxify a poison. uh you're taking a something that will lower your testosterone and it's going to cause depression potentially and loss of inhibitions that will reduce your drive to even train correctly. This is of the worst case scenario. This is like the worst thing you could be putting in your body if you're trying to make gains, right? And I know dudes who have to take steroids just to offset their alcohol use so they can gain muscle. I've seen it. Yeah, we see a lot of that now. We're really double downing. Burning that candle at both ends, bros. Um, then we talk about body fat. I mean, you know how hard it is to lose body fat while drinking sometimes for some people, unless you're passing out drunk and not eating. But our body wants to burn alcohol first to get it out of the system. So, it makes it harder to burn body fat. It lowers inhibitions, lowers drive. Therefore, you're going to be less strict on your diet. You're going to be less motivated to work out. You'll be less motivated to do the stuff you need to get done. So, even on a fat loss end, it is a direct interference. And that's before we get into the empty liquid calories that are often associated with alcohol. I mean, the only way you're getting away with that is if you're just slamming straight Everclear or vodka or something. Get the lowest calories possible. But even then, then we have all sorts of other issues. Uh so again, alcohol is killing your gains, people. And that's not even getting into the larger fitness issues of cancer, everything else that it's associated with. That's a whole separate topic. But yes, cancer will also interfere with your gains in case you were not aware of that. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.