All supplement salesmen are conmen. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you would please click like on my video, we greatly appreciate it. If you aren't following or subscribe, please do so. And if you would be so kind, drop me a comment down below the video uh to say hello, give your thoughts, whatever you want to do, but it would be appreciated. Thank you so much. Um this is something I have been saying for over 13 years. um when I since I've been an influencer, uh of course it's gotten me a lot of trouble. It's made me a lot of enemies. Uh it's even gotten me sued in the past because the reality is, as I pointed out many times, it is illegal for the supplement industry to make things that actually work. They know this. So everything that actually works, uh they try to avoid making it. They know better. or they spike things with drugs so that they do work temporarily and then they pull the drugs and they've been caught doing this over and over and I'm talking major big supplement companies. Even bodybuilding.com got fined like m $9 million for doing this one time and they just paid it and moved on because they made so much money off of it that they didn't mind. They still turned a profit after the $9 million fine from the FDA. Okay, that's that's what you're dealing with in the supplement industry. And so the problem is so many people profit off of it. So many influencers, um, so many people who put out information, you know, they're they're selling you all these various supplements. And unless it's a basic protein powder or creatin, it's a scam, you know, and that would be kind of the exception, you know. So, but I say all, if they're selling other stuff, yeah, if all they're selling you is a whey protein with some flavoring, that's a little different. I'm going to get a couple people who are chime in who I know who are going to be like, "Hey, what are you saying? We're we're scam artists." You know, they're like, "Oh, I just saw protein." It's like, "Yeah, so so you're okay. That's just food." But protein really isn't a supplement. I don't even think of protein powder as a supplement. It is literally just protein. It's a food source. That's it. That's all it is. But as far as the rest of it goes, um, they know they're scam artists. Okay, they know they're scam artists. They know none of this stuff works. Usually, if they're an influencer, they're on drugs anyways. And a few of them might actually buy into the supplements, but at the end of the day, they're never going to investigate further than they know people like me. So, if they've been a influencer a while, they know who people like me are. They know all of us have called this stuff out, right? They've investigated. They know my name. They know the name of others of us who've called this stuff out back in the day. We've been doing it since some of them were kids. We've been up here on YouTube, on Facebook, all these places telling everybody this. They know that all the OGs tell you this. Anyone who's been in the Iron Gamer fitness world more than 10 years, more than 15 years, knows it's all a scam. They've learned it all the hard way. So, either they move on or they become part of the scam. So, they've been doing it a while. They know. And they they basically prey on all the new people. The people new to fitness, the people new to lifting, people new with their little health problems. I've tried all this other stuff. And then they're going to sell you the magical cure. As if anything that they they're going to sell you over the counter is going to work better than the prescription from the doctor. You know, that's the other thing. this this industry will then try to pretend that doctors aren't really trying to cure anybody. Yeah, they are. Most of them do. Talk to most doctors who lift. I know plenty of doctors who lift here into fitness and tell you to eat clean and work out. What do they tell you? I try to get patients to do this and they want a pill. Our society has taught them to go for a pill instead of a lifestyle intervention and it's hard to fight against that. And people don't realize that. But how many doctors really feel that way? they don't have a choice because 90% of their patients are going to say no and just say give me a pill. So that's frustrating for them. You know, it's frustrating for them and I've talked to enough of them over the years that um it's unfortunate and in fact when I do chat with some of them and they find out I put out fitness information telling people, hey, you know, diet, exercise, they get all excited. Are you telling them lift weights, do cardio, eat more fruits and vegetables, less sugar, less added fat? Yeah, they like me all of a sudden because that's what they forget. They act like these doctors don't didn't really take an oath to do no harm, take an oath to heal people. They act like they didn't become doctors because they actually genuinely wanted to help people. Okay, that's generally why people do it. All right. So, that being said, you know, all these these holistic practitioners and all these people too, they act like doctors really don't care and they act like some nonsense that they sell some homeopathic herb or this supplement is going to cure these issues when they themselves don't know anything about how the body works. Most of these people literally, if you listen to their jargon, they've never taken a biology class and they really don't understand the body. And you can tell when they start throwing stuff out there, literally blaming inflammation or cortisol for people's inability to lose fat. Yeah. Anyone who knows biology is going, "Yeah, oh, you know, that's a con man right there." Right. Really? I think the opposite's going to happen. I think your cortisol goes up high enough. I think it will burn through body fat like a hot knife through butter. Oh, cuz I've had biology. I know what cortisol does. Yeah. Massively elevated cortisol is not going to stop you from losing fat. might make you hold some water, but you'll be shedding fat. It'll help you burn through it, all that stress, less you then stress eating, but then it's not the cortisol, it's you overeating. But back over to the point, all these people are con men, absolute charlatans, and they know they are the ones who are trying to sell you oldest. It's always someone who, oh, I help myself. I lost weight. They lost weight a year ago, and now they're selling garbage supplements. Shut up. You're not even a fitness person. You're a short-timer. This is not your lifestyle. This is not your way of life. You're a short-timer who cashed in, right? You don't have enough experience to actually know what's going on. You lost weight yourself the first time, but you haven't been through all this. You haven't helped other people. You haven't been in these circles around real trainers, real coaches for 10 years, 15 years. They're short- timerrs and they're selling you garbage. And again, most of them don't even have a truly healthy lifestyle. They lost weight a year ago. Come on. You're new. You're a noob. And you're selling garbage because you realize you could make a profit off of it trying to relate to the other other people who were where you were just a little bit ago. again faking compassion sell you useless garbage because that's all any of it is. The overwhelming majority of it is useless garbage at best, dangerous at worst. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.