Don't be afraid to use different rep ranges to reach your goals. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. U a quick reminder though, please remember to click like down below on my video. Please subscribe or follow if you're not yet and leave me a comment. It would be greatly appreciated. So, over to the topic. Yes, different rep ranges absolutely have their place. Uh they're all useful to you. Um and I and I know people hear that and they're like, "Well, I'm a power lifter. how are 20 rep sets going to help me or 15 reps or I'm a bodybuilder. How are singles going to help me? You know, they'll say this and then they completely ignore the fact that the best in the world do these things. Uh so so just something to note anecdotally alone before we even get into coaching or or research or anything like that. Have most of you noted that most of the best powerlifters in the world do 12 plus rep sets? not necessarily on their big three, but they still do them. I mean, we we're aware of this, right? And I'm talking some of the craziest, strongest lifters of all time, multiple generations. I mean, this has been this way for decades and decades, right? Sometimes 50 years ago, all the way up to the present. It's really common. It's extremely common. So, we know this happens. And again again we are talking sometimes world record breakers doing this stuff uh in America, Russia, all over the place. So again you can't even narrow it down to one philosophy. Uh yeah, obviously they do it at Westside, but we've seen the Russians and stuff do this. Like we we've seen all this stuff and these are brutally strong men. Literally the strongest, so it's clearly not a problem. Uh same thing with with bodybuilders. Have we not seen bodybuilders, some of the best, absolute best bodybuilders in all of history doing heavy one to three rep sets. Franco Columbo, Arnold, uh, Bronny Coleman, you know, these guys all do this. All right, let's take longevity. Let's take someone like Michael Hearn, who we don't even think of necessarily as a competitive bodybuilder. doesn't really compete in anything. Absurdly famous. Um, seems to have the recipe for longevity. And before anyone says it's just the drugs, clearly not just the drugs. Lots of people use drugs and don't have that type of longevity and strength and physique. Uh, I would say definitely not the case there, right? Think I think we all agree with that point. Plenty of guys use lots of stuff. They're not getting those results. Okay. What's Mike do? literally does singles and 15 reps as in the same workouts, uses really high, really low reps. Okay? So, so you have this perspective and then people will stand there and be scared of certain rep ranges. And I'm telling you, they're all useful to your goals and it's it's about using the right tool for the job, you know. And the thing I first I would say, I'm not telling most people to do a bunch of high reps on a big barbell movement. That's exhausting. It's nauseating. I'm not saying I haven't done it. I'm not saying it doesn't have its place. I'm not saying you can't successfully do it either, because you certainly can. That's not even what we're talking about here. Sometimes it's a case of saying, uh, you know, how about you do your higher rep stuff on uh your other movements, some of your multi- joint movements, definitely single joint movements, perfectly fine. I mean, right here, I think this is like a 13 rep set of weighted dips right here on camera, right? You just saw me doing some tens of 225 on a seal row. Right? Do 20s on on delts for front raises come up for like 18 or something in this coming clip later. Uh, you know, get you can get higher reps. It's fine. You know, and here's the thing. They're great for hypertrophy. They don't beat your joints up. They don't beat your joints up. And I'll be the first to say that even though I'm big on lifting heavy and I think heavy singles absolutely could still help bodybuilders. I mean, you can get pretty dang jacked doing literally 10 to 20 rep sets. You could literally do nothing but those and still get crazy jacked, right? You certainly do that and without beating your joints up. It does work. It absolutely works. Unquestioningly works. I don't like to do that on big exercises personally. I don't like to do that on a squatter. Not saying we can't. I'm just saying I don't like doing it. I'd rather not given the choice. But I digress. You know, back over to that point. Um, certainly works. Doesn't beat up. And do powerlters need to get bigger? Yes, absolutely. Powerlifters already do enough heavy work. You don't need to beat your joints up doing your higher rep work. It has a place. These rep ranges all have a place. Okay, same thing. Uh, if you want to get bigger, you know what? Neural drive goes a long way. And I've seen my friend Christian Tibido, he's a coach. He's got a master's exercise science, very well published coach. He says the same thing. He's like, look, get in and do some really heavy, even if you're just trying to get big. He's like, in the long term, if you just get really strong at things like squats, deadlifts, some of these big movements, you will develop neural drive, neuromuscular efficiency from doing it. He goes and he goes and he goes, "I'll be honest. In the short term, you probably won't get bigger from doing that, doing heavy one to threes for low volume on those." He's like, "But in the long term, you will think of it as a long-term invest. That's the way I've seen him him phrase it. Think of it as a long-term investment. It's a long-term investment. Better neural drive over time will produce higher quality sets on your hypertrophy work. Um, and what do we mean by that? literally more muscle fiber recruitment quicker in set to set. What does that mean? That means you might be able to get better muscle growth. Once you've been doing that while the neural drive is up, you get more quality reps even out of a 10 rep set or whatever because you're hitting the faster twitch fibers sooner in it. More efficiency. That means you get more but possibly more growth for a work set. And that's the way I've seen him word it. You literally can improve the quality of your hypertrophy work set to set just by getting stronger with those low reps due to the neural drive component. That's his hypothesis. I'm inclined to agree. I'm actually kind of inclined to agree with him there. So, that's the point. Like, there's no need to stand here and say, "Hey, I'm only going to use one rep range. I'm scared of different rep ranges." These are different tools. Don't be afraid to use different rep ranges, you know? So, if you're chasing bodybuilding goals, don't be afraid of one to three reps. There's no need to be afraid of it, especially on on your big big movements, squat, bench, deadlift, stuff like that. Even overhead press, even a weighted chin up, maybe, you know, just be careful with your biceps there. Same thing, guys. If you're trying to get strong, why are you don't be afraid of 10 to 12 rep sets for hypertrophy. Don't even be afraid of occasion doing some 20 plus rep stuff, especially on some smaller muscle groups, especially stuff like uh restoration work like reverse hypers, getting that blood flow to things like your lower back to certain tendons. That can be extremely valuable, guys. So, so my point here is stop looking at all these rep ranges as perfect rep ranges and look at them as different tools in the toolbox that can bring different things, different elements to your training, okay? They're all valuable. They all have their place and it's not a case of one is automatically better than the other because we know they all build muscle. This has been shown in the lab. literally five rep sets, 10 rep sets, 20 rep sets, they're all capable of producing maximum gussle uh muscle growth. Okay? But just look at them as different tools in the toolbox. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.