Every fitness influencer that you follow is a fake natty. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Uh, but a quick reminder you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it. All right. Um, when I say this, I'm not saying this jealousy. I'm not even saying it in judgment. I'm just saying it as a matter of fact of someone who's been putting out fitness content uh gosh every day for 14 plus years at this point. Uh, you know, I do videos, I do content. I've got check marks and followings on all my stuff. You know, got my silver play on the tubes, uh, verified business on my my Facebook and all that. So, the thing is, I've been watching this forever and no, I don't consider myself a part of this community. I don't really want to be a part of it. Like, I I don't care about the online fitness world anyway. So, it's like I don't care about calling out individuals. Um, I'm just saying the whole damn thing. The whole thing. All of it. Top to bottom because that's what markets and and I think when people do this, they're not understanding. Um, when you think in terms of survival of the fittest or elimination in business, the look that everybody generally wants to see that's going to help you build a following is going to require beeds. Okay? And again, they can defend it all they want. You can come in and say, "Well, I refuse to believe this person uh there. I know they're natty." Okay. All you're telling me is that you're naive. That's it. Everything you're telling me for me as someone who's been in this in this game over 25 years, knows plenty of these other influencers, all the coaches, bodybuilders, known many, many people. I've been around it a really really long time. I've watched exactly what gear does in people with different genetic levels, um, you know, different gear amounts. And I'm simply telling you, everyone who makes the cut, and I'm not saying there aren't some exceptions, but we don't care who those exceptions are, because here's our problem. There's an exception to every rule out there. When the exception becomes the ru the the way that you build your rule, you're basically stupid. Okay? And here's the issue with saying even pointing out that there may be exceptions and it could be 1% it could be 3% of them really are. Do we care? Because all that does is give people an opportunity to be a liar and a cheat and a thief. All that does is give people an opportunity to do that because they're like, "Well, see, even Baja says could be as many as 3% of us really are. I'm one of those." Yeah, exactly. Because that's what they market. And it would be different if everyone was just honest. Like look, if everyone was just honest, yeah, we all use a little gear. This wouldn't be there. But the problem is they market the natty and the lie about being natty to sell programs to get followers to uh you know sell supplements because when they admit to it then all the natty followers all these people who've been disillusioned to believe and that's the problem. They're disillusioned and they think that if they just put in some work, they're going to look like the guy who's, you know, lean, decent genetics, running a little bit of gear. And that's 12 years of experience. You know, they think that they're going to reach what they've reached. It sets people up for failure. It sets people up for disappointment. People will argue, well, if they're all honest about it, just encourage everyone to use gear. But it already does, doesn't it? The fact that what they are all doing is enhanced oftentimes modestly. I'm not saying most of them are on lots. They're usually not tend to be quite a bit bigger if they are. Um, it already encourages it because when the people realize the truth. So, if you lie to someone about what you're doing and then it turns out and they do find out after they've looked up to you, you're actually creating a larger situation of it. Meaning, if you were just all honest upfront, a lot of guys who didn't want to use gear are going to say, "Oh, okay. Well, at least I see and I know that I won't reach this. Uh, but I can still be inspired or think their information is good or find them entertaining." Hey, that's fine. It's the lie that ropes people in because they all claim it. Now you have this whole large thousands and thousands and thousands of of young men or young women who see this and say, "Okay, well this is obtainable natty." As if, by the way, just because something's obtainable natty for someone with amazing genetics doesn't mean it is for you. So that whole idea is stupid. That's a completely ass backwards idea. Well, if this is obtainable, I just need to know if it's obtainable natural. Obtainable natural for Ronnie Coleman or for you because you aren't on gear. You're still not going to reach where Ronnie Coleman probably was. Maddie, he was a complete freak. So, that's that's a stupid question and it's lying to yourself because it still leads to, oh, well, I think I'm going to obtain their results, Natty. and then you buy in. That's the problem is that it sets people up to desire enhanced results without knowing they desire enhanced results and then they focus on it for years. This is what I'm going to reach. This is what I'm going to reach. Well, what happens? Because now they've really set their heart into it and put all the work in. Now, that person is way more likely to go on gear once they realize it was a lie. Why? Because they really had their heart set on it. So, then they're like, "Well, I really wanted it. I put all this work in. I guess I need to go ahead and cash in the natty card now that I've realized the truth." So, that's the problem. It's the the actual lie is going to cause people to go on gear. Okay? It's going to cause people to go on gear, which I would be fine with. I don't care. You want to do gear? Do gear. Perfectly fine. It's your body, your life. Problem though, they didn't want to go on gear. They they thought that they could reach it because they were tricked and lied to. And they put in tons and tons of work, sometimes for years, and have their heart set on it. So essentially, they were tricked into doing gear. And and that's the issue. It's the lack of honesty and quite frankly um the sheer lack of honesty with all of it in the industry uh is is a problem. It's why I don't want anything to do with this industry. And I don't care if people want to use gear. It's the fakeness of it. And it's the same thing. I mean, if we talk about the supplement and is that just as insidious? Oh, these supplements work. No, they don't. They don't work. They've never worked. They've never been helpful. you're just a con man selling garbage. And that's the problem with the whole fitness industry as a whole. And one again, one reason I don't want anything to do with it. I am not a part of it. I don't want to be a part of it. I don't want to collab with these people because it's all fake and lies. It's all fake lies. I've had enough issues in my life without adding that to it and I'm not going to endorse it and I'm not going to lie about it and stand here and tell people look there's a whole bunch of them. No, they're they're really not. Let's just be honest about it. Accept it and move on. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.