Almond milk and protein bars are not healthy or fitness. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. Um, and I only bring this up because I'm on social media so much and because I talk about fitness topics, I see all the little shorts and reels like especially Facebook, Instagram, I see this continual feed of these these fitness influencers and all the time you look at what they're doing or people who are trying to live healthy fit lifestyles and you see this nonsense and I I look at that and go, "What are you doing?" And what ridiculous world I guess it's only in the modern world today where people eat so much highly refined garbage junk food that if you just pretend that something that is a highly ultrarocessed junk food is healthy maybe because it's lower in fat or something right that that this is somehow part of a fitness lifestyle and it's really not. It's it's absurd. Um, and I get that some some of these people a lot of times you'll see people who who were, you know, obese who've lost some weight. I've seen a bunch of those and they're mixing almond milk smoothies and stuff up and I'm and I'm just like, you would be healthier and probably in better overall shape, better training if you just didn't do that. Like, what's the point? Like, I want people to really think that through. What do they think they're getting out of almond milk mixing into stuff, you know? And people will say, "Well, you know, I'm lactose intolerant." Well, you can't do a milk with no lactose. Like, it doesn't even make sense. And it's not like they're vegans. Okay, that's what I don't get. These are people who aren't even vegans who are doing this. Well, you you eat other meat and dairy and they're like, "Well, that's the only way I can get the cons." know you've taken an ultra refined weird mix squeeze out of almonds half the time with other sugars and stuff added in because you can't figure out how to make a smoothie with that. Well, maybe you just don't need a smoothie then. But even then, a smoothie is not hard to make. I said years ago like if people who don't like eating a lot of vegetables, throwing frozen vegetables into a smoothie instead of ice works really well, right? Like people don't like to eat some vegetables. Instead of ice, use some frozen broccoli. Throw that in the blender with your fruit and your protein shake or whatever. Done. But even then, you know, you're just doing this to get extra fruits and vegetables. There's like there's nothing special about a smoothie. There nothing special about a protein shake. And you can do just fine without these things. And I mean, I have a little bit of protein shakes, but I don't drink them as shakes these days. I just like to mix some with my Greek yogurt and other stuff, you know. Um like I I'll take a little bit of whey protein and mix it with my Greek yogurt, almond or peanut butter and a few walnuts, you know. But I'm mainly just eating yogurt, wanting some extra protein and and healthy fats, you know. But these this is eating whole foods and this is what people don't get. Um, and this is something I I do try to point out to people, you know, they're like, "You you're pretty dang strong for your age." Actually, I've had people like uh point out I've had some on the Facebook who are like, "Oh, you just did 19 reps, flat back pause at 225. That's not strong for your age. That's like straight up impressive." And I appreciated that. You know, you have seen me squat 405 for 12. That was 315 for 21. you know, this is what I do day in and day out. Um, do people not understand that avoiding junk food is part of the reason I'm able to do this? And and I want people to think that through for a moment. When you are in the pursuit of optimal, if you're in the pursuit of of optimal performance, especially as you get older, you got to think about stuff like this going, "Do I really need this garbage?" Like, and to me, something like almond milk, it's straight garbage. Like, there's no reason for it to even exist. Like, I don't even understand the reasoning, but it's because people are like, "Well, I have to have this and that because of my junk food culture, so I have to have these different mixes or I've got to mix 37 things into my coffee." You don't like If you don't like black coffee, then you probably don't really like coffee. So, you're still just keeping your unhealthy fat society habits. The same thing with these these all these Quest bars and these cookie bars and all this stuff. Do do you really think that's healthy? Well, it's got protein in it, but just look at it. Read the ingredient list. Look at those ingredient lists and tell me that this is a health food. Have you lost your mind just because it's got protein in it? And this is an extreme example, but if I took a dog turd and I sprinkled some whey protein on it, would you eat it? Well, no, because it's gross. All right. What if I sterilized it first? I feel like some of these people with all this stuff, if you if would literally just eat dog turds if they could make them taste okay and you put some protein in, oh, it's a healthy food. This is how stupid this is. Like look at any of these just to make the bars consistency. And I get it. Sometimes we grab them in a pinch in an airport or something cuz they're cheap and they're convenient, but you can also grab a chicken salad everywhere in those airports. But that's the thing. Well, it's got some protein. You know what? I have no trouble eating 300 grams of protein a day from whole food. What are you talking about? Okay. It's got protein. Okay. Have you ever heard of a steak that's also got protein in it? I know it's crazy. Have you ever heard of chicken? Chicken breast or chicken thigh? Did you know that that has protein in it, too? I know it's not written on the label, big flashy protein. Do you know dair Greek yogurt has some protein? Well, I need something I can eat on the go. A lot of times they're sitting there eating it in their house. I'm watching these people put these things up and really you're sitting there eating it in your in your living room. I don't think that that's on the I don't think that's on the go at all. You don't have a work fridge. But that's the point. They're acting like it's some amazing convenience. No, it's just junk food. Look at all the sugar alcohols and crap and fillers and everything in most of these bars. Like, do you really and truly think sugar alcohols as a as a form of artificial sweetener are healthy? You don't think they cause GI tract distress, disrupt your gut biome, have their own set of problems, right? This is again, this is ultrarocessed junk food. Why? What? Why do people need it? Like what I This is what I don't understand. What's wrong with whole food? You guys see the pictures of my food. I'll put up a plate. I'll say single ingredient foods. I did this with a client recently, a new client. He's like, I mean, I would get bored then I show him some of Oh, well that actually looks really good. Like, yeah, you look at a plate, I've got over easy eggs, omega-3 eggs with spinach in them in the fold, uh, a steak, diced up avocado, and then diced up peppers and spinach on top of it. Okay, it's all whole foods. Amazing meal. Tastes great. And it's that simple. Like I don't understand why people just can't grasp eating whole foods. Like are you you're so indoctrinated by this hyper palatable garbage ultrarocessed food culture that we've developed that you can't let go of it to even be healthy. And these clowns market to it. These companies market to it. All right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next