Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha strength and fitness. And today I thought I would uh chat with you guys and gals a little bit about can you rotate big movements on full body. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciate it. If you're not following or subscribe please do so. And if you'll drop me a comment down below I'd appreciate it so much. So um a lot of stuff I've done with this in the past way back in the day used to rotate movements around. I prescribed that for clients. you know, if they're going to do a full body type thing, because a lot of times we're doing full body three times a week. Um, you know, my full bodies for clients, disclaimer, most of them know they tend to be real focused on the squat, bench, deadlift, and pull-up. Okay? However, you know, again, if we're going to do stuff that way, we don't always have to do it as, hey, squat and deadlift. Like a lot of my guys right now, they know, you know, he has me alternate squats and deadlifts, right? And you can even do that then for multiple sets. Okay? Especially if you're going to deadlift. A lot of my guys do one, but sometimes we'll do three, you know, but here's the thing I'm going to say. Um, you can rotate your movements quite a bit. And as long as you're getting your classic lifts in there, you're good. In other in other words, um, if you did full body and let's say you focus on about four big movement patterns per workout, I tend to do more right now, right? because I you'll see me squat, bench, deadlift, pull up, bench, um, you know, that's some sort of overhead, right? Of course, I jump and other stuff and we do cardio because that's assuming you're going to do GPP and other stuff. A lot of times people who are doing full body want to be athletic. That's one of the reasons they're doing it. But a lot of my people, you know, will will alternate presses or will alternate chest work, you know, dips. So, here's here's what I'm going to say for for a lot of people. As long as you're doing some sort of serious lower body lift, some sort of press, some sort of pull for the back at at least three out of four movements, you're you're going to do pretty good. Like you're going to be fine on a full body. And in fact, um I like doing some of that. You guys remember I used to do a lot of that back in the day when I used to train at Iron City doing full body and I didn't always document everything. You know, I put up, you know, a couple dozen workouts, but notice I'd rotate through stuff. You guys be like, "Oh, man. He's doing a closed grip bench or a closed grip incline or an overhead press." You know, a lot of times I did two types of presses. I I tended to be very press dominant. Okay? And I think that's a very viable approach. So, a press, a pull, some sort of lower body, and maybe even a second press. Um, so you do a chest and an overhead of some type. So, for me on all those, I did some sort of overhead work every workout. I lived on it. Uh, so what do I mean by by a lower body? Well, you could rotate through them as long as you let's say you do your squat and your deadlift, your your traditional squat, your traditional deadlift. You could do those as a lower body and do like three sets, three or four sets. Okay? you could have a third day in there where you do other stuff instead, you know, because a lot of times going we're doing big movements more than about 12 sets could be a lot to deal with. And I'm not saying, hey, if you want to throw some hammer curls or laterals in or something else that you want, go ahead. Um, but I digress. How about squatting other things? How about a zer squat? How about a front squat? Yeah, totally viable, you know, totally viable, right? Everybody agree. Could you on the third one of those workouts like you could do a squat one and deadlift another and then you could do one of those others. You could do another variation. Okay. Now, you could do RDL's if you wanted. You could do front squats. You could do a zer squat. be fine because we're still working quads, glutes, hamstrings, all that stuff. Okay? Because you're going to do some other standing work possibly, too. You're still going to be hitting a lot of those secondary um some sort of pull. Obviously, I like weighted pull-ups because you do different variations. Sure, you could rotate through them. Could you do a row? Yeah, you could do a row instead. I used to sometimes come and just do a pin lay row or whatever place of a pull-up. Okay. Works great. And that's how I used to train. I used to come in to do some sort of deadlift. Um that time I wasn't squatting. I took time off from squatting, but I did some sort of deadlift. uh some sort of like chest press usually flat bench, incline bench, weighted dip, some sort of pull, be a pull up, a row, whatever. And then some sort of overhead press. Okay? Uh overhead pressing really vary. You do a strict press, you do push press, you do a cleaning press, clean and strict press, clean and push press, dumbbell presses, do them one arm like I'm doing here. You could clean two dumbbells at two at a time. Do them strict, you do them push presses. The main thing is though, I found a lot of times when I did my full bodies that way, I used to like to always work in some type of overhead press. So, it was always a pull for the back, a chest press, some sort of lower body movement, again, deadlift or squat variation, and then an overhead press. You know, I do about three solid work sets and then go home. Um, and ironically, people look back and said I was probably the most jacked I've been on the tubes. I'm a little I'm lean lean a little bit leaner now, you know. But I mean, I was also moving big weights. Like I did more than this on the incline. I was doing rep work with close grip inclines like 250, 255 repping it. Strict pressing. I was doing triples with a 205. I'd push press more sometimes. you know, work sets. A lot of times I come in and do more reps like a a clean and mild push press, like sets of five or six of 185. Do three, four, five of them, you know, at the end. But that helps, too. So, again, a lot of times when you're doing full body stuff, cleaning that weight up, right? So, I mean, that's a full workout. You know, that's a perfect example. Um, you know, you could come in and you could come in and squat, bench, a pull-up, and then a clean and a press. Clean and press, right? Those four movements, you you've worked everything. And then if you're rotating through them, everything ends up being balanced. So, those are options people have. They don't have to just come in and do, you know, you could come in and do squat, bench, deadlift, and a pull-up and still be just fine. getting two lower body lifts and two upper body is a lot of work, you know, and that works a lot of times if you're only doing one set of deadlifts, you know, or if you're limiting total movements. But yeah, totally totally workable. You could come in and alternate squatting and deadlifting or another lower body lift. Um, you know, like I said, front squats, deserture squats, stuff like that work there. Again, looking at the performance element with full body And I'm not saying, hey, if you couldn't do some smaller stuff at the end, if you have the knees and triceps or a hammer curl or calves or whatever, sure. Works. Very chaos and painy though, isn't it? All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next