Animal protein is king for fitness. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, so over to the topic. Yeah, we're going to talk about the protein, but we're also going to talk about the other nutritional aspects. It's kind of like, you know, when people say silly stuff like, well, what's the best carbohydrate for whatever purpose? Well, it's not always just about the carbohydrate, right? We we can make a big discussion about rice versus potatoes. Is there any real difference in the carbohydrate there? No, not really. But they're nutritionally a bit different. Uh but this this goes hand inand with all of it, too. So, when it comes to protein, animal proteins are absolutely superior. They're higher bioavailability. We absorb them easier. They tend to have a a more favorable amino acid profile for both building muscle and just general repair and construction in the human body because we are more similar we're more similar to animals than we are to plants biologically. Okay. And then interestingly enough dairy can be even another notch higher in terms of that. Although it's it's small enough it doesn't matter that much. Meaning the gap is much smaller. Right? If you're going to compare non soy like soy is probably the highest bioavailable uh plant protein. Everything else drops pretty far below it. Okay. So the gap between say the protein in beans and rice uh compared with most meats you know chicken beef things like that is much higher than the gap between say beef and dairy. Okay much much much much larger. So just be aware of that. Uh so so when we say that dairy is a little bit better it's very small. Is it there? Yes. What does it really mean? uh that 100 gram of say dairy protein might be as good as 103 gram of beef. See the difference? Whereas to get a similar amino acid profile from say even a combined beans and rice uh you might need 150 right whatever grams of that to get the same amino acid absorption and content and profile that you would get from only 100 grams from say steak. Okay, do we understand this difference? It's not just the grams of protein. It's can we absorb it and utilize it? How well do we absorb it in our gut, get it into our bloodstream, and then metabolize it in terms of the amino acid profile. So, if you're wanting to get the same quality and total amino acid pool, that's really what we mean, right? That's really what we mean. And many of those plant cases, even when people are like, well, you just got to combine the right ones uh that complement each other because they're not incomplete. That's that's nonsense, too. They just have lower amounts of certain essential amino acids. They're not zero. But even when you combine them together, they still have the lower absorption. And then you're still dealing with simply needing more. Okay? If you're trying to get X amount of leucine and veene and whatever combining beans and rice, you're still going to need more total protein absorbed to get those same quantities. And we absorb less. So when we look at it that way, it really is true. Like you you may need for some of these plant proteins 160, 170, 180 grams of protein. And notice you're then you're mostly going to shakes because I can tell you right now, you're not getting 180 grams of protein from beans and rice that you eat. I wish you the best of luck with that. Okay? You're like, I ate 6,000 calories trying to get it. Or you could have just ate one lean sirloin steak. Done. Uh so so and we know this and we see this in the data. This has been studied. And when you set aside small studies looking at muscle protein synthesis only and you start looking at combined diets, plant proteinbased diets simply are not capable of the same muscle growth. The only thing that gets close is when you take synthetic, highly synthesized, specialized plant protein powders for better absorption, extra amino acids added, and you just look at post-workout muscle protein synthesis. When we start looking at total growth, definitely a difference. There's a difference and it matters, right? It absolutely matters. So, uh, we have all of that to factor in and and especially if you want to really protein overfeed, you want to get all these benefits. Uh, it's another reason I point out vegans tend to have lower injury or higher injury rates. It's been noted. Well, people worry only about muscle growth instead of saying, "What about tendons? What about collagen senses?" Well, we need even more protein for that. Vegans already struggle to even get what they need for muscle growth. You start talking the other things. Yeah, you are going to see less impressive tendon health, less impressive tendon strength, slower healing in a lot of areas. Okay? [snorts] And it's just the reality. It's just not efficient in terms of getting what you need. But then what about all the other stuff? A lot of things that we always want to supplement, okay, that are are beneficial supplements start going away the second you eat certain types of of animal products. And this is why I say that a lean steak is is a bigger powerhouse than people realize. So think about things that vegans have to have B12 supplement. Some meat eaters need B12. You eat a steak every day and it doesn't have to be a fatty steak. Well, that goes away. B12 content. The iron content is extremely high. And not all meats are all all meat has B12. Red meats tend to be dramatically higher. dairy, eggs, those things are dramatically really high in B12. Those are your powerhouses, right? Milk products or milk, eggs, red meat, it's going to get you your B12. Uh the iron, same thing. People who end up with iron deficiencies needing to supplement, if they just ate more red meat, problem goes away. They don't need the supplement. Creatin is the big one, too. every you know that's been noted in research too when we look at creatin muscle heavily researched supplement does seem to cause a little bit of muscle growth right one of the very very few things it does except like 30% of the population are nonresponders why is that seems to be diet but noted people who eat red meat in significant amounts don't benefit from creatin it's not because oh it's blocking creatin receptors it's because they already get enough for optimization and adding more doesn't do anything. That five gram dose that everyone wants to take is way beyond what you actually need to maximize the the muscle the performance at. It's actually higher. So someone who eats a steak every day, just one steak, will probably handle all your creatin needs. You'll probably never need an iron supplement, even if you're anemic. You're probably never going to need B12. So on and so forth. We get these other nutrients beyond protein from these foods. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.