 And when I say with aging, I mean past age 35, right? Now, people say 35 is not old. Well, biologically speaking for our species, that's actually pretty old, you know, in terms of what we would reach in nature, right? Before modern medicine, you know, modern agriculture, that was like our average life expectancy. But that's not really the point of this when I say that. What's the point? A couple things to think about. Number one, as we start to reach middle age and up, 35, 40 years old, and this continues throughout most of your life, okay? So this is not a pass-fail. This is not a switch that flips on. This is a gradual continuum over time. In other words, things change in your body every 5 or 10 years as you get older and older and older, right? We all understand this. Hopefully, every human being on earth, even a 20-year-old understands this, because you were nothing like you were 5 or 10 years ago. Even you grasp this. Like, yeah, okay, I get that. All right. Protein absorption. This is one of the things that's been noted for 25, 30 years, you know, by medical experts, nutrition researchers, right? As we start to reach middle age, we absorb slightly less protein. Now, when I say slightly, I do mean slightly. I'm not saying, oh, man, we absorb half. You know, no, it's nothing that crazy. It's just a little bit. And you lose a couple percentages, okay? And that gradually increases over the years, okay? When you get to 45, when you get to 50, it's just a little bit less. You get to 60, it's starting to get significant. You know, I don't have exact percentages. I don't remember the numbers that were out there. But, I mean, I've seen stuff where it's over 10%, right? When you start getting up into your 50s, you know, you may only be absorbing 87, 90% of, you know, proteins from very bioavailable sources, okay? We just absorb less. And it might not be that extreme. Again, this is not something I've looked into again recently, but it's relevant because we know that it's the case. So don't quote me on numbers, please. I know people love to do that. They're like, oh, I did some research and it's about 7%. You're wrong. You're stupid. Okay, no, it's not the point. The point is we know it's less. GI tract gets less efficient at absorbing protein. So why does that matter? Well, because of protein bioavailability and getting enough of it. All right, getting enough of it to build muscle. More importantly, how about tendons and things? And that's another big point. As we age, hormonally some stuff changes. And I think people forget this. You know, people will say, this is like a complete nonsense. Oh, I'll just get on TRT. That will fix everything. Yeah, that's one hormone. Now, if you had said, I'm going to go get a full panel done and I'm going to find every single hormone in the body and I'm going to take 37 different hormones in an injection from my doctor as HRT. Well, now, that would be significant because there'd be growth hormone, thyroid stuff, IGF-1, all sorts of different growth. Man, all sorts of hormones. Okay, you see where we're going with that? All right. So, no, it's not just testosterone. Growth hormone, IGF-1. These decline. Okay. So, what does that mean in terms of our muscle protein synthesis and then protein response? Mmm. A little more protein goes a long way on those things. Like, you understand this, right? IGF-1 production does go up through protein intake. How about collagen synthesis tendons? All right. This is one of the things that gets us faster than the hormones that affect muscle growth. How many older dudes stuff hurts more? You're like, man, my tendons hurt. My joints hurt, you know. Do you understand how much of that is due to things like collagen synthesis? Bone mineral density. Like, a lot of these things, that's what's happening here. Your tendons don't heal and grow as quick because your collagen synthesis is down a little bit. But do you know what helps with that? Protein. Are we seeing a trend here? So, why animal protein? Because it's the most bioavailable. Okay. We start to run into problems with age. And, again, it starts mid to late 30s. Okay. And it's very, very, extremely mild. Probably not even noticeable for you at that age. You're going to start noticing some of it. You're going to notice it in your 40s. And I can say this for a fact. My whole life experience is that of my clients. Right? We absorb a little less protein. We lose the efficiency of some of these things as far as IGF-1 production. Collagen synthesis, both in our skin and our tendons. So, why do you think your skin gets saggier and more wrinkly with age? It's the collagen side. Well, your tendons are made of the same thing. They get more fragile. They can get weaker. They heal slower. Protein helps. Can it fix it completely? No. But it can help a lot. Okay. Well, if you're not focused on getting large amounts of the most bioavailable, highly absorbable proteins, when we're having problems with protein absorption and utilization starting to slowly become a small problem, right, a measurable problem, then making sure that you're consuming significant amounts of animal protein because it is the most bioavailable. It is the most absorbable. It is the most useful here. It's just way more efficient. Well, we've lost efficiency and we've lost utilization. So, the better sources are a really good idea. And so, my point here is, as you continue to age, if you want to be strong and fit and healthy, putting a heavier focus on making sure that you get significant to large amounts of animal source protein is a very wise idea. And I know that I'd say that's important for all lifters. But as you get older, it becomes more important. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. And I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.