 animal proteins and vegetables should be the foundation of your diet. Hey, everybody, it's Jason Blah. I thought I would chat with you guys about this today, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it so much. Over to the topic, we could argue a lot. We could argue a lot about where we should be filling our calories, how many calories to consume, whether we want fats, what type of fats, carbohydrates. These are points of contention. They're points of individuality, individual preference, what you were doing, how you handled these things. Those things are usually the areas that we debate and argue. The stuff that we should not be arguing, and I would always point out, that I would always point out is the foundation of your diet, especially if you're trying to be fit. I'm not just talking about, hey, I just want basic health. No, if you want to actually be fit. And healthy. Those need to be your foundation. And it's because of a couple of things. As far as, and what I mean the foundation, you should be eating significant amounts of these. They should be kind of your baseline. And you need to have a minimum baseline every day of that, and then you would fill in with other stuff, as far as fats and carbohydrates, or maybe bias towards one or the other. These days I do very high fat, very low carb diet. But it's not zero carb, because a lot of my protein sources have trace amounts of carbs. But that being said, I've also done chicken and rice type diets. So here's the thing with it. With the animal proteins, what you have to remember, the bioavailability is dramatically higher. And when we look at this and we look at things like muscle protein synthesis, and if we're talking muscle protein synthesis, what about all the other synthesis? Anyone notice how frequently vegans get injured? Vegan athletes are notorious for a high injury rate. Vegan lifters notorious for a high injury rate. Way higher than normal people. Why do you think that is? Lower collagen synthesis for one. And when people compare this stuff, this is the issue that we run into. It's like, OK, but they will point out that certain soy protein supplements can equal animal products or get very close to in terms of muscle protein synthesis, right? So which we've been found in studies. But notice it's only a synthetic product. In other words, you literally have to take a soy protein, isolate it certain ways, sometimes to add some extra amino acids, and create an artificial protein source in the form of a shake to equal a steak or a piece of chicken to get it close within close enough distance to be considered roughly equal. You have to engineer a product. Well, here's my point. Vegans aren't standing around slamming 150 grams of protein from these shakes every day. Are they? They're not. That's you're drinking like six or seven of those shakes every day instead of just eating food. Well, then we run into the, so this is, they're already at a lot. Like we know that this is the best they can do. These are engineered protein powders to get in range. Everything else, including your other soy, right? It's going to be lower. And those shakes, by the way, tend to be full of heavy metals, contaminants, lead. The testing has come back horrific on them. Animal source proteins are going to give you the highest bioavailability. That doesn't just matter to muscles. Clearly, and it is measurable in muscles. So again, a normal plant-based diet is simply not going to be in the same ballpark. This has been studied, it's been tested. We've got pretty good data showing you. It really isn't. Not for a serious athlete or lifter, but that's just the muscle, then the injury rate. And it makes sense that that protein synthesis is lower. Collagen synthesis intended to things is even harder to get. So that's where we are. And then on top of that, a lot of things, a lot of nutrients only are coming from animals, for stuff in the amount that we want, things like B12, some types of iron, so on and so forth. Absolutely superior in a foundation, your diet. And in any argument otherwise, it is quite frankly moronic. You're working 10 times harder trying to get normal results, it's stupid. All right, same thing, vegetables. Let us be clear. That insoluble fiber in those vegetables. We're not talking about soluble fiber. That insoluble fiber in those vegetables, just to keep your gut modality moving with maybe all the meat and other stuff you're eating, is critical. It's critical for your health, critical for your recovery, critical for your brain neurotransmitters immune system. This isn't even subject to debate. Like this is so well observed in the data that again, we're over to, just like we could laugh at the vegans, anyone who's saying you don't need a large amounts of vegetables for optimal health and performance? Notice I didn't say vegetables, I said large amounts. Again, this is laughable. The same thing, antioxidant status, phytonutrients, all of this stuff that we need to impact our recovery, our health. We talk about a lot of these antioxidants in there and then people say, well, I don't necessarily need all this variety of them. What you do to fight cancer and heart disease? A lot of people on the lower carb diets when you look their atherosclerosis is accumulating. They just eat more vegetables, significantly more. Triple the amount of vegetables they were eating that might not even have this issue. Because again, what you're looking at is accumulation of atherosclerosis through elevated LDL. Is an inflammatory process. See where we're going with this? All these, this massive amount of variety of antioxidants. And you can't do this by supplementing. I get tired of explaining that. Again, supplementing single source antioxidants is a great way to give yourself cancer. It doesn't work. We're talking a plant with 157 different antioxidants, not just vitamin C or vitamin E. And they work in tandem. They work with synergistic effects with each other. So having a higher diversity of them works extremely well. And even a lot of these things, this newest term, anti-nutrients. A lot of these anti-nutrients have profiled health benefits. So the term itself is a problem. Like lectin or whatever. There's large amounts of health benefits and anti-inflammatory properties found in lectin. What are you talking about? And if you're like, well, it slows the absorption of certain things that you might want. We'll just eat more whole foods. Okay, you get reduced absorption. Your absorption is down 20% but you're eating triple the amount you need. Well, you could have A-50% reduction and be great. Eat more plants, problem solved. So again, animal proteins and vegetables are the foundation of any healthy diet. And we need to be eating significant amounts of them. You can fill in the rest of your calories with other things depending upon the nature of what you're doing. But this must be your foundation. All right, guys, with that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.