Anyone telling you that fiber is bad or who is warning you about anti-nutrients is an absolute quack and you need to run. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys would please click like down below on the video, I would greatly appreciate it if you aren't following me or subscribe, please do so. And if you would be so kind, please drop a comment down under the video with your thoughts or just to say hello. Um, I would appreciate that. All right, so let's get over to this topic. Um, I mean fiber, it's it is amazing we are even having this conversation in 2025. Um, that we've regressed so much uh with fat diets and crazy nonsense to where fiber is now being attacked by certain circles. uh insanity because the data in support of fiber uh longevity, health, everything else is is always been extremely high and it's done nothing but increase. Um and I'll get to the anti-nutrients and stuff in a minute, but here's what I mean by it's done nothing but increase. What has been the leading area we're seeing in terms of nutrition and overall health research that has been emerging in recent years? gut health, gut biome, okay, gut flora. This has been an area of expanding science for a while to the point where there are uh neurologists who were going, we think your gut health and your gut flora literally impacts your neurotransmitters and rates of depression, anxiety, all of these things. So we actually think an imbalanced gut contributes to to these things enormously. Okay. Literally depression, anxiety. All right. Uh we're seeing people who are in immunologists who are standing here saying, "Yeah, we we we think from what we can tell your gut biome is where the start of your immune system. It is the foundation of your entire immune system. All right. And so on and so forth. Well, what what fuels your gut biome? Eating a variety of fiber. Okay. Different plant matters. Fiber. Fiber. Fiber. All right. There's a few minor animal source stuff that can help particularly like dairy. Um some dairy can be beneficial here, but by and large it's plants and then dairy. Like this is this is where we get this. And it's more complete plants. It's ones with fiber. It feeds your various gut biome. Okay. And it gives you gut biome diversity which helps with all these things. This is what the emerging science is finding. Okay. In addition to what we've known about heart health, diabetes, all this other stuff. Um same thing with even cancer like fiber reduces multiple types of cancers. Okay. And we're talking directly in the gut and then we get into all the others. Absolutely. because of the effect on insulin sensitivity and everything else. Massive. Before people say, "Well, if you don't eat carbs, you no, that's not true." Um, large numbers of ketogenic dieters are actually insulin resistant. So, simply not true. And have elevated fasting glucose. That is one of the characteristics of the hardcore ketobore is that they have high blood sugar. They have high fasting blood sugar on their blood work. So, don't let's not even go there. All right. So, you have all that, but then we get into all the stuff with the the anti-nutrients. Uh, this is quackery. Not that anti-nutrients aren't extremely well researched and understood. It's that thinking that they're all a problem. Okay? Do people not understand? This has been addressed by all the leading nutrition experts. In fact, I've even seen Baylor College of Medicine write up a rebuttal to the silly books, diet books that were coming out a few years ago, okay? Discussing this stuff to where they're like, um, these are not a problem. It's only if you're eating all your stuff raw. They're like, if you cook your potatoes, right, if you cook your beans, if you cook your grains, and you don't eat this stuff raw, this is not actually a problem. In fact, it's almost impossible for any of these things to be high enough to be a concern. you know, barring really, really ultra highfiber diets, you might get some problems with iron absorption and stuff, but if you have plenty of it in your diet, you're still going to be okay. U and and on top of that, these are all the foods that are linked to longevity and health. When you look at all the epidemiology, all these foods that these people are scared of with anti-nutrients are somehow linked to extreme longevity in humans. All the cultures that live longest on Earth thrive on whole grains, legumes, things like that. Legumes. I'm sorry I said it incorrectly. They thrive on them. What are they talking about? These are the healthiest, longest lived people on Earth eat tons of this stuff. Are we serious? And even the leading experts say, "Look, just cook your food." Saying even oxalates that people are worried about, they're like, "Just drink more water. It goes away." Like any concerns if you're prone to kidney stones from oxalates in your diet, they're like if you just drink enough water, it completely goes away. It's not a problem at all. Picture crappy lifestyle. So this is a problem to where people are are discussing this in a negative light. Like furthermore, with a lot of these supposed anti-nutrients are acting like they don't have health benefits. A lot of them are anti-inflammatory. A lot of them have antioxidant properties. They're not even wholly bad. They can call them anti-nutrients because they in some cases they can slow absorption of certain things but a lot of them have their own independent health benefits. Again we do state that again many of them are antioxidants. They reduce free radicals oxidative stress. Okay. Again this thing that a lot of these people in these extreme circles are scared of. Oh, we got to avoid poffas because oxidative stress, but then you're literally afraid to eat the foods that reduce oxidative stress and then wonder why yours is still out of control, right? So again, isn't it strange all these same people, they're like they don't want you to eat certain foods because they think that it will produce oxidative stress in humans, which is a point of major controversy, by the way. It's not a wellproven fact. Um, but then they're terrified of the foods that literally reduce the oxidative stress. I mean, how insane can you be? And people listen to this quackery. They listen to these clowns and they ignore all of the overwhelming amount of data around the world. And the first dead giveaway should be, oh, what do what do the longest lived cultures and societies on Earth eat? and you start looking at their foods and it's like, man, they they thrive on all this stuff they're telling us here not to eat, okay? Instead of worrying about the stuff that's actually bad, it's like, hey, how about we uh not eat refined sugars? We quit adding extra fats to all of our food. How about we quit drinking alcohol? How about we quit smoking? Why don't we do that stuff? But no, they want you scared of potatoes and beans. Wow. Again, insane quackery and cults, not grounded in reality or science. And all of this stuff has been heavily rebutted by all the leading researchers and scientists around the world. They think it's insane. It's not based on evidence. It's just craziness. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.