the ludicrous idea that the conventional deadlift is not an amazing hypertrophy exercise is a very recent uh and quite frankly moronic development. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and uh with Jason Bla strength and fitness and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below I'd appreciate it. All right, let's get over to this topic. Um, this is something that to anyone who's been around lifting a long period of time just sounds insane. It's quite frankly insane. Um, because we recall historically tons and tons and tons of guys developing phenomenal physiques, massive, massive amounts of muscle mass, uh, getting really strong at deadlifts. And I'm not talking about just your one rep max, you know, we're talking about doing actual rep work. I think you'll see even for me in some of these I end up hitting um because this is spaced out over a month of of training uh some eight and nine rep sets of 500 lbs here. Right? So we're talking about your actual rep work, not your not necessarily your maxes, you know, because even your rep work builds your maxes, right? That um the hypertrophy and stuff that we gain from our our training like this brings our maxes up. And and all powerlters know this. It's like everyone knows this in the strength world. Just get bigger, you'll get stronger. And there's more than one way to do that. But I digress. Everyone knew this forever. And what's what's ironic is that some of the people who put out the most successful uh you know things like I've seen different people who kind of revolutionize almost in their weight training. They brought stuff back to the forefront every time. You always see them pushing the deadlift. Um, I remember when Dante Trudeau, and I probably got his his last name wrong, you know, he was even saying when he put out the DC training stuff all through the 90s, early 2000s, he was putting stuff out and dudes, and and that's the enhanced world, obviously, but the dudes were getting crazy jacked. They were getting crazy jacked. And one of the things he said in there, he's like, "Look, if if you get to where you can do 20 reps with 500 lb on the squat and the deadlift, you're going to be an absolute monster." Okay? and he promoted pretty low volume, really high intensity types of training, right? But he promoted getting really, really strong at reps. And he even said, "Look, move a lot of weight for a lot of reps and you're going to get big as long as you can recover from it." Um, and you know, that was something he promoted, but he said that and and there there's truth to that, right? And I'm not saying 20 reps of 500 on a squat is almost unheard of, but the point still stands. I mean, even the same with the deadlift, right? If a person comes over and builds their deadlift up, even if it's just doing one set at a time where they can do 500 for 20 reps, that guy is going to be an absolute monster. They're going to be crazy thick top to bottom. Okay? Uh we saw the same thing, you know, with Martin Birkin coming in and saying, "Look guys, you focus on a lot of the wrong stuff. Just get really strong for your reps at your basic list." And he had people coming in doing 45minute workouts three days a week. And he's like, just get really strong at the the squat, bench, deadlift, weighted chin up, maybe some overhead press. And you know, and he kind of said, if you want to do a few isolation movements in there, that's fine. You know, you need to do some extensions for your triceps or calves or some some barbell curls, by all means. And if you need to throw a few in, but he'd have guys come in and do like three exercises and go home, just big movements like that. And deadlift was on there. He had a phenomenal physique and he was getting people crazy jacked, crazy shredded with his whole lean gains approach. And the same thing and it all stems back to what people used to do. Even the OG stuff, Regge Park stuff had guys coming in and only doing about five exercises, five, six exercises, but the deadlifts were in there, squats were in there, you know, pull-ups were in there, rows, just your big basic movements. And again, phenomenal physiques, phenomenal physiques. And the only reason anyone is is getting these results without doing the movements like this is because of the drugs, right? Without all the drugs, uh guys would not be getting jacked without doing these big movements and getting strong at them. But but deadlifts themselves, you know, it's it's an insane idea, not even supported by evidence. So, it's like what's crazy to me is that people who make those statements that, well, a deadlift isn't a great muscle builder, they claim to be evidence or science-based. Well, where's your evidence of this? And their evidence is extrapolation. It's always, well, I have a theory, but we've not tested this theory on the deadlift. I have some sets of hypothesis um about that lengthen positions are king for hypertrophy. H that's subject to a lot of debate. Not saying lengthen positions don't work really well. people got plenty crazy jacked without doing lengthen position movements and without stretch position there plenty of people have gotten crazy jacked. Um you know but their argument that because it's not putting uh most of the muscles into a lengthen position that therefore it's not this great hypertrophy. Well, you don't have evidence of that. like you have to actually test the deadlift against these other movements. And they don't want to do that because they know it loses the little bit of stuff that ever looks at either hypertrophy or muscle activation on a heavy deadlift. It's it's always phenomenal, right? Every time it's studied, it comes back, oh wow, it's it's really really good. But do you see the problem with that? Because these guys are want to be lazy. I've I've noticed this tendency. These guys are lazy. They have a serious serious case of lazy ititis. You know, I'm here 49 years old. They'll see me do eight or nine reps of 500 lb on a deadlift like this and go, "Yeah, I I'm not doing that." Okay? So, just admit you're lazy. Just stop with the nonsense of and before they say, "Oh, that's dangerous. Really? I don't ever hurt my back doing it. I am 49 years old. You guys just watched me do nine reps with 500 lbs on a deadlift just chalking a belt. In fact, I'm going to say that straps are one of the reasons dudes hurt their back on the deadlift. Um, I had a coach friend of mine and we were chatting about that yesterday and he had said maybe you should make a video on that, too. It's true. Like lose the straps, build your grip up. And the reason is if anything's about to pull or give in your back, your grip gives out in the middle of the set. For those who are unaware, straps will let you pull through something that's put your back into a compromised position or something's giving out in terms of overuse or about to pull, right? The straps will let you go ahead and pull through it instead of just turning loose. Like the using your grip is actually very protective of your back because that's what happens with your nervous system. It knows something's wrong. Your grip will give out. before your back will 99% of the time. So again, people are over here worried about things that are not real risk and then they want to do stupid stuff to create the problems. Well, lose your silly straps, guys. That's part of your problem, right? The same thing. Well, you know, I don't want my grip to limit my back. Really? Does it? You think it's limiting my back? You've seen my back. Do you really think my grip is limiting my back for eight or nine reps on a 500 lb deadlift? Are we serious? Just stop. Shut up. Just stop. You are being lazy. And that is actually what it comes down to. These people are just lazy, useless pieces of who don't want to do any work and want to pretend that they have hacks to get around it. And a lot of them are making their living still getting up training and being influencers and all this stuff when they're lazy. They have no work ethic. And yet people want to follow them, right? The evidence is that the deadlift is phenomenal. The only people who are telling you otherwise are literally just lazy or they really don't know how to train. The idea, well, they want to use straps on the back. This tells me everything I need to know about them. This tells me everything I need to know about them. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.