Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about O10 Brown Rice. Uh but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, again, these are topics that it absolutely blows my mind um that anyone even listens to gurus when they say nonsense like this. Uh, and again, I'm someone who spent a ridiculous amount of time studying nutrition, metaanalysis, also someone who lost 150 pounds when younger. Um, I know a little bit about weight loss at this point. again, lost 150 lbs um without using any drugs to help without a personal trainer, without a dietitian on my own. So, it blows my mind um as someone who's who lives this lifestyle and studies these things um that that people even go there. Um and we can jump into the anecdote in a in a minute too. Um obviously, these are staple foods for for bodybuilders, right? These are literally what you think of as bodybuilder foods. is the leanest, most jacked people on earth. This is these are staple foods for them. In fact, this is two of the single most popular calorie sources. It's going to be brown rice and oats. Um, and so again, the idea that they're not amazing for for fat loss or body composition, then how do you explain that they're staple foods for the leanest, most jack human beings walking the face of the earth? That's already a problem. that would at this point someone making that statement would would look as stupid as someone saying you know what lifting weights isn't really good for building muscle. Okay, that's how dumb it should be in terms of anecdote. All right. Now, that aside, you know, people bring up all these different nonsense like uh anti-nutrients or problems with fiber. And it's like, okay, you can have hypothetical things that you think are a problem, but where's your data? In other in other words, if um the anti-nutrients in oats or brown rice were creating health problems, then on average, the people who consume more of them would have higher health problems than average. Okay, does everyone understand this? Right? And you can't look for hypothetical pathways from a single food and say, "Aha, I found one possible pathway." because you find that for every food on the face of the earth. Just to be clear, including water. All right? That is not how you look at something. You look at it and say, "Okay, what are the total positives and negatives in the body?" Because everything that you could put into your body has the potential for certain negative effects, particularly in certain intakes. That that's not what you look at because that's silly. That doesn't even make sense. Um because again, everything has good and bad in it. Foods are complex. uh with with thousands of different chemicals in every single food, even naturally occurring food that you eat. Okay? So, that's not what you're looking at. We look at data. And on average, people who eat oatmeal are healthier. Okay? People who eat more oats are healthier than people who eat less oats. Okay? So, already you've got a problem with, well, that statistic can't be true because they wouldn't have better than average health. like that that the people who eat more oats versus people who don't eat them wouldn't have these improved health outcomes. And it's true of all whole grains. But when you then look at clinical trials like doctors all the time are like, "Yeah, I have my diabetic patients or my my patients with atheroscerosis, eat oats, and guess what happens? They start eating oatmeal for breakfast every morning." And we're talking oats. I'm talking about adding other stuff. I hate it when when people say, "Well, you could make a food unhealthy by adding enough junk to it." Yeah, okay. That's stupid. Like, if that is someone's reply, that person is probably too stupid to tie their own shoelaces. Okay, you can make a food unhealthy by adding junk food to it. Well, Jesus Christ, the sky is blue. you. It's almost uh the level of stupidity that's well, you know, you add a bunch of table sugar and butter to that healthy food, you can make it unhealthy. Well, yeah, if you add rat poison to it, you could make it unhealthy, too, you dumbass. All right. Next, but the oats are not unhealthy. All right. Now, that being said, um it it improves all these things. It improves glycemic control, insulin sensitivity, lowers inflammation, uh improves lipid profiles. Doctors see it firsthand all the time in their patients. Cardiologists see it all the time in their patients. And it matches exactly what you see in the controlled studies and the epidemiology studies. Oats is actually a superior uh carbohydrate source. You know, same thing we get over into brown rice. People start talking about arsenic and they don't realize all these other foods have arsenic, too. Like I I hope people are aware of that. The same person who's against oats or brown rice, your steak has arsenic in it. Just in case you were unaware, your drinking water has arsenic in it. Your broccoli has arsenic. Okay, let let us be clear. This is in everything that you eat. So, you're looking at quantities. Okay? So, then you're going to be scared of white rice, too, because brown rice has about 80% more to 90% more arsenic than say white rice. Okay? and if you're not having problems from it. So, let's come back over to do populations of people who eat lots of brown rice, are they healthier? Yes, every single time. Are there any cases of of healthy men anywhere getting arsenic problems as a result of eating brown rice? No. Can't say the same for tuna with the mercury. Been plenty of diagnosed cases of that. All right. Again, what does the research show? People who eat more brown rice are healthier. Okay, let's state that again. What do studies show? People who eat more brown rice on average are healthier. Less obesity, less diabetes, less cancer, less cardiovascular disease. All right, fiber is your friend. These are both foods that have fiber in them. They're both also very rich in antioxidants. You know, as carbohydrate sources, they are rich in antioxidants. Okay, they're both amazing for gut health and I think that's one that has to be looked at, right? They're amazing for gut health, both in terms of the ability to not just looking at glycemic control, we're looking at the fiber and the the prebiotic aspect of them that improves your gut flora. Like these are some of the healthiest foods that you can possibly eat. And no, it's not about selling cereals. It's about selling the actual foods. Again, I'm not over here advocating people eat a bunch of refined cereals, okay? But these foods are healthy. The real world shows it, okay? Terms of the athletes and bodybuilders who who eat these things are being in great body composition. Um, in terms of epidemiology studies, they're extremely healthy. um in individual case studies for doctors who have their patients eat more of them. Health markers improve and controlled clinical trials. These are very very healthy foods. So anyone who's telling you not to eat these things is a complete shield con man fraud. And that is the only way to describe them.