Anyone telling you not to eat vegetables is a complete grifter. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today. Little quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, you know, and honestly, this whole anti-ve thing, I blame entirely on Jordan Peterson and his moronic uh crazy daughter, right? And the reason I say that is because had they not fabricated this complete nonsense lie which has been debunked by numerous rheumatologists, right? And and I've covered that before in detail. had they not created this fictitious nonsense lie probably to help sell diet. Either that or for weird publicity, u no one would know about this whole carnivore thing. And let me be clear, I don't have a problem with people meeting eating meat and eggs. You guys see me eating beef and eggs pretty much daily, right? When I put up my food pictures, you see my fridge, my other stuff, right? I have no problem with these foods. I think they're fantastic, right? I think especially for people who lift, I think steak and eggs are great. Even the late Vince Garanda said that. But this idea that vegetables are toxic or a problem is so asinine and insane that it is a grift and we need to be clear on that. Okay. Every single bit of evidence that any of these people who promote it have is nonsense. It's all debunked by the best researchers and scientists are just like, "This is nonsense. All this stuff about the problems of anti-nutrients, uh, so on and so forth, right? That these plants want to kill you." Again, this is all makeelieve. It's make believe. And we're not saying there's not tiny degrees of reality, but they've extrapolated small bits of reality and turned it into insane uh ideology and dogma to sell garbage ideas. So, we need to be clear. Anyone telling you not to eat vegetables is absolutely a grifter. And let me be clear again, this is not an anti-stake video. This is not an anti-meat video, okay? I eat those things. I I think they're fantastic. What I'm saying is this idea to not eat vegetables is absolutely ludicrous. Uh the health benefits of vegetables are absolutely overwhelming, well documented. Every country around the world has studied this. Countries that don't like each other, countries that are not involved in big farming. When you're at a point where you're like, "Yeah, you know, big pharma wants you to eat spinach so they can sell you drugs." You're pretty much insane. If you buy that, you are too stupid to have an opinion. And here's why. We live in a society of junk food. We live in a society full of giant piles of hyper palatable refined sugar laden refined fat laden refined calorie dense nutritionally void foods. Do you really think spinach is the problem? If you really do like if you can honestly say well I think spinach is is is uh is the problem here. Yeah. without all the pizza and ice cream and Pop-Tarts and and uh Ding-Dongs and hoohoos. I don't know. I don't eat any of this stuff. I don't know what all of it is. And fried chicken and French fries and uh you know, giant piles of butter and bacon. You don't think all of that's the problem? Then we got a problem. Okay, vegetables are great for you. And here's the issue. Here's what it always comes down to. people who have damaged their gut looking for solutions. And this is something I've noticed with with fans of mine. I've noticed with clients of mine who they had all this IBS and other stuff and I'm like, if you try to quit drinking the alcohol, they scale it back and the problems go away. How about that being high on the list? How about the fact that people have eaten garbage diets that have killed off their gut flora, inflamed their bowel from all the junk food, and then on worse they eat they consume alcohol, alcohol, which again is a known poison. One of the most single most cancer-causing food that we eat in the western world by the way. Nothing beats alcohol in terms of causing cancer out of the stuff that we consume. poisonous to the liver, but it also destroys your gut health. Okay, think about stop alcohol, guys. Think about what it does to the gut lining, the damage it will cause to it. By the way, it also causes intestine cancer. It kills off It's also alcohol. It kills bacteria. That means good bacteria. Alcohol is killing off your healthy gut bacteria. damaging the lining of your intestines. Top of all these other problems. Okay, you don't think this is the cause along with all the junk and other. You don't think this is part of the problem? Stop drinking the booze. Saying that as someone 70 years sober, stop with the booze. Okay? It's the damage that people have caused to their gut health and they're like, I can't handle all these vegetables. I need to change. No, you need to fix your gut health because if you go very long without the vegetables, you're going to make it worse. You will eventually have problems because you will not be able to follow that diet forever. You will develop enormous deficiencies down the road, including even further gut health problems and you haven't fixed your gut. What I usually tell people, look, get your gut health sorted. Get off all the junk food. Get off the booze, the other stuff. And if you need to for a little bit, eat low FODMAP vegetables, ones that are easier on your gut as it heals. But you don't need to cut them out. This is stupidity. And then eventually after you've healed your gut lining, after you've restored much of your gut bacteria, then you can eat a wider variety of fruits and vegetables. Okay? But the people who are promoting this, this is insanity. It's ludicrous. And anyone's like, "Well, this just damage all that fibers." No, it's not. It's great for your gut health. It's because you're not able to break it down because you've destroyed your gut flora. Okay? And that's the problem we have. And if you're at a point, well, I'll tell you straight up. If you're at a point you're like, "Well, I would rather do a carnivore diet than give up my alcohol." You need help. You need to be in a program because that is the sheer sign of an alcoholic. You are willing to continue to destroy your health just to be able to keep drinking to put a poison in your body. That's a dead giveaway that you are an alcoholic. You need to admit it and you need to get help. But that's the very first thing I would say to people who are having any of these bowel issues. Get off the refined sugar. Get off the alcohol. That's the first thing you should be doing. You shouldn't be going, "Well, I want to try to do it as a strange elimination diet and cut out all the veget." No. No. Because that's not that's not assessing the problem. And if you try to do that for any length of time, it's going to get worse. And and that's not even how an elimination diet works. Elimination diet, you cut one thing out. One food type that causes inflammation. It's not all vegetables. There's about six different categories of them that would be in those those areas. So, just stop. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.