Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha with Jason Blahas Fitness here. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about protein bars and adding protein uh to junk food. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. Thank you. Let's get over into this topic. Um this is one of those that I'm always kind of laugh at and I see people who do it and they'll buy their protein bars and you'll see uh you know fitness influencers pushing this stuff. Look at this bar, this Quest bar, all this stuff. And you have to look at it and go, why are you people pushing this? Why are why are you selling out to this? But I guess maybe they're getting sponsorships and kickbacks. And at the end of the day, none of it none of it really makes sense um to have all these these protein bars and protein laden junk food. You know, people act like, "Hey, because we added protein to stuff that it's just magically going to uh be be helpful to you, right? They act like it's going to make it this amazing health food that's going to help you build muscle, but it's like it's still junk food." You know, just because it has protein in it, it doesn't mean anything. And a lot of times it's not even amazing protein they're adding. you know, I get it if it's whey or something, but you could just drink a protein shake, okay? And and I think that we're missing the bigger picture here. Um that again, this is an example of marketing, right? This is just companies that make junk food looking to sell a product to cash in on the trend that more people are out there trying to be healthy or trying to work out. Or or the more ironic thing um this is something that I noted before is you know that tendency of people who don't live a healthy lifestyle and don't work out um having protein shakes like I've known guys in the past who you you look and they have protein powders and protein shakes right there on the fridge right there on the countertop and they drink their protein shake and and you're like I didn't know you lift like oh I mean I don't really lift like you know I don't I don't really go to the gym or take it serious or like I occasionally do some push-ups or something and they're not even active and they but they really and truly think that drinking a protein shake is going to help them build muscle. Okay, that's what's fascinating to me. I've seen people on pretty much, you know, standard American diets who they get a lot of protein or let's be clear, like most most Americans get over 100 grams of protein. They're already on a high protein diet for all practical purposes. They're not really getting any benefits from consuming more. They get plenty, especially for the for their purposes. And people say, "But what about protein over feeding a fellas?" Yeah, but they're eating junk food. you know, this is not going to work. Um, but I've known guys who do that or or I remember when I was much younger, you know, the this again shows the power of marketing with this stuff as a young man back in my 20s, you know, back when dinosaurs roame the earth and, you know, we rode Triceratops and brontosauruses or many of you listening. Uh, you know, I was in my 20s and I've walked into a place with some some bros I knew and it's like, you know, three three dudes had a three-bedroom apartment. Uh, all all went to school and everything in their 20s. And you go in there and it's like, man, they had all these different protein. You look up there, they had three different brands. They had Muscle Tech, Isop Pure, all the stuff right there on the counter next to all their their alcohol and vodka. And you look and it's like the fridge is full of pizza and beer. And there's there's alcohol everywhere, but then they got their protein shakes, you know, just kind of right there. And it's like they don't leave anything remotely related to a healthier fit lifestyle. They're literally pizza and beer bros, you know, doing their college thing and, you know, there's like six different types of vodka on the counter next to it. But they had their protein shakes, you know, it was just I remember that seeing that. And they also had other supplements up there. There was like men's multivitamins and they had creatin up, you know, it was like um it was rather comical in retrospect, but you know, you I remember seeing things like that, but it's the same thing now with this whole protein. It's like I I saw one and I kind of look at it and it was like Quaker or someone. I commented on their Facebook under like are you guys serious? You know, they're saying they're promoting their this high protein yogurt. It's maple and brown sugar, but it's like it had added protein. They were marketing it as a as a protein source because they've added protein, but then it's got maple and brown sugar. For those who don't understand what brown sugar is, um, we're not talking about the ZG top song, but brown sugar is just sucrose with with Right. It's just sucrose with like a maple added to it, you know. It's still just table sugar, you know. And it's like they took the whole idea of what bodybuilders and people have done forever and they just they when they're making oats, you make pros. Proats is a really common bodybuilder thing, right? For those not aware, making pro I do sometimes, right? Where you mix protein with your oats works really, really well. But then they're premixing it, but then they're still throwing sugar in it. And it's like, why did you need that? I mean, you've taken the whole bodybuilder idea of let's put a little whey protein in our oatmeal, and then you still just added table sugar. You made it back into a junk food. Okay. But then we see the the protein bars or protein infused cereal or pro, you know, protein now candy bars added to extra protein. I saw some stuff with that coming through like regular thinking like regular protein. It might have been Snickers or something like this is junk food and it's not going to make it healthy because you add some protein. And here's the other thing. If you really It's so the same thing with some of these these protein bars. You look at them and they're just full of junk and and it's like look at all the piles of sugar alcohol and I try to make it sweet. It'll be loaded full of sugar alcohols. And it's like, you really think that that's good for you? Do you think that's good for your gut? Cuz keto people love that like they're looking for ways to make junk food that doesn't kick them out of ketosis, right? So the net carbs on the sugar, that's like a been a big thing in those circles, the junk food, keto, right? You really think those sugar alcohols are good for your gut health? Plus, you know, how many people get stomach cramps and diarrhea from too eat too many of those protein bars? That's what happens. But it's like, why can't we just eat protein foods? Okay, let's assume you really wanted a candy bar. This what I is what I would say to people. You were probably better off drinking a protein shake with a normal candy bar than loading up on these silly protein bars. They're still just full of junk. You look, they're always extra refined fats. There's always sugar alcohols. There's always a bunch of junk thrown into these protein bars to make them palatable and then they're always chewy and rubbery and it's like so you're going you're basically getting an inferior tasting crappy candy bar just trying to get some protein. If you really wanted a candy bar that bad, just go eat a candy bar and drink protein, I guess. And not that I'm endorsing eating junk food. I don't. But it also begs the question of why does everyone assume? Because we add a bunch of, you know, protein to a hyper pallet like a a ultrarocessed food that is now marketed and people are buying it. I buy this one cereal because of the protein and it's like but it's still junk food. Like I'll look at it. It's full of high fructose corn syrup or table sugar and and just junk refined carbohydrate but they've added protein. It's like you get protein from your milk. Like if you really wanted a cereal, fine. Go get a really healthy one with some fiber or some grape nuts or something. If if you insist that you need cereal and if you want more protein in the regular milk, that's why you have stuff like Fair Life and Mtopia, you know, that are much much higher protein. Or you could add some protein powder. I mean, if you really wanted that route. But here's the other question. Why can't we just eat whole foods, you know? Why can you add protein to just some oatmeal if you wanted if you wanted a cereal like thing in the morning? Add some fruit to it. Okay, not that unconvenient. If I can get men, they're quick. Throw them in the microwave a minute. You're still good. You're still getting all that fiber. But these things are not healthy. It's junk food, right? And I see the same thing some of these granas and other stuff I put up. Oh, it's got all this protein, but you look it's like it's still just junk food. It's still calorie dense junk. Like, this is not healthy. And I get it. If you need more energy, it's really easy to get minimally processed foods that are still healthy if you struggle with calories because that's the whole point with the granola. I'll just eat some natural peanut butter. Problem solved. But the thing is, everyone's trying to get all this. It's like, just eat high protein foods. Look, you want to ultra feed. You want to overload protein, add two pounds of chicken breast. Done. Don't tell me you can't make chicken breast taste delicious. I do it all the time. Worst case, squirt some mustard on it and just eat it. It's that simple, people. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.