Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about the fact that most guys are just in uh goofing off, right? They're oftent times just doing endless pump volume, not enough actual real training and they end up doing more than they need to do. Uh but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Thank you. Let's get over into the topic. Um, again, I want to be clear when I say this. I'm taking a sane middle ground. I am not promoting uh Mensor's nonsense of one set a week. I'm not I'm not saying anything like that. Not telling you guys to do uh, you know, 57 rest pause reps at the end of a set and force rep. I'm not saying that. Like sets to failure are fine. Uh, sets within one rep to failure are fine. Like if you're one rep away from failure but not quite failure, like the bar slows, you're in a really good spot on that set. You probably produce pretty dang near optimal muscle growth on that set. Um, but I think the the issue what I'm talking about is too many guys pursue endless volume instead of progressive overload. And we know that progressive overload is the primary driver of muscle growth. And I'm not telling you guys to go run starting strength endlessly. Um, so, so again, I think people don't understand there. I'm not telling you to try to make linear progression with with sub lowquality sets because you see that a lot in the novice programs or where they reset you. Um, but you know, a lot of times they're pretty far from failure after a lot of those resets or a lot of with the starting points. Not what we're saying. Saying get in and do quality work. And when I say too many guys are just doing too much volume, um I have almost never seen anything but endless stalls and dudes start doing 20 sets for muscle groups. Okay. Um I've seen this in novice and advanced lifters if they are not using drugs. You start hitting about 20 sets or more a week. I see person after person after person just stall over and over and over. Um, and that's a lot of what I've seen. It's just endless stalling. So, um, and I've seen it with clients. I've seen it with former clients, you know, people who came to me and they were just stuck. And I've seen it with noviceses. I've seen it with advanced lifters. And then you scale their volumes down and they do good. And I'm not even saying do really low volume. All right? I mean, again, examples. I've taken people who were trying to do 25 sets for a muscle group and they were completely stuck making no gains. Literally stuck at a 135 bench press for five reps and couldn't get past that. Chest not growing, triceps not growing. Took them down to like 10 sets a week. I mean, that's definitely a textbook case I've had. I took him down to 10 sets a week. He started making progress. He started making weekly progress again. Okay. And he put on substantial amounts of muscle. Like I just had him literally almost lean bulk from there. Like not even gaining more than a pound a month. The guy recomposition from there. Um the same thing like if you guys remember uh you know client Justin, we did vlogs. I've done a lot of stuff. Gosh, he came to me over five years like five and a half years ago. He had been stuck at around a 405 squat and you guys saw me build him to a 500. Okay. He was stuck at, you know, his conventional deadlift was under 500. We got it up into the 500s, you know, benching, everything went up. He he continued to make progress, okay? He was doing the whole over 20 sets of muscle group. He was training for like two hours a day, two and a half hours a day, five days a week type stuff and he was just stuck and making no progress at all. I took him down to, you know, again, even for him, you know, something around 12 sets a muscle group, okay? And within, you know, keeping in mind, I think we hit about a 425 squat within two months. He had never hit a 425 squat in his life. He had been training 12 or 13 years already. Okay? And he has a he has a great physique. So again, we're not even talking just just powerlifting, but again, one of those examples of he also understood getting strong for him drug-free is going to be the key to gaining more muscle. And I and I think that's the take-home we have to think about with the training volume. Too much goofing off. Are we seeing progressive overload? And I think that's usually our dead giveaway. Your volumes are too high. Usually if we're not seeing any progress and yeah, I I do mean I've literally taken clients down to, you know, like six sets a week per muscle group before and they start making progress. Okay. And in other words, you come in and bench twice a week, three sets each, you know, you'll be in a good place there. And again, if if the loading is correct, you're good. And I think too many people get caught up in again, they need to feel like they need to work every angle. But it's like when volumes start reaching optimal volumes and your sets are hard, you don't have really heads up of muscles that are underdeveloped if that muscle is a primary mover. Now again, I understand something like the deltoid with three completely separate functions. You know, part of it's on the front of the body, part of it's on the back of the body. All right, delts are a little more nuanced, but a lot of these other muscles really are not. Okay, they're really not. And if you're doing decent range of motion, uh, work and the volume reaches a sufficient level, you know, and again, sufficient, start talking six to 10 sets a week of really hard sets, everything's going to grow. But the same thing with all the jump volume. You know, there's there's been no evidence that to my knowledge ever, even in a lab, that compound movements do not cause just as much muscle as isolation in terms of those muscles. We see it in the real world. We see it repeatedly in the lab. Again, not telling you not to isolate your weakest link. Look, you got a muscle you really need to grow. It's not growing with the other stuff and you want to isolate it, by all means, do so. Not telling you not to. But, you know, are we coming in and just doing endless junk volume? Is it lowquality sets? Okay. And and by junk volume meaning is performance degrading. And that's again a sign of lack of progressive overload. In other words, you're coming in doing an exercise that if you can't replicate that performance, if it's the first movement of the day, this is a problem. Okay? That's another sign you're into junk volume with exercises and just volume that's not even helping you grow and just beating up your recovery. Uh that's a perfect deal. Let's say you come in and you do some whatever type of curl. Um if your performance on it is more than about 10% lower than it would be if you did that exercise fresh, you're not gaining anything from it. Okay? In other words, if you could do 100 pounds for 10 reps on that movement fresh and you're struggling with 90 lbs for eight at that point in your session, that's junk arm. You are probably gaining nothing from it. Okay? And I do mean that. It is probably a waste of time at that point. Right? So, the thing is, it's like if guys are going to try to do a lot of volume, your workouts are going to need to be real long because if you're not replicating, you're not able to replicate performance similar to where it was your fresh, you're just goofing off. Progressive overload, progressive tension is how you gain muscle, not endless volume. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.