There are definitely cases where too much protein is hurting your gains. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and g a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below. Be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you guys will let me know in a comment down below how much protein you consume roughly and what your body weight is and your own experiences, I'd love to hear it. So just drop down below how much you take in. All right, let's get over to this topic. Uh, I want to be clear upfront. I think that we need animal source proteins. I think we need to have generally high protein diets in order to maximize muscle growth. So, I don't want anyone to take this video as me saying the opposite. Okay? I do want to be clear. U for most people, you definitely are going to want more than one gram per kilogram of body weight. All right? So someone like me who's weighing, you know what, about 95 kg, 95 to 96, I'm going to want over 100 grams of protein. And when we say that, I'm assuming most of that is animal source, right? We're not even saying plant source at that case. Um, you know, and I think the reality is that real minimum is about 1.3 grams per kilogram of body weight and optimal is around 1.5 1.6. Okay, that is what the available literature shows on everyone from from natural bodybuilders all the way to Olympic weightlifters. Uh the research does show muscle growth up to about that point, right? There's potential for extra muscle gains up to that. And if you're below definitely below about that 1.3, you you are probably leaving gains on the table. And I'm going to go so far as to say that probably most of that first 100 grams or that that one gram per kilo, most of that really needs to be animal source. If you're not getting much animal source, you might need to take those protein intakes a bit higher, right? And someone who's a vegan probably considerably higher. So animal source is king. Uh you want high bioavailable protein. We do need large amounts for muscle growth. However, the point we get into, you know, we start looking at some of these studies on recmp and protein overfeeding, uh, things on satiety. Here's the thing to remember. There comes a point where forcing down more protein, particularly, man, in today's economy, a lot of people can't afford to eat 300 grams of protein. But I see this a lot, and here's the point I'm going to make. Um, I see guys who do need to gain a little weight. I'm not telling people to bulk fast. I usually tell people no more than a pound a month. But I do see some thinner guys, skinnier guys. They're like, "I cannot eat enough to gain weight and I'm struggling to force down all this protein." Now, if you're obese and you're trying to lose weight and you're trying to lose body fat, hey, that's a great thing. You're struggling to force down the protein. It has a high satiety. It blunts your appetite. Protein has a high thermic effect. Look, if you're trying to maintain a calorie deficit and you particularly are someone who's a bit heavier who struggles with appetite, which again, I've been I've been over 300 lb before. I've lost a lot of weight previously. I get it, guys. I am one of you, guys and gals. I am one of you. All right, that makes a lot of sense. But when people are trying to actively gain muscle, they're either trying to recmp at a given body weight or slowly gain body weight and they're struggling to get enough healthy food, right? They're they're like, I don't want to eat junk food. I'm trying to eat healthy, but I just cannot get enough food down in this protein. I'm just I'm struggling to push it down. Well, think about it. Protein blunts appetite, okay? Blunts appetite. It's not really anabolic past about those thresholds I listed. Unless you're using a bunch of substances that promote higher muscle protein synthesis, and you guys know what I mean by substances. If you're using significant amounts, okay, maybe, okay, sure, you're going to have better protein utilization, but otherwise, it's increasing thermic effect. You're burning more calories. It's blunting appetite, making you less hungry. You're getting nauseous eating 200 like I mean what I mean 160 pound guy who's struggling to gain weight. They're trying to eat 200 250 grams of protein. Like well I tried to get that p that gram per pound or then more and I I'm struggling to get it down. It's like okay here's the thing. We know from protein overfeeding it tends to increase your maintenance calories based on the studies we've seen. So you're having to eat even more food. All right. At that point after about that 1.5 gram per kilo of body weight. Now keep in mind person right there I just listed what about 70 75 kg. All right see where I'm about to go with this. What's 75 times 1.5 right? This person only needs about 120 grams. 120 130 grams. Beyond that it's not really gaining muscle. So, they're trying to force 200 or they're even trying to force 160 and they're struggling with it. This person could cut down to 120 grams of protein. Their calorie needs are going to go down a hair from the shift in thermic effect and they're going to be able to fill that with carbs or healthy fats. You know, the thing is in this case, and I always tell people carbohydrates are very anabolic. Okay? Yes, protein is the most anabolic. Let's be clear, protein is the most anabolic up to that threshold. Beyond that, it starts to not be that useful anymore for building muscle. Carbohydrates, that larger insulin response, that training fuel, that recovery that you're going to get from it. All right, that's beneficial for gaining muscle. Okay, so the person could literally be looking at those numbers and go, man, I could take about 80 to 100. I could replace 300 calories of this protein, three to 400 calories of protein I'm eating with carbohydrate. Okay. Going to get better anabolic hormones, better anabolic signaling, possibly better glycogen stores for training, and they're not going to be as as struggling with the appetite. Or even more so, they're really struggling to eat enough healthy because they don't want to eat junk. And I agree with that. You should be able to make lean gains on healthy food, clean food. All right. How about some healthy fats? How about some omega-3s, omega sixes? All right. This is where uh even even a healthy monounsaturated. This is where you know you could take 80 grams of that protein and replace it with an avocado, right? That 300 300 calories. You place it with an avocado. You could replace it with some natural peanut butter. Get some quality healthy fats. Why? Because they reduce inflammation. They improve insulin sensitivity. So we come back over to again the insulin response from the carbohydrates. How about any healthy fats that improve insulin sensitivity? Well, that's also anabolic for the same pathways where we have better insulin sensitivity. We utilize it better. We get a better anabolic response from the carbs we do eat and even the protein we do eat. Okay, this is beneficial. They could be replacing these difficult to eat calories with either carbohydrate for just an immediate uh better response, better training fuel, better insulin response, or even easier to eat healthy fats. All right, they're gonna we would get better recovery from that better insulin sensitivity. So either one of these are viable options in place of some of that protein. So in the case of this, this may be hurting their gains because not only are they struggling to hit their target calories, they're not getting the most anabolic calories anymore either. They could be getting easier to consume foods that are going to produce a slightly better overall hormonal response in terms of insulin production. insulin sensitivity, lower inflammation versus that extra protein they're trying to force down. All right? So, there are cases where too much protein can actually become a problem. All right? And this is a perfect example.