Is the squat and deadlift enough lower body work for uh the average man? Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness, and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. All right. Um I'm going to go with with yes. And even though again I am very partial to these movements, I'm not going to say that you couldn't pick some other close proxy. Um, I've I've actually seen the same thing suggested by my friend Christian Tibido before, a strength coach who's, you know, promoted routines with a zer squat and a trap bar deadlift. Now, you guys know I hate the trap bar deadlift, but the muscles being worked are quite similar again. So, what I'm gonna say for the average guy, because the average guy uh I mean doesn't care as much about enormous lower body development, but we still want to have really good lower body development. It's it's good for your balance, your look, your overall fitness, your health. Like big legs, big glutes, hamstrings, quads, abductors, calves, all that has enormous metabolic and health benefits, you know. So again, my context here, the average guy, I'm not talking about guys who are trying to say win a bodybuilding show because we all know you probably not winning too many bodybuilding shows doing that, but my audience is not competitive bodybuilders. Um, you know, so again, here you guys see me doing a 10 rep set with 405 on the on the high bar squat. Of course, I have these shorts on right now, but my legs are pretty massive, as you guys recall. You guys have seen me do squats in the 500 plus pound range. Um, I'm known for having pretty good leg development. And, you know, I've used a lot of stuff to build them over the years, but at this point, a lot of times for me, I have phases where I I just do these two movements. And I do think for the average guy, um, you can get everything you need for your lower body there. And I'm going to put the caveats in there of people like, well, why can't they just go do a machine? Um, and that's that's kind of its own topic, too, isn't it? Right. And my answer there would also largely be because they're not going to get all the other benefits, the fitness benefits, the athletic benefits, the full body components. And I think this is what's really special with using these two exercises is between the two of them, not only do you work the entire lower body enough to get good development, okay, it's the other benefits they bring on top of it. And that's what makes it really efficient for your training. This is why I think they should be kind of foundational lifts. Um, but let's let's talk a little bit about what we know about the lower body. Like studies on on the the back squat have found some studies have found that nothing even beats it for glutes. You know, this is a subject of debate, all these other glute exercises, but the reality um glute development when it's been compared in hypertrophy headto head tends to beat stuff like hip thrust even, right? Not by a large margin, but if you know, I saw at least one study done on women where six sets of back squats, deep back squats to failure per week compared to six sets of of hip thrust. They got a little bit better glute development. They got definitely better quad development, but slightly better glute development. So, what does that tell you? So, you look at the squat, the glute, quad adductor. Great. you know, and again, if you're not building your quads with squats, um, there's something wrong with your technique. You may be only half squatting, right? You might be trying to do a really ultra wide stance, and for some people that may not maximize squats, you know, but keep in mind, you're going to get splashover from the deadlift, too. And I think this is the takehome from that. Uh, we've got good studies showing the calf development off of a normal back squat. At least the EMG is pretty good. and we all feel our our calves on it. So when you start looking at these, you know, again, barring the the fact that calves tend to be highly genetic, of course, um but when you look at everything, [snorts] you're definitely getting quad, you're getting glutes, adductors, all great development, a limited, very small amount of hamstring, but definitely calf, right? Well, what about the deadlift on the lower body? Well, yeah. Does it work the quads? Yes. I have seen guys grow their quads not as good as a squat will, but I've seen guys who deadlift [clears throat] only and they have big quads. In fact, I I took a year and a half off from from squatting. I wasn't going to compete in powerlifting again. I went back broke state records later. I took a year and a half off from all squatting, any sort of leg press, anything that worked the quads other than just my deadlifts. I hammered deadlifts into the ground, you know, with some posterior chain work and my quads stayed really big. In fact, after a year and a half of not squatting, I mean, I was able to still squat 425 immediately. Like, I was able to walk in, warm up, ramp up, and still hit a 425 squat just from doing deadlifts. Okay. So, again, your your context. So, they do work quads, but glutes, absolutely, hamstrings, massive for hamstrings, calves, all this stuff. So the conventional deadlift then kind of balances it back out. Little bit of quad, mostly hamstring, whereas in the properly done squat, it's going to be reversed. But your whole lower body is going to get developed. So here's the thing. They do all that, but then what else do they bring to the table? Their upper body exercises, too. Has been confirmed in plenty of studies, particularly the deadlift, but we could argue the squat. Squat's a great low back exercise in terms of just developing it. It's great abdominal exercise. Okay, squats also give us that conditioning component. There's a strong athletic component. They increase sprint speed. They increase jumping height, but they also again help build our entire core, trunk, a lot of those muscles. But what about the deadlift? Deadlift absolutely grows the upper body. Anyone who argues otherwise has not looked at reason. Like you can't claim it doesn't and then claim to be evidence-based. You have to be a bro bodybuilder based. That's the only way you could take that approach because studies that have looked at it grows the upper body quite a bit. EMG studies that look at it, what do they find? Everyone's thinking, "Oh, low back not as much as that midback." Lats get really lit up. traps get lit up again. Abdominals. Hell, I've even got a chest pump while doing deadlifts. Definitely forearms. Okay. [snorts] And have we not seen skinny noviceses come in and just squat and deadlift and their a whole upper body group? Now, granted, they're noviceses, but this has been documented. It's been noted just with enough calories, um, those things grow, right? that upper body definitely grows from them. But then we also have the athletic component. We also have the bone density. These are these are movements that are going to improve your bone density through your whole body because again they're loading the spine, loading the legs. That's a gamecher in the long term. They're also going to improve your athleticism because there's a coordination. Now that I would argue the deadlift does more for the upper body development, but the squat will do more for coordination because again you're stabilizing a weight through your whole body through a long range of motion. This is very functional. But if you think in terms of different sports carryover, athleticism, coordination, moving the body through space, right? These are wins. This is one reason I've said, look, if I was going to pick just four movements for people, which I wouldn't do that, I've actually said squat, deadlift, weighted dip, weighted pull-up, or weight to chin up. Why? Because they're all loadable. They're all big movements, and they all move the body through space. And I think that moving the body through space is an enormous component towards overall athleticism and things like that. Uh, all right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.