arguing over which isolation exercise is better as a serious conversation is moronic. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah's Strength and Fitness. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, and again, the reason I say this is that when you really think this through and you look at the subtle differences even even in research as far as muscle growth with a different isolation or people using these minor form variations, uh, we need to be clear there's probably not really significant muscle growth if you're going to failure on pretty much any isolation movement that hits the same muscle. Um, and I I think people way way overvalue this as a real discussion. And I'm not saying there aren't some instances where there there could be. Look, we could make debates about, you know, a straight bar versus an easy bar as far as the bicep. Look, we can make arguments for this stuff, okay? We can make arguments about different heads of muscles or or like that with slightly different muscles. But what you have to understand, most of that is working under the assumption that you're not necessarily training super hard. Okay? Uh because realistically, what else is going to fail? uh you know so again if you're talking about single joint exercises and you have a muscle that is a primary mover you know at what point do people think it's not being worked or or it's close to maximally and I get it there's going to be variations that we just don't feel the right way we can make these cases and and I think a lot of it comes down to personal comfort comes down to what feels good on our joints and tendons and I I really think that is the biggest uh situation when it comes to any form of isolation movement. It's not even about muscle growth stimulus, and I'll break down a little further why. It's about comfort. Does this version make your tendons hurt? Does this version make your joint hurt? Does this just feel more comfortable in the flow? That's a lot of personal preference, you know, and there's going to be people who they get tendon pain if they do a preacher curl. There's going to be people who they get certain uh pain in their forearms if they do a straight bar curl. It's going to pe people if they do the wrong type of lateral, they feel uh their their gleoid uh being damaged a little bit and getting inflamed. Okay, we get all that. Some people are going to get uh on a leg extension, they're going to get some patellar tendon issues, particularly if they they try to go too heavy on it. This is really our biggest concerns on isolation movements. It really should be. But this idea that they're going to be a dramatic difference in muscle growth once multiple sets are done for a week and you're doing really hard sets to failure is ludicrous because even when we look at big compounds versus isolation, the the data is pretty clear. Isolation movements don't cause more muscle growth than compound movements. Okay? Because if they get close enough to failure, the primary movers or at least one of the primary movers on the big compound is getting pretty pretty much maximal stimulation. There's not a lot of muscle fibers left. And it doesn't matter that we have a lot of this data on, you know, some being proximal and distal at different points with EMG because here's the issue with that. Those are usually non-failure sets. Okay? A lot of times when you look at those, look at what the rep count is. They're doing multiple reps and they're they're putting it on like it'll be whatever an eight eight rep set not to failure and they'll use rep six or seven or eight or whatever uh to determine that. But it's still generally subfure sets. And I think what most people would find is that if you did sets to true failure and hook the EMGs up and you only check the rep right before failure, all these differences in activity start to go away, don't they? Okay? And even then, the differences in muscle growth are going to be very very minor. They're going to be very minor. Um, so people make these crazy arguments and I want people to really think about that. Do you really think doing a preacher curl. Like if you just spent tons of time overloading a preacher curl and taking the sets to failure that your bicep growth is going to be dramatically different versus if you did a strict straight bar curl or you did a dumbbell incline curl with the same amount of intensity meaning needs to be to failure. Yeah, we get that that the the preacher curl probably does work the brachiialis more in the early reps and that the straight bar curl is going to work the bicep more during all the reps because the brachiialis is a little bit more deemphasized due to the you know the supine position. Sure. Okay. But are we going to really pretend that that muscle is not getting near maximum growth if those sets are taken to failure? This is one reason bodybuilders are able all the time to just oh I shock the muscle like they use this muscle confusion by just changing exercise yet they still grow yet we know progressive overload is king. Sure because the muscle is still getting maximum stimulus and as long as it's growing progressive overload is going to be present meaning they might do five different types of curls over four months but if they rotate through them they tend to be stronger at them when they come back because the bicep grew. So your progressive overload could even be every time you do the exercise again as long as a high enough degree of intensity is there. It's still going to be the intensity that's the driver. And and I think the other thing that people forget where what do you think is doing the work if you were doing any sort of single joint exercise? Do you really think it's possible? Unless you're using some crazy cheating, then we're not single joint. Like if you're using huge amounts of body English and movement, it's not a single joint movement. You turn it into a compound. So barring that, what's possibly doing the work? No, really, really. I mean, no matter how you curl, unless you cheat it up and you rotate the wrist all the way back at the top to unload the bicep, and I've seen guys do this stuff. Any type of curl, biceps doing the work. So if it reaches failure like if you reach momentary failure on a moderately let's say a very strict all the way up to a semi-strict version of these sure there might be cases where some of the curls are working the front delt some or the side delt or the trap or the forearm sure of course but if you reached actual muscle failure on it and you're not cheating like crazy what did the work the well the bicep and if the bicep failed if you reached momentary failure in that on that movement. And you can't say, "Well, the lats failed." This is the argument we can make on a pull-up or whatever. Fine. You can't make that on a single joint movement. You just can't. So, if the muscle reached failure, do you really think you have huge amounts of muscle fibers that didn't get stimulated? Do we think it's going to be dramatically different? Again, we can make the case when you're five reps in reserve, sure, there could be a very significant difference, but if you're actually training hard, this is unrealistic. And yet, it's such a massive topic that entire content creators and influencers build half their database arguing about the importance of the exact form on isolation or comparing this exact isolation, right? Many FBI has made their whole career on it when it is so largely irrelevant in comparison to simply how intensely you are training on that movement is absolutely ludicrous. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.