It doesn't matter why people train. We need to be accepting of other people's goals as long as they are getting fit. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough uh to drop a comment below, I would appreciate that so much. Um, this is something that I need to be careful of because there had been times when I kind of was harsh on people for competing in bodybuilding, even though at this at the time I was doing it, I literally had friends who competed in bodybuilding, like real life friends. So, it's just kind of funny. We we do tend to do that in in this area. You know, we tend to be little other people stuff. You know, powerlifterss will will mock bodybuilders. Bodybuilders uh will mock power lifters. Some of us will be like, "Oh, your goal is silly." You know, all this stuff, right? Or people will make fun of CrossFitters and CrossFitters just think we're all goofy. And here's the thing, guys. We live in a society with a health and obesity epidemic. All right, let that think about that for a minute. We are in a society with a health and obesity epidemic. At this point, we should be encouraging people to get into the gym for any reason, for any goal, okay? It doesn't even matter what it is. All right? And yeah, I will be the first to say, "Guys, you need to train your legs. Women, you need to train your arms." Right? So, stuff like like that. Sure, we can give guys a hard time for that, okay? Because they're they're shortch changing their health. They're shortch changing their progress. It's like you're already going to be in the gym, get all the results. Um, but at least they're in the gym and at least we do have to give them credit for that because again we need to be clear over 90 to 95% of all deaths in America are cardiovascular, diabetes or cancer related. That is that is that is what is killing us. That's what's killing us as a as a population. Right? So anyone who's trying to be fit, who's trying to work out, we need to encourage that. Now, that doesn't mean we should encourage bad methods or crazy diets or dangerous diets. All right? I'll be the first to be like, "Look, this carnivore thing has to go. Veganism has its own problems. It's silly. Carnivore is straight dangerous to your health." But we're back over to this is literally dangerous to people's health while pretending that it's good for it. Like, this is a problem. But as far as people's goals or why they're in the gym, no, we have to be accepting of that. And fitness culture used to not be so divided. And and I think this is part of the problem is human nature because those of us who are entrenched in fitness or seriously involved with it because we see so this is our world. You know this is our world that we start dividing off because humans love to put themselves in a group. They love inroup outroup bias. There used to be a time where people who who actually trained and took lifting or working out or going to the gym seriously were such a small segment of the population. It was a brotherhood and sisterhood already. Like you went a normal gym. There was camaraderie. There was community. Um a long time ago, 25 years ago when I got into that's how it was, right? There was camaraderie. Like everyone who was going to the gym like people they acted like family. All right. Unless someone really, you know, messed up and caused problems and, you know, they might need to be booted from the gym, but different different era, but it's because it was smaller. We already had an ingroup outgroup bias back then. It was uh people who don't work out or whatever, they're 98% of the population. We're already the elite here. But I think because so many more people train, humans like to divide themselves off into groups. It's it's human nature. We do that. But it's not always good because in this case again keep in mind how much more obese and unhealthy our society has gotten since then. Okay. Especially in the last 10 years since I've been doing uh social media, right? since I've been doing the the YouTube and the Facebook and all this because I've been doing these like 13 years uh putting out fitness content that longer I've been published for 12 years. U so so when you look at that how much more obese and out of shape society has gotten, we we've got to stop this nonsense and we've got to just be encouraging. We need to work on getting gym culture back. And that includes myself, right? I'm not just talking to all of y'all. Talking to myself, too. We have to do better on this. Um, and we have to be more accepting of other people's goals than encouraging because at least they're not where the general population is. And when we start acting that way and we have this elitism towards each other, it's not a good look. Instead, we need to all be encouraging, right? I have a habit of taking some guy who's who's, you know, really lean and aesthetic and if they're really we dude, you know, see you got a great physique. Hey, let's work on your strength more, you know. And by that same token, you have the same thing of even when I'm powerlifting and I'll get bodybuilders who could they even give me a hard time now. I'm like, guys, I'm not I'm not that by any measure. Why, you know, why aren't you ruler in shape and lean, you know? But I'm like, dude, you look like me in the offseason. What are you talking about? Um, but we we do this, but we probably shouldn't. We need to be more accepting. It needs to be community. It needs to be us encouraging everyone and their goals. And I do that a lot more like on say my Facebook and stuff now uh because I have a larger set of audience there and I have a lot of people who come through who they just wanted to lose weight, be in shape, they've lost a lot of weight. They're not really jacked. They don't move heavy weights. But you know what? I still have advice and help for them. They're still there on my page. They're still posting. They're part of my little little communities on there. Some of them have their own outreaches. And so, yeah, we have to do this. We have to look at it and say when we have a society this is this out of shape. Someone who's just working on the goal of losing 50 pounds or 100 pounds that's got to be celebrated. Oh no they don't have an elite total. Oh no they're never going to step on a stage. Well who cares? Oh no they're not going to go compete in the CrossFit games. It doesn't matter. We need to all be community and not just these smaller communities of each group sees itself as completely better than all the others. We've got to stop that because realistically everyone who I everyone here who has been going to the gym consistently three days a week for more than a year and who eats a healthy diet at all is already in the elite. We're already a technically elite group as far as mainstream society is concerned. We don't have to divide that off into these others. And I get it. In competition it matters. Okay. So, so when you're in competition, you have to be that way with the other competitors. But even then, you still see brotherhood and and welcomeness among people who are competing against each other. So, even that doesn't really fly, does it? Right. We have to continue to work on facilitating a positive gym culture with all this stuff. We have to, guys, we've got to be welcoming to outsiders. We have to be welcoming to new people. We have to make them feel encouraged and welcome because that is a big factor for new people who are scared to get in shape. That intimidation and that is literally killing people. They're going to die because of that much younger. We have to work on it. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next