Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals about avocados, one of my favorite foods uh for athletes and lifters. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. Thank you. Let's get over to the topic. Um people who see my grocery shopping, um they see my meals other than in periods where I'm doing extremely low fat, um I'm a big fan of avocados, right? And it doesn't matter whether I'm doing a higher carb or even when I was messing a little with with lower carb approaches in the past. Um, avocados tend to be a staple for me. Now, I will point out some people say, "Well, they're expensive where I live." I want people to understand most of my audience is in the United States. Um, avocados are priced really well here because they're mostly grown on this continent. Um, they're they're locally available. Um, they're very inexpensive where I live. So context over 80% of my followers whether it's the tubes or Facebook are in the United States. So we always need a context for that uh in these conversations and and I get it from a socioeconomic perspective. They may not be an option where you live but you know you have other things that can be you know similar type foods olives I suppose or things like that but avocados um they're so easy to prepare and cook with. And the thing is when you start looking at a variety of studies on them before we start looking at the individual benefits and why I like them uh for lifters, you start looking at a variety of studies like when type 2 diabetics are given avocados, they generally have better glucose control, right? You see improved insulin sensitivity. Okay? Right? Especially when they replace some of their carbohydrate with it. And keep in mind, I'm a big fan of high carbohydrate diets, right? particularly uh fibrous carbs, right? Man, I'm a big fan of the sweet potatoes and brown rice and all that. We all know that. Like these are these are big staple foods for me. Um so on, you know, on that topic, uh yeah, I'm AI'm a massive avocado fan. Um and again, and it has to do with with what's in them. Uh the same thing you start going digging through studies on lipid profiles, cardiovascular risk, right? Avocados being a healthy fat tend to lower LDL just like adding one a day to people's diet reduces LDL. Um, and it being a healthier fat, it can raise HDL. Although the trend is generally the lowering of LDL, you see where we're going from a health perspective. This is before we get into why we might want it as lifters um, and and athletes. But when you're just looking at the health perspective, um, it's a solid whole food with a great nutrition profile. And when it's looked at in the lab, it improves insulin sensitivity and glycemic control and diabetics. Um, people with with cardiovascular risk, it improves their lipid profile. Okay? This is a So, if we're seeing a food do these things, what do we know? This is a really good food for metabolic health. Okay? And anything that's good for metabolic health, as you can imagine, probably good for lifters because metabolic health is a big part of the muscle growth process, particularly lean muscle growth, okay? Particularly lean muscle growth. So, what's going on with it? What what what is it that it's comprised of? Because it's not really a great source of protein. So, what are we looking for? Well, step back and think about what's in it. All right? biggest chunk of the calories come from monounsaturated fats move because it's oleic acid. Okay, same thing found in extravirgin olive oil. Now, you see where we're about to go with this? It is extra virgin if it's an avocado. Like even if you take a fresh avocado and you do you do cook it into some stuff, man, we're still pretty much unbroken down, right? Unless you cooked it a really long time, this is still pretty much just like extra virgin olive oil in terms of that quality fat. And and I think we all we all understand MUFAS in this regard. Look at the uh Mediterranean diet known for extreme longevity health benefits. It's very rich in oleic acid. Okay. And we know that particular fat is really beneficial to humans, right? This is a definitely a healthy fat. And what's interesting, you see people on all ends, all even all the different fringe diet people all kind of agree that this particular fat is good. Even the keto, how many of the hardcore keto people even like, dude, avocados, olive, you know, olive oil, like they'll even admit, look, this is definitely a healthy fat. Like, we almost no one disagrees. The vegans, oh, this is a super healthy fat. Mainstream cardiologists will look at the data, this is fantastic, right? Everybody loves this. Well, then they love the extra virgin olive oil, but think about the avocado is the exact same fat. Like, it's the same fatty acid when you look at it. So, again, we look at different types of fat, you know, like alpha lenic acid is alpha linoic acid, right? It doesn't matter where it comes from. Uh, same thing with ole with the oleic acid and it's it's a rich source of it. So, we have that. Okay. Well, we know that that's going to improve things like insulin sensitivity. So, as a lifter, do we want insulin sensitivity? Hell yeah, we do. Why? insulin sensitivity is good for muscle growth. It's good for staying leaner. The higher your insulin sensitivity is, the more anabolic of a response you get from your food. Okay? You shuttle nutrients into muscles easier with less insulin. This is a positive thing, right? Helps build muscle, helps with muscle recovery. you know, even though we can't necessarily burn it as training fuel, you know, if our carb needs are met for that, we're we're generally okay. Okay. What else are we looking at with it? Well, the reduction of inflammation. This this particular fat is mildly anti-inflammatory. Well, that's one of the reasons it's so good for heart health, reducing inflammation, right? Reduce inflammation in the arteries and everything. But what about muscles and tendons? Yeah. Better recovery. So, this is one of the reasons I point out we need healthy fats, improved recovery due to uh better insulin sensitivity, reducing inflammation. But what else is going on with it? It's high in fiber. Even though it's not particularly high in carbohydrate, it's a low carbohydrate food yet most of the carb is fiber. It's the avocados are super high in fiber. I think if people go check it out and they realize that 500 calories of avocado is a pretty significant, right? Pretty significant amount of fiber. And it's it's this adds up, right? It adds up a lot. So when you start doing the numbers, something like 150 calories of avocado is seven grams of fiber, right? So 600 calories of avocado for a lifter is not really a big deal. Where you at with that? See, we're about to go about 27 28 grams of fiber. Okay, we're up to getting amounts that we know that we need for health. Now, I recommend a lot more, but even a lot of people are like, "Yeah, man. I mean, if you're getting like 30 grams of fiber compared to most people, you're in a really good place." You know how easy it is to get that from just the avocado. Okay? There's a reason even a lot of of low carb people, they'll be like steak and avocado and then they end up having much much better nutrition profiles. Okay, that fiber is is king. But what else has it got going on? Potassium. There's over 400 milligrams of potassium in that same amount, you know. So, so again, where we at? You start eating 5 600 calories of it, we're approaching two grams of potassium. Okay, we need that. Potassium is critical for muscle hydration, critical for performance. Rich in potassium. All right, we're we're getting a lot of good stuff. All right. What about antioxidants? Vitamin C, vitamin E, vitamin K. All right, this is a big deal. Okay, obviously the vitamin C we all get, it all makes sense, but we get that from lots of other vegetables. It's not like vitamin C is hard to get. I mean, it's really easy to get all your vitamin C from broccoli. Okay, super easy, right? But how many foods out there have all three of those at once? Very. It's a very very few. Fact, the avocado is not as rich in vitamin C as some of these others. But that K and that E. Okay, this is this is a big deal. That vitamin K, right? Heart health, big deal. Reducing atheroscerosis. Vitamin K is protective against atheroscerosis. All right, see where we're about to go with that, man. That heart health then. But in terms of just our overall benefits, it helps balance vitamin D for calcium transport, bone density, right? Bone density, vitamin K is important for bone health. We need this as lifters. But then that vitamin E, that antioxidant combo, it's got all these other antioxidants, like all these, there's hundreds of different ones in it. But that vitamin E, it's very hard a lot of times on some healthy diets to get enough vitamin E. But we can get it real easy from avocado. But what else is happening? It's full of healthy fats. Okay. What's the biggest issue we run into with lower fat diets? Uh we don't absorb fats soluble vitamins as well like vitamin E, the vitamin K. All right. The fact that it's loaded full of healthy healthy fats, oleic acid, helps transport those into our body. We absorb more fat soluble vitamins in the presence of those healthy fats. So, not only has it got all this vitamin E and vitamin K, it provides the mechanism for absorption. All right? So again, these nutrients that we need for helping build tissues, helping with recovery and the vitamin E matters for our cell membranes quite a bit. Recovery from training, bone density. All right, it is bringing a lot of nutrition to the table that helps us with all these things, right? The avocado amazing food for athletes and lifters, you know, to help us with training recovery specifically. your your muscles, your tendons, your bones. Pretty much a superfood for us.