All right, let's have a serious talk about the whole concept of balancing freedom with restricting uh refined sugars. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. If you would please click like down below, I would greatly appreciate it. U and if you're not following or subscribed, please do so and leave me a comment down below. You know, this is always an interesting dialogue and people get really entrenched. They get really upset. Um, and and I think it bothers them a lot because they're seeing it as a discussion of of taking away freedoms. Uh, when I'm actually personally slightly libertarian leaning. So, I'm I'm going to spend kind of a different perspective on the whole idea of some sort of restriction of refined sugars or bands or whatever else. And I'm going to put it in a historical and legal context so that people understand what we are saying. Okay. And it's also because they're downplaying the negative effect and they don't actually understand uh how problematic it is, the issues with social addiction, everything else. Um but I mean some of stuff is really simple. Very few people out there, even people who would disagree with this sort of thing, will still be the first to say, um well, do you think it should be legal to give children alcohol? People say, well, maybe maybe if it's the parents, maybe. Um, should it be legal for the school to give your alcohol? Should it be legal for the school to give your children uh cigarettes? Okay. Now, people are going to jump and say, "Oh, you can't compare these things." No, I think we literally can. From a health consequence and an addiction perspective, yes, I think that it is not an unreasonable comparison. It's because you grew up in a culture that taught you that it's okay to eat large amounts of these things that you don't see it that way. Just like had you been given um vodka from age three, you might not view vodka and alcohol the same way. Very straightforward. So the point I'm going to make with that and and this is what plenty of experts have said. The problem is we have a cultural situation to where uh we see it as normal. We see it as a treat thing to eat large amounts of refined sugars as part of our society. It's put in everything so much that is something that's been really normalized culturally. So that creates a lot of complexity of of freedom uh nuance versus public safety. That that makes it a way more complicated issue than it than it would be otherwise. And that does that really does create complexity. It does create issues of arguing freedom. So something to think about with that um what some experts have pointed out if right now if no refined sugar had ever been invented like sucrose which is table sugar made from uh you know sugar cane which has been processed and gone through a process to strip all the fiber out all the nutritional value to just leave the pure sucrose uh you know which is that white crystal you get left left over I can assure you you're not finding that white crystal like that anywhere in nature If that was invented this year and it had not been discovered and companies started trying to feed it to your children, there would be medical doctors, nutritionists, FDA, everyone would be freaking out. If right now this was invented and we tested the effects in a human and we saw what it does when consumed in significant amounts, straight up, it would be a controlled substance. And I don't mean that as an exaggeration. I am saying that literally literally that is the case. It would be viewed as a potentially dangerous controlled substance. And if someone tried to feed it to your children and you did not already have a history of it and a cultural bias towards it, you would be like, "It does what? It does what to the liver? It does what to the pancreas? And you want to give this to my children? Oh, hell no." That would be your response. Okay, that would be the public response. We need to be clear on that. So this is the context that we are having with this. And then the issue that we have is of course deeper because we now have generations of this being a normal thing. We make treats. We make sweets. We make these things. We make these things so that in the amounts that we're consuming are killing us. They are killing us as a society. So when people have any sort of conversation about restricting it, banning it, whatever, people freak out my freedoms. It's like, well, this is this is an interesting one because here's the question I would then ask. Is it your freedoms or were you addicted to this during your childhood? Okay. And I the question I'm going to ask and I'm not saying that look I have the answers. What I'm saying is when you're approaching this conversation, what you also do need to think about is that freedom. In other words, were you ever given a choice in your freedom or did your parents and grandparents and other people just give you the cakes and the pies and the sweets and the soda as a child? You're addicted to these super sweet hyper palatable foods that are harming you from a young age. So if you were addicted to them from a young age, is is it freedom? So, it would be the same as saying, "Well, you know, I was given a bunch of the school gave me a bunch of cigarettes and I kind of got hooked on smoking cigarettes as a kid, but it's my freedom." Was it? If it's your freedom, then why is it so hard for people to give it up then knowing how bad it is? Why is it so hard then? How many people out there right now, how many people when you talk to them like, "Man, I want to get into shape. I want to lose weight. I want to I want to get better. I don't want to feel this way. I don't want these medical conditions, but it's just so I just can't give up this junk. I like to eat. I can't give up these foods. Listen to that for a moment. I want to get in shape. I want to get healthy, but I want to eat these foods more. And I can't give them up. That's because you're an addict. So, what are we talking about with the freedoms here? I mean, is this is this freedom or is this the addict saying, "You're not taking this away from me." Well, how about you're not stopping me from giving this to my children? All right. This is this becomes a more complex issue. And I'm not saying that I have the answers. What I'm saying is this is a lot more complicated of a problem than we are willing to admit to the point where when you discuss this of saying, "Hey, maybe it should be legal to give this to your kids." That's a tyranny really. I I could argue that it's tyrannical to force addictive, horribly addictive, hyper palatable foods onto children that are going to destroy their health and cause them to be fat for life from a young age. I think that's tyrannical, right? My opinion. So, I don't know what the right answer is here. This is this is a truly complicated issue, but I can tell you right now, it is not a straightforward case of well, this is tyranny and this is freedom and this is not. It's far from it. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.