Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about how uh barbells are really the foundation of our training. And and if I'm going to be honest, people could get by with nothing but barbells and they would be just fine. Um, in other words, I'll explain kind of why there are foundational lists, but I also want to be clear that if you had access to only barbell exercises, and I'm not saying that we do. I'm not saying that we should, but as long as you had appropriate racks and benches and everything, uh, you could build your entire body top to bottom. There wouldn't be a single muscle group that you couldn't 100% stimulate in the body with just barbells. So, we do need to be clear on that when we say, "Well, we have different tools in the toolbox." Um, you know, I don't disagree with that. Uh, and I think we do have a lot of tools in the toolbox and we have access to a lot of different amazing tools, but ultimately most of those tools are really unnecessary with the existence of the barbell. It kind of it kind of creates a situation where we can do whatever we want. Um, and you know, it's funny because people will say, "Well, I can't feel that." It's like it's irrelevant what you feel. will just learn to perform the exercises. Um, like anyone with good body awareness can figure out very very quickly uh how to work every muscle in their body with a barbell. The basic anatomy, basic body awareness, it really can be done. And it's not an issue of what where you feel, it's that you're probably just not performing the exercise correctly or where you feel doesn't matter. And I think people forget that. That's been found in the labs, too. that really where you feel isn't always indicative of what's being stimulated. And I think that that really throws a lot of people off. Like it's not necessarily true. So, over to the point, uh, barbell should be the foundation of our training. It should be. And when you look at all these basic barbell movements, and not just the ones I'm doing, I'm doing some of these classic lifts. You start looking into uh even some of the various Olympic style variations, power cleans, power snatches. Uh this has always been the foundation of training and athletes have known this forever and you go into various athletic circles in the past and plenty of your your highle athletes in every sport from boxing to football to rugby uh you know sprinters they they all lived on barbell movements. Okay. And this has been all through the Olympics and stuff too. historically uh the the people who what they found even at certain points um when you went and looked at when the Russians or the Chinese or whatever winning all these Olympics you go look at their gyms they were all barbells like even though they had the funding uh you didn't see a lot of the machines and other stuff it was barbells barbells barbells for building athletes and I and I think that we need to understand that with these big structural movements so when we talk about barbell exercises I mean squats deadlifts overhead presses you know benches rows things like this, right? And then we could go a lot further. We can go a lot further from that. Uh but in in that context, when you realize that that everything is being worked, you you understand of what this brings to athleticism. Okay. And I really hate though when people use it like, well, for purely for bodybuilding purposes, but no one is doing that, right? Like that is such an insane argument because almost no one out here who is coaching or putting out information if if your entire audience was highlevel competitive bodybuilders, you would be broke. You would have no audience. Okay? And if you're going to talk highle competitive bodybuilders, then you have to be talking drugs more than the training because drugs matter more than the training does as far as the individual nuances of the trainings in that context. You should really just be running a drug channel. If that's your target audience, you don't even need to be really discussing the lifting because a million styles have put people on the Olympia platform. Millions of completely diverse unrelated training styles, which tells you that it's just not that important. Uh people don't want to hear that, but you know, they'll say for bodybuilding, but no one's doing that. We all care about our fitness, right? Other than a few really young guys starting out, and they're going to care. Everyone does care about their overall athleticism and health and fitness. And so, what I would say, you're going to be training anyways. You're going to be training anyways. You might as well get all the benefits. And that's the point that I make. You know, people will say, "Well, we have to Yeah, but we should all have multiple goals." And I promote well-rounded fitness here. Like I run like I run several days a week pretty serious, right? So I'm not just in here lifting. Um I I do a lot of cardio and conditioning. It's it gets an equal dedication of my time. It's like, yeah, you guys see me repping 315 on the bench, doing rep work of 500 on the squat as an old man. I'm almost 50. Um but I run, you know, so I I'm over here promoting well-rounded fitness. So I don't care about these bodybuilding arguments. And most of you shouldn't either because most people are out here training for diversity of goals, you know, and I think they need to remember that everyone who's training who is not competing in bodybuilding or they're not a 19-year-old kid trying to just get new into that. Everyone has multiple goals. They want to be fit. They want to feel good. People want to look good, right? But most people who are even training to look good are not trying to look like a highle bodybuilder. not their end goal. Okay, so that's the thing. And even people say, well, maybe the Hollywood act, but all those actors are all on barbells and body weight movements. Go look at any of the training of of all these people when they put it out for the movie roles. They're doing heavy squats and deadlifts and bench presses and pull-ups and right every single time. every single time when you go look at what their trainers have them do because those trainers who they're they're getting them ready for a million-dollar role. They know what actually works. They're having to hire good trainers. That's what they have them do. But let's get over to it. This should be our foundation. Why? Because it we work the most muscles. Big barbell movements work the most muscles for every single set and every rep that you do. you get a lot done. I mean, uh, let's before you even get into the upper body stuff, the average person if they just came in and did squats and deadlifts, you know how much muscle they would add to their body? You know how much their fitness would improve their bone density, their health, those two exercises alone in terms, and I'm not saying give you the best arms because the arms are really, really, really, really tiny muscle. I don't think people understand how little muscle's in their arms relative to the rest of their body. Um it it's not even 5% of your muscle tissue. So yeah, you would build tremendous amounts of muscle. Your fitness would improve, right? Your all your health markers would improve, your bone density, all you know, all the structures of your body, your joints, your tendons, everything would improve. Okay? Right? before we even get into bench press and I push a lot of benching but you know you can make a case for rowing and clean and overhead press you throw those in or even get over to the bench the average person would get tremendous absolutely tremendous phenomenal benefits like these are our foundational exercises you know you start throwing some sort of press in like a bench press you know rows you know no I don't expect the average person to row what I'm rowing there. I don't think people realize it's not just one plate on the bar. Uh but even then, you know, these are our foundation. And it's not like you can't do some isolation here. I'm doing strict curls with the barbell. It's not like you can't train your biceps with a barbell, right? But I digress. you know, barbells. This is this is where our biggest structural movements, all of our exercises that load our entire trunk. And people say, "Well, I don't want my back load." Well, you should. All right? We need to be clear on that. Rowing, overhead pressing, squats, deadlifts, these movements that load your body have the most benefits. You need those things to be strong. You need your trunk muscles to be strong, your abdominals, your obliques, your erectors. Okay, same thing. How about your hips, your glutes? Like, you need these muscles developed if you want to be athletic, if you want to be fit, if you want to be healthy, if you want to have all these benefits of again staving off osteoporosis, surviving accidents, right? Strong people are harder to kill. You need these structural movements. And then when it comes over to we start talking fitness and athleticism, these are the movements that are going to carry over. And people need to be clear. It's not like you are gaining less muscle because you do them, you know, and I think that point has to be made. They're like, well, but I I'll come over here and but it's like that machine or the way you're isolating on that smaller movement doesn't build more muscle. It's not like you're losing muscle potential by doing bigger exercises. There's no evidence at all that they don't produce just as much muscle, just spread more through the body. The problem is they're hard. That's the problem. They're hard. They take a lot of effort. A machine doesn't. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.