Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about the fact that you can uh maximize all your possible muscle growth with the most basics of exercises. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribe, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Let's get over to the point. And this is something I think people forget. Um, again, they've been so clouded by what guys look like using lots of drugs that they've forgotten that back in the day, guys built great physiques without access to really any of the equipment that people think of as modern stuff, they didn't have machines and stuff. And I I think people forget that. They forget that machines didn't even really become a thing for lifting. even a lot of the the cable type stuff that people have, all these things didn't really exist. Um, you know, until well into like the 70s, maybe around 1980ish, uh, the Nautilus machines and stuff came into vogue. And before that, people just didn't really have access to many of these things. And yet, they built phenomenal physiques. Okay? U, they built phenomenal physiques. And I'm talking Arnold Schwarzenegger and Franco Columbo physiques. That's once gear came in. But think about it was right after that when even the Nautilus machines hit and guys weren't necessarily getting better physiques as a result of it. They just started adding more drugs. But if you go further back, um, go look at like the the silver bronze era bodybuilders and athletes, those guys had amazing muscular development, pretty much maximum size that a natural is going to get. Okay, they were as big as you can possibly get natural and they had the most basic stuff. Not saying they didn't use dumbbells and things too here and there. Um, but realistically those guys had barbells. They had weighted body weight exercises. Go look at what their routines looked like. you start reading through it, you're like, "Wait, did squat, bench, deadlift, pull-up, overhead press, and cleans, uh, pull-ups, chin-ups, dips, some calf or they did their calves with a barbell half the time, right? They just did barbell calf raises. These guys had the just these absolute most basic of equipment and they had no trouble maximizing muscle growth." And I'm not telling you uh to disregard these tools. I mean, you literally going to see me using a reverse hyper here. I own a reverse hyper. I bought one. Okay. I paid over thousand dollars for that thing. I mean, so I'm not even hating on necessarily all machines. What I'm telling people is none of it's actually necessary to reach your goals. These are objects that can be convenient. They can be convenient, but I would argue that in many cases they're inferior. You know, people get so hung up in the well, it's isolating different stuff, but but why do you need to isolate different stuff? There's no evidence. Like even you have the evidence-based circle of the ones who push this stuff the most, right? Is that not who does it? Is that not who does it? The evidence-based crowd. Yet, their own studies confirm there's no benefit to isolation or machines or any of that. when they make the argument, aha, this study showed that they can be equal, that isolation movement can cause just as much muscle in the primary mover as a compound movement. Yeah, but it it's only causing the growth in one muscle. Um, and they're forgetting that. And and I think what people are forgetting is trying to isolate things doesn't matter. Once you start going to failure or you get very close to muscle failure or the weight gets heavy enough relative to to your intensity, what do you even see on EMGs? And I think this is a point people miss and and and I think this is going to sum it up when you really think about it. What happens when we start going start start going to muscle failure on stuff or very close to and I think the bench press studies highlight it the most when they look at competitive powerlifters right so they have a high neural drive and I think this is a big point this is one reason I tell it's why Christian Tibido tells people this um and he's got a masters in this and he's a great coach with a great phys physique um that you know the neural drive will pay off to more hypertrophy down the road. Well, what do we mean? When you see any of those EMGs hooked up to powerlifters, what do they find every time their closed medium and drive grip bench all produce the same effect? What? You can't tell them apart. So, we're over here talking about, oh, the closed grip hits the tricep more, the wide grip. Okay, true. That is true in a lower level of exertion. But when they've hooked them up to actual powerlters you compete with, they weren't necessarily elite. They were just competitive powerlters. So they trained maxis, right? They have high neural drive. They couldn't tell them apart. The pec tricep ratios were all the same once they got heavy there. There was no difference. They all had the maximum activation. It literally hit all the muscle fibers in the triceps when they measured it and the pecs. There was no differentiation. It wasn't a different ratio. Um, what about when benching has been looked at? The long head of the tricep gets touted as being missed on the bench press, right? Usually what we point out, yeah, it works the lateral head amazingly well. In fact, some of the studies show that it grows the lateral head more than an extension does. Okay, fine. Obviously, the chest gets hit hard. What happened though when the neural drive gets high enough and it got heavy enough? start hitting 90% and above a one rep max, the long head gets fully activated. What? So, this means it literally if we're just training hard enough, these basic movements work all the muscles and they're not short changing. Now, I think people have noted similar even on overhead pressing. They're like, if you get really strong at the overhead press, even your side belt blows up. Yeah. Well, if that's the case, then we're sitting here wasting, you know, resources on these other things. Doesn't mean wasting. I'm not saying you can't do them. I'm not telling you to skip laterals if you want really great side delts, okay? It's not what I'm telling you. What I'm telling you is if you look at the real world evidence going all the way back and you look even what they find with some of this stuff in the lab is that you don't have to. That's the point. You don't have to if you do not want to. You can literally build every muscle in your body with nothing but barbells and weighted body weight movements and build you can build everything from your calves to the long head of your tricep to your side delts on these basic exercises just fine. Okay? Especially once we start hitting a few different angles, It's a matter of personal preference, but it can totally be done. And people say, "Well, it's not effic Well, it actually is pretty efficient." It's just hard. It's just hard. It's actually super efficient. Especially you start going to failure, close to failure, start getting really heavy, really strong, high neural drive, you start doing multiple sets. Yeah. Okay. This is what happens. And it's pretty provable. Now, and I'm not telling you, oh, you have to do this way either. I'm saying is that the option is there and it can totally be done and there's no disadvantage to doing it other than it's kind of hard. That's it.