Your belief in a fitness, lifting, or nutrition related topic does not change the evidence. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would uh chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not following or subscribed, then please do so. And if you will be so kind as to drop me a comment down under the video, I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. All right, let's get over uh to the topic at hand. And I don't mean stuff that's points of controversy. I mean stuff to where the evidence is is pretty overwhelmingly obvious either in the real world or confirmed in the lab. You know, with huge amounts of supporting data. Um but you know, people tend to do this and I and I can think of a perfect example. Um, I had some in-laws uh one time who intelligent enough people, but they had what I would describe as like zero knowledge of biology or science in any way. Like below a high school level of of biology knowledge, like what I would consider below that level. And you know, one of them was arguing with me, telling me, I I don't think you should be doing all this weightlifting. I don't think it's um I don't think it's healthy or good for health at all. you should really be doing endurance stuff. Mind you, I didn't start this conversation. They injected this opinion onto me and I tried to explain the health benefits of lifting. I'm like, well, I mean, you do know that lifting weights reduces cancer. This individual, I don't believe that. Their wife chimed in, I don't believe that. Oh, that's just madeup nonsense. And I'm just like, um, yeah, you are freaking ignorant. This is well understood. This is accepted by medical doctors. This is accepted by researchers. This is backed up by statistics uh by actual researchers and medical doctors. This is not nothing to do with opinion and what you believe. And you know they were in complete denial of it. And so that was an an interesting take. Now mind you these same people again expressed other other things that were again very low level of biology knowledge about you know genetics and other stuff too which I just you know I left alone I just left alone um because there's a point where it's not worth um not worth arguing with or offending people but you know in that case though I mean this kind of displays the problem we have uh you know with fitness information. You know people will say things well I don't believe this. It's like, well, you know, what's your evidence for it? Or I believe this or believe that. And and I think we we have to have that. And our our evidence can't be, well, um, a chain of logic. A then B then C. It's like, well, no, you need to have evidence for the C. And I it doesn't have to be necessarily peer reviewed metaanalysis. like do you have evidence or something that you could point to even outside the lab you know uh just like when we talk about the correlation with size versus strength you your evidence can't be well I know of this one guy out here in 10buk 2 in the in the far reaches of Siberia who's the exception to this rule I'm like yeah but I can show you a thousand people who follow the rule right we can see it displayed over and over and over and over and over and over in the real world. And if your evidence is, hey, you know, there's this person, this one exception who you believe is the exception and they may not fully be the exception you think they are. Hey, that's that's not what we mean. It's like um evidence would be for believing something would be well, you know, I mean, I've been observing this in gyms for 20 years. See, that's still reasonable. you know that that is still a form of evidence. Does it carry the same weight you know of statistical analysis that a meta analysis does looking at you know thousands of people? No. But it's still evidence and it's not unreasonable. You know for example well yeah I mean I've noticed that uh you know people who train harder lift a little heavier a little bigger in the gym. You know that's see that's a reasonable uh observation right? I noticed people who don't try to progressively overload in the gym. They don't really see gains over the years. They stay the same size. They don't really make gains. Yeah. See, that's a per that's a beautiful example. See, that's reasonable and it actually kind of matches what we see in the lab. Uh but the problem we have is that when people ignore evidence for their their chains of logic, and I get it, exercise science is is very problematic in terms of evidence gathering. um especially with the different circles and convergent schools of thought and that's okay because as long as we know hey there's two different schools of thoughts and their data is conflicting with each other we we have a debate still okay so in that case there is no no hey hey we can point to the science overwhelmingly pointing one direction now this is still pretty heavily debated and see and that's an okay that's okay because then you're not forced to by the weight of the evidence to ascribe to either side, you can go off of well, this is what I've observed and this and that's my chain of logic. And that's okay. But when it's pretty one-sided, it's a problem. Or here's here's an issue. Um, you know, when we're talking about food things, uh, seed oils versus butter or whatever nonsense. And by the way, I'm not even proceeded oil. I'm not telling people I don't think we should be adding any fats to our food. I don't think we should be cooking in seed oils, butter, beef, talent. I think all of it's a problem. Let me just be clear. I don't do any of that personally and I don't advocate doing any of that personally, but when someone says something really stupid like,"Well, I just can't believe that an oil used as an industrial lubricant could be healthy for you." Okay. Like, does anyone see the problem with that? Okay. Well, what if an industrial lubricant cured cancer one day? Like would you still say that or would you say no no I am going to just die of cancer because I can't possibly believe that something that was ever used for an industrial lubricant is good for you. And you know you have to look at those same people because they're never consistent in their logic. They just make up silly stuff. Like that's a silly chain of logic. So what if it what if it uh vitamin C was used as an industrial lubricant? Would you never have any vitamin C in your diet? Like we don't want that. It's bad. It was an industrial lubricant, you know. So what if if those same people, what if butter had been used as an industrial lubricant at one time? Would they never eat butter again? Because Zoe's a pro butter people, right? Yeah. See, again, this is stupid. It's stupid. It's not relevant. No relevant. What you believe like I I can't believe. Okay. Well, because you can't believe something doesn't mean that's what the evidence shows or not. You know, we have to go off of weight of evidence, not silly things like, well, I just can't believe, right? I just can't believe. It's like, well, what relevance does it have to do with the evidence? Because that's not how we need to be logically. Logically, we we look at weight of evidence. It's never I can't believe unless you have a good reason to not believe. You know, by all means, but in this case, it's not a good reason. Almost ever when it comes to fitness, it's not I I this person, I know their character. I I can't believe they would do this. Okay, see, that's fair. But that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about fitness stuff in the body. We're talking science. We're talking biology. Your beliefs aren't really that important to the evidence. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.