Being weak is more dangerous than squats or deadlifts will ever be if performed reasonably correctly. Uh, hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And today I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. Let's get over into this topic. Um, as you guys know, I'm one of these guys who I roll my eyes over and over and over. I make countless posts on Facebook, social media about squats and deadlifts being safe if you just learn basic form, set your goofy ego aside, and you know, the only arguments I get back from people are, well, I've hurt myself. And it's like, you're just telling me you had bad form and bad fatigue management. Or guys say, well, you know, people can't set aside their ego lifting. And I mean, here here would be my response. If I've told you guys that and for some reason you can't stop ego lifting, then I just don't have any sympathy. Like this is not a reason. You know, this this the equivalent of this would be someone tell I explain to you the value of having electricity in your house and someone says, "Yeah, but you know, I can't quit putting a penny in the light socket and I I'm going to get electrocuted." Well, I don't have any sympathy for you. You know, I mean, it's pretty straightforward. And I tell you, well, quit doing that. And you say, "Well, I I can't." Well, then, you know, just get electrocuted and let the rest of us who have basic common sense, you know, continue to do the correct thing. That would be my response. People don't like that. But, I mean, that's that's how I am with it. I just I don't have any any sympathy for willpull stupidity. I just don't like everyone with common sense knows stop ego lifting. Use good form. Squats and deadlifts are perfectly safe. Um, like right here, like in this video, you guys are going to see me doing with good form. Um, again, I'm 48. I'm almost 49. I'm doing sets of six here with 405 on a back squat. Doing sets of six with 500 on a deadlift. You know, these are normal working sets for me. I'm not hurt. You know, and this would be my response to people. Um, you know, they'll say, "Well, what about power if you get injured?" It's like, do you not think some of the supportive equipment's a problem? Don't even get me started on that. I honestly think all the wraps and sleeves and a lot of the the nonsense that people put on. I'm of the opinion that this is actually a massive factor in the injury rate along with the drug abuse. Okay? So, lose all the the goofy equipment, lose all the wraps, right? shouldn't be anything on your elbows or knees unless you need it for competition in which case you know you're risking injury to push more numbers. All right, now that being said, um back over to the point, but being weak, being weak is is is dangerous. Okay, look at the data that we have on carcopenia almost all the the problems that people are going to have once the heart disease and everything is accounted for and cancers and stuff. Think about how sarcopenia and osteoporosis are killers. Once you get older, this is what's going to kill you. Okay? That's what's going to kill you. Osteoporosis or sarcopenia, loss of muscle, loss of bone density. Well, think about what exercises are going to preserve that the best. If if you were to look at it and be objective, which exercises are going to reduce osteoporosis? I don't want you to guess. I want you to look at it and give an objective datadriven answer. Heavy squats and heavy deadlifts will reverse and prevent osteoporosis and increase bone density more than anything else you can pretty much come up with some variation. People say, "Well, what about a rack pull?" Okay, but you're still doing a deadlift variation. So, just stop. Everyone understand this? You're loading the spine with large amounts of weight. This is what builds bone density. Okay, loading the spine, loading the femurss, loading the hips with very large amounts of weight through your whole body, compressive stress. All right, that's going to build your bone density. That's how you stop osteoporosis. Osteoporosis is deadly. And we need to be clear of that. It's deadly. Um, loss of muscle tissue dramatically increases things like cancer and everything else. Just losing muscle alone increases diabetes and particularly cancer rates dramatically. And we understand the mechanisms. So being under muscle, being weak is a problem. Same thing, falling down and not being strong enough to pick yourself back up. And I think this applies to everything else in life too. So again, surviving accidents, surviving attacks. If you were physically strong and competent, you were harder to kill. Have you even seen Ripto say that? Strong people are harder to kill. Okay? You're more likely to survive accidents, vehicle accidents. You're more likely to survive falls. You're more likely to survive being physically assaulted by an asalent. Notice I didn't even have to bring self-defense or us or anything about weapons. And we didn't I didn't have to go there. Let's just say being beaten. More muscle, more bone density, more strength, you're more likely to survive. Okay? Being weak is dangerous. Being a victim is dangerous. Falling down is dangerous. Being in car accidents are dangerous. Being strong and having both muscle mass and bone density and neural drive to push back against different things is protective like those. So being weak is dangerous. Being weak is dangerous. The risk of getting hurt on properly programmed and executed squats and deadlifts is actually really really low. Like I'm I'm gonna be perfectly honest. If you're getting hurt on deadlifts, you're doing something really dumb. Like you have not you're not paying attention at all to your technique. Okay? You're not paying attention to your technique at all. If you're getting hurt on these things, it's so easy to not get hurt. And even then, you can do other things to build support muscles. Like if you're legitimately worried about bicep tears when you're not locking the elbows, like there should be your thing. Don't be loose at the bottom. Pull the slack out of the bar. Proper form generally prevents that. Okay, we'll do some tendon work. Do some lat work. Do some pull-ups and some build your tendons. You'll be safer. You know, lower back. Do some good mornings. Do some reverse hypers. then like if this is a real concern, but let's be honest, most people aren't lifting those sort of weights. You're not I mean, if you're only going to deadlift 405 or squat 315 as a man at any point in your life, I don't feel that those are realistic concerns. We're just you're not lifting heavy enough that this is actually real worries. I get it if you're squatting 500, deadlifting 600 and and you know your form isn't perfect of being more concerned, but generally these overuse and other issues, if you're using even remotely good form are just not going to happen with those weights for grown men. So just stop. Just stop. And this is nonsense. People literally worried about getting hurt who are not lifting elite numbers, okay? Just clownery. You're more likely to get hurt on your car ride to the gym. And what's gonna And what's going to be more likely to make you survive the car wreck in the gym? I don't know. Being able to squat, deadlift 500 lb, your body's going to be a lot more resilient to it. So again, this is it's all ridiculous. People with good form, good fatigue management, not using silly supportive equipment, not blasting tons of tren and anadrol. These things are pretty dang safe overall. But being weak is