Yes, big compound movements do build stabilizers and I believe that the evidence actually supports this. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here uh with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment uh down below. I'd appreciate it so much. All right, this always gets brought up and people say, "Well, there's not enough stimulus in these stabilizers to get any growth and so on and so forth." And you'll get a lot of people who say the the thing and and I've said this before, but I'm also able to name the stabilizers. Uh when we say stabilizers, we mean major muscles. We're not talking about little magic unknown muscles. Um I I'll give you two examples just so that people understand. The hamstrings are a stabilizer on the squat. We all get this. Um how about the erectors, the abdominals, the traps? These are all stabilizers on the squat. All right. Think about the bench press. You ready? How about your lats, your rear delts? Absolutely. The biceps, biceps, brachiialis. Okay, these are all stabilizers. These are critical stabilizers on these muscles. Now, when people will make these statements, well, they don't really grow only the muscles that fail. Well, then then we're falling into the theory that only muscle failure causes growth. Now, I'm big on going to failure. I'm big on you'll notice almost all my stuff here is either zero rep and reserve the grindy last reps. You'll see some true failure and you'll see some rest pause stuff in here, right? I'm real big on those things. I I think that is the best way to get bigger. But are we claiming that the muscle that going a few reps from failure causes no growth? Is this really what we're going to claim that it's zero? Well, I'm I'm going to disagree. Um, and I'm going to make a couple of points and and different studies and things that look at stuff and even talking about inefficient lines of pull. All right. Uh, so as far as the the stabilizers and then other secondary muscles. Okay, you ready? Hamstrings grow on squats. Now, I know we've got Lombard's principle and everything there, but this has been confirmed in the lab. This is confirmed. The argument made is what? Well, they only grew a small amount compared to the quads. Okay. Is small zero. They what was noted? Well, the quads got all this growth and the the hamstrings only grew whatever like 15 or 20% of the amount that the quads did on a squat only program. Well, is 15 or 20% zero? Well, no. But do you see where we're going with this? The hamstrings still grew from the squats. Do we not have studies showing that muscles in the back grow from from back squats? Okay, you you can claim it doesn't happen, but it's been verified in the laboratory. There have been people who did squat only programs and you know so on and we saw these these gains, okay, about muscle activation and EMGs on a lot of these. I mean, have we seen EMGs where the abdominals or the low back or all that on squats and deadlifts lit up or that the lats extremely lit up on EMG studies on deadlifts? Okay. People say, "But you know, EMG doesn't always mean maximum growth." Okay, bare. But if a muscle starts hitting the EMG numbers or higher in a study on a muscle, then exercises where it's the primary mover, even though it's not. Are we claiming there's not enough growth stimulus for any growth? I'm going to disagree. I'm going to say that any muscle that gets significantly not just a small little bloop, you know, I I get it. Sometimes you're going to get it's not enough to matter where, you know, rear delts on a bench is is very insignificant on DMG, but it's still it's still there. Okay. Do they grow? I'm going to go with yes. And we've all seen it. Have we not all seen noviceses if even if they don't do direct back work who their back gets bigger from their squats and deadlifts and so on. People on squat bench and deadlift programs where their back and biceps all grew a little bit. Wasn't wasn't ideal but they grew. Okay, we've seen it in the lab. And then we see EMG activation looking at how much even bicep gets activated on benching. Now people say but it's not for great growth but it's not zero either. So there's a reason these big movements put so much muscle on you. Now people will then argue about secondary muscles too won't they? Well, you know the triceps, the biceps on a pull-up. where no one's going to argue about chin-ups except that on a pull-up, a weighted pull-up, when you get really heavy, the bicep activation on EMGs is absolutely just as high as a lot of types of curls. Again, repeatedly demonstrated in the lab. We've seen it. But then people say, "What about growth studies?" We've had growth studies where lat pull downs with an overhand grip grew the biceps just as much as a curl did. been done several times in the lab. They tested it. So, she assess the failure. It's incorrect line of pull, but it still grew. Okay. Triceps on the bench. when triceps. There have been at least one study that directly measured tric tricep uh development from benching and skull crushers and it found the skull crushers grew the long head more, but the bench press still grew the lateral head more. May not be the most important muscle in there, but at least part of the tricep grew faster than than when it was an efficient movement for the for it. But the same thing on a overhand grip lat pull down. Generally, we're not going to argue biomechanically that it's the best. But there have been studies where it competed equally with curls. Direct underhand grip isolation work. Do you see where we're going with this? These big movements make a lot of stuff grow. And I'm not telling you that everything is going to grow optimally and you don't benefit from any isolation. I do isolation work. I do curls. I do extension. I do lateral raises. I do these things. Okay? But keep in mind, the big movements don't just make one muscle grow. They make lots of muscles grow. confirmed in numerous hypertrophy studies, confirmed in numerous EMG muscle activation studies. So when people try to pretend or claim that this is not the case, this is just simply not reality. And if and if they didn't get any growth, then why do we always have studies showing some growth? Even it's just as stabilizer muscles, opposing muscle groups, there is still growth stimulus enough that it causes a measurable amount of muscle growth in the lab. In other words, big movements are the most efficient way to just get big overall. They're the efficient way to train even if your goal is hypertrophy and you get into athleticism and other stuff. Yeah, they're obviously king. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.