Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and today I'm going to give people an unpopular and uncomfortable truth, but it is reality. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, and I think the reason we have all this confusion is a couple of factors. Number one, there is that propensity for a degree of laziness. Um, again, a lot of people really don't want to train that hard, right? A lot of people don't really want to train that hard. they don't really want to push a hard set of squats or deadlifts um or weighted pull-ups, right? Let's just be realistic. That is a big factor. Uh the other thing is drugs have really clouded this to a large degree. Um they've clouded this to a large degree and and I don't think people understand that. And when you look at the research on anabolics, it becomes clear when people say, "Well, you still have to train hard." Well, only if you're competing against other people on the same amount. Okay. Do we not understand that this is what people are not grasping in that? Yeah. That that only really matters when comparative. In other words, a guy on two grams of gear is going to get really really really big eventually, even if he barely trains. Is he going to get the same results as the guy who trains them into the ground? No. But is he going to be bigger than pretty much any natural eventually? Absolutely. And I and I do mean that. We have to understand that fact. And that is what's created a lot of this confusion. But this bodybuilder and that and he does this and he says that we have to, you know, isolate every head of this and so on. And it's like, okay, we're not saying some of those those heads of muscles don't need a little bit of extra love here and there, but there aren't going to be that many of them for you. Okay? and they're going to depend upon the individual person, their genetics. But I think because we've watched a lot of really genetically gifted people on a lot of drugs, many of whom will claim natural, it's created confusion. But we need to be very clear there. You do need to understand this. A guy on two grams of anabolics plus some growth can come in and train like your grandma and he will eventually be bigger than every natural on the face of the earth. And I and I I hope that we understand this when we start getting into those hefty amounts. Okay, we need to be clear on that. Every muscle in his body is eventually going to be bigger than any natural on the face of the earth with a similar size frame. Obviously, height and things matter. Okay. Now, setting that aside and but but when you look at that and you understand that, it's like it starts to explain a lot of the things you see in bodybuilding. But we do need to be clear on that point. They don't actually, and the research shows this, you don't actually have to really train to gain muscle and anabolics. They're designed medically for that purpose. That is what they're medically designed for is for people laying in hospital beds to put on 20 pounds of muscle. You do understand that, right? And guess what? When they're tested in healthy young men, that is exactly what happens. Okay? So um let's come back over to to the the point here. When we start looking at these things, people think that they have to to work every plane, every angle, the reality. You're only going to get so much stimulus of a muscle in any given workout. Okay? You're going to reach a point where once all the all the upper threshold fibers are reached, you're not really getting any more substantial growth. Okay, we do need to be clear on this, right? The upper limit. And when you start looking at a lot of your big exercises, what do we see when it when these things are studied in the lab? When they look at muscle activation, what happens? The heavier and closer we get to failure, the more of all the muscles get activated, right? So, people will argue this stuff. Well, you know, bench press doesn't work the long head of the tricep. Yeah, it's 70% of your max for eight reps. It might not work it completely, but what happens when you get really heavy and it's hard to do studies on EMGs never do EMG studies to failure, but they can do proximity to it by maxes. Well, it's like when you we looked at EMG studies, what do we find? the long head of the tricep once you start putting 90% of their max or more on the bar, the long head all of a sudden gets this absolutely high level of recruitment. See where we're going? What happens when you look at squats? They're like, well, different points that um you know, and the quad gets worked more, the glute gets worked more until you get really heavy and take a set to failure and then what happens in those studies? Oh, everything lights up. Okay. In other words, a squat with 70% of your max for five or six reps is not the same exercise in terms of muscle activation that it is at 90% of your max to failure or whatever. But it's the same with with with all of this, right? Even if it's a 10 rep set, well, I mean, I just did 405 for 10. That was a pretty hard set, you know? Pretty hard set. But when you look at all these big movements, this is what happens if you train them hard enough. Everything gets activated. And again, people have these arguments of, well, but you know, if you're training some of these big movements, you can only do a small amount of volume. Do you need large amounts of volume? In other words, if you have stimulated every muscle fiber, so what happens when you can't lift the heavy weight anymore? Like what happens on that squat? Like let's say you do the 405 and you get to rep 7, 8, 10 or whatever and and you're out of steam. You're done. It's a grinder or you get stapled. Do you think that there's muscle fibers that didn't get stimulated? So what does failure mean? What happens even when we get to the high highest threshold fibers? It means the others were too fatigued. They were too exhausted to continue lifting the weight. Do you really think that you have muscle fibers left that weren't recruited or stimulated enough to cause muscle growth even if you did just one really hard set? Okay, that's going to be the the take-home there, right? Do you really think that you're not going to grow? Do you really think that you have muscle fibers in there that didn't get stimulus? Well, why weren't they recruited? If you did a decent enough range of motion, they did. And what happens across multiple exercises, right? All these arguments start to go away the second we start hitting two exercises. Okay? Two big compounds that have some overlap. All this all this nonsense goes away. you're going to recruit everything. Now, does this mean that structurally some people due to their genetics are going to have a muscle lagging here or there if they did this? Sure. This is where isolation matters. You might need to do a lateral raise. If you didn't do big movements that hit the side delts, what if you did high pulls or overhead press or push presses? Well, you probably wouldn't need laterals, but you might. Well, what if what if your biceps are lagging and you you didn't do chin-ups, you did pull-ups. Okay, well, sure. A curl makes a lot of sense there. Yeah, absolutely. But there's not going to be many muscles. You just get big and strong and go really, really hard at a few basic movements, everything is going to grow probably at least 90% of its potential. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.