So, I just saw that Billy Isish said that men don't get body shamed because girls are nice. And to me, as a a lifter, um who's also been a really really really morbidly obese person before, uh who also has a social media presence as a lifter at the age of 49. Um I think that her statement is insane and it shows that she literally knows nothing about men or or even women for that matter. She lives in a complete bubble. Um, but hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Uh, so yeah, here's here's my thing with that. Um, men get body shamed all the time. I mean, I I'm going to use myself as an example, too, here because I am body shamed probably a minimum of 20 times a day, uh, 7 days a week, 365 days a year online. I am body shamed continually. It's just like a continual barrage almost every hour on the hour. But I see men body shamed all the time. Uh men are body shamed for being skinny. They're body shamed for being fat. They're body shamed for not being tall. Um so this is stuff we see all the time. Like are we pretending that this is not a normal thing? Uh and I don't believe in dating apps. So don't don't I don't want this to sound like I'm telling guys that dating apps are good or anything else. I honestly think dating apps are probably one of the worst place possible you can try to meet women. You pretty much you're at the bottom of the bucket and you're at the bottom of the food chain at that point. No offense intended, guys, but it's true. Um, if you're resorting to to dating apps, but that aside, let me set that opinion aside because that's going to upset some people. You know, even women in their set height preferences. And the ironic part is they get the height preferences wrong because everyone lies about their height. And so their number of what they're looking for isn't even right half the time. The average 5 foot 10 guy claims to be six foot plus already. And and people are just used to assuming they are. Uh welcome to weird standards these days. Uh but you know they'll set height standards straight up. They'll set height standards straight up. So you see this even even put online and that that's technically body shaming. If women are telling guys they won't date a guy below a certain height or whatever, well, that's that's that's body shaming. Um, and so again, not something I have any experience with, but I'm aware that a lot of guys do. A lot of guys complain about it, and you do see those those things out there where women will put that they have a minimum height, which again, quite quite a strange thing. Um, quite a strange thing. And it seems acceptable online for for women to mock that. But what about the fit shaming in? I think we're all aware that men are fit shamed. Men [clears throat] are fit shamed continually. Once you start working out, you're going to be fit shamed. Do you know even on my social media, so the people who are not fitness people, you know, the stuff I see? Oh, you just clearly abuse a bunch of steroids. I get that as a response. Oh, you're using excessive amounts of TRT. So, the non-liffters, to the non-liffter, I look like a guy on copious amounts, just ridiculous amounts of anabolics. To the lifting world, I get called fat and out of shape. So, I mean, for me personally, I get body shamed all the time, right? So, I have non-lifters literally call me out and say stuff, "Oh, you work out so much of it, you spend all your time masturbating to yourself in the mirror." I I actually get those comments regularly on on social media, like Facebook and stuff. um they're they don't even realize I'm not a bodybuilder. I don't train for appearance. I train uh for performance and strength. Like I'm I'm not a physique competitor. That's not actually my bag. Uh but they don't know that. Or it's, wow, you just clearly abuse huge amounts of drugs and you're going to die at 40. They don't also realize I'm 49. Um so you see that. with the same thing. I catch flat for my loose skin because even though to most people they think, "Yeah, I look really fit." Um because I have been over 300 lbs when younger and I lost something like 140 or 150 pounds roughly 25 something years ago. Um taking up running and then I got into lifting. I still have some loose skin, right? Which you guys will see a little bit of in some of this video. I have loose skin. I get body shamed for that all the time. I get body shamed for that all the time. People literally make memes about it, right? They make memes about it. Um, I've had memes made, you know, making fun of my loose skin, calling me flesh gollum. I've had ones, dozens of them talking about I look like molten candle wax. Um, all the way to the point where dudes are like, "Wow, if I look like molten candle wax like you, I would vomit. I would just I would puke everywhere if I saw myself in the mirror. It's just so disgusting." Like, I have dudes say this to me all the time online on the internet. I mean, in real life, it's different. In real life, people give continual praise and compliments, but in the online world, no. I get I get tons of hate. Um, I get told all the time, I look like a middle-aged guy who doesn't lift. You know, these are these are pretty much my normal in my own experience. And it's not just one type of person who does that. So, I mean, I've noticed even for me as someone who lifts, who you usually find is really truly insecure, heavily juiced up bodybuilders, uh, will clown you if you don't look exactly like they do. They will mock you. They'll hate on you. They'll shame your body dudes who are smaller and weaker and even fatter than you will still try to shame you and try to pretend like they're um at a higher level than you. And they'll even though they'll be 40 lbs lighter with more body fat and weaker, they'll still try to pull this, oh, how terrible you look and man, I'm so much better than you. Plus, I bet I bet I'm stronger than you, you know, when they deadlift 350 lbs, you know, for one rep. Please note, that's 500 lb. I'm doing work sets with eight, nine reps in the background. Uh, you know, so you'll get that all the time. It's it's just a normal part of it. Um, and then you'll obviously get the normies who are, you know, if if you look like you lift, then you're a stupid meatthead. You're a narcissist. Uh, you spend all your time jerking off in the mirror. You're clearly a gay dude, even though I'm strictly taco no burrito, you know? So, you'll get that all the time from other dudes, right? From other dudes. And then I've noticed even occasionally you'll I've occasional had a woman do it. It's very rare, but even women will. Well, you know, if you look, if you knew so much about nutrition, then why aren't you just shredded? You should be like 8% body fat year round. If you know about nutrition the way that you seem to claim to, um, what I lost 150 lbs and have an elite total and powerlifting and make weight perfectly and have good blood work. I I I think I know a little bit about nutrition, you know, but it's you you'll get that sort of stuff. Um, and I think other guys, I'm not alone. I'm using myself as the example, but I see it with other guys all the time. I see other guys who lift. People will clown on their either their body fat being too high, right? Their body fat being too low, being too big, being too skinny, too lean. It's always it's there's criticism all the time. And men catch it non-stop. Men, the more you lift, the worse it gets. [snorts] You're going to deal with it more and more and more. the more people who see you, particularly on the internet. But that's not the only thing. Men are body shamed for other stuff, too, right? As I pointed out, things like height, being skinny, being fat, men are body shamed all the time. But I would say that in in terms of the lifting world, fit shaming is is as extreme as the average obese woman gets. So they're like, "Well, obese women deal with this really, but men who lift and choose to actually be healthy and fit and strong probably deal with on average, but at least on the internet, on average, you will deal with about the same level of body shaving that a morbidly obese woman will pretty much on average. Um, and it will tend to come from it'll come from more men than women, but women will still do it also. They'll still do it also to some extent. Right. Ironically, the same women will then hit on you sometimes. It's really weird. Really weird. Uh but so this idea though that that Billy has that men aren't body shamed every single day and that it's not common and normal and particularly the non-lifting men, right? The lifting men, it's going to be more men who shame you. But a lot of these other men, it's all women dating apps, other stuff. for shaming men all the time, continually. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.