Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals about why we have to tell these silly bodybuilders to quit pretending their training is difficult and hard and beast mode and sacrifice and all this nonsense. Um it literally deters people from going and doing basic simple workouts. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Thank you. Um, and I'm sorry when you watch the average bodybuilder, including the average pro bodybuilder train, the average one. I'm not saying there are not some exceptions, they don't really train that hard. Um, and and let's be realistic, they really don't. And and I'm not even saying that I'm the hardest training person in the world by any means, but but watch actual real athletes train. I mean, hell, go to a CrossFit box and watch people train. Go watch uh a football team doing their conditioning workouts I train or a rugby team, okay? And then compare that to what you see bodybuilders doing. And keep in mind, this is creating a mindset that deters people from actually training even remotely hard at all. And it deters people from even joining the gym. You see lots of people are like, "Oh man, I'd love to get into shape, but you know, it's just so much work and so hard." And you see these people post this stuff about their discipline and oh the pain I have to endure the pain and and and you know these workouts are brutal. It's like dude you're training on a machine. You're in an airond conditioned gym doing some sets on a machine or a cable to failure. All right, let that sink in for a minute. Think about how soft that is compared to any actual real sport or a real athlete. Okay, think about a real athlete who can actually competes in a real sport somewhere. Seeing some bodybuilder do some machine rows to failure to to momentary muscle failure and then some cable curls to failure. Okay. In an air conditioned in an air conditioned room. I mean, damn. I mean, are we supposed to perceive this as difficult because they made a funny face. And let me be clear, I know athletes in different sports who train harder than me, but you guys see stuff I do. You guys have seen me uh a 565lb barbell fall on me out of the J hooks before it slipped out of the hooks, landed on top of me, and I got up and finished my workout. Guys watch me watch me do widowmaker squats to failure, get buried under the pins, unload the bar, do another set. And and notice I don't stand there and talk about that. It's hard. It's just a workout, guys. I'm an old man. You guys see me go do five mile runs barefoot on the asphalt in the Texas heat. How many times have you guys seen me do that on camera live stream? Then I show you guys here's my feet running on the ground. Then I put up the the run data showing Yeah. Here's here's what I did. Do you see me crying about it being hard? No, it's just a run. It's just a it's just training, guys. Okay. It's just training. And quite frankly, uh, my observation, barring maybe Dorian Yates or Ronnie Coleman, I just really haven't seen that many bodybuilders who I'm like, "Yeah, their training is anything different than, you know, what plenty of grandmas do. It's just they're just working out." And I mean, I'm sorry guys, but just doing some sets to failure on a machine or an isolation movement. Again, realistically, there are people who who literally have jobs that are harder than that. I've had jobs that were harder than that. Um, and and here's the issue with that. It's like they try to pretend like what they do is super. It's like, dude, it's just drugs and genetics. That's that's why you are where you are. You got some genetic traits for certain aesthetic things, and you use lots of drugs. That's it. That's that's what you have going. Okay. Yeah, not saying they don't look impressive, but let's be realistic. You know, guys placed in the Mr. Olympia who were known for having horrible training ethics. I mean, Kevin Leone, you know, just context, took three months off from the gym every year. Three whole months. Even Dorian Yates made Dorian Yates made fun of him for it and said, "Wow, he's so genetically gifted that he could have won if he just actually trained year round." He's like, "I would have never beat him. be so genetically gifted if he actually worked out. Dorian Yates pretty much said that about Kevin Leone who was taking second place. It's like literally the only reason he's not Mr. Olympia is because he's lazy. And it's true. And you see that with a lot of these guys, you know. So, so keep that in mind. And why is this a problem? Because it makes it sound like going and doing a workout's hard. It's not. Every human being on earth should be able to easily replicate the workouts the average one of these bodybuilding influencers do. They might not move as much weight because they're not young and carrying as much muscle or on drugs, but their workouts are not something that the average person couldn't be capable of handling in five or six weeks. Your grandma could handle their workouts. you know, your aunt, your your auntie could handle most of their workouts of what they do for the sets, reps, and intensity with no problem whatsoever and just show up and get the work done. Okay? But the problem is people make it out to be crazy and then people get in their head, oh, working out is hard and then they they psych themselves out and it's not, guys. It's just not. That's why sometimes even when I'm doing susten. like because it just says to failure. It's not actually difficult. Oh no, the weight stopped moving. You just can't you can't do another rep. Not a big deal, guys. And you know, my sled work is harder than most work sets. Like this sled work you see me do. This is harder than most than work sets to failure. It is considerably more difficult, right? This is way harder than a set of leg press has done to failure. Way harder. And yet, and I'm doing it barefoot out on the asphalt. And but you don't see me saying, "Oh, blood and sweat and tears." And no, it's just training. And when people adopt that mindset, if they just tell it like if look, if people just admit the reality, this is all really easy. Maybe people wouldn't be so scared to work out and and more people would be fit and we wouldn't have an obesity and a cancer and a diabetes epidemic. Same thing with dieting. Oh, it's so hard to eat chicken and rice. No, it's not. I eat that every day. It's not hard at all. Like none of this is that difficult. Okay, maybe this is somewhat hard. You know, sprinting with the sled out in the heat barefoot. Okay, but it's not unbearable. It's not, you know, not something that, oh no, I can't handle it. Oh, you know, it's not a big deal, guys. And quit pretending like it is. It deters people from getting out and doing just some basic honest work. And it's quite frankly a lazy, it's just a mark of laziness to pretend like it's hard. These people are lazy as hell. That's what they are. They're lazy ass