Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about the fact that bodybuilding and powerlifting both uh miss the mark when it comes to fitness sometimes. Uh but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below. Greatly appreciate it. Uh and drop me a comment please if you would. Thank you so much. So let's get over into this. Um, and we have to have these conversations because, you know, when we see the word fitness and we see fitness world and all this stuff online, we often times see these groups highlighted and I can pick on powerlifting. I've competed enough in powerlifting. I've had state records. I've been a meat judge. Um, I've done pretty well in it. So, I but I I can pick on powerlifting, too. We could definitely pick on bodybuilding. And I think we could even pick on natural bodybuilding. And I and I think yes, we need to have these conversations about drugs. Of course, we need to because both groups have reached a point where they abuse drugs to the point uh or potentially due to where it is absolutely insanely detrimental to health. And that's not even an anti-anabolic statement. Okay? I'm not even saying, you know, testosterone and growth hormone in moderate amounts are even that big of a deal. Um but that's not what any of these people are doing. That's a separate argument. That's an argument we could sit down and really have. Um, but that's not what these groups are doing. They're taking insane ludicrous amounts of things that are clearly killing people young. We do see it more so in bodybuilding than in powerlifting, but we do see it in powerlifting, particularly with the often the higher body fat. It's a problem there with that. Um but you know so yeah I think we all agree when huge amounts of of drugs are being used obviously this is no longer fitness. Okay. All right. And and we all understand this. We all understand this and but we have to we have to have that conversation. But I think that's the problem we run into with the bodybuilding I pointed out. They literally can't even train. you know, so many bodybuilding methods, and I've made some videos on that. And the way that many of them train is to deal with the side effects of drugs and still be able to work out. It's like the only way they can get tension because of all the low back pumps and the cramps. They they literally can't be athletic. Oftent times they oftentimes they can't do successfully do during certain phases the big lifts they might want to do. they can't do the conditioning they need to do because of again the body weight they carry uh the some of the drugs impacting cardiovascular uh fitness and these things. Uh so yeah they they lose the ability to be fit and to be truly athletic or strong. Um to some degree you'll see the same thing in in powerlifting. So this is no longer fitness. I mean, let's setting aside the fact that if you're using enough drugs that is cutting your life short, uh, then this that's obviously not fitness. But we also have to have that conversation that if they're taking so many that they can't even train in a way that allows them to be athletic, then it's also not fitness from for a completely different reason, right? So, we're dealing with two different elements of that. Um, but what about the other ends of it? What about um the body fat? What about the athletic side? Okay. Is even natural bodybuilding fitness? How many prep coaches, truly good natural bodybuilding prep coaches, admit the contest prep is horrible for your hormones and your health? I know some guys who make good livingings even coaching natural bodybuilders out there who will point out the same thing. They're like, "Look, I tell my competitors, we can only compete so often because it's harmful to you." And they're prep coaches. They make their living coaching and it's their passion. Like, this is my passion. But I'll be the first to admit, hey, we we we sometimes need to take two years off from stepping on a stage because of the impact. you start trying to do sometimes three shows in a year, it's gonna impact you horribly because you're getting too lean. You're getting too depleted. All right? You can't go to those body fats. This is natural bodybuilders. And these are some of the really experienced coaches I know say that they're like, "This is this is not not good. This is what we do. It's our passion, but it's not healthy at this point." Okay? And I know people will say, "Well, competing in anything, competition takes priority over health." That's true, but not all competitions are unhealthy. Meaning, there's plenty of sports you can compete at a pretty reasonable level without compromising your health. We all understand this, right? We do. We get to grasp this. Competing at the state level in powerlifting doesn't have to compromise your health in any way. That's what I mean. doing a 5K, competing in a 5K, you could do 10, 12, 15ks every year. You could do three or four marathons every year with no compromise on your health. So, no, I it's not a default assumption, you know, unless it's a contact sport that, you know, competing in some sport is automatically going to be counterproductive to health. Like, sorry dudes. Running a 5K once a month is never going to is not going to negatively affect your health. Come on, stop. Um, so we're talking elite levels of sports, then sure. To some extent. Um, but that's the problem. Even with the bodybuilding, this is no longer fit. It's not fitness at that point. If your endocrine system and immune system and everything are compromised because of how lean you had to get, this is no longer fitness. And we have to understand that um we can make the same case for powerlifting. How many powerliffters in the pursuit of powerlifting get too fat? Understand this has improved in recent generations. Okay, we have gotten now to a point where in weight classes you see quite lean powerlifters, right? But we also see the other extreme. We see dudes who and guys and gals who are way too fat to the point where it compromises their health and it's still rewarded. So I would look at that and say just because you're involved in this is not necessarily fitness. That's not fitness. Okay? If you're bulking to a point for the leverage is to where you're at an unhealthy body fat, this is not fitness anymore. And please note, I mean, people want to go to the extremes. You know, they'll point out the other extreme. Well, oh yeah, well, bodybuilders get this shredded, it's bad, and then the the bodybuilders will point out that, well, some powerlifters get so fat and it's bad. It's like, yeah, it's true, but it doesn't mean what you're doing is healthy. There's a large middle ground, okay? There's an enormous middle ground between a 30% body fat power lifter and a contest rep bodybuilder. There's an absolutely massive middle ground between these two. Do we all understand this? Right? Let's not pretend the middle doesn't exist. You do realize it's possible to be 15% body fat, guys. Right? I know it's a shock and it's way healthier than either one of those. So, um you have that context. What about the same thing with the powerlifterss who don't do cardio? It's like the bodybuilders who don't ever do anything athletic, right? Powerlifters who are afraid of cardio like this. You're not fit. You have no place with the term fitness. Okay? If you have fitness in your tag and you don't do cardio, just stop. You have no business using that. You can call it powerlifting and I and I think that's fair. But I think we have to have these conversations, okay? Or bodybuilder, if you're not strong and doing big movements, you're not fit. If your idea of cardio is a slow walk on a treadmill, uh you don't do anything else outside of that because the drugs won't let you, you're not fit. gang. Powerlifters, you don't do cardio because, oh, it'll kill my gains. No, it won't. No, it won't. It won't kill your strength either. But you're not fit, right? You have no business using the term. If we're going to use the term fit, we actually have to care about all these things. If you want to truly use the term fit or fitness, you need to be strong. You need to be reasonably athletic. You need to be cardiovascularly fit. You need to eat a healthy diet. Oh, I count my macros. Come on, just stop. Healthy diet. You need to have a healthy lifestyle. Okay? And all too often people involved in these endeavors even particularly obviously the elite levels have no business with the the term fitness right they don't represent anything related to and I think those of us who want to be fit we have to remember that we have to remember that in that context um and ask ourselves you know are we being truly fit. And are these endeavors always a good representation of that?