bro diets have a way better track record of success than any of these various fat type diets that people do, whether it's carnivore, keto, vegan, all this other stuff. And people seem to forget that for some reason. Um, hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribed, please do so. If you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would also greatly appreciate that. All right. But we get into these topics and and people go into really these diets that are absurdly restrictive. And I'm not saying, you know, a chicken, brown rice and broccoli type diet can't be restrictive. But, you know, realistically speaking, what's produced the best results for getting lean? And then, you know, even if a person says, "Okay, I'm lean enough. How do I maintain?" They usually just add health more healthy fats and stuff in. Um, and it usually resolves the issue there as far as just going back to maintenance. So again, if the guys are just want to make lean gains afterwards, what do they do? If they're doing the really low-fat chicken, brown rice, broccoli type diet, keep in mind, you can substitute other close proxies for that, you know, obviously some low fat-free dairy and stuff works, but these diets work. They've worked for decades and it produces insanely shredded bodybuilders, okay? All these other diets have way higher failure rates. They produce way less results. They cause less muscle, right? So look at these other diets by comparison. Keto diets. I mean, you lose muscle. Carnivore absolutely costs anyone muscle who's not a ranked novice. Like, dudes are losing muscle doing this. Sure, they may be getting lean, and they're not always getting lean. Not all of them are. But again, and and this is before we get into all the various health negatives. We're not even discussing the health side of it yet. We're not discussing gut biome, vitamin deficiencies. We're purely talking body composition. And a lot of times people are doing these diets wanting to get lean and lose body fat and and a lot of times the health issues they're looking at. Sure, losing body fat may resolve a lot of the health issues. A lot of people who are like type 2 diabetics, certain cardiovascular issues, other issues, yeah, losing body fat will largely resolve these issues, right? We know that. I mean, everything from blood pressure to sometimes your lipid profile and insulin resistance and and all these things. Sure, fat loss, dramatic fat loss improves all these things almost irrespective of what diet you do. So that's the problem, too. Sometimes you're like, well, I did this diet and I did lose weight and some of this blood work improved until you quit, you know, until you stabilize and then you'll see the other negative effects coming out. But the thing is, they do these things, but then they're not realizing. Look at the muscle loss. Same thing with vegan. It's very hard to gain or maintain muscle on vegan. So then if we're talking body composition and even we get into the health effects and muscle loss, muscle mass is critical for health. And all the researchers are saying this, the doctors are saying this are like look, gaining muscle is protective against all these aging diseases. It's protective against everything from bone fractures to diabetes to cancer and just the ability to get up and move. Like people should be trying to gain muscle. Okay? If we're talking health and quality of life, gaining muscle is pretty dang important. But the same token, when you look at all these different diets, they all still work through calories in, calories out. And if you're losing muscle, not building muscle or any of these things, what happens when you have to adjust later? Your calories out is lower. Your your metabolic rate goes down if you lost a bunch of muscle versus if you gained it. Okay? So, you look at these these various diets and they they're not that great for any sort of like bodybuilding type purpose, which means getting gaining muscle, gaining lean muscle, and then losing significant amounts of body fat while keeping all of that muscle. So, you come over to what has the highest track record of track record of success? Protype diets. And I'm using that one as a proxy. It's just that that is very popular because it's so easy to do and so shown to be effective. When I say the chicken, brown rice, broccoli, that's just kind of a foundation. doesn't mean similar foods can't be worked in or even replace them. That's not what we're saying. But think about how this sort of diet works. You're going to maintain a lot of muscle. Protein, high quality animal protein. Now, the vegan diet doesn't have that. That's where it loses. Like vegan diets, other than the muscle loss wouldn't be horrible on the weight loss end usually, unless they're junk food vegans. But you look at a setup like this, the high protein, like dude, you're eating tons of chicken. Usually guys will throw in a whey protein or a Greek yogurt or whatever. So dudes are often times doing a little bit of fat-free dairy. Also, it's really normal in this type of diet. It's just a standard bodybuilding diet. But think about what does a standard bodybuilder end up looking like? They lose all their body fat. At contest time, bodybuilders have the minimum amount of body fat to sustain human life when they're winning and they're and they're at that level of competitiveness. That's as lean as you can get. So, so when we say that type of diet, we do mean that type of diet gets you as lean as humanly possible. We're at the absolute limits and they still do so while retaining muscle because they have to have the muscle still. So all the protein, the the animal source protein. Now oftent times the keto and the carnivore may have that. The keto doesn't always, by the way, but we have it by default because we're usually using lean cuts of meat of some type and oftentimes fat-free dairy on top of it. Protein very high. We retain muscle speeds up thermic effect, metabolic rate. Okay, thermic effect, metabolic rate, muscle retention super high. Well, then where are most of the other calories usually come from? starchy carbohydrates, clean, fibrous, starchy carbohydrates. So, why does that matter? That's our body's efficient fuel source. So, again, if you're trying to have good body composition and lose body fat, what do you want? You need training fuel. What's the best training fuel? Glucose. So, when you're eating all these starchy carbs, you have very good training fuel to train off of, to train hard, to train intensely, to try to stimulate muscle growth while still burning calories. Glucose is our preferred fuel source. is the only fuel source we can burn for intense exercise. We can burn fat and ketones and other stuff for lower intensity stuff and that's usually how these diets go when they're cutting. They usually do low inensity cardio, too. It's the norm. But but realistically, it's this is what we train on. We need that glucose for training fuel. The other two diets don't have that. They might have the protein, they're lacking the true training fuel, and it shows on the outcomes. Whereas the vegans get that, but then they don't have the building blocks to retain it with the protein. So, they're all falling short. But then you look at what else is in a diet like this and we have all these vegetables. So, what do we have? Fiest carbohydrates are well known for their satiety and making weight loss easy. This has been proven over and over and over. And if anyone says no, keep in mind you're also seeing all these competitive bodybuilders doing it who get shredded. So, yes, it clearly obviously works. You have no counterargument. Not only do you have all the anecdotal non-liffters, you have all these bodybuilders who literally become the leanest human beings walking the face of the earth doing it. And this is the most common approach they use. So yeah, the starchy carbs and then you're filling up with all these vegetables. Like I'm using just broccoli or whatever as a proxy. It could be lots of other vegetables. I mean, you can even replace some of the other stuff with sweet potatoes or potatoes, but starchy carbohydrates. And then you're seeing lots of starchy, fibrous, cruciferous vegetables. All right. All these foods promote high metabolic rate. They all promote high energy turnover. They all promote good gut health. They all promote muscle retention. They promote fuel for training. And then it's generally a lower fat diet, which again matters. It's easier to lose body fat when when dietary fats taken lower caloric caloric density, higher thermic effect. And then what do people do on these sort of diets? When they're happy with their body fat, they're not trying to get any leaner, they'll add healthy fats back in, like clean fats. And it works time after time after time after time.