Bro diets have the greatest track record of success for body composition and fat loss of any diet approach in the world. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. A quick reminder, if you guys will click the like button down below. If you are not following or subscribe, please do so. And if you guys would please leave me a comment under here, I would greatly appreciate it. Thank you so much. Let's get over to the topic. And when I say this, I'm not saying other approaches don't work. I'm not saying people haven't used flexible dieting. I'm not saying people haven't used more balanced splits uh with even more fat in there or or even lower carb or ketogenic type diets to lose body fat. Um look, there's a lot of approaches that work, but I think what people have to be aware of, and again, everyone who promotes any of these fat diets forgets this every single time. And it's it is really a problem for them. So like if someone is a vegan or if someone is a carnivore, someone's promoting, you know, extreme keto is the only way they have a problem. They've got a major problem is that the traditional bodybuilder bro diet says that they are wrong and it's produced way way way more jacked and shredded absolutely shredded individuals than any other dietary approach on the face of the earth. So this is a problem for people who are looking at other approaches. And it's not saying their approaches can't work, but it's like statistically speaking, we know what's produced the the best physiques. And by best physiques, we mean lean muscle, low body fat. Okay? And that has been this approach. And it's it's not um unreasonable that again the cultures around the world who tend to have low rates of obesity, low rates of diabetes have similar eating patterns. So again and what do we mean by bro diet? Bro diet and and it's typically thought of as look chicken, rice, broccoli. Okay, that approach. All right. Am I saying it has to be those specific foods? No. That is that is a standard approach or chicken rice vegetables. But here's here's the idea. All right. And and this works consistently. It's almost always a lean animal protein, right? Lean protein, animal source. All right. So, sorry vegans, you guys lose here. And we know why you lose. The data is supports this. You guys can't compete with this. You can't flat out. The research shows it. All right. Lean animal protein with calorie control coming from starchy carbohydrates. Okay. And then lots of vegetables. Okay. Now, fruits can also be employed here also. But what do we usually see? What is the general successful approach here? Fairly low fat. Any fats that you eat are healthy fats, if they're included at all. animal source protein being a major staple and then again starchy carbohydrates are your main calorie control. Okay, so why is this so successful? Well, for obvious reasons. Where do we gain all of the body fat on our body? It all comes from dietary fat. you can convert some carbohydrate in relatively limited quantities to visceral fat around your organs. Um the the the data at this point as science has gotten better and better and better at measuring humans do not store carbohydrates as subcutaneous fat under any conditions that have been found. Okay, including carbohydrate overfeeding. um studies looking at all this, even carbonizotope testing shows you gain zero body fat under your skin from carbohydrates. We cannot get it to occur in a humanin the lab. Even when they try, it doesn't happen. So if it doesn't happen, then you can kind of see why this approach works really really well. It helps keep people lean because their dietary fat is kept fairly low. And if any fat is eaten, it tends to be healthy fats that tend to promote insulin sensitivity. So again, we come over to what's going on with that. insulin sensitivity is your friend. All right? If you're trying to gain muscle or lose fat, keeping insulin sensitivity high is is a benefit to you. But they're eating insulinogenic foods. And people say, "Well, I don't understand." Well, because when you lift weights and you're gaining muscle, insulinogenic foods, your anabolic insulin is beneficial to you in a healthy functioning metabolic human being. So, if we're lifting weights and training, we're pushing the body in that direction. insulin becomes your friend at that point. It's not a negative. And in fact, your body tends to produce way less of it. So, if your foods are giving you some, it is feeding your muscle tissue. That is where it is going. Okay. So this sort of approach works really really well. Um and and this and the same thing with all of the carbohydrate there fuels training. So people who are chasing body composition are usually doing moderately to high volumes of of resistance training. All right. Carbohydrates fuel this. They fuel glycogen stores. glycogen stores are beneficial for us having a higher energy turnover, a higher metabolic rate, uh full muscle tissue. So creating an anabolic environment in the muscle tissue both in terms of recovery, um all of these things. And then of course it's always a focus on lean protein. So the animal source protein, this is again what we need for uh anabolic signaling in the muscle tissue. This is what our muscle tissue is built out of. But it's not that we're using that much to build it. It's that the protein itself tends to be protein sparing. So in other words, it's muscle sparing. So it tends to protect muscle tissue during exertion, during training, um even during phases where calories are reduced. In addition to it, some of some of the specific amino acids in there when they're put in in different combinations produce anabolic signaling to signal muscle tissue to to speed up muscle protein synthesis. and animal source proteins tend to have the best ratios of these. Okay. So, what we're looking at is certain things like uh you know total content of branch chain amino acids for example in the context of a complete amino acid profile. Okay. So, when you just add them on their own, they don't actually help. But when they're part of that matrix, yeah, we do get we get superior anabolic signaling. This leads to better muscle protein synthesis. And then of course with this sort of diet, you fill in all your micronutrients with lots of vegetables. They then help with satiety. They help with controlling the um blood sugar response from the starchy carbohydrates to some extent, more balanced level uh blood sugar levels. And then of course we get all the all the wonderful antioxidants and phytonutrients and things from a diet like this with lots of vegetables which facilitates better recovery from training. Better recovery from training. We have higher energy outputs. Okay, better muscle growth and therefore our metabolic rate keeps going up. So this sort of dietary approach what it ends up doing is pushing your metabolic rate and metabolic efficiency really really high. And this is why it works just in general for losing body fat. You gain less body fat when you overeat. You lose body fat easily. Uh your metabolic rate is very high. It works.