Muscle growth is a slow process and people have to accept this. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, this gets clouded by a lot of people because people experience new gains sometimes for their first six months, assuming they train decently hard or correctly. Yeah. You know, people get this idea in their head that that's just going to last forever, right? they get this idea it's going to last forever. Uh and so it makes slow progression later on very very confusing for people and it also makes it easy to market to people. Um also because literally almost every last person who you are watching in fitness online who's giving advice is on anabolics and other drugs. Okay? They're on muscle building drugs for the most part pretty much everybody. There could be a handful who aren't, but that's also like saying, uh, you know, you could win the lottery, right? We don't we don't base our rules on 1% outliers. Like, if you do, you're stupid. Let's just be clear. I don't care what the topic of conversation is. When you start basing your decisions and rules upon the outliers and acting like it applies to other people, you are a literal Like it's an indication you have an extremely low intelligence. So stop doing it. It makes you look stupid. Now let's set that aside because that argument always comes up when I do these videos. Well, you know, there could be or I think. It's like nobody cares. irrelevant to the conversation, not useful. So, or the actually so let's get through that. We need to be clear on that. So, yeah, a lot of times they'll make pretty dang good gains as someone who's been lifting a while out of nowhere, right? It happens, right? It absolutely happens. So, uh I digress. Back over to the point. This creates a lot of confusion and easy marketing for things. And so, this creates all sorts of complexities. People like, "Oh, I've got to change something up. I've been stalled on this lift for a while." I'm like, "Uh, you've been training five years." Okay, you've been training for five years. You You're going to stall on lifts. And what you're calling a stall isn't necessarily a stall. Did you Did you regress? Right. In in other words, on an exercise, if you could do, I don't know, 315 for six reps a year ago and you're not down to four reps now, what are you complaining about? Like that, that would be a problem, right? Well, if you did a cut or a lighter body weight, it could explain it. But you see where I'm going with that? And don't assume you're going to add a rep every year. You know, if you've been training five, six years already and whatever the lift is, you do 315 for six, it might take you a year to get to seven. Do we understand that? That's not a stall. That's just how slow muscle grows. Now, you notice I didn't say a wonder at max because sure, we can peak up and make wonderes get bigger because we are used to doing them or we peaked peak by doing heavy heavy singles and max effort work. Okay, but that's a little bit of neural drive and technique, not not your muscle growth. Now, that six rep set probably is right. Fairly heavy six rep set, medium weight like that, you can do six reps. That's an indication of muscle growth. All right, probably not going to neural drive your way through that if you've already been doing stuff in that rep range. Uh so again, people don't understand. and they're like, "Well, I need to change something. I need some muscle confusion. I No, no. Psychologically, you might benefit from that." So, we need to understand that you're not physiologically stalled. Okay? It's just once you're really strong and have a fair amount of muscle and finished out your new gains, it can take a long, long time to improve, right? It's normal. You're going to see diminished returns every year. So, it's not a stall. And I'll see that with younger clients, you know, they'll take their squat or whatever and they're like, I've only put 10 pounds on my squat. Like, my my my six rep squat is only up 10 pounds in six months. It's completely stalled, right? They're not noviceses. It's like, what do you mean? You improved, right? They're funny like that. But that's not a stall. That's just the nature of muscle growth. And everyone does that. I must meet need to change something. I've got to shock the muscle. I've got to do something to get through that stall. Well, no. You just need to gain muscle, right? You just need to gain muscle in the primary movers, which takes time. It's a slow process. Nobody wants to hear that. How do you put out fitness content on that, man? How do you sell anything? Right? Keep in mind, most of periodization for coaches is built around distracting clients while they get bigger. It's it's to throw a little fancy at them or we do little step loading and stuff and programming for the main lift while we're just continuing to load it. and maybe their accessories are getting them bigger. It's like, man, if I can distract them for 12 weeks, they'll gain some muscle because you can gain a little bit of muscle in 12 weeks. If I can distract them for 12 weeks, then I'll wow them with this distraction and they'll think the distraction is what works, right? Aha, my coach is a genius. My lift went up slightly. My squat or my bench or, you know, my weighted pull-ups, whatever it happens to be, right? It went up. He's brilliant. No, he distracted you and had you keep training. He had you gain muscle for 12 weeks, which is a slow process. And lo and behold, your performance improved. That's it. That's all he did. I mean, we could say that's brilliant. he was able to distract you and make you focus on something else and not see, especially if he's messing around with the weights and sets and volume on the on the lift you're trying to improve, then you won't see what's going on there. You'll just train the lift and follow the program. And as that's making you bigger and then whatever accessory work he's having you do is is making you gain muscle, then all of a sudden you're magically stronger. and and he is brilliant. He learned to distract you so that you didn't dwell on their performance because he kept changing the reps and sets and volume. But it's and you have a client who doesn't care about those things. They only want results, you don't need to do any of that. You you really only have to do that for a bunch of kids and immature people for the most part or people who get bored. People who can't accept that building muscle just takes time. then you you don't have to do that for those people as a coach, right? Once they buy in and they know you're going to get them there. Uh but again, the problem is it lets people sell nonsense, right? 37 new exercises, muscle confusion, all this periodization to help get you through these different stalls. No, you just need time. But that stuff can distract you, and that's the whole point. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.