Coconut oil and butter are both junk foods. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it. So, thank you so much. Uh but again, please feel free to give your opinions. If you disagree with me, say so. Um if you guys have a reason that you legitimately believe I'm wrong, I'd love to hear it. But the data is pretty overwhelmingly conclusive and common sense should dictate this also. All right, this is going to be a blow to both vegans and carnivores. These two cookie groups love to pimp this food, right? The carnivores love to pimp butter. The vegans love to pimp coconut oil. Their reasoning being, well, it's an animal product, so it's good. It's a plant product, so it's good. Um this shows that both of these groups, the fact that these two groups have pimped these two foods individually based on this reason should be very very clear absolute proof beyond any shadow of a doubt that they are crazy religious cults based on dogma that have no no interest in objective reality or in fact or evidence or science. Okay, this is your dead giveaway. these two foods. This is why I say they're the same thing. They're the same religion, just two coins of the same religion, and they're both insane. All right? And again, let's get over and talk about it. Let's talk about it for a minute. Um, look at the studies on either one. Should be common sense. They're both refined saturated fats, okay? They both been isolated from their whole foods. They've removed from the matrix of their whole foods and they are very, very high in refined saturated fat, both of them. Guess what happens when we study them? They do exactly what we would expect a refined saturated fat to do when taken out of a whole food. They to significantly elevate LDLC. LDLC is proven to be the the primary driver of atheroscerosis and hardening of the arteries, artery plaque. Again, let me state it is very well accepted that we have causation. The evidence extremely strongly shows this at this point. Um almost no one disagrees. Everyone in the fields of cardiology says yeah it is pretty much the case. Um it's not speculation at this point. It is the evidence is extremely strong. Study after study after study we know all the mechanisms the causation it's the cause. Okay. Right. There's some other co-actors, but this is the big driver and you will see it happen even no matter what size particles. You know, again, people argue larger versus small particles. One of them is worse than the other, but they both still do it. And that's the point. All right. So, you get over that's what the data shows. Okay. And isn't that what you would expect, right? You've taken whole foods and their whole major and generally we don't see a lot of that. Usually whole foods it's not as bad. I mean, the coconuts still can, but milk doesn't do that. So, I mean, that's the problem. These these people will look at it and they'll say, "But it's just milk." No, it's not just milk. That's like saying table sugar is just a sugarcane plant. It's the equivalent. People say, "Oh, it's not that." It is that. It is literally that extreme. Why? You've refined and isolated one part of it, okay? And you've taken out the beneficial stuff. Sugar cane is got plenty of fiber in it. It's it's a plant. It's got some sweet to it. You can chew on it, but it's a ton of fiber. Okay? Fiber mitigates most of the effects of fructose. Okay? Fiber mitigates the effects of fructose. You strip it out. Now you have a refined sugar. Totally different the way we absorb it. Everything same thing happens with dairy. Like whole milk doesn't raise LDL. That's been noted. It's like it's fairly benign. It's not like good. The fat in milk isn't good, right? But the negative effects are pretty much mitigated by all the other stuff in it. It's cardioctive. All that protein, the ultra high quality protein, all the calcium, the magnesium, all those other things in the milk seem to be cardiorotrotective and it seems to mitigate a lot of the negative effects of the saturated fat in milk. So, we look at it in studies. Yeah, a couple glasses of whole milk doesn't seem to elevate LDL for most people. Relatively safe, right? Relatively safe on that front. Now, you might gain weight easily from it. Calorie dense, lots of fat, you know. Okay, fair enough. Kind of what milk's intended to do. Makes baby cows gain weight, right? If we're drinking cow milk, whatever type of milk we're having to drink, I don't know what milk you're drinking. Be goat milk, human milk, whatever. Makes babies grow. All right, fair enough. The butter when it's compared doesn't do the same thing. Absolutely elevates the LDLC, elevates the inflammatory markers when it's studied when it's consumed. Even side by side, two groups. Whole milk doesn't produce the same effect as the butter. It's not butter. All that stuff has been removed. It's all been skimmed off and then it's been emulsified so that you digest it faster. It's been predigested on top of that. In what scenario have any food like that to where that has negative effects to where we absorb it even faster is a good thing? I don't think so. Okay, this is a perfect example. You look at all the data a reasonable person would conclude butter is junk food. Not because of some old hypothesis. We're talking do the direct testing in the lab. When people consume it, what happens? What does it do? Right? Junk food. Coconut oil, same thing. You had this thing with a bunch of fiber and a little protein in it. Right. This coconut, what'd you do? You squeezed all of it out. Like, you know, we do that with a fruit juice. We all agree on how it's turned into a refined sugar, really high in free fructose is a problem. Do that to an orange, right? There can be it's it's not as healthy, right? Coconut, you do the same thing. We squeeze it all out. You now just have the quote unquote coconut milk when it's really not milk. It's nut juice. You know, no lactose in it. There's no mammary glands. Coconuts don't have nipples. Right? It's nut juice. So, you're drinking this nut juice that's a pure oil loaded full of saturated fat. You've now removed all the fiber, all the stuff that is cardiorotrotective. You've removed it. Lo and behold, what happens? Your LDLC goes up there. Sorry vegans. There's your whole issue. Well, you know, we don't want all this meat because the saturated fat raises cholesterol, causes heart disease. But then these clowns will sit there and fry food and a refined saturated fat that causes heart disease because it's a plant. Just like these carnivores will do the same thing. Oh, but it's from it's from an animal. Plants are the problem. Okay? Because both of these groups are blithering idiots. They're both morons. They're both morons who are incapable of looking at objective data outside of their religion because they are they're religions. Vegan and carnivore are religions. their cults and this shows their cult-like mindset. They are incapable of looking at data and saying, "Yeah, this is a problem." Because no, no, animal product good or plant good. That's what their religion teaches. Therefore, that's what they stick to. And they will ignore the data till they're blue in the face. And they'll actually both go out of their way to insist they're healthy. Should eat lots of both. It's perfectly fine. Again, insanity. The reality is both of these foods are junk foods. They're both refined foods. They're both loaded full of saturated fat. They both provably in the lab when people consume them raise the markers that we know cause cardiovascular disease. They're both heart attacks waiting to happen. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.