Carbohydrates absolutely help tremendously with muscle growth. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciate it. If you're not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. So, thank you. Um, let's get over to the topic. And now, when I say this, I'm not saying this is even the only way. simply going to point out uh the reality that carbohydrates absolutely create a very anabolic environment in the body. And again, so you know, we talk about calories and muscle growth and needing at least maintenance calories and everything. Well, carbohydrates are calories. They're fuel. Um so you have to fill it with something. You've got to fill it with protein, fats, carbohydrates. And here's the issue. You can't just keep loading protein. So this is a misconception people have that well you know if you just eat tons and tons of protein we can create you know calorie surplus from that too and it's so anabolic except that it doesn't cause more muscle growth does it right when protein reaches that certain threshold around 1.5 1.6 six grams per kilogram of body weight doesn't seem to cause any more muscle growth even in bodybuilders, even in elite strength athletes when it's been studied. Um, at that point it just becomes not only calories, but look at the protein overfeeding studies. They lose weight. So, when they try to take people and add an extra 200 grams of protein to people on high protein diets at maintenance, they start losing weight. They end up being in a small deficit. Now, they still gain muscle. Don't don't get me wrong, they gain muscle in recomposition. Uh but like my friend Alex Leaf did did uh his graduate work in this with Dr. Antonia. I worked with him on that and that's what they found, you know. So you can't just get those calories by just forcing hundreds and hundreds of grams of protein. You end up just losing weight. Now it's and it's a great way to cut if you have the budget for 400 grams of protein a day. Most people don't. Um not these days, but you know, and it's very unpalatable eventually. No one's wanting to eat that much chicken or that much protein shakes. So, the thing is that doesn't work. So, then you really are left with getting calories unless you're going to be in a deficit um all the time, losing weight all the time. You got to get them from carbs or fat. And so, you have to look at it and go, what do carbohydrates bring to the table? They bring a lot. Number one, obvious training fuel, right? Obviously, training fuel. Now, I'm going to say that we could absolutely make a case for really healthy fats with a heavy leaning towards PUFAs. We could absolutely do that and create an anabolic environment, but that's a completely different topic. Um, mainly due to their their profound ability to create insulin sensitivity. So, then the little bit of carbs you do eat and then maybe um the protein you eat, the insulin response from that. Protein has a robust insulin response um can work very well. Let's really talk about the merits of carbohydrates. Um, number one, right off the top of the bat, number number one training f fuel for all high output activity. Now, a lot of your cardio doesn't doesn't necessarily need it. You can burn fat, but it's our preferential fuel source. It's always going to be our go-to. All highintensity cardio, all weightlifting, all resistance training only burns carbohydrates. If you do not have sufficient amounts, your gains will absolutely suffer because your training will suffer. And people say, well, can't we just make it from protein or whatever? Uh, you can, but you then you need huge amounts of protein and you have to have a lot of that for your brain. Some of your other functions require it. So, again, it's going to be hard. Then you end up with less less glycogen stores potentially. This can become problematic if you're chasing muscle fullness and all those things. And I'm and so this is something you have to think about with that. So, without the carbohydrates, um, if you go kind of the other extreme, you still have to have enough for your training fuel anyway. you break it down. But let's look at the other real merits. Number one, insulin itself. All right, insulin. Insanely anabolic. Insanely anabolic. We know this from the bodybuilding world because they take it. That's what created the mass monsters. So insulinogenic response of carbohydrates. It's critical for muscle growth. Okay? Critical for muscle growth. And the best way to get a larger insulin response is to eat carbohydrates. You're going to get a larger insulin response, better anabolism to muscle tissue. As long as you're not insulin resistant, it's not going to contribute to fat gain at all. People forget this, right? This is only for it's not it's not going to do this for people who are in shape. You know, you might store some of the fat you eat obviously, but you're not getting body fat from the insulin response of the carbohydrates. So, it works extremely well. Now, people could make the case for some down reggulation of insulin sensitivity if we go too extreme on this in theory, but you got to go relatively far with that. If you're down at maintenance calories or slightly above though, and you're eating enormous amount of carbohydrate, hitting your bare minimums of fat and protein, it's not really occurring in that case. You've got to really be in a calorie surplus. Okay? You have to be in a calorie surplus for that to occur. So, you have that. You also keep in mind increases thyroid output. Uh not so much the creation of thyroid hormone but the conversion of T4 into T3 keeps your metabolic rate uh humming along really nicely. And then the other big one uh insulin response from the carbohydrate lowers SHBG which therefore increases free testosterone is kind of a big deal. Kind of a big deal here guys. Uh you can't ignore that. So when we start looking at the hormonal environment, carbohydrates, and I'm talking about cleaner carbohydrates, I'm talking about either starchy carbs, you know, rice, potatoes, beans, things like that, right? This is what I mean. I guess to some extent wheat, although I'm not going to be a huge fan of refined wheat. I know we can make a case that it's not really bad. Um, I personally don't feel the best when I do it. And I can just speak for myself. We could argue about uh placebo or whatever, but other people do great on pastas and stuff. If you do, then hey, great. Knock yourself out. Um breads and things can have too much refined stuff, so that can be your problem. Um more than anything, uh but but generally I'm talking about this or I'm talking about fruit. I'm not talking about eating a bunch of cakes and pies. I'm not talking about eating massive amounts of just white bread. I'm not talking about refined sugars, right? So, we're talking about either nice good quality starchy carbohydrates or fruit. Okay, this works extremely well. Now, is this the only route? No. Because now I would say saturated fats the least anabolic calorie you can consume. Sorry guys, they don't want to hear that. How could you say that? It just is. It causes insulin resistance. It stores as body fat easier. So, we come over though. What about really healthy fats? particularly poffas to some extent. Poffas, you know, olive oil, um, avocado oil or just the actual olives or avocados even better. Or what about nut butters, nuts, seeds, fatty fish, and we start getting at all our polyunsaturated fats. Those are also very anabolic. In fact, there's definitely research showing they can contribute to body recomposition in people, particularly older people. But the main thing, yeah, they increase insulin sensitivity. So instead of the other extreme of reducing it, large amounts of PUFAs improve insulin sensitivity, they lower inflammation in humans. So yeah, if you're looking to recover quicker, reduce inflammation, have really high insulin sensitivity, so the little bit of carbohydrate you do eat and then your protein can be extremely anabolic, that route also actually works really really well. So I would come come to it and say really your best two approaches. So, what you need to be getting your calories from to get gain as much muscle as possible would be carbohydrate or really healthy uh mostly polyunsaturated fats, but to some extent monounsaturated, but carbs rock.