Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about how it's um really uh hypocritical and strange that you'll see extreme keto advocates and carnivore advocates uh fearing insulin and and high blood sugar uh because their diet causes it. Uh but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, uh please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Thank you. Um, you know, and that's the thing. We see it on countless blood work. It's not like I am making this up. It's not like we don't see it all the time in their groups and forums and their internet groups and Facebook groups, you know, when they show their blood work, you know. Um, so and and there's research on how large amounts of saturated fat do it. The mechanism of action has been determined by scientists as to how large amounts of saturated fat cause it, right? They have determined and measured the pathways by which it does it. It's not really a major point of contention. And usually uh you know when you find people who follow these sort of diets, and I'm not saying all keto diets, we're only talking about the really high saturated fat ones because that's even been compared. Um, you know, there have been individual studies that looked at for medical interventions, right? Because there are medical purposes to keto diets. We need to be clear on that. There are very specific and beneficial medical purposes for specific medical conditions which they are used to successfully treat. Okay? So, the different fat types have been studied. And you know, I ironically even people get mad when you say this and I'm not telling people to eat seed oils. simply telling you what's been measured by clinicians who work with people on ketogenic diets in the studies, you know, who use them for medical reasons that even seed oils produce better blood work, less insulin resistance, better fasting glucose than the higher saturated fat versions, even if they have them adding it to their diet. Um, and I'm not saying that that's optimal. Like, let let me be clear. I am not making that statement. I'm not even endorsing that. I'm saying that is what's been measured because it's less saturated fat, which makes sense, right? In moderation, saturated fat isn't harmful. Like, we we usually agree on that. It's one of those things that when moderated doesn't seem to be a problem. A lot of stuff is a problem when moderated, right? That isn't one of them. Like, alcohol is still a problem in moderation. Um but you know you see that in the lab you see and the mechanism of actions has been determined and yet you'll see these people you look at their blood work their fasting insulin is high their fasting glucose is high and yet they go on and on about these things being concerns and it doesn't ever seem to click in their head that literally their diet does exactly what they are afraid of mechanistically right and it would be fine if they just said, "Well, I try to avoid carbohydrates." Okay. But don't claim that you're trying to lower insulin or glucose, fasting glucose, because the diet causes those things to go up. Okay? And it's problematic. Um, and but that's the thing that they make. They'll they try to they'll try to spin this whole insulin uh obesity hypothesis. And it's like but but that's not really based on reality. That's been largely debunked. And you know the reality is plenty of people who are ultra lean eat tons of white rice, white potatoes, these very insulinogenic foods all around the world, Asian countries, u where these foods are eaten, you don't see these same problems even when white rice is a staple. Okay, not saying refined sugars aren't a problem, but to literally but refined sugar is a problem for a similar reason to saturated fat, isn't it? It's because of the non-lucose. It's the fructose in there. The glucose side of it isn't the problem, right? It's that's not the problem even with with refined sugars. It's the fructose reaching the liver causing insulin resistance and and fatty liver. Okay. However, saturated fat has been found usually on a calorie forcalorie basis to cause these same problems at the liver at a slightly worse degree. When they're measured, the negative metabolic effects of significant amounts of saturated fat even exceed fructose through a similar mechanism of action, you know, in terms of metabolic and liver issues. Okay. So, saturated fat can cause non-alcoholic fatty liver again in excess. Nobody's telling you a couple of eggs or, you know, a lean steak a couple times a week is is going to be a problem. Okay? It's not what we're saying. We're not saying eating an 8 oz lean sirloin three or four times a week is going to cause this. It's not. Eating a pound of ribeye a day might definitely eating bacon will, you know, and that's the problem. They they're afraid of insulin resistance and they're afraid of high glucose, but then they're eating a diet that causes it. Whereas in people who eat the low saturated fat eat healthier fats eat healthy carbohydrates, not large amounts of refined sugar. Right? In other words, people who eat healthy fast. People who eat rice and potatoes and exercise don't don't have these issues. Lower fasting glucose, lower fasting insulin because they have a better insulin response. Even glucose levels just don't rise as much. And it's not because the food. So in other words, when you have a healthy insulin response, even white rice doesn't cause your insulin and your glucose to spike. If you have if it it doesn't cause insulin resistance. If you're non-inssulin resistant, you need very very little insulin to make that glucose shuttle right into your muscle cells, right? A very small amount does it because you're sensitive to it. Your muscles are sensitive to it. Hey, the same thing. We know that saturated fat almost seems to clog the receptor is the way some scientists have described it at the muscle level. It can literally make muscles more insulin resistant. Well, that's your biggest glucose sink, right? That's your your your glucose sink right there is muscle tissue. And when it starts to become resistant to it, it's exactly what you see. You're going to see that a high fasting glucose and a high fasting insulin because your body needs more insulin to handle the glucose. And because you don't store the glucose correctly, all the insulin uh is going to be too high. The fasting glucose is high because you're still getting glucose from all the meat you're eating, right? Gluconneogenesis is creating it. Even some of the fat is turning into it. But the problem is you don't handle glucose well because you're eating a diet that's high in saturated fat. So that is literally what you're seeing. You're seeing in these people who follow this diet who have a high insulin and high fasting glucose even when they're lean, guess what? They're pre-diabetic and they're insulin resistant. That is why you see it in their blood work. And when they have to quit the diet and they have to go back to eating carbohydrates, it's a problem because they've really set themselves up in a bad place if they're not very careful. Okay? So really, the best thing people would do if you really and truly cared about insulin response and fasting, glucose, and keeping all these things low, you would eat healthy carbohydrates, plenty of them, healthy fats like polyunsaturated fats, and you would weight train and exercise. That's your solution. It is not to follow some extreme insulin uh resistant inducing diet full of saturated fat. It's simply not the answer guys. And it's so hypocritical that they think it is. They they completely ignore all the science and completely ignore their own blood work which shows it.