carnivores, you are not healthier in any way because you cut out fruits and vegetables. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and g a little bit about this today. And if you guys would please remember to click like down below be greatly appreciated. If you are not following or subscribed, please do so and drop me a comment with your thoughts down below or even just to say hello. I would greatly appreciate that. Um, yes, this is one of these topics I'm going to harp on over and over and over because the problem is this is the single most dangerous, insane, ridiculous idea that has ever hit the fitness world as a fad. And it has such a militant following that the people are in complete denial of it. And that's the scary part. Um, is that they they're ignoring the fact that their heroes are having to all stop doing this. All right? So, it's like this idea they have that, well, you must be against red meat or you must be a vegan if you think our diet's insane. It's like, no, I'm against you not eating vegetables and fiber. Um, and what these people forget, they they always bring up nonsense like, well, I've got some IBS or I have these other problems because I ate a really bad American diet. and instead of following the standard protocols to get their gut ready to handle the higher fiber uh because maybe they do have some gut issues because they've went on a really low fiber diet too long because they lived on McDonald's hamburgers or something um and just garbage that yeah they do have some issues with their gut biome or they do have some IBS so they're just like well so vegetables tear my stomach up so I quit and I went to this route well that's insane and and by that same token you People will defend this stuff and so they'll say, "Well, it's an elimination diet, so you take all the the vegetables out and then you add back in." Like, no, that is not how an elimination diet works. Um, if you honestly think the carnivore method is an elimination diet that registered dieticians approve of, is how an elimination diet is done. That is a profoundly ignorant statement. That is not how it's done. They take out individual things to test for intolerances and problems. It would be something like take out all night shades or take out all of certain types of vegetables that have a very high sulfur content. Right? Do you understand this is this is what an elimination diet does if they suspect there's something that has an issue. So when someone says, "Oh, I did it as an elimination diet." No, you didn't. You did it as some crazy carnivore stuff that has nothing to do with with a medical elimination diet. and you don't even know what an elimination diet is. That's what you did. All right. So, it's the problem with this idea is that they're literally thinking, "Oh, I'm healthier because I removed all these antioxidants and phytonutrients." Well, that's that's a problem, guys. Like, this is not based on reality. And there is no conspiracy by big vegetable to convince you to eat broccoli and spinach. All right? We need to be clear on that. There is no international conspiracy by big broccoli and big spinach to convince you to eat vegetables and to and to cook the scientific books to get you to do so. All right, just wow. That that's like where they go almost with it. But the simple fact of the matter is without getting into all the other issues, we we don't need to discuss the LDLC, the atheroscerosis, any of that. Like that's a whole separate topic because then we go down a rabbit hole and these people argue with that as their point and they ignore the bigger picture which is uh literally taking the the vegetables out, taking out the fiber. So even if we want to make an argument towards lipid profiles and calcification of arteries, the most cardiorive foods you could eat would be the actual fruits and vegetables. Okay? So if a person were eating a diet that was was prone to causing these other issues, you would get a protective element from the vegetables. Again, one reason I don't always have a big issue with ketogenic type diets, you know, if someone wants to eat two pounds of of of sirloin steak every day or some flank steak um on lower carb approach, they can probably in many cases get away with it without major health issues. They probably can, especially because most people who follow those sort of diets generally hammer down the vegetables, right? They're knocking down the low carb green vegetables, you know, things like broccoli, things like spinach, things like avocados, the the cardoprotective benefits of those foods are massive. Okay? So, if we do have concerns over the sterillic acid in the beef, the specific form of saturated fatty acid they're concerned with, uh, to be fair, the vegetables can offset that. And especially if you're not eating a bunch of of refined sugars and all that other garbage with it and you're eating a large amounts of these these leafy green or cruciferous vegetables, yeah, you're going to get a pretty significant cardiovascular protective effect from this, right? This is certainly I'm still going to say way way healthier than a standard American diet by any metric. Okay. So, so that's the problem. They're removing these beneficial foods. They're also creating situations to where just like the standard American diet can do it sometimes. If people live on nothing but fast food and and no fiber, yes, we develop GI tract issues. We know that it's from the lack of fiber. Okay. And as far as the the gut flora goes, yes, this will affect neurotransmitters in your brain. It's going to affect a lot of hormones in your body in a negative manner. Okay? It's going to affect your immune system. And just because you do it for a while, people like, well, what if it doesn't work out? I can just go back to eating these things. Well, the problem is now your body really doesn't handle them. You just did three or four years with pretty much zero fiber and vegetables. Hey, you're going to have a major gut biome imbalance. So, when you realize you do need to consume these things, it's a problem. And we we saw that with Paul Salino, didn't we? Right? Remember when he put out his whole carnivore diet book, he turned out while the book was being published, getting right ready to publish, he had to quit doing the diet because the health effects of eating no fiber, no fruits, no vegetables started negatively affecting his health, his blood work, and he realized it as a medical doctor. he and he went ahead and published the book. Okay, so people need to understand your heroes and experts who have been pimping this stuff are having to back off on it. They did it for a long time and they started having problems. Like again, anyone telling you fruits and vegetables, particularly the vegetables, I get it. Some people don't want that many carbs for whatever reason. There are legitimate cases for that sometimes. So they don't want the fruits, okay? But the vegetables, you have to be kidding me. uh insanity. The data is overwhelming showing the health benefits of vegetables. Um and and everything from cardiovascular to reducing cancer and everything else. Um again, we know this high vegetable intake is absolutely uh linked to longevity and most of the problems all these fears they have from vegetables with whatever with anti-nutrients and things go away as soon as you start cooking them. And they're not always valid concerns. uh but different ones have been noted in the literature actually just cooking them. This becomes something that is not an actual real concern and this is what the the the best experts and scientists say about it. Yeah, there is some truth that humans do handle cooked foods for most of our food better. There is truth to that and we do see that with our our gut. Okay. But to then eliminate all of them because you have some problems with some raw broccoli instead of just steaming it or cooking it and all the health consequences people are going to have is insane. No, you're not making yourself healthier. You are making yourself sick. Even if you eliminated the other bad stuff and you temporarily are feeling better, you are going to get sicker as a result of this in the long term. And the consequences may not be reversible. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.