Carnivores promoting eating no vegetables or fiber is deadly and it is going to hurt a lot of people. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. Thank you. And and let me know of a lot of you who've had health problems from eating uh not enough fiber and things in the past. This is actually a really common issue. Um, and it's it is truly ridiculous and strange that all the data we have on fiber. Uh, and the fact that doctors and dietitians and everyone else know that say Americans don't get enough fiber and this is actually a major part of our problem. So, so in other words, when we talk about the the issues with a standard American diet, if Americans simply ate dramatically more fiber, a lot of those problems would would go away because one, they would be filling their diets with more fibrous food. Uh, two, it would slow the absorption of a lot of the problematic things that they are eating. Uh, again, the refined sugars, refined carbohydrates, which again, carbohydrates where all the fiber has been removed. Um it would even offset some of the negatives of the amount of refined fats and saturated fats and things that we eat like the fiber would help offset that. Um plus just it being especially if it's in the form of things like fruits and vegetables, you would have all the cardior benefits of these things to help with it. Um so this this is really a problem on the on the fiber end. And the reason I say that what you're going to find is that more and more of the carnivores and plenty of them have found it. What's interesting to me is that the people in these circles are in complete denial of the number of people out there like, "Yeah, I tried to go carnivore and I ran into these gut health problems." Like it actually made my gut worse uh problematic with with gut health and everything else because that's actually one of the big shortterm risk, right? The other concerns with it are really long-term in nature and they're not going to uh be a problem for 5, 10, 15 years for the people doing it. you know, the atheroscerosis and the heart disease side. So, what we really could be looking at here is the more short term um the lack of fiber. All right? Complete lack of fiber and then the effect on your gut biome. Um and even worse when you factor in that not enough fiber is absolutely linked to colon cancer, intestinal cancer, all these things. Uh because they're not properly cleaned out, right? uh we're it's not cleaning and scraping that lining out without the fiber. And so then the same thing if people are eating all this meat, all this saturated fat is sitting in there and even even worse, you're seeing more of these people who are uh promoting eating the refined red meats. Okay? And this this should be a big red flag. All right? The WHO and some of these other organizations have made a massive mistake and they've been called on this and when they talk about red meat causing causing cancers of lumping all red meat and processed red meats together. Okay. And and yeah, when it's all looked as a total there's a big link to cancer there. Okay. Big big link uh particularly uh colon cancer and intestinal cancers. But it's not necessarily from the stake. That's that's where we're seeing the issue. The steak is not causing it. steak in moderation or even lean steak not in moderation is probably not problematic to any large degree uh for humans. And this is something where e even I'll agree and a lot of us will say okay the carnivores at least they're they're right on that like but the data supports that. Uh the issue though is again all these refined ones, well those cause cause problems, but at the very least if you're eating enough fiber, you can clean it out of there faster, right? So having having all this stuff sitting in your um intestine lingering for longer periods of time um instead of being cleared out properly and being kind of whooshed out by all the fibers, problematic. This this absolutely leads to um potential cancers and other things there. Now the other thing though to think about is also the lack of gut flora diversity and this is the big big big problem also. Uh we know that gut flora all these all the carnivores and even the ketos are like well if you don't have carbohydrates you don't need all that fiber and they're talking more about the the soluble fiber. Um but they're missing the whole point with the insoluble and other fibers of the gut flora. We should be eating a diverse amount of fruits and vegetables every day. a diverse amount of fiber sources, grains, lumes. Like even for me at the time I'm making this in an average day right now, um I eat broccoli, spinach, uh bell peppers, uh and avocados are pretty much something I eat every single day, right? Every single day in addition to whatever grains or potatoes or or sweet potatoes. But so though for me, I have three or four vegetables I personally eat every single day, you know, and we want that. We want that diversity of micronutrients, diversity of phytonutrients. Again, the stuff a lot of them are scared of, they're always worried some of these things are anti-nutrients, yet tons of them have antioxidant properties. Um, and even then people will will say, well, aren't you worried about the absorption? When you start looking at my diet, most of the vitamins and things in it, I'm three, four, five times the RDA. We're not worried if we lose 10% of the absorption due to a little bit of of so-called anti-nutrients, which has been largely debunked by by experts and researchers as being a real concern. All right, so back over to that point, you want that gut flora diversity. Okay. It's it's critical for a lot of reasons. And people who don't understand a healthy, robust gut biome, and what you see with these sort of diets is they're dramatically reduced. And I mean dramatically, even keto diets, deep keto diets, even if they have vegetables in there, you see a loss of gut flora diversity. So why does this matter? It affects your immune system. It affects your brain. It affects your neurotransmitters. Like it affects your mental health. It affects your cognition. So, we know that there's an enormous fine gut connection there. Um, so all of your your gut biome absolutely affects all your neurotransmitters and serotonin and dopamine and um all these other other brain hormones. It's a big big deal. Uh it's also the the foundation of your immune system. So, it affects your immune system, affects your ability to recover from exercises, stay off colds. So, losing this this gut flora diversity is absolutely a problem. And then the worst part, if they're causing extinction of it, and this is the big one, all right, and they're developing insulin resistance from their diet, which notice that high fasting glucose you see in these people, that's already signs of insulin resistance, but they're like, "Oh, I'll be okay because I'm going to stay on this type of diet forever and it'll be fine." Except that what happens now, they've lost all this fiber. And their gut can't handle fiber anymore. it would take a long long time to rebuild it to handling it. Well, when they have to come off this diet because most of them have to, they can't stay on it and they've made themselves pre-diabetic with the insulin resistance all the saturated fat is caused. Guess what happens? Well, now they're going to have to start eating carbs again, but now they can't handle fiber. So, it's all going to be faster absorbing low- fiber carbs. And they're already pre-diabetic from following this goofball diet. and then they become full-blown type two diabetics. Okay, so yes, in the long term this sort of situation because they will not be able to handle the fiber and they've made themselves insulin resistant when they eventually have to reintroduce carbs, tons of them are going to become type 2 diabetics and it's almost unavoidable. It's predictable at this point.