What are bro diets and why are they so effective? Hey everybody, it's Jason Lawa here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciate it. If you're not following or subscribe, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that so much. So thank you. Let's get over into the uh topic which is of course bro diets. People generally think of a bro diet as chicken rice broccoli, right? or chicken, brown rice, broccoli. Um, but the whole idea is relatively interchangeable uh with a variety of foods. Right now, this also may include sometimes adding some some healthy fats and small amounts, usually not large amounts on this this type of diet. Um, but this sort of diet's been used to lean bulk by bodybuilders for generations, right? For generations, not just a few years. Uh, plenty of bodybuilders have lean bulked on it type uh diets in their offseason. uh many of them have used it for contest prep. This is almost a standard procedure if for guys who are not doing the really low carb route. This has pretty much been a standard procedure for decades for guys who want to get stage ready. They'll do this sort of diet track stuff a little closer. They add large amounts of cardio. So, and the idea behind that that large amounts of cardio continues to burn extra fat. So, usually what what are we looking at? What is what is this sort of diet comprised of and why does it work? Um, well, it's usually very efficient. And if you think about just basic human biology, human nutrition, it makes sense why not only bodybuilders, but tons of athletes, right, are successful in this. In fact, way more successful than any of the more common fringe diets like various keto diets, low carb diets. Uh, vegans almost unheard of successfully in most serious athletes. Carnivores completely unheard of to some extent. Even paleo gets type diets from the past get a little difficult here. So usually what you see here is lean protein. Now chicken is just an idea, right? It's just an idea. It doesn't have to be chicken. Why is chicken done? Because it can usually be very lean. Usually chicken breast is extremely lean. It's a lean animal protein. It's easily sourced in large amounts. And generally speaking, as far as most proteins go that are palatable, chicken is extremely inexpensive. So keeping in mind a lot of people when they're doing these sort of contest preps or everything, they don't always have a lot of money. It's not always wealthy people. It's not always people with lots of money. It is a very inexpensive protein source. It still happens to be taste good. If you can cook it right, even if you think it's dry or bland or whatever, it can still be uh kind of done to taste. It offers a lowfat, very low saturated fat, lean source of animal protein, of high quality protein. Now, this sort of diet, oftentimes, some leaner dairy is done. You'll see, you know, fat-free milk. You'll see Greek yogurts. You'll see protein powdered whey protein. And that usually helps because again, you get a little better amino acid profile. You'll get the calcium you may be missing. But a lot of times, guys will do this sort of diet and just pop a multivitamin while they're cutting to to make it through there. And I'm not saying that's the best approach, but it can work in the short term. But it does make sense to maybe add add dairy there um sometimes. But guys also do other lean proteins. A lot of people on this sort of diet will do fish. They might do really really really lean beef. And these are all viable. Why? It's easy to get the protein you need to reach your goals. You know that that one and a half grams per kilogram of body weight. Or people who do the little more old school. They just shoot for a gram per pound of body weight. Um, so it's super easy and it's super inexpensive for people to just simply cook two pounds of chicken breast, have 200 grams of protein roughly, done. Covers all the protein needs and it's portion control since you know you're eating a given amount of it every every time. Your portions are controlled here. Your protein is controlled. All right. Uh, rice is usually done. Now, why rice? Uh, other starchy carbs work. Honestly, uh, people could do oats, they could do potatoes, they could do whatever else they wanted on this sort of diet. Why is the rice though? Easy portion control. You don't have to weigh it the same, right? Oats you can measure out with a cup the same way, but I mean a cup of rice, like everybody knows uh who's done any sort of of measurement. Look, a cup of rice is about 600 calories. Yes, I know it's more. One dry cup. All right. About 600 calories. You can literally This is your calorie control. Okay. This is your calorie control. This is the adjustment that you make when you neither are gaining or losing weight. So, let's say someone's doing something like this to lose body fat. That's usually the idea. This gives you portion control. Okay? And you can eat a lot of it. Like white rice, I mean, you're still looking at 600 calories. One cup of white rice is two uh wet cups. Like once you've cooked it, you're usually adding two two cups of water to that. Then it's cooked. It fluffs up. That's a fair amount of food volume for 600 calories. All right. Why does this matter? Starchy carbs. Okay. Why starches? Starches are our most efficient fuel source. Our body loves starch. We thrive on starch. It has to do no conversions. So in other words, your stomach acids and digestive process itself with no fermentation, no other enzymes really uh heavily involved that are that are in short demand. Cleave it into straight glucose. So it's broken down. You have stuff right there. Immediately after absorption, it's turning it into pure glucose. Glucose is our body's preferred fuel source. It is the the fuel source that we burn. Some of the cells in our body require it. Training is always glucosebased. So, it gives you tons of training fuel for any sort of highintensity training, which will include all your weightlifting. You're not burning fat during that. See where we're going with this? This sort of diet is then working off of our high energy system. It's also still going to be fairly filling compared to if you were eating those same calories from fat. And again, starchy carbs are super efficient. There's there's no risk of it not becoming glucose, right? There's no risk of any of it reaching the liver as something else is some sort of fatty acid or causing non-alcoholic fatty liver or fructose reaching the liver. Um, it's just super clean, super clean, super efficient. You could substitute rice for any other starchy carb on this sort of approach. People, some people do lean steak and potatoes. Same thing happens. They just got to weigh the potatoes. There's your your complete portion control is done off the rice. And then people do vegetables of various types. Broccoli being super common because again, insanely nutritious, very inexpensive. But a wide variety of vegetables can be thrown in. Why? Because even if you're eating a pound of vegetables a day, it is such a tiny number of calories. You probably don't really need to account for it. It's going to be accounted for with any adjustments in the other portion control. In other words, there's no way you're eating enough vegetables over whatever your estimate is to even equal half a cup of the rice. All right, so again, why the vegetables? We get all the rest of the nutrition we need. Controls our inflammation. You'll get all your your extra fiber. Um, your phytonutrients, your filliness. So, if you're struggling still with, hey, I'm getting hungry. simply adding a little more broccoli or vegetables, which might literally only be 20 calories or 30 calories being added to your diet, or 40 or 50. 50 calories of extra vegetables added is a very large amount of food volume. This controls the absorption of the rice, slows it down, or any other starchy carb that isn't high fiber, like if you didn't use oats or something, if using potatoes, this controls everything. This gives you a control for absorption. Gives you all the other potential nutrients you need. There's all your phytonutrients, your fiber. Now, do some people then choose to maybe add some some healthy fats or dairy or whatever. Yes. Sometimes in certain amounts, those are used in these sort of diets. But this works. It works. It's simple. It's time permit. It's effective. It's filling. You you will always have training fuel. uh and you have extremely easy portion control because of the nature of the food. Your real calories are then coming from the starch and you have easy measurements of all these starches. You have perfect portion control so that you can closely monitor without doing much real tracking dayto-day. You can just simply know how much you need to add or subtract based on what's happening with the scale and your results. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.