Classic error bodybuilders built amazing physiques with way less equipment than we have today. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribe, please do so. Um, I would appreciate that also. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment down below, I would be grateful. Thank you so much. Let's get over to the topic. You know, you go back and you look at these classic era guys. Look at the 50s, the 60s, the 70s. These guys still had amazing physiques. And and on top of that, they didn't even have all the stuff. Then by the stuff, I mean the various magical supplements we have today. And people need to be clear on that. Especially the the late 50s, the 60s, they had some of them had nothing. uh some of them had access when they did have stuff it was way way way way less different things than what guys have out there today. Okay. So you can't people can't say well you know so they use now it wasn't even that like again they did not have access to what we have access to to today. They didn't have the supplements they didn't have the same magical supplements and you guys know what that means. That's code. They didn't have the same equipment. They didn't have all the machines. They didn't have all the cables. um they didn't have all those things you know that we have especially all the machines yet they got amazing absolutely amazing results. Okay, right? They got amazing results. Go back and look at how they train and it's because they figured out how to make everything work. Right? They figured out how to make everything work with the equipment that they had available. They found the angles. So you go back and look and it's like ah they figured out since well we don't have these different curl machines don't have cables. They figured out how to find the angles to make a dumbbell or a barbell work and they still built say amazing biceps right? You look at that they all figured out oh with a straight bar like they all knew back then watch how a lot of those guys curled. They always had the wrist trailing a little bit behind when they did a curl. Why? Because they figured out really quick man we just feel more bicep and less forearm that way. Which again guys today oh I don't like the straight bar. I feel my my forearm too much. And and they don't realize that all those guys had no trouble with it. They just learned how to hold the bar correctly to make it go away. Uh they had dumbbells. Well, they figured out, well, we could do uh different stuff to suppate and pronate the wrist. They figured out, hey, we're on the dumbbell, we can get on an incline bench and get a deeper stretch. We get a deeper stretch on everything. If they didn't have some of the other machines, so they figured out how to do pullovers. Like you go back and look at those errors. Look at some of the exercises that really built those classic upper bodies. Okay? What do you see? You're going to see a lot of pullovers. Those guys loved pullovers. They loved weighted pull-ups, weighted chin-ups, weighted dips. Okay? So, if you go back and you look all those guys, you always see them doing dips. And how often when they're doing dips or these guys, they're not even doing the parallel. You'll see the guys doing super super deep dips. It's why I started doing them more and more. All right? They didn't have chest machines. They didn't have dip machines. They often times just had the parallel or vbar dips. But they got really good at them. Okay. Got really good at them. They built big chest, big triceps doing that, right? But the pullovers, absolutely. So look, and I want people to really think about something you really see from a lot of the classic era, the guys in the 60s and stuff, right? How many of them just have those massive horseshoe triceps, right? You'll see the guys who have the absolutely massive long head of the triceps and you're wondering how did they do that? Those pullovers, the pullover works that head primarily. It is one of the best. We're finding now with some data. It's one of the absolute best long head of the tricep exercises. Okay? And they did all those dips plus they all did lots of pressing. They did lots of really really deep dips. They did lots of pullovers. I think that's the reason so many of them had those amazing triceps because they did. You go back and look, it's like they weren't sight shooting them like these guys either. They all had the triceps, okay? They all had lats, but they also lived on pull-ups. So, if you really go, why does some of those guys have such that really great small waist, uh, you know, with that vtaper that so many of them had? It's all the pull-ups and all and all the pullovers because they built the long head of that tricep. It also helps build the intercostals and serrus. It also helps the pullovers help stretch all that area so you can do vacuums better. And a lot of them they lived on vacuum. So a lot of them had small waists um from building all the traverse abdominals and everything there. But man, the pullovers help. See that? And then all those super deep dips. Okay. I think those are massive, massive keys to why they had what they had. Okay. And a lot of them had great calves, great legs. But you go look, a lot of them, they didn't have machines for calves every week. So it's even like you see me doing a lot of home gym guys. You get on a on a barbell. Get a barbell and a plate and you just do calf raises with a barbell. And they built calves. And the same thing, they still had great legs. They didn't have the massive disproportionate legs we do see in current bodybuilding. And they also you didn't see the big rectus forous, right? So which is actually considered if you look at them they all had a little bit different shape to the leg the quad they had more of the quad sweeping they didn't have that big rectus for Morris at the top that made the leg look a little less aesthetic. So why well they didn't have leg extensions always they had squat pattern movements sometimes they had some hack squat machines or whatever but a lot of them just did back squats they did front squats they built their quads with squats gives a slightly different shape to the leg because now you're working the other three heads of the quad more. you're working the lower part more because most of them did squats and they did deep squats. You always look, man, a lot of them are just doing full squats, not even current powerlifting squats. Well, it builds the quads and it builds a proportionate amount of lower quad versus that upper area. Okay, it worked. It worked extremely well. And again, note they didn't have all the machines and stuff and they made but they still were extremely welldeveloped. So, they had very aesthetic lower bodies compared to a lot of the guys today. But then the upper body, those proportions, they always they still developed everything and they always had the big triceps. Again, go back and look go look at guys like um anyone from Steve Reeves to to uh Bill Pearl definitely the triceps. But you go look and all these guys, they did all the tons of pullovers. They did tons of dips, right? It helped with that tremendously. And they all had the big vtaper and it's because they lived on pull-ups. A lot of them did rose. They all did squat bench and deadlift and all that. Same thing when they benched, they all benched flat back. What did that do? Well, it gave them really well-developed chest. None of the guys back then, you never heard any of the guys from that era say the bench press isn't a great chest exercise, but they weren't bouncing it. And a lot of them did flat back benching with a fairly wide grip. They all had pecs. These guys figured out how to make it all work. And you look and there's great just great physique after great physique after great physique with literally nothing with access to nothing but barbells, dumbbells, and then weighted body weight exercises. Okay, you go look, it's like, man, it's it's it's squats, deadlifts, calf raises, bench press, overhead press, weighted pull-ups, right? weighted dips and and they did the tons of pullovers, barbell curls, incline curls on dumbbells, right? Of course, a lot of them they also did extensions and things, various types of skull crushers. They all had great physiques and great balance, great aesthetics. Plenty of guys did without access to any of the stuff that we had today. This should make people really rethink what they're doing.