When we are looking at things like coconut oil, we have to understand the totality um of the health impact. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you will please click like down below, would greatly appreciate it. If you aren't following or subscribe, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment under the video, I would appreciate that so much. Thank you. It can be to discuss, it can be just to say hello. All right, so over to the topic. You know, when we come up with these foods, people will say things like, "Oh, everyone's changing their mind. There's a different answer. These foods are confusing." But they're really not confusing because it's only certain special interests or organizations or companies that are oftentimes or book authors that are pushing a food. Keep that in mind. So, you take something like coconut oil. It's kind of been pushed into the health sphere. And what I would point out, almost everything that you put into your body has positive and negative effects. Okay? So we need to be clear on that you can find something good and you can find something bad about almost every substance. What we have to look at is to use some common sense. Look at the total data right not conjecture not oh this uh particular food was one time used to make napal therefore it's it's bad like that's stupid. No we need to look at data. We don't care what the historical application was. We don't care if a food was used to cure lung cancer or or if it was used to make nuclear bombs. We only care about what it does in in a normal healthy body versus a disease one. That's all we care about. So, but people get into weird stuff. So, data. All right. Here's your thing with something like coconut oil. I mean, I could make the case of guys, it's a dang oil that's been extracted from a plant. Uh, this is not something you should probably be eating. I always think that's a fair rule. The same thing when it comes to fats. It's why I say butter and lard or whatever. This is a problem, right? You've extracted the protein away from a fat source. That's bad. When you take the fiber away from an oil, this is bad. We've lost our whole food benefit. In other words, I'm fine with steak. But if you're trimming off the fat off the edges of the steak, taking the steak away, and then rendering the fat, uh, this is now a junk food. Same thing with the butter. We've taken this amazing milk and we just took the fat and extracted it and emulsified it. Yeah, this is this is not good. Same thing when we look at different oils, right? We've taken this perfectly reasonable plant and we've squished the oil out of it and filtered all the nutrients, most of the nutrients and all the fiber and all this good stuff out of it. Yeah, this is and then we've heat treated it. It's probably not good. There's a general rule we can look at this and the data will tend to support it. These are probably not wise choices in foods. You know what? I'm all for some peanut butter and walnuts and some avocados and some steak and some milk. I think these are great foods, especially for an athlete. You know, it's all these extracted nonsense. But coconut oil, perfect example. Um, let's set all that conjecture aside, though. And only look at data. People say, "Okay, but it's got health benefits." Okay, I mean arsenic might have health benefits. So what we we need to look at the totality. People say, "Well, it might might raise HDL." Well, that can be cardiorive. Uh it might it might do this. It might lower triglycerides. Okay, good. But you know, there's a lot of healthy stuff that can raise HDL or lower triglycerides and don't have negative effects. So what's special about this? It's not. The downside is the impact on LDLC. Um, so here's here's where we have to look at the totality of the most important blood markers. Okay, terms of long-term damage. LDLC being the driver of atheroscerosis is not a point of scientific contention anymore. And I don't I don't like to use silly terms like those aren't so subtle because that that's we know that's a nonsense term. But let's let's not go there. There's pretty pretty damning amount of evidence at this point that is accumulated from like 30 countries over 20 plus years. Not much in the way of countering it. It's pretty one-sided. Uh LDLC, elevated LDLC is the driver of atheroscerosis. These other things don't necessarily prevent it. Okay? And this is why this matters. high HDL and low triglycerides is a more acute thing going on. It's good. Like you want to see that like in a metabolically healthy human being. Okay, that's a desirable thing to see. Like we we would like to see a high HDL and you want to see triglycerides about as low as you can possibly get them. Okay, that's a good thing, right? And it has acute short-term effects of different things it does. this is a good situation to be in. It's also indicative when it's the other direction that a person's very close to a heart attack. There's probably a lot of inflammatory problems happening. Probably some other markers are looking real bad at this point. All right, here's your issue. HDLC, those things do not prevent the accumulation of atherosclerosis. So if your HDLC is elevated, there's a pretty good chance even with those other health markers being good because there are cardoprotective things that keep the LDL from going up. So for example, do you know that whole milk doesn't raise LDL? There's cardioroprotective things in the whole milk that seem to blunt the negative effect of the saturated fat. When you take that saturated fat out of the milk and turn it into butter, it raises LDLC. Even though it's the same basic substance, context matters. There's cardioroprotective components to milk. Milk is phenomenal, by the way. I'm a big milk fan as a as a coach. Um, so for those who haven't figured that out, but I hate butter. Pretty straightforward, evidence-based. All right, so same situation here. The LDL doesn't go up. All right, with coconut oil goes up. Here's the problem. The damage is not reversible. Every month in which your LDLC is elevated, you are accumulating atherosclerosis and arterial plaque. We do not have any foolproof conclusive methods to reduce it. Does that make sense? You can bring the inflammation down. You can reduce the s like the the volumes of it, but the quantity stays there. Like you can make it smooth out and compress a little bit. Okay. with certain things going on in your with your other hormones and and uh health markers, but you can't actually get rid of it once it's accumulated. Subject to debate. I'm not saying there aren't some hypotheticals whereas it hasn't been done. They're not generally ethical. Okay? We don't have a foolproof method of reversing it. Therefore, the coconut oil is accumulating when you consume a significant amount of it. If your LDL is going up, and it probably will, you are accumulating permanent harm that you cannot remove. It will just continue to build and it builds most almost most of our life. This speeds it up and you can't undo the damage. That's the problem. You can undo the damage of triglycerides being elevated for a while. Okay, that is not a always a permanent problem that we can't get around. the LDL creating arterial plaque is permanent. So when you look at the totality of the of this food, you look at it and go by and large it is unhealthy. Doesn't mean there are not some positive health benefits, but when you weigh it all out on the scale, it's going to go into the category of an unhealthy junk food. And for fake people, it's a oil that you extracted from a plant. Stop being stupid. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.