Combining max effort work and dynamic effort work will make you really really strong. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but a quick reminder. Um, if you guys would please hit like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so and drop me a comment down below. Thank you so much. I would appreciate that. All right, let's get over uh to the topic. You know, I remind people a lot of times that yes, u your muscle mass, your hypertrophy will always raise your strength ceiling. Uh, you know, we do talk a lot about accessory work. We talk a lot about bodybuilding work. We talk about doing these different things. But I think that we do need to talk about the primary training. Um, this is something that does get missed sometimes in the equation with this when I do harp and harp on the um accessory work. And the and the reality is when you combine these two modalities together, uh a lot of times if someone doesn't have huge amounts of time to do tons of bodybuilding work and hypertrophy work, they're still going to get pretty jacked and pretty strong while doing just a little bit of those things. Uh because I think what people forget there is a training response to this stuff and they for forget sometimes that the speed work will add size. like you do speed bench, speed squats, speed deadlifts every single week, like 10 sets of each, even with the light weight, you're absolutely going to get bigger. And then of course, when you start adding uh supplemental work, you know, in that 10 plus rep range on top of it, then you really, you really do see more gains. But even then, a little bit of that can go a long way. But let's come over and let's talk about it. Uh so again, when we say max effort work, we mean maxes. I want you guys to note all these weights and these the you see me doing four maxes here real quick. You see a closed grip bench. You see with 320 uh keep in mind I'm an older guy. Uh 585 deadlift 500 good morning 500 back squat. Okay, this is what you just see me doing in this video. This is what I mean by max effort work. We're talking lifts 95% or higher, right? coming in and doing a max effort lift every week will absolutely uh increase your neural drive. It is the foundation of your strength. Like this is the key to getting brutally strong. Okay, you do need to do max effort work if you want the strength to be there. I think what people forget though uh with that is they think they need a bunch of other heavy work or they think they need to do dozens of of topheavy sets and no that's not it's not required. um two to three, four, five really heavy singles total per week on everything, right? So, if you're ramping up to a max, you're you're only going to do two to three heavy singles for your upper and two to three heavy for your lower on something like this. So, ramping up to a max on some type of squat, deadlift, or good morning, and then uh some type of press. Keep in mind, if those are small jumps, you still may have up to three reps that hit 90% or higher, okay? as you're ramping up to that max if you're making, you know, relatively small jumps, but you're going to get at least one really heavy rep in there. Okay? And that will max out your neural drive. And then when we we combine the other stuff, all the speed work, that's done on a separate day. Uh so again, just on a 4day setup like this, this does a lot. So again, if you come in and you do your speed work and it moves super fast, you do, you know, again, one to three reps on all the speed work. uh you know about you know anywhere between eight to 12 sets I like 10 is a good average right all right 10 total sets you do a squat a bench and a deadlift variation right on speed work I mean you don't have to have bands and chains they're nice they're nice but they're not required but what ends up happening it reinforces the max effort work and this is what people don't grasp with this okay it doesn't beat your recovery up like we can only handle so many heavy singles right I mean two maxes a That's That's plenty. That's plenty. And if you start trying to do more, it does start to beat you up. But you get a lot you get a lot of strength benefit from that little bit. So when you then do this dynamic work on on separate days, it trains, it carries over without beating up your body. Right? Speed work is like this or dynamic effort work is really easy to recover from. It lets you practice getting into position quickly. You're doing it in a fast-paced environment because you're usually taking like 30 seconds between these sets. You're just hitting them. Bam, bam, bam. All right. With maximum force production, again, it carries over because if you time them correctly with the right weights, you're producing maximum force on the concentric in about the same amount of time as it takes you to hit a one rep max, except except on the deadlifts, of course. Uh, but you could do them that way, too, if you do doubles. If you do doubles, and some people choose to do that. Um, so over to that point, three reps on a speed bench should be about the same time in terms of the concentric reps that it takes you to max out. Same thing with the squats. Two reps about the same time as a max squat. Notice a max squat will move usually faster than a max bench. Okay? You can't. It's hard to grind squats. Really, really hard. But you shouldn't need to, right? You shouldn't need to come in and do this stuff. You'll be good. And and that's kind of what what we're saying with this. they feed into each other without interfering with each other's recovery because you can still be recovering from the max work. Your your joints, your tendons, everything else can still be in recovery from that max work and it will not affect the speed work because the speed work is lighter. Um it doesn't place the same demands on the body, but it will place certain demands on the nervous system. Everything else it creates more metabolic fatigue, but it also doesn't stress those structures of the body in the same way. So you it will not interfere with your recovery from your maxes. So they flow together really well within a week and they create a large synergy. And keep in mind you will grow from the dynamic work and specifically you will grow in all the primary movers for your max work because what are we maxing on? Press variations, squat, uh squat, deadlift, good morning variations. This is what we're maxing on. Okay? You're going to gain muscle from it. So then on top of that, if you come behind any of this and you start building all the support muscles and any supplemental work, now you're going to be in a good place. So what I mean support muscles, uh building your back, right? Coming in doing rows, pull-ups, doing some tricep work, hamstring work, maybe quad work. Um but I would say minimum good mornings. I have literally taken clients who do almost nothing but good mornings while doing uh max and speed work. right now. They're doing the full speed work for the squat and the deadlifts every week. And I've seen them hit pretty good numbers. Like, as long as you're at least getting some good mornings, you're in a good place. Ideally, we'd like to see some other hamstring work. We'd like to see some, you know, some sort of leg press or belt squat or hack squat. Sure. But it may not even be necessary as long as you're getting the good mornings because your quads and stuff are still growing from that speed work. So, this is what we mean. You're going to get pretty strong. I mean, the same thing. I mean, at the minimum for the benching, if you at least come in behind all that, at the bare minimum and do some tricep work and some back work, bench is still going to go up. Like, you're going to get stronger from doing this stuff, uh, even if you only do a small amount of the right amount of supplemental work. Now, obviously, you're going to get better results if you build everything, okay? But the real key, this system absolutely works. It absolutely works on the conjugate type system. Um, it's been proven over and over and over and over in the real world. I've seen it in many of my clients. I've seen it in many of my personal friends. It absolutely works. And don't let anybody convince you otherwise. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I will talk to you guys and gals next time.