Compound movements build everything and that's a problem for the fitness industry. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. U yeah, and it's a problem. And am I saying we don't need isolation? No. You guys are going to see me doing curls in the background in this video. I do curls do curls all the time. Biceps are a weak link. I train them. The problem though is here's the big problem. If we go off all the available research, all the data in the real world, we know that compound movements can pretty much build everything, right? Does it mean that you're going to have the most perfect, beautiful aesthetic proportions? No. No. Absolutely not. Almost everyone if they want those perfect proportions is probably going to need to isolate at least one muscle. You are going to have something no matter what you do that's going to throw your proportions off, you know, compared to that ideal and assuming you're lean enough to even see it. But by and large, everything grows from compound. So, so why then is this a problem for the industry? Well, because the industry sells you, hey, we need to work every plane and angle. I have seven different new isolation movements to hit your upper outer inner chesticle. Okay. All these new cable variation. Look at all this new stuff. I figured out how to change the tension different on uh a cable curl. Look at this angle involved. You know, as if barbells, dumbbells, and weighted chin-ups haven't built massive biceps forever, right? really. And we're talking some of the greatest biceps in history. Guys like Arnold, it's like Franco Columbo. Further, we go further back, Bill Pearl, Stevies, those guys before the drugs became so prevalent. Had amazing biceps, which is barbells and dumbbells, pull-ups, chin-ups. They had great great biceps. I'm just using that as an example. Okay, so these were never a problem. Same thing with all of our back. Has anyone ever failed to build a truly impressive back if they just got really good at deadlifts, barbell rows, and pull-ups. I'm talking professional bodybuilder, Mr. Olympia quality backs have been built that way just fine. So, if everything is built with these big movements and you basically only need to go, you know what, man? Maybe my side delts need some work, maybe my biceps need some work, maybe the long head of my triceps sucks, maybe the closed grip bench or the dip's not getting it where I need it, I might need to do something for that. All right, my upper chest is lagging just a little bit. So, maybe I need some incline work, but but even that can be compound. See where I'm going with this? That's all people have to do. Just get really good at the big movements. And the problem there is how do you sell stuff? Because if people just get stronger, you you don't need advanced periodization to just slowly get stronger on those movements, right? You can do that with basic slow, super slow linear progression of your advance or double progression. Right? Every time you get to a target weight, just add reps. The other problem now that we know that that uh data does show that support muscles and stabilizers grow from big movements to a smaller extent. Now that we see that when you really look close, you don't need as much volume as people thought to build muscles. Right? All that data has been extremely questionable and plenty plenty of data has shown that very low volumes if you go to failure build a ton of muscle. These people don't have anything to offer. How can they sell these periodization and programming apps? How can they sell you tons of new routines? Because if everybody can get pretty jacked off of full body three times a week or a basic body part split, you know, with a few exercises or a 4 day up or lower if everyone can reach maximum potential with those things. How can they sell you these elaborate splits if periodization isn't necessary? And if big movements don't build everything, then then how are they going to sell you stuff? They can't. They don't have anything to sell you because they're always trying to market new ideas. Look at all the industry. It's always, look at this new way I've split everything up. Look at this new cable angle that I've come up with. Here's my exercise tier list. But when you realize that for most people, weighted chin-ups, if you get really strong, will build decent biceps. A weighted dip will build pretty decent triceps and pecs. Squats build great quads. Deadlifts can build a great posterior chain and even large portion to your back. Okay? Nobody gets strong at squats and still has small quads. If you're strong at rep work, I'm not talking about using knee wraps for an ultra wide crazy low bar squat. I don't have short shorts on here, but you guys see what my quads look like. I do 10 plus rep sets of 405 on a high bar squat. I got monstrous quads by by normal standards. I don't even do anything else for them. And even I had some intermediate times, but but early on I had really really big legs and every was like, "Dude, your quads are crazy." I did nothing but squats. Oh, even Tom Plat was like, "Yeah, squats are king, right?" Hell, even mentor Dorian Yates said all these guys said that. They're like, "Yeah, squats work. Squats really are." Okay, just get really, really good, really strong at your rep work on a handful of exercise. You're going to get pretty big. But that's the problem. That's too simple. Doesn't mean you can't sell coaching. No, I sell coaching just fine because coaching is more than just, hey, here's 17 new exercises. Coaching is assessing form, assessing technique, assessing mindset, keeping people focused, picking their weights and and everything else that they're doing so they don't have to think about it for themselves. Okay? Peing people for powerlifting meets. Okay? That's that's what coaching is going to be, right? for people who have the don't have the the time to sit there and think it all through, who just need you to prescribe it for them and they can let go and they can focus on their careers and lives. It's people who have money, who have more money than time and free brain power, all right? Because they're busy with other stuff. So, it doesn't stop you from selling coaching. I don't find that it does, but it stops you from selling everything else. And what content do they have? If they can't come up with seven new bicep or rear delt exercises to do every month, the industry has no content to give you. They can't just say they're they're going to go broke. If the entirety of their content is, yeah, just get really really strong at weighted pull-ups. Your upper body will get really jacked. Right. This is problematic for the industry. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.