Complex training splits are useless. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it. All right, so you know when I make this statement a lot of times people will get upset. I I've had someone actually who was thinking about applying for coaching, inquired about it, had asked me my thoughts on complex splits, you know, of of what he called hybrid splits. And I'm like, look, this stuff is a waste of time. What do what do we mean by this? Where you start doing stuff like uh the upper lower full body pull day or a push pull legs upper lower like these crazy ridiculous splits. And I what I need people to understand you don't need any complex programming at all to become some of the best in the world. Okay? It's never been necessary. It's never been necessary. People have gotten amazing results just doing normal full body. People have gotten amazing results on normal body part splits. Uh upper lowers, including even conjugate. Plenty of world record level powerlifterss do upper lowers. Plenty of people have gotten Crazy Jack doing these things. And what people need to understand, they're like, "Yeah, okay, but people got great results, but what if we could do better?" And this is the absurdity. Well, what do you mean by better? They'll be like, "Ooptimize." Well, well, what makes you think, sit back and think about this for a moment. Is there any evidence at all scientifically or anecdote that running some really complex split optimizes anything? Like what's the basis of it? And that's be would be my question when people say that my my answer to them or my question would be what biological mechanisms do you think that you are addressing in the human body? that what is what do you think that you're optimizing and they don't have an answer like well it's you know it's not ever about recovery recovery is all about fatigue management in the gym total workloads what you do outside the gym lifestyle it's not fatigue management not optimizing stimulus you know what it's doing it's making it really really complicated particular you start throwing in periodizations where we rotate volumes, overreaching, underreaching models, 12 week programs to where you add volume every three weeks until you overreach and then you take a full week off. Sound familiar? Anybody selling stuff like that? Do people not understand there is no science to to base any of this on? Okay. And and that's what I want people to understand with this sort of stuff. There is no science or biology or exercise physiology to base any of this on. You know, before people say, well, maybe the experience of the coaches who are writing it. Yeah, that experience is is a business experience. It's a business model. Some of the greatest coaches in the world for all sorts of endeavors have clients on very very simple splits. Just normal full body stuff, squat, bench, deadlift day or upper, lower, right? Even for bodybuilding, some of the greatest bodybuilding coaches who have coached some of the greatest champions, they just have them on body parts plus nothing fancy. We got a chest day, we got a back day, we got a leg day, shoulder day, and an arm day. Okay, there's no real complexity. That's probably the most complex you're going to see. Has it put people on the Mr. Olympia platforms many, many times? Has it has it won people Mr. Olympias? Yeah. So, even with these bodybuilder type splits, the really successful ones aren't complicated. people are selling you complexity. The same thing when they run, you know, undulating models or where you add volume every meo cycle and then do a D load. There there's no real evidence to support any of this. But what it is is it's selling you complexity so that you'll buy templates, you'll buy apps. And I'm saying this as a coach who sells coaching, but my coaching isn't about the complexity of the split. I have clients who at this point most of my clients are on two two things really mostly full body or conjugate. Ones who really like conjugate. I have I have multiple clients on conjugate. Some of them rotate on and off of conjugate. I do it because they really like it. They enjoy it. They find it useful for their their sports. And if that's what they enjoy, I'll I'll program it. Well, that's the most complicated necessary. But I'm not selling complexity program. Fairly simple programming. I'm selling results. I'm selling consistency. I'm selling fatigue management. I'm selling accountability. So in that case, I don't need to push crazy complicated methods. People will argue, well, you need it to sell. And this is what coaches and I want you guys to understand the conversations when coaches talk. They don't think you need any of this for results. They need it to make clients buy in. Well, if you make it too simple, the clients don't want to hire you. Oh man, if you make it really complicated that that the client becomes fully reliant on you, you gota you gota you got to sell them the voodoo. So here's here's my question. If that's what all these coaches are doing with these approaches and then they're pushing it out there to you, are they coaches or are they salesmen? Right? if they need the wow factor and the sparkly and the complexity to hook you in knowing it's not going to give you any further results and it might even hinder it because it gets difficult to follow. Okay, you understand this? There's even scheduling issues. They're not coaches, they're salesmen. Let me state that again. These people are not coaches. They're salesmen. Because a coach is going to look at it and say, "Can I get you 100% possible results or reach 100% of your goals as an athlete [snorts] or as a client with simple programming?" And if the answer is yes, then any complexity isn't coaching. It's salesmanship. Let that one sink in for a moment. So these these people who are doing this, they're businessmen. They're not really coaches because if they were coaches, they would reduce it down and say, "You know what? My people will get the exact same results without any of this complex. We could run the same volume for six months straight. I could run them on the same basic template with just the minor adjustments for six months straight and get them phenomenal results. That would be real coaching because coaching also isn't just about the program. It's about the other aspects of it. The fatigue management, the accountability, the trained eye. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.