There are two different approaches to handling your supplemental work for conjugate. Hey everybody, it's Jason blah here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. If you guys would though, please click like down below. It would be greatly appreciated. Hit the follow button, the subscribe button if you have not yet. And please leave me a comment down below. Thank you so much. So, let's get over to the topic. Um, I've coached this a couple different ways and you know, I think most people get the basics with Kanji. They're like, "Okay, so you run a 4-day program. Sometimes you have many workouts and stuff between obviously so it's not just exclusively four days, you know, with your different conditioning work, weak point stuff, bands, all these other things, right? We do these different things. However, kind of the the other point that has to be made there is we know how we do these. We have two max effort days, two dynamic effort days. So how do you program the other stuff? Like what do what do we plug in around that? Um and there's two different basic approaches. There is uh really the minimalist approach and then there is a bodybuilding type approach. Um and I do think for the most part at Westside with Louie they generally took the more bodybuilding approach. However, here's what I will say. you can almost successfully make progress almost off just the the max effort work and the speed work. And as crazy as that sounds, I've met a couple guys who are like, "Look, dudes, when I'm super busy, I don't even mess with the other stuff. Maybe sometimes one supplemental exercise and I get out." Um, so they're like, "I just do the max work, the speed work sometimes. Literally just do that over my four days and get out of the gym and I'm done." Which is really a fascinating approach. And I've had guys do that and I'm like, "Yeah, but you know, how strong are you?" And they're like, "Yeah, I mean, let's go 500 lb, pull 550, you know, bench over 300." I've seen guys like that, guys. You're like, "I benched, you know, 370." And it's like, you look at that and go, "That can't possibly work." But I've seen guys who have done stuff like that in the past who are, you know, pretty big dudes. Um, and I'm not telling you to do that. I'm saying occasionally it does happen though, and I' I've known of it. Um, but what how do we handle the other end? So, one of the things that I've done, I've had clients in the past who were pretty busy guys, you know, they didn't have a lot of time and they ran conjugate. So, I'm like, we looked at what was the minimum they could get away with and still get strong. And when I mean strong, you know, can you squat 500 lb without knee wraps? And I think for most guys out there looking for advice on something like like this who's not a super advanced lifter yet they're like yeah I'm cool with you know a 300 pound uh you know 500 lb squat. Um so I mean a perfect example I had one guy who here's here's what we did for minimalism. We didn't even think about isolation stuff. We didn't think about bodybuilding. He didn't care about how he look. He's like I just want to get strong. I don't have a lot of time. I get the workouts done and it's like he just didn't have time. Like he's like, "Dude, I got like 30, 45 minutes tops. I I want to get to the gym, get out, and get on with my life. I've got a happy relationship. I got a career, but I want to get strong." And so when we say strong, I mean, we're talking like a 350 bench, you know, 500, 510 squat. Now, he was a heavier dude weighing like 240. Um, you know, but here's where we got him. Doing minimalist type training. You guys ready? On his max effort chest day, like bench day, we did a or whatever our bench variation was. We do like one chest exercise. He was always had weak triceps. So, it's like we do like a closed grip bench for three sets. I do some type of row or a lat pull down or a barbell dumbbell row, some triceps, and go home. That's it. Like three supplemental lifts done. Dude, we're talking like ramp to a max. do some high rep set of of uh closed grip bench or a floor press, right? He would super set some rows in between with dumbbells or a barbell, like super set them back and forth. We're talking like six, seven minutes, all right, to get all three sets done. And then he'd go do some tricep press downs or dumbbells. That's it. He'd leave his max effort lower day. We just did good mornings and some leg presses. Maybe like a glute bridge or some hamstring curls at Don, but usually two exercises sometimes. Literally, we just do good mornings and a leg press or a hack squat machine. That's it. Three sets of each. Again, hit a lower body max, do about 15 minutes of accessory work on those two lists, and leave. That was his whole workout. Uh what about dynamic effort? Same thing except we didn't even bother with chess stuff, you know? He's just like, "Dude, I get my speed bench done. Uh do some tricep isolation. We would do, you know, a row of some type or a lat pull down." And he'd go home. Dudes, we're talking we're talking like 30 minutes or less just in and out of the gym. Dynamic effort. The only thing we did was good mornings. So he would do his his speed squats, his speed pulls. We would rotate sumo and conventional. He didn't even do bands or chains. He didn't have time for any of that. He'd do good mornings. That's it. That's the only thing he did. Guy benched 350 and would squat 500 plus. We that's how we got him there just fine. Go home and he just eat. Um occasionally he'd do some box jumps or something after the dynamic. All right. Then I've had people on the other extreme, we take it full bodybuilding mode. What do we mean? You come in and you you do take everything. You make it look like a bodybuilding program. So if you're going to bodybuild it, you're in there going, "Okay, do I need some front delt work?" Isolate them. Do I need side delt work? Isolate it. If is my chest lagging, all right, so we need we need uh maybe some uh some some benching, some floor pressing, maybe some incline, and doing two different chest exercises every single upper day. If your chest is weak, if your delts are weak, doing front delts, side delts, triceps are weak, doing a couple types of tricep exercises, training back every day. Again, 12 plus sets for your lats, usually different rows, pull-ups, lat pull downs, even bicep work. A lot of times if you're not caring about the biceps themselves, you're usually doing hammer curls at least. Same thing with lower body, you know, squat variations, machines, reverse hypers, glute ham raises, hamstring curls, even leg extensions. Okay, that is then the way that you approach. So that's how I would say if you're going to go the bodybuilding type approach because even on the other sometimes you're still sometimes going a little heavy on some maybe some heavy close grip or some heavy good mornings on the other day. Now, if you're going to take the full bodybuilding approach, when you remove the max work and the speed work and you look at the program, if it looks like a bodybuilder, like you look at this and go, this is a moderate volume bodybuilding program. You're like, h 10 to 20 sets of muscle group, most of the important muscles are getting some isolation work. They're getting all getting compounds, but they're getting isolating at least three muscles. At least three muscles are probably getting direct isolation work. 10 to 20 sets a week plus the max and the speed work. Okay? And that's the approach you go if you are seeking absolute maximum development. You're trying to get as jacked and as strong as possible. You have the time in the recovery. And I've really seen both of these extremes work. I can tell you the former works better for people who don't care about how they look as much and who don't have as much free time. On the other hand, when we take the ladder approach, I've had clients and even lifters and stuff I know who do that. They look like bodybuilders, you know, while benching 370, while squatting 550 raw, you know, and and that's that's what we are looking for. Even squatting 600, 600 plus. You guys recall Perry when I put his stuff up at one time like squatting 610 like a warm-up on camera but like 210, right? That's what we're talking about. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.