Consistency is everything in fitness. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today. But a quick reminder, if you'll please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, and and I really do mean this. You know, people always want quick fixes for everything. Like, what's the fastest way to go from A to B? And, uh, you really shouldn't even be thinking in those terms because fitness, your goals, everything else, it's it's really a lifestyle. It's about long-term changes. And if you're making any sort of shortterm super fast change, it's usually something not sustainable. Something's going on, you know. So, in other words, I want to lose fat quickly. Well, you're going to lose weight quickly. You're not going to lose fat quickly, right? There's a limited amount of fat, like a certain percentage of the fat on your body you could lose at any given time. So unless you're, you know, 100 plus pounds overweight is idea of rapid weight loss. It's just muscle and water, right? It really is. That's all it is. Same thing, guys. The guys want to gain make muscle gains faster. So they're just like, "Oh, let me just bulk really hard." Then they just get fat and sloppy. They're like, "But I I I moved more weight. I got stronger." Oh, yeah. You got better leverages uh because of the fat and the bloat gave you better leverages. So you moved more weight, but it doesn't mean you stimulated more muscle fibers, right? And I think people have to understand that difference even when it comes to moving weight, you know. So people people always want these quick fixes or h they want to do a bunch of gear, you know, without realizing that a lot of what they're gaining is possibly water weight bloat, right? And a lot of it's temporary. And people say, "But isn't there some permanent changes?" Yeah, there are. But it's usually the long-term long-term use causes some some very permanent changes. You see changes in muscle fiber nuclei that stay years after guys come off. That's been studied. But when you're just like I'm just going to do this aggressive amount of gear and it's usually something that causes a lot of water. Um even if it's homuscular like things like trend do that they cause very temporary effects but they're not real you know they're very transient um and then you're going to suffer the side effects all the shutdown you know that a substance like that uh comes with. You know there's problems here guys. Uh pe people need to stop looking for quick fixes and realize consistency. Don't miss workouts unless you have to like there. There you go. Get to the gym. If you have scheduled workouts, get to the gym. All right. I don't miss that many workouts and it's usually weather related for me if it's just too cold and I don't have I live in a very hot place and train in my garage. I'm climatized to extreme heat by by most people's uh you know, perspective. So, when it's crazy cold in my garage, I don't want to go out there and train. So, I might miss four or five workouts per winter for the whole year. The rest of the time, we're hitting it hard. You know, I've had years where I didn't miss a single workout. That's what we mean, consistency. Show up. Show up and put in the work. You know, unless you have something that's truly stopping you, be consistent in your diet instead of, hey, I want this rapid weight loss. Why don't you just eat clean, put in the work, and just chip away at the body fat, gain muscle, you have a better metabolic rate, right? That's what we mean. Your results are always going to be better stuff if you just put in the work over time. You need to be consistent with everything. Be consistent with your diet, be consistent with your training, okay? um you know and it's and again people binge on their diet sometimes and they blow it and even then that's not that bad. All you you're going to do most of the time on a true binge cheat meal you might undo you know the fat loss you had for that week or half of it. Let's say, man, you would have lost what whatever pound of fat that week, but you only lost a half a pound because you're big giant cheat meal. You know, so there's loss of consistency. But the problem is is that consistency keeps us accountable. You know, a lot of times what happens with people, they do a cheat and then all of a sudden they go on a five day long bench, they go on a week long bench, a two week long bench, right? And then they they do definitely undo a little bit of measurable fat loss at that point. Consistency matters. It's the same with with lifting. You know, if workouts become optional, then it's easier and easier to miss. So, it's it's about consistency, getting your habits going, and understanding that they're about longterm habits. It really is long-term habits in the fitness game. And if you're truly trying to get in shape, you're trying to do this stuff, it's about what can you do over three years, five years, 10 years, where you gonna be in 20 years. You know, younger guys hear that and they they're like, "What?" I'm like, you need to think in those terms. I I had Let me put it this way, guys. I remember being in my 20s. I'm 49. Okay? That time is going to pass. the habits that you set now gonna affect how you look in your 40s because realistically no I know I don't have the most impressive great amazing aesthetic physique in the world I think we all know that you know but for 49 nobody almost nobody looks like I do we're not talking about 27 year olds on trend on Instagram I'm talking about people who go to the gym even in the real world. We're pretty We're pretty rare. Not saying there aren't aren't even some that are going to be doing better than me. They exist. They're excessively rare. You know, and that's the point. People say, "Well, wait a minute. Weren't there tons of people working out when you were younger?" Yeah. They weren't consistent. So the habits that you set matter. The consistency that you approach the next few years with is going to impact what you're doing in 20 years. Because some of the guys who hear this stuff and listen in, they're more than 20 years younger than me. You're 22 years old, man. I'm I'm 27 years on you, you know. Um, and that's the point. Consistency, consistency, habits, routine. Don't be afraid of boring, you know. And I think that's one of the biggest problems people have with a lot of this. They get bored and it's like the kids boring sometimes. You know, the most effective workouts are going to be very repetitive. They're going to get boring. The most effective ways to eat, you know, you're going to be eating a lot of the same foods all the time. You might be eating a lot of chicken and rice. or a lot of steak and eggs depending on what dietary strategy you use. And notice I called it a strategy. I didn't say, "Hey, there's a best." Different strategies, different approaches, different methodologies. But, you know, you're going to be eating the same foods a lot for years on end. You have to learn to accept it. Quit worrying about I need to be entertained. I need all my food to always be spectacularly diverse. Uh, and I need 37 different meals per week. I need 37 different exercises per week, right? No, consistency is king and it's okay. Routine, even if it's a little boring, is effective. It's extremely effective. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.