Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about why dairy is a superfood for athletes. Uh but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. Thank you. And let's let's get over to this topic. Uh so on the topic of dairy, um the data on it pretty pretty solid. It's very compelling. It's very strong. But the problem we run into is of course that people will argue against uh dairy, [snorts] right? Vegans will argue against it or people will use the excuse that they're lactose intolerant. Well, you're lactose intolerant doesn't mean there aren't some dairies you can consume. And just because someone is lactose intolerant doesn't remove the benefits. Okay. Um but vegans will make the craziest arguments. It's always these different appeals to nature. you know, they'll talk about, well, you know, we're the only species that does this and and milk is for babies and and so on and so forth. And it's like, okay, well, you're also drinking strange artificial nut juices. But I think that those are not good arguments either. You know, people say, well, there's a replacement for milk. Well, well, no, there's no replacement for any food, right? No replacement for any food. We we're consuming dairy for its its benefits as an athlete. So from a fitness perspective, we have to we have to see it that way. We're not consuming milk or dairy because we need something to put in our cereal as athletes and lifters and fitness people. I don't even eat cereal yet. I still drink milk. See? See the point? Nothing to do with that. Um because again, cereal is mostly junk food. Why why are you even worried about cereal? Um, so that's a again it's a cultural discussion they're having as a replacement. Okay, that's a cultural discussion of why they need these replacements for it. Nothing to do with nutrition because those replacements are not suitable because they don't meet any of the of the criteria of why we consume dairy. But let's talk about what these benefits are. All right, right at the top of the list, the high quality, high bioavailable protein. Okay, we need to be clear on that. In terms of protein quality, the only thing that really competes with it is eggs. Okay, milk proteins in general, highest bioavailability. Now, does that mean that meat and other animal sources are not extremely high bioavailable? No, of course they're they are. They still are. They absolutely are. But if we're going to talk about the absolute limit of of every last gram having the most benefit to us for absorption, utilization, muscle building, I mean, dairy in general, the weigh in case proteins, which are what's in milk, you know, are pretty much king. They're right there at the top. So, what what do we mean by that? We mean gram for gram, they're slightly better. So, that's kind of this whole thing, you know, we talk about grams of protein. Well, they're not all equal, right? So in other words, to equal what we get from 100 grams of dairy protein, you might need 110 grams of say beef or chicken, depending upon what's going on there. Does that make sense? So when you look at it, it is slightly superior. It is slightly superior. Um, you know, whereas and I I've said to a lot of people, as long as you're eating a whole foods diet in general, once you start getting something like 50 grams of dairy protein a day, you know, as as a male, I almost guarantee you your protein is going to be in a good range for for building muscle, okay? It's going to be an extremely good range, right? Because of just how high quality dairy protein is. that 50 grams thrown in with whatever else you're eating is probably pushing you well into that area. Like it it's just it's that effective in terms of our total bioavailability. You know, keeping in mind we're all eating multiple protein sources. It it's not uncommon, you know, for many of us to have five or six different sources in our diet between the plants and animal stuff, but dairy is way up there. Ultra high quality. Ultra high quality. Now we'll see the arguments from vegans and other people well Bruce IGF-1 production what is linked to cancer okay again though people love to talk mechanistic stuff without data they'll love to talk mechanistic situations without actual data to support it okay then why don't we see higher rates of cancer in the meta analysis people who consume dairy is not um and there's a very complex set of things on that but by and charge. Um, dairy isn't correlated with cancer. The only one that is is specifically prostate cancer and only with whole milk. No other dairy, not yogurt, not skim milk, right? Only whole milk has been found a correlation with prostate cancer and it's still a very small amount. On the other hand, um, we see cultured dairy, yogurts, things like that, right? inversely correlated with multiple types of cancers particularly for women, right? Cancer of the uterus, breast cancer. So again, not supported in the data, but yes, IGF-1, IGF-1 production is a big deal. Why? Because we need it for muscle growth. So that's what people are forgetting. So, if you're worried about IGF-1 production, then well, you don't care about gaining muscle. You don't care about any of this other stuff. Like, that's a a critical hormone for gaining muscle. So, this is a good thing, right? It's a good thing. It's probably our most important growth factor in our body, particularly for gaining muscle tissue. The reason bodybuilders injected directly. But the protein right there at the top. All right. Um, other other uh vitamins like B12 straight up. Dairy in general, ultra high in B12. Now, please keep in mind I'm talking about mostly whole food dairies. Butter doesn't have any of this stuff. Butter has almost no protein, has almost no B12. So, let's not go there with the junk food dairy. Um, so I'm talking about milk, yogurts, you know, to some extent, cheeses, right? But vitamin B12, dairy, and red meat are your best sources, honestly. The other stuff is weaker in it. If you're not getting either one of those in your diet, you probably are going to have to supplement some B12 if you're not consuming any dairy or red meat, like if you want to be optimal. But right there, B12. um all of our other minerals, our most important minerals. Okay, which also affects hydration. Uh so what minerals? Calcium, magnesium, potassium, right? Milk and most dairies are very very high in these things. All right, critical for muscle growth, critical for performance, critical for hydration. Remember, keeping in mind things like our sodium to potassium ratios affect blood pressure. But yeah, calcium and magnesium both enormous. Remember keeping in mind magnesium is one of the most common deficiencies in say western diets, right? Dairy is loaded with it. But again that that calcium that calcium is really really high high bioavailable calcium assuming you have enough vitamin D in your system. But we usually add that to milks. Okay. So again, getting those things that we need, but keep in mind calcium and magnesium go hand in hand for for everything from things with muscle contraction, bone density, right? All this stuff. But what happens with all these electrolytes and the hydration status? Well, it was found years ago that it turns out milk after say an endurance event caused faster muscle hy rehydration than rehydration and energy drinks. All these drinks that people formulated for hydration are inferior to milk for rehydrating muscles after exercise. Okay. So again, we have right here found in a food source something superior to a to an artificial product that supplement companies and other people make, sports drink companies. Like with the existence of milk, it really should be making these things obsolete. The only of course of difference is they don't have to be kept cold to keep from going bad, you know. Okay, fair. But we have that. Um, so again, when we start looking at muscle growth, we start looking at hydration, we start looking again at at B12, looking at calcium, magnesium, potassium, uh dairy wins out. Okay, dairy is absolutely amazing for these things. And so again, it's it's has these benefits and the negatives that people throw at it are just not reality. It's always strange appeals to nature, false claims about the links to cancer that that again not really what the metaanalysis and things find. And ultimately, keep in mind at the end of the day, muscle mass is protective against cancer. insulin sensitivity is protective against cancer, right? We dairy helps us get these things. So, if we're going to really talk for fitness people, and this is what we're talking about in athletes, if anything, it dairy takes us in the direction of being protective against cancer, diabetes, things like that. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.