Dad's lifts are not dangerous. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and today I'd like to chat with you guys and gals about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, it's always fascinating to me when you see so many people talk about a risk versus reward. Yes, I just do rep work all the time with 500 on a deadlift. You guys have seen me pull up to 635 and well into my 40s. Um, you know, I I routinely just do rep work with 500 49 years old and it's not a big deal. Like I I it absolutely blows my mind as someone who comes in and does this all the time almost 50 years old. I mean, I turned 50 this year and I just do rep work with 500 with no uh sleeves of any type, no wrist wraps, no straps, just a belt. I just put on a belt, but I've pulled a 605 before without a belt uh couple years back. And it just it baffles me that people are so scared of this lift. Like, in order to get hurt on deadlifts, it's usually bad form. you know, it's bad form. But everyone's like, "Yeah, but you know, the the the risk of bad form." Well, really, we don't do curls then because I see bad form on curls. I see bad form on preacher curls all the time. You see bad form on the bench press. You see bad form. I've seen bad form on machines. If we're going to stand here and argue when I say, "Look, just bad form on the lift, having an ego, and not knowing how to perform it is the issue. Okay, then deadlifts are not dangerous. Bad form is dangerous. Do we understand that difference? Why can't why do we have to take perfectly safe good exercises like a deadlift and make people scared of them when the issue is piss poor form? We should make people scared of dangerous form on every exercise. Now, there's some caveats there. I think the way I perform them, perfectly safe. Notice we lock the elbows. There's no slack in the bar. We don't jerk the weight off the floor. You notice it's a smooth pull off the floor, even if it's fast. Pull the slack out of the bar. There you go. That's all it takes to not tear your bicycle like people tear biceps that mixed grip. I think straps are a higher risk of injury and I'm going to explain that in a minute. No, I think doing a mixed grip like that is the safe way to deadlift. Just pull the slack out of Don't jerk the bar off the floor. Like don't get slack and then jerk. Lock your elbows. Pull the slack out. Wedge in on each rep and pull. Should be a smooth pull. That's it. just takes good form. And here's the point I'm gonna make. People say, "But it's dangerous for your back." No, I don't think a raw deadlift is dangerous to your back at all. When you're pulling like that without straps, it's not going to hurt your back, especially if you're in a good position. You're pulled in tight. Pull the slack out of the bar. No jerking. And you have the bar pulled all the way in. Right. Your elbows down. The bar with it stays within an inch of your shins. Let's say for your back raw. Do you know why? Generally before anything pulls or gives in your back, your grip turns loose. Okay. So, if you're performing a deadlift like that, you're you're generally not going to have a risk to your back. If your back feels it's about to compromise, you know what will happen? You generally your peripheral nervous system will make you turn loose to the bar. Your grip will give out. Okay? Your grip will give out. So if you're not using straps, because all these guys, well, I don't want my grip to be the weak link. But your your your grip should be the weak link. It's your protective mechanism. Okay. Do we under do we understand this? Your grip giving out on a deadlift if you have a strong grip is a protective mechanism. You're making a safe exercise dangerous people by doing dumb stuff like not pulling a jerking the bar off the ground with a bent elbow. Well, that's dangerous, but that's bad form. Putting on straps because your grip gives out anytime your back feels something is going to give you're going to strain. So, you want to you want to remove your natural protective mechanism that makes it a fairly safe exercise. You want to remove it because some goofball told you, "Well, you don't want your your grip to be the limit." No, you you want your grip to give out because if something gives that's that's what happens. Your peripheral nervous system make you let go of the bar. Your grip will loosen up. You'll lose you'll lose the bar. Okay? Do we understand that? So, tossing the straps away and just using a proper mixed grip like I'm doing perfectly safe. Now, you could do a hook grip. Um, never worked well for me. I have short thumbs. Plus, I'm a musician. I don't like the idea of deadening the nerves in my thumbs, right? It affect my guitar playing. So, I choose not to do that. That's also a viable option, but it's a safe exercise. And there's so much fear-mongering about it, and people are scared of it. And to me, it's just it's not a big deal. I deadlift up to three days a week, 500 pounds all the time. Do you see me getting hurt deadlifting? I mean, whenever I strain stuff, is it you is it generally the deadlift? No. And I'm pretty strong at it, right? And I'm an older dude. Toughen up, guys. Build your core, build your back, build everything up. Use good form. And if you can learn to use a good form on deadlift, you'll learn how to pull in tight on everything you do, right? You'll make everything safe. But the fear-mongering around a basic perfectly safe, oh, it's too the risk isn't worth the reward. The juice isn't worth the squeeze. And I'm like, T, it's just a normal exercise. What are you talking about? Why have people created this strange phobia? Is it because people are too stupid to use good? That's the only possible explanation. Well, bunch of these athletes don't do it because the wrist doesn't work through. Maybe they have an 85 IQ and they're stupid and their coaches know that they're effing stupid and they're just not smart enough to perform an exercise with good form because of their ego and stupidity. Maybe that's what the the situation is because you shouldn't be getting hurt on a deadlift. Not really. Unless you're doing something dumb, you're doing some bad combination of drugs that weakens tendons, makes your ego go through the roof, come in and pull. It's really not a big deal, guys. It's really not.