If our goal is to gain muscle, our training should be biased towards a deeper stretch at the bottom. Hey everybody, it's Jason Baja here. Thought I would chat with you guys and d a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me um a comment down below, be greatly appreciated. Thank you so much. Let's get over to this. You know, even with some of this in this video, like you'll see me even flat benching fairly flat back. Um, I could almost make the argument for I could even, if I really wanted, uh, use my McDonald bar or use my Buffalo bar to get deeper stretch at the bottom. And it wouldn't be wouldn't be the worst idea in the world, would it? Okay, I happen to have both. But, I mean, that's exactly what we're talking about of if if we're going to look at gaining muscle, we have to think of those things. If if you are trying to maximize hypertrophy and muscle growth, we need to be getting deep stretches at the bottom. So even then with the dips here, I got pretty strong and going right to parallel. But then I realized like my shoulders will allow me to go deeper, right? So notice there that's I got my rear delt is still going a couple inches a couple inches below below my elbow. So, I've been going for a deeper and deeper stretch. And I may even work on that further of trying to get that pause at the bottom, right? Trying to get that pause just to get that deeper stretch. Okay? And this is again examples of what we're talking about. The same thing I always try to do my chins from a dead hang. Uh those rows I'm trying to spread the scapula. Uh same thing. I've started doing more and more squats. Even though I'm a powerlifter and I only have to break parallel and and you guys have seen me do earlier this year a 500 lb squat just a hair below parallel right at just a hair below. But then I've started doing you know let's take a closer stance, you know, toes out closer stance so that we can get a deeper knee position, deeper hip position and then doing literally doing pause squats even if it's with only 315. When you think about this stuff and and that's that's its own topic of even if you have to reduce weight to achieve a deeper stretch, we're not losing tension because at the end of the day it is about putting tension on the muscle, but we're also having to think in terms of where is the most tension applied. So when you look at a lot of exercises, the bottom of a squat, the bottom of a bench, so on and so forth, that is where the most mechanical tension is put on those primary movers. Okay. So, it makes sense to push that further. So, even with these squats, you know, I started doing that again this week. I'm almost like, I wonder if I can improve that further. Can I get a stance where I can still do work sets of the 315 and get deeper and deeper? Isn't that progressive tension overload? And it is. And it's not because, oh, you can make a heavy weight feel light. No, it's about can I place more tension on the quads, on the glutes, because notice when I I do get deeper on those belt squats, I'm able to get into a position. I found a spot on the belt squat where I can drop, you know, pretty much a grass. You'll see coming up. Same thing with my deadlifts of Yeah, you guys watched me do a really clean 585 easy earlier this year, but it's like, man, even doing rep work 425, standing on that 2 and 12 inch plate. Now, that's hard. Hey, could I make a case for if I really want to pursue size, could I stack more plates? Hey, there's space between my my foot and the bar because I've seen a lot of people that like deadlift is tremendous for gaining muscle. And people argue it isn't because of the partial nature, but it's like even those people will admit I've seen people like Dr. Mike admit, yeah, a deficit deadlift or snack deadlift is is a legit hypertrophy exercise. Right? So, here's what I mean. This these belt squats, how much more muscle am I gaining? Yeah, I can stop an inch below parallel. I can do these same reps with another full plate on each side. Like, I can go up another 90 pounds. I've actually done it with 300, so another 90 and then a 10. Does it give me the same stimulus? I think we get more stimulus from that deeper stretch because again, it's about are we going into those the longer ranges of motion, right? Some exercises the top range of motion doesn't have to create tension. So therefore, we don't care as much. Okay? So we go with where where do your joints allow for. Okay? But again, if our pursuit is muscle growth, I don't think it's a bad thing for us to to go that route. And I'm doing more and more of that myself as I'm cutting right now because it's like, can I find some new novel stimulus? Do I need to focus on incline curls instead of even barbell curls? It's the question I'm asking myself. I get a better stretch on them. Is it going to be worse than bicep growth? You know, and this is the stuff that matters. Uh if you are really chasing muscle growth and it's not going to make you weaker. I mean, re realistically, I've got really strong and deficit deadlifts for come in and just mog 600 plus pound deadlifts after. Okay. I can make that same point. What happens if I keep do building volume and build bigger quads and glutes, but still maintain a squat pattern movement? What if I go really, you know, a little narrower stance, higher bar, and we get even deeper and just bang out reps with 315, it still builds a 500 squat. Okay. Size raises strength potential. We are still working the motor patterns. We're still working those movements. you know, we're still working those things. Perfectly perfectly reasonable, perfectly viable to do. So, you know, same thing. I could probably take that Buffalo bar and just give really stronger reps of 275, 280. Will my my normal pause flat bench go up? Absolutely. Same thing with these dips. It'll all go up. People forget that, you know, it's like if you were gaining muscle in the primary movers, you're going to get some carryover. Now, do you get the best strength carryover by maxing out in the sort of ranges that you max out on your lifts? Of course. But you get real strong at these really deeper variations of these movements. Anybody really think your maxes aren't going to go up? They will. Raise your strength potential. You still pro practice a little bit with the other classic lifts, but you're going to get jacked, okay? Heavy progressive overload put into deep, deep stretches when we're still using heavy weights, you're going to get jacked. And it doesn't matter that people say, "Oh, it's only 315 on a squat. We we know you straight up just mock 500." Doesn't matter. the tension, the net total tension on those muscles. Okay, doing the pauses with a deeper range of motion. And again, I can probably work on that even more. I probably get some better foot positions. I can probably work on getting even deeper, finding those angles where I can get even deeper because those are paw. I can't go deeper because I'm pausing. Like you guys can tell I'm stopping there. But can I get a spot where I can get those hips a little further back? Can we get deeper? Can we get similar to that belt squat? Maybe. What's that do for my size and strength? And that's the point I'm making, guys. Those stretch positions matter. They will get you jacked. Work them. Work on them. They are critical for hypertrophy. It's not just about progressive overload is not just about moving the most weight. It's about creating the most tension on the muscle. That's the point.