Periodization and D loads have never been required for maximum gains. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Um, but just a quick reminder if you guys will please click like, drop me a comment down below and uh, subscribe or follow me, I'd appreciate it. So let's get over into it. U, so with this topic, couple points I want to make here. um far as D losses and then periodization. So with D losses, what I'm going to say, if you are needing to de lo, there's a problem with your fatigue management. In other words, you shouldn't be taking real weeks off from training. And if you're coming in and having to just do true light workouts that aren't stimulating muscle growth because they're too low, all you're doing is trying to maintain some movement patterns. I almost have gotten to this point with clients where like, "Well, I feel like I need a D load week or whatever's happening. I've had some stuff going on." And I'm like, "No, we just cut all the extraneous stuff out." In other words, we take out all their supplemental lifts. I don't let them skip their big stuff. In other words, we'll still squat, bench, deadlift, and chin-up. Like, if that's their big movements that we do on their program for them, u we'll keep those four movements in and they'll just do four exercises. I might reduce the volume, but we still push the intensity. We still want challenging work sets. Uh because if you're de loing, we're really not gaining muscle during the de lo weeks. We're really not. And so, you're coming in and just going through the motions uh for the sake of trying to retain muscle. But why did you need to de lo? You know, everyone, again, we have this idea, and I used to support this and I've come to realize it's complete nonsense of overreaching and underreaching models. you overreach to the point where you can no longer recover after accumulating fatigue for weeks and then you de lo for a whole week and scale everything back to little bitty light workouts. When I say that, meaning you're you're cutting your weights in half and even maybe even reducing reps or similar reps. So, in other words, like let's say you're doing uh sets of eight with 300 lbs, you'll cut down to sets of five for 150. And that'll be true. This is how the way it used to be done uh when deed loads were done. And it's like and then you recover, but we're still restimulating some muscle protein tenses. Except you're not. You're not restimulating anything because there's zero challenge to the sets. None of the upper threshold muscle fibers are being stimulated. Therefore, there is no reason for any growth adaptation at all. And all this tells us is that you're overreaching to the point to where you're overtraining and you're essentially missing a week worth of gain. So, in other words, if you need to de lo for a whole week and you have a completely useless week with no actual effective training and let's say you de lo every eight weeks, that's like six weeks of gains you miss for the whole year. Now, is that massive in the grand scheme of things? People say, well, you know, it's it's only six total weeks of the whole year, but it's six weeks that you could have been making gains on. you basically have given up six weeks of progress for no reason. And we need to be clear. There was no reason to actually do it. Okay? And the same thing if we're pushing to the point we're over we're overreaching to that degree, what happens? We're not gaining more muscle from it. All we're doing is increasing our injury rates, our tendinitis, our other problems. Every history I've ever had with any problems were all related to overuse. Every single time, okay? It's been the entire cause of every injury I have ever had in my decades in the in the weight room. It's always been overuse at the at the core of it. Okay? All this does is get you hurt for no gains. Let's be clear, you gained less muscle for having done it. Best case, you break even. Worst case is less gains with more risk of overuse injury, more risk of inflammation, tendon pain, other problems. Okay? It's no need for this to be occurring. And it's hard to get people on board, even your coach or clients, you know, they'll get all these tendinitis problems. They want to push, you know, a lot of a certain amount of work. And it's like, yeah, but it's ultim ultimately going to cause that. Same thing when it comes to periodization. There is no science or reason behind periodization. Periodization originally came out of uh the way blocks and cycles were done with oral steroids. It was built around that idea. Running orals and increasing the dose at a certain point. Um you know, this is this is the whole problem. And then your whole desensitization like so time on and time off. So a lot of times what you really saw were the whole periodization models were built off that and then peaking strength coming off of it, right? And then going down to the lighter reps uh with the with the highest reps and the the lowest weight when you were off cycle because it would be stuff like a six weeks on, six weeks off of orals and maybe double the dose at a certain point in that cycle or titrated up. Okay. Uh that's where the whole concept came from when the the Russians did it. And there's no actual reason for anybody to do it. It's just voodoo. It's voodoo for psychological things. And I've seen my friend Alex Viata has said that it's just coaching voodoo to trick lifters into thinking the coach knows something really intelligent. And I mean I'm very familiar with it. Uh when I tell people this, I'm not saying, "Oh, I don't know about periodization and I'm dismissing it." I mean, I've written linear periodization programs and stuff in the past. Um, I'm I'm very familiar with the theory behind the different phases. Problem is, there's no reason to think it actually does anything. Am I saying we shouldn't peak for powerlifting meets? No. There can be benefit to peeking up to heavy singles, but generally, if you're going to mix a different stuff, concurrent periodization does great. Conjugate worked. uh west side got all this torque work, but it's not true periodization. You're doing hypertrophy work every workout and you're rotating max work with dynamic work inside the same week to fit within your recovery curve to be able to max out every week. Okay? It's not periodization. Periodization, we're completely changing stuff in weeks or every three weeks to where we're working different performance modalities. Okay? It's just voodoo. It's just voodoo. And anyone telling you that, "Oh, you need any of it." No, there's just no truth to it. You You could literally run things like double progression type stuff or just accumulate progressive overload in very slow slow linear manners while training hard and get 100% 100% of the same gains you could have gotten out of periodization. Okay. The problem is with the whole periodization, the way they plan it, if anything goes wrong, guess what? Well, your whole training cycle is messed up. You get sick, have a bad week, you have to miss a week from the gym and your whole little situation messed up if you're going to do it going into some sort of event and you've got it peaked on week 13 to do your event. Your whole rotation gets messed up for what? You could have just got bigger and stronger and then did a peak for your maxes or peak for your specific events and been done with it. And that works and it works very well, right? All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.