Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about the importance of not demonizing or fearing uh individual macronutrients. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop a comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. Let's get over into this topic. Um um and I think we see this a lot and and it's not that there are not problems with too much intake of certain specific macronutrients, certain types of carbs, certain types of fats. Absolutely in excess and particularly refined um are not good for us. But the problem is when people categorically demonize uh carbs, fat or protein, you know, uh unfairly, right? And it gets ridiculous because the evidence doesn't support this. We know what we know about human health doesn't support it. And and truth be told, there are enormous health benefits to consuming significant amounts to every one of these. In fact, a perfectly balanced diet for health. Uh body composition, uh because there's going to be slight differences obviously there. The latter with body composition, obviously more protein. uh you would want more protein than what you need for optimal health, you know, and and I think we understand this, but um we can even address the protein one and the health concerns also. Uh but upfront uh let's talk about obviously uh carbohydrate. This one's ridiculously silly. Humans thrive on carbohydrate. Um all of our history shows this. And when people argue otherwise, I'm like, you read some novel or some fantasy thing somewhere like you you didn't read real anthropology or looking at what Paleolithic humans ate. Uh, by and large, like we are largely a starchbased species, it is what we thrive on. Um, it's been our largest overall calorie source for pretty much ever the entirety of Homo sapiion. All right. And it doesn't matter that some small group of homo erectus or another different homage somewhere ate 70% meat or animal source that would include bugs. That's irrelevant to the convers and I and I think people forget that when they bring that up as some sort of thing. They have this strange idea that their ancestors as humans as paleolithic humans ate mostly meat and we we just didn't like our ancestors didn't. I don't care if your ancestors uh were in you. You're the exception to the rule. Okay. So, let's let's set this nonsense to the side. We're we're carbohydrate driven. It's what we thrive on. We tend to do well when our largest source of calories comes from carbohydrates in the form of glucose, right? We're not talking about refined sugars. All right? I'm not even talking about problems you could have with certain refined starches. Um because it's that's not what I'm telling people to eat. People are like, "So, you're saying we should all just be sitting around eating white bread loaded with all this other stuff?" No, I never said that. That's a strange extrapolation, you know, to go from, yeah, we should be eating whole grains or even white rice and potatoes and tubers and and and root vegetables. To jump from that to he wants us eating bunch of really processed white bread is is a hell of a jump, right? It's very strange. It's a intellectually dishonest jump, but generally we we do really well on starchy carbohydrates. In other words, you know, rice, potatoes, oats, various starchy vegetables, right? We th we thrive on this as a species. And we know this. This is our primary fuel source. Metabolically healthy humans thrive on carbohydrate. People say, "What about people with whatever condition?" Well, quit being metab. You created a bad condition. All right? So, because you abused your body for 30 years and now you have a metabolic health issue, struggling with certain types of carbohydrates has nothing to do with everyone else. Like, it's kind of like you're paying the price for your bad decisions now. And I'm not saying you can't get back over to eventually eating them, but people need a context for that. Or relatively rare metabolic conditions like type 1 diabetes, but again, how much of that is affected by what your mom ate, you know, in uterero? So stuff stuff to think about. All right. We we handle carbohydrate very well. In fact, they're our best training fuel, right? All of our highintensity activity is going to come from carbohydrate. All right. Fats. You people want to demonize fats. Um so let's setting aside the fact that we thrive on carbohydrate and we need it for all of our highintensity training fuel. That has its place. We do burn a lot of fats as a good fuel source. We don't burn saturated fat particularly efficiently. But that's why everyone tell us to moderate saturated fat. Please know when I say moderate in no point did I say you can't have it. I'm not saying oh all saturated fat is this evil. you know, having a a fairly lean sirloin or like 9010 lean ground beef once a day, I I don't think based on any evidence I've seen, it's not going to harm any healthy person at all. Okay? Couple eggs a day, it's probably not going to hurt you guys. And there's a lot of benefits to some of those foods um particularly for for athletes and lifters, right? But in excess saturated fat is a problem. Absolutely. Trans fats are a problem. Trans fats have been largely eliminated in the US. They're illegal to add to foods. They have been for a few years. So it's excess saturated fat, but other fats tend to be pretty good for us. Polyunsaturated fats, monounsaturated fats. Look at all the available evidence. They're extremely healthy. All right. longest lived diets, you know, behind the Okinawans and people will point that out. Ultra love fat, but that's only one example like Mediterranean diet very rich in in monounsaturated fats, fair amount of poffas, right? Extremely good health, right? We know whole food source monounsaturated fats, whether they're things like olives, avocado, certain nuts and seeds, great for us. Now, I'm not telling you to go chug a bunch of oil. I'm not telling you to have a bunch of seed oils, okay? But I'm not even going to get into the studies on that. The studies on seed oils honestly show they're still better than saturated fat. Am I telling you to go chug them? No. Just like I'm not telling you to go eat butter. Okay, let's be clear. Not telling you to eat that. So again, this is people's dishonesty when you say that. Like look, if you're measuring A is worse than B, you don't say, "So you're telling us to just chug tons of A?" No. No one told you that you ignoramus. All right, but whole food poffas, think walnuts, almonds, you know, peanuts if you don't have an allergy. They also improve health markers, improved insulin sensitivity, reduced inflammation, better glycemic control, better lipid profile. Okay. So, healthy fats, particularly whole food source, MUFAS and PUFAS, phenomenal for our health. In moderation, whole food saturated fat doesn't improve health, by the way. It's not beneficial. People say, "Oh, it's good." No, it's not good for you. It's just neutral. It doesn't seem to have a net positive or negative effect when kept in moderation. Is it as good as these others? No. But you know what? We all like a steak every now and then. But let's not demonize, you know, a lean cut of steak, right? Especially in the context of a good diet rich in fiber and rich in these other foods. Um, then we come to the nonsense of of people even fear protein. Oh, too much protein bad for your kidneys or it's bad for longevity. Um, that's horrifically bad data. Okay, really bad data. All right. People with healthy kidneys do not need to limit protein intake. Okay. There's there's evidence for this is lacking. What high amounts of protein, particularly animal source proteins, can do though, improve bone density, improve muscle mass, improve body composition. Now, people say, "But they can be correlated with weight gain." Well, yeah, if you're eating a bunch of really fatty meats, sure. But if we're over here moderating saturated fat, again, animal source protein doesn't do any of those things people are worried about. Okay? And it's generally going to be improved health outcomes in your elderly years. Okay? All the arguments with it with longevity have to do with some data on extreme longevity, but only a tiny number of people have the genes to live past 100 anyways. So that's that makes that a source of great debate. But in terms of better health in your 60s7s, you have better health outcomes if you've exercised and ate significant amounts of animal protein if these other things are taken care of. So we've got to stop demonizing these individual foods. We have to stop demonizing individual macronutrients. It's just ridiculous and there's no reason to do so.