Dietary fat is not the boogeyman. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, you know, and I don't always like to use myself as an anecdote because I'm not always the best anecdote, but just on that topic, you know, we do get really worried about dietary fat um, as a society. Yet, here I am. I'm not ripped by any means. I'm probably about 14% body fat. Um, the leanest I think I've been on camera though. And all these many years I've been doing content as a strength athlete and powerlter, I'm probably the leanest I've been that I recall. And I think a lot of people have agreed on that. I'm still going to trim down a little bit, but I'm eating a diet really high in fat. Um, I haven't even been doing any real cardio lately, but yet I'm stripping away body fat. So this idea of you know that that fat is going to make us fat not necessarily true. Now bio biologically yes almost all of our body fat did originate as dietary fat but nobody's eating a 0% fat diet anyways. So and even though uh the reality is fat is what makes you fat, eating lots of fat doesn't automatically make you fat. So you have that to factor in. really what we need to be talking about is the overall health impacts, inflammation, everything else because these are serious topics, you know, um we fear certain macronutrients and we really don't need to. They get demonized. They get demonized and I think we also forget when it comes to fat, there's a wide variety of fat types of different effects in the body. It's not just one thing. Oh, like all fat is the same. Um and the level of refinement and stuff also matters. So when we're talking about uh you know dietary fats, we have to remember most of our concerns of the health negatives that we see correlated with dietary fat are coming from really refined foods. Um and now because I'm going to give a very pro-fat discussion, I'm going to upset some of the pro-fat people. Okay? Because I'm not even anti-saturated fat in the context of a balanced diet. Refined saturated fats are a problem. Butter is absolutely a problem. Bacon's a problem. Sausage is a problem. And that's well supported by research. This is this is not me just randomly demonizing saturated fat. Okay? We're not demonizing saturated fat, but the the data is overwhelming. Butter is not whole milk. Okay, it's it's so far out of that context that when you look at every study that has looked at health markers from consuming whole milk versus the same amount of fat from butter, they don't look anything alike. People's blood work is night and day difference. People who eat large amounts of butter have horrible blood work. Um, people who have an otherwise healthy diet, who drink large amounts of whole milk tend to have good blood work. it it's very straightforward and it's because we've refined the milk. You see there's going to be a context here. Notice heavily refined foods are a problem. I mean butter for all purposes is an ultrarocessed food. Okay, you've stripped all the the nutritional value, all the protein, all the B12, most of the minerals, most of the vitamins other than vitamin A. 99% of it's been stripped out and then you emulsified uh the molecule through the churning. It's not a health food. Bacon, sausage. Okay. So then this is where we got to look at these correlations between saturated fat and health problems. It's not from people eating a sirloin steak or a ribeye steak. That that's not where the the bad health markers come from. Not from people drinking whole milk. Definitely not cheeses, whole cheeses, not not refin these garbage things or yogurts. Those are actually inversely associated with health problems and cardiovascular risk. They're protective. It's the processed red meats. It's the butter. And we could probably throw beef, tallow, and ghee and all that nonsense in the same category. And I'm saying this as someone who's pro fat. So don't throw this anti No, I'm anti these refined foods. You stripped all the nutritional value out of these foods. non-refined red meat is not even correlated with with cardiovascular disease. Like eating a steak is not a problem. It's the slapping the butter and the bacon on everything. And I'm sorry keto people, you're going to have to come to terms with that. That is the reality of what data shows. Okay? And by that same token, as soon as large amounts of vegetables and other stuff come in, people can eat two pounds of steak a day and have great blood work if they're eating lots of vegetables and and fruits and other whole foods and getting monounsaturated fats in or omega-3s to help shift everything around. Um, you know, but but saturated fat is not healthy per se. It's just neutral, meaning it it's generally neutral. It's just it's an energy source, and that's the way to look at it. Other fats have direct health benefits like monounsaturated fats, polyunsaturated fats, particularly omega-3. And when I say that, I'm not telling you to dump seed oils on your food. I'm talking about nuts, right? I'm talking about nuts. And seeds, these are whole foods. We're not telling you to drink a bunch of oils and fry your food in oil. That would be stupid, wouldn't it? Frying anything in any fat is bad. beef tallow, seed oil, that's all that's this is a bad idea. Stop doing it. Eat whole foods. But these other things have benefits in terms of of improving lipid profiles, reducing inflammation. Okay, reducing inflammation. And yes, I'm fully aware that certain fat adapted people, saturated fat, even they tend to have lower um inflammation, but I think it's due to the totality of them being adapted to the saturated fat. and then still getting all these anti-inflammatory fats. Like it's very hard to have a highfat diet without large amounts of say monounsaturated in it, which is anti-inflammatory, you know, by and large. Um, that's why I always tell people, look, I mean, if you want to do a diet of steak, eggs, avocados, vegetables, and a little bit of whole fat dairy, I think it's great, right? I think it's great. I think it it works phenomenally well for your health, for your body composition. You know, so fat is not the boogeyman. Let's come over to it. Saturated fat or trans fats and in some cases even your oils in the context of highly refined junk food diets that are low in fiber, low in and fruits and vegetables. This is where we run into problems with fats. There is nothing inherently bad about fats and a lot of fats have proven health benefits and the same with you know um even a lot of the dairy and other stuff saturated fat in the context of a very nutritious balanced diet turns into just a fuel source unless it's the more refined types and that's where you see this data showing the problems. It's the bacon and the butter and the sausage. It's not the steak and the milk that's a problem. And and I I'll stand by that position in terms of an evidence-driven position, right? And that's the way we have to look at it. The problem is don't go so crazy the other way that you're like, "Oh, all saturated fat is good. I'm going to force down all these refined saturated fats." Yeah, you're going to die. Stop. Have some sense about it. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.