!alandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandalandaland in terms of muscle growth. Look, the people who are involved in it can argue all they want, that their sample sizes are enough, the way they're collecting the data, but it really isn't. If you were to compare this to any real science, it would be laughed off. And I'm not saying that it's useless. I'm saying that you have to be very, very careful trying to take what these guys are doing in their studies and saying, hey, these are absolute rules, right? This is just the way it is. It's proven. Look, because these are oftentimes six-week, eight-week, 10-week long studies done on 20 people. Well, again, let me be clear. When we're talking about real, serious science, that is simply not enough for us to draw conclusions. So just be aware of that. And again, I'm not saying it's worthless. I'm saying it's really not enough. It's nowhere near enough to draw the sweeping conclusions they're saying, but it can still be some useful info. But again, take it with a grain of salt. So what has been happening the last few years? We've seen this for a number of years now. Some of the certain circles in the research world are saying, look, we're having studies showing stretch position, lengthen position exercises do cause potentially more muscle growth on a rep-to-rep, set-to-set basis, and so on. And here's what I'm going to kind of say with that. I don't feel that this is entirely off-base. I don't think it's entirely true, you know, based on observations of what we know about the body. But let us be clear. Plenty of people have gotten, you know, pretty dang-jacked without focusing on these movements. At the end of the day, tension is tension. And I think there's a couple of points to think about when people bring this stuff up. You've got to say, are you talking about a bunch of machines with a cam on a machine? Are you talking about free weights, weighted body weight movements? See what I mean? Because those strength curves are different. And I'm going to say a lot of what they are saying does make more sense with certain free weight exercises. Okay. I think a lot of their data they're gathering is going to kind of go out the window if it's an exercise where the hardest part of the strength curve isn't at the bottom in the lincoln position. Okay. And so that's kind of the problem. I think once you go to something with a more normalized curve, you go to a machine that's like a cam-based machine, or you go to a cable. I don't think you're going to find what they're even measuring to be true. And I think it depends on the individual joint. Okay. And I'm not saying it's off base because, again, deep stretches, I think, do bring a lot. I think there is something a little bit special there. Notice a lot of these movements I'm doing. I'm pausing in the stretch on a pullover. I'm going into a dead hang and pausing briefly on the chin up, pausing at the bottom of a squat. Now, I do think that there's a lot of value in terms of muscle growth in those stretched positions. I do think there is truth to that. So I understand kind of why some of their research is showing that. But I think that we need to understand that those points of maximum tension do matter based on anatomy. And I'll give you guys a perfect example. So pectorals, for example, when you look at certain studies that were looking at EMG activation and then scanning inside what the muscle was doing, you know, some of the researchers noticed that, and this is one reason people say dumbbells are better than a barbell for chest. They're like, well, you get a deeper stretch. Therefore, it must be putting the muscle into that deeper lengthened position. But it doesn't. It doesn't on the pectoral. And the reason I say this, there was definitely some studies that looked at a cambered bar versus a straight bar. Because those cambered bars, and I have two different ones. You guys have seen me bench with them. I can't touch my chest with the McDonald bar. I can with the Buffalo bar. But it stretches it further. You get a deeper range of motion. But they noticed when they checked the EMGs, they were like, it's not giving more pec activation than just touching the chest with the barbell, even though it's technically putting that joint into a deeper stretch. So what gives? Why is the EMG lighting up less but giving more anterior deltoid when we go deeper? Okay. Well, when they looked at it closer and checked the anatomy, what they were finding, because then they're like, well, let's do some MRIs inside while they're moving. And let's see what happens at different joint angles. They're reasonable. And what did they find? They found that the muscle stopped stretching at a certain point on the chest. And when you go deeper, when you go deeper than, say, the rib box with where the palm is, they found that that extra stretch wasn't the pec anymore, that the pectoral tendon just stretched further. Like the tendon just pulled a little further instead of the muscle lengthening more. But then the front delt got put into a deeper stretch. Well, that's interesting. But that doesn't show that, hey, those lengthened positions weren't really, really good. It's just that it's certain movements. When you go into those lengthened positions, maybe either the muscle is de-emphasized or something like a tendon may stretch further and the muscle itself stops stretching. Therefore, you're not getting any extra muscle fiber contraction. Okay. Right. And I think a take home that I would say with a lot of this, so there's some evidence to it being better. And I'm not going to discount say there's no evidence and it's not even possibly true. I'm going to lean in the direction of a lot of exercises. Those lengthened positions probably really are a little bit better rep for rep. But I think this also becomes a lesser as we start reaching muscle failure. Like you start doing sets to true muscle failure. It's also reasonable to say that, look, rep for rep, you're probably right. But I think when we start reaching failure across multiple sets, I think that difference gets a lot more normalized. Because as we start approaching muscle failure, you start hitting all the muscle fibers anyways. All right. So I do think that those points on the exercise selection, once we start hitting muscle failure or anything beyond like trying to do rest, pause or anything else, I think those differences start to shrink very quickly. And particularly if you do that for more than one set for a muscle group. So it's just points to consider with all of this. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.