Does good form equal more gains? Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Um, if you guys would please remember to click like down below. If you aren't subscribed or following me, please do so. And if you would please leave me a comment under the video, I would greatly appreciate it. Thank you so much. All right, let's get over to the topic. Um, this is something where we could use some common sense, we could use some biomechanics. Um, and we actually have studies that have looked at this. So, again, kind of an interesting topic. Um, you know, because a lot of times people have confusion on this or like a lot of people tell you strict form really matters for getting results. They focus on it and then you see other pro bodybuilders and people who have really loose form, really loose form, a lot of almost cheating movements who have ridiculously phenomenal physiques. So, what's the answer? Um, actually, as you would probably imagine, it's a little bit nuanced, right? It's a little bit nuanced. There is not a straightforward simple yes or no to this. However, um, some things to think about. You what you have to look at with any exercise is the muscle that you are trying to work the one that fails. Okay? So, if you were to take any lift to failure, and I don't care if it's a cheek curl, a pull-up, uh some sort of bench, some sort of squat, leg actually, whatever you happen to be doing, uh whatever you are doing, if you have a target muscle that you are trying to work, because we all have one muscle we care about on that lift, if we're trying to use it for the purpose of building muscle, we're not talking about power lifting at this point or moving the heaviest weight. Um, we're talking about building muscle. there's probably a muscle that you care about more on your on your squats. You might really care about the quads or you might be trying to squat for glutes or or whatever you're trying to do. You know, the same thing with any other exercise. What you've got to look at is in any situation in which the muscle that fails, if you were to go to muscle failure, is the target muscle, you're probably okay on the form from a muscle growth perspective. And it it really is that simple. Um, that should be common sense and then I'll get over to what the studies say, but then we'll talk about other things to think about as far as mind muscle connection injuries, things like that. Those are those are important things to think about. Um, so yeah, with any individual lift when it's been studied, it turns out that even if you use fairly bad form or loose form, because they they're not always the same, are they? A lot of times form can actually be pretty good but still be loose, still be a little bit cheaty, but it's still a very smooth correct form for that muscle group. Okay, depending upon the person and how they apply it. It's kind of why mind muscle connection matters a little bit. All right. So, in that context, what's been found in studies, there's no difference. As long as the muscle that you are trying to work is the muscle that receives the mo enough work that it reaches failure at some point, if you were to take it to failure, you don't have to go to failure obviously, but if it's the muscle that is getting the most fatigue, okay? If it is the muscle getting the most fatigue, what happens? It grows. you you'll get the same growth from looser form that you will from really strict form. This is what they found in the lab. Can't really tell them apart. And if you use some common sense, let's step back and think about that. Let's say you didn't have any studies looking at that and you just used your brain and a little bit of common sense. Wouldn't that that make sense? Well, yeah. Obviously, if if the muscle is getting stimulus and it is the one that's being fatigued, it's going to get the most growth because the same thing would apply to a compound movement, right? Because all compound movements use other muscles. Just because you're doing it strict, like a cheek curl is is not strict, but it because it's working other muscles. Well, a bench press works more than one one muscle. Are we saying a bench press doesn't grow anything? A chin-up works like five major muscles, right? weighted chin up. Are we saying nobody gets bigger weighted chin-ups? Come on. Of course they do. So, you know, is the muscle getting stimulus still? It's not is does it keep tension on it? It's like, is it getting the brunt of the tension? Is it getting the most of it? Is it the muscle that fails? Right? That's what we're looking at. And again, you can apply that on every single exercise case by case by case. Okay? So when you look at it from that perspective, it does make sense why you will see certain bodybuilders who they have a really loose form on some exercises, right? You look at and go, man, that's that's not strict at all, but he is clearly getting results from that movement. And you can't always dismiss it as, well, it's just because he's on drugs. Yes, obvious obviously he is, and obviously that's a factor with a big bodybuilder, but you still need stimulus, right? I think I think all of us understand that you still got to stimulate the muscle otherwise it's going to stop growing even on stuff like there's a limit to how much stuff will stimulate uh muscle growth even in the lab with no training. So you have to be working the muscle. Um but you look at that and go okay so then it makes sense. And what you will find is that a lot of really good bodybuilders, one of the things that makes them a good bodybuilder is they have a good body awareness, if that makes sense. Like it's it's also called kesthetic IQ. They have good body awareness. They tend to be able to feel muscles when they're working a little better than average. Sometimes it's something you can learn with focus and practice, but some people take to that naturally. They just do. A lot of pro aletes have have that just inherently. That's why they become proathletes. They're just good at feeling movements correctly and learning them. So in that case, their form might be a little loose, but they're also going, I personally really feel this muscle deeply. When I use that form, I get a deep burn in it. Okay? They're not just using the form just to throw a bigger weight around always. They're using that form that they personally feel that muscle in. Well, that kind of makes sense, doesn't it? Again, step back, just use some common sense and go, "Okay, yeah, that makes sense." Particularly if they're a very very experienced lifter and they can feel their body really well. They're they're clearly working that muscle then if they're feeling that burn in it even with that loser form. All right, so you have that. Um, but does it mean that it's necessarily growing more than if they just use really strict form? Possibly not. Probably not. But in a few cases, yes, it might actually be if they end up getting a better stimulus and just it feels better in some cases. Not going to say that's the majority of time, but it definitely could be some cases. All right. The other downside, higher risk of injury. Your injury rates are lower if your form is strict. And it's just common sense. Does it mean if you use some cheat curls and some cheat laterals that you're automatically going to get hurt? No, of course not. Again, use some common sense. Is that guaranteed that you're going to get hurt? No. You might go 20 years doing it and never get an injury. And that's great. But what we're talking about relative risk. Yes, looser form and cheating on some exercises more than others definitely on some exercises more than others can raise your risk of injuries. Okay. So if what we would say what's a common sense answer really common sense answer would be okay unless you really and truly do feel that muscle more with that looser form and if you do then you do by all means I would still tell someone if they get a better mind muscle connection with that looser form I would say to do it now unless you do though. But if if you can get the same thing with a stricter form, it's probably just better to use a stricter form most of the time. Okay? Just because slightly reduced chance of injury over time. And is it a big deal? It's probably not a big deal, but it does add up. If you're going to do this for years and years and years, we're all possibly going to get hurt eventually. Let's let's try to reduce the risk a little bit. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.