Bodybuilding bros out here don't want to hear this, but the truth of the matter is most guys out there would be in better shape if they just did uh GPP work in place of all the stuff people come in and do on machines and the cable stations and stuff. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, and and again, I think the proof is in the pudding when you go look at dudes of the CrossFit boxes. They're in better shape than a lot of the uh the the gym bros, right? And I'm not saying the gym bros here blasting gear. I'm talking about the guys in there who are following all these methods, right? They're following all these methods from, you know, these these various bodybuilding circles and they're just coming in and they're playing on all the machines and the and the lat pull down and the cable stations and they're doing all this smaller isolation stuff and they're neglecting the big movements. And yet the reality is um if they just went and did GBP work and some body weight stuff, most of them would be in better shape. They'd probably have more muscle. They'd probably be leaner. um they would definitely have better conditioning and fitness. Okay. And I had someone if you guys remember uh like even Jamie Lewis had said that one time we were doing those podcast uh you know a few years back my strong AF podcast and I had different people in there. We had him in there and he was doing more CrossFit type stuff and actually his wife was a CrossFit instructor at the time. Uh, and you know, we had guys like, uh, CJ Deino in there who, again, powerlifter, strongman, infantry sergeant in the army. He hadn't retired yet. So on and so forth. We had Lewis in there, ran a strength conditioning gym. So we had a, you know, interesting circle of guys. And he kind of said, "Look, a lot of these lifting routines guys are goofing off with you because I could probably build better physiques getting out having people just doing manual labor and digging dishes." And he said that. And it's just like he's like, "Look, I could get people in better shape doing that than a lot of what they're doing." And I mean, and there's a point to be made with that, right? There's a point to be made with that. Guys are coming in and they're just goofing off on the machines, but they're like, "But this this influencer or this person does all of it or this bodybuilder's like, "Yeah, but they're on a lot of drugs. You're not on their drug stack." And and I think people forget that and they cannot get that through their head that they're watching this influencer over here. And I'm like, "Okay, fine. but he's he's on a gram of or more of gear and he uses train and everything else. Okay, you have to factor that in. That training is just not that effective overall. These are guys just wasting their time really trying to isolate everything and isolate small muscles and there's no evidence for that. Let's be clear, you know, they're calling themselves evidence-based, but all the studies, that's not what the research even shows. And and again, let me be clear. I'm not saying for bodybuilding purposes isolation work doesn't have its place. I ironically, you know, my arms I get kind of dogged on, but I've done years and years and tons and tons of curls. Like I I've put in my time on those sort of things, which is actually kind of ironic. Uh my arms were actually bigger when I wasn't doing all the curls. But you know, I digress, like dips and pull-ups. Um, but you know, back over to that point, these guys are doing doing all this nonsense and a lot of it really is a waste of time. Like, they're just working a few small muscles. They're not actually really getting in shape. They're not getting any sort of real metabolic benefits. And and this whole idea that they're going to remove stabilizers is is is insane. Let's be clear. So, that's the problem with a lot of this stuff. this idea that guys have come up with that removing stabilizers causes muscle growth. Are they aware that this is this has been pretty well debunked? Right. And if that was the case, then none of these these big athletes who just who do lots of uh GPP and barbell lifts a lot none of these NFL players or anybody else would be jacked. all these really serious athletes who are stacked. That's all everything they do uses stabilizers. All of it. Gymnasts wouldn't even be stacked. So everyone, these same people love to use these gymnasts as an example. And I'm like, they don't isolate anything. They have great upper bodies. And granted, I have used and say that's not a good argument because they spend hours and hours in there. But the point is, um, and I'm not saying that's an efficient use of your time, but the fact of the matter is those guys get really jacked when every single thing that they do uses massive amounts of stabilizers. Like, just step back and look at the anecdote. Look at the real world. Plenty of people get plenty jacked who don't really isolate or machine anything historically in all these sports around the world. And then guess what? The scientific literature shows the same thing. So there so this idea that they want to remove all these stabilizers that it's going to build more muscle is is quite ludicrous. You know, I mean, case in point, how many of even the bodybuilding bros out there, like I'll I'll show this to you even from the bodybuilding bro perspective. How many bodybuilding bros will straight up tell you the best chest exercise is the barbell incline or the dumbbell incline, right? Look how many stabilizers are involved. Those are all high stabilizer movements. Yet all even these gym bros, these bodybuilding bros are like I got off the brush trust development from these lifts, right? They're definitely not a cable pec deck. All right, but let's come back over to the point and think about what do we mean by GPP? Like think of what they do at CrossFit. Think of the stuff I'm doing right here. Sled work, weighted carries, pushing a sled, throwing, jumping. getting out, swinging a hammer and hitting a tire with it, tire flips. All right. What do you guys think of all this stuff you see these these guys do at CrossFit boxes and strongman gyms and athletic gyms? Okay. And the way a lot of serious athletes train builds builds muscle just fine, but they get in shape. It actually gets guys in shape. They're burning through calories. They're building up their conditioning. They're building up work capacity. They're not sitting around on a machine. They're just working their whole body. They're working their whole body. And again, people say, "Well, they still have to get lean." You're right. So then if you diet with it, because again, the diet thing is a big part of I get it. I'm not shredded. But I also have not been in a massive calorie deficit for a long period of time. Um, but if they are, so what happens if they don't, they're not ever bulking? What happens if dudes are just eating a clean diet, a high protein diet, and they're never really bulking or in a surplus, and they go do tons of that stuff? They're going to get jacked. They're going to get lean. They're going to get abs and they're going to have a much higher energy turnover and they're going to build just as much if not more muscle doing that because they're actually working everything. Think about that. Think about just pushing a sled or doing weighted carries. I went in a little calisthenics with that jumping throwing. So let's say you are doing throws and jumps. What happens if someone throws in a little bit of of of especially those sleds can work your legs. I would love to see people squat, but the sled can build massive legs. What happens if they throw in a few dips and chins or pull-ups in there? What if they start doing that on top of it? A lot of those guys do. How many of those dudes coming out of the CrossFit boxes have are really in great shape? And a lot of them are not even doing any of this uh smaller movements. They're not goofing off with this stuff. It works. And that's what I would suggest. Just getting out and working hard will get guys better results than just goofing off on bodybuilder splits that some pro bodybuilder on five grams of gear gave you, right? You're not going to get his results. You guys will get better results doing this sort of stuff. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.