Dorian Yates got a lot of stuff right when it comes to building muscle. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, let's get over into the topic though of muscle building. Um, this is something because I've I've experimented with pretty much everything there is in terms of volumes and stuff over the decades. And again, let me point out I'm not a bodybuilder. Right? I'm a strength athlete, but we have to maximize hypertrophy also, right? It's like right here, you see me doing, you know, 10 to 12 rep sets of 405 on a on a high bar squat, right? We have to maximize hypertrophy. Okay? It's it's essential. Uh but one of the things that that I do find are these massive arguments about training volume, intensity, and all these things. And what I think is interesting is that Dorian was very much an outlier, but he really wasn't because we saw tons of guys saying similar stuff that that came through. Um, obviously Mensor had his own ideas, but Menor didn't implement those later ideas ever himself. They were theory, but he still placed second in the Olympia doing about 20% of the training that guys like Arnold and other people were. Okay. And I think I'm about to go somewhere with this. You've got to ask the question of are you lifting weights because of an exercise addiction or are you lifting weights because you think you really think it's actually going to make you bigger at a certain point. Okay? And I'm going be fair here, guys. After the first three to five sets per per week for a muscle, you're probably not gaining a lot of muscle from it after that. You're just not. And this is my observation of decades looking at the different comparisons and studies. Assuming they're actually hard sets, assuming they're actually hard sets, you're probably not. So, we have to ask that real question of are we in the gym just to be in the gym? And I would say at a certain point, if you're just wanting to exercise, there's a point where cardio is probably better for you. If you're just in the pursuit of better health, just go do some cardio, go jogging, go drag a sled, go play a sport, go do some activity, you know, because there's a there's a point where we're just we're just having gym addiction. And I think with a lot of dudes, I've had plenty of people who follow me over the years. I've had clients who we scale down to really volumes because their lifestyle. We scale down to some of these crazy low volumes and they do great and they're like, "Wow, I'm really shocked. I've continued to make progress. I'm really happy with where I am. I'm working out 45 minutes three times a week." Like, right? But let's think about kind of what the the things with Dorian and just give the pros and cons with it. Uh, what's always going to be pointed out, Dorian was obviously enhanced. Dorian was obviously enhanced, very heavily enhanced. But I want us to remember a couple things there and that's going to affect what I'm going to say regarding the injuries because I think the drugs contributed the most to his injuries. He did get hurt a lot which is interesting because a lot of it was still higher rep stuff but a couple couple caveats there. Um and that's one of the that's the biggest criticism you have of him the injury rate. Okay. But I think that can be fairly addressed based upon evidence and and knowledge. Uh but his volumes, he won all these Olympias and was a mass monster using much much much lower volumes than contemporaries and just training harder, less exercise selection. Notice it didn't matter. Like two exercises for a muscle group. It's all he ever really needed to win the Olympia repeatedly. be the freakiest guy on that stage. And that's the point we're making. If you can get the same results for a third of the time investment, why are you putting the other end? And I'm not even talking about well not to be lazy because I'm big on stuff like that. I'm like, look, if you don't squat, you're just lazy. Even Dorian said he would have squatted, but he couldn't due to some injuries he had. He's like, squats are great. you know, thought they were great. So, he got the results. And so, that's the question we're asking like like why you could do other activities that maybe uh bring some other stuff to your life. Go play a sport, do some cardio, do some other activity that will broaden your horizons a little bit and and bring some a wider diversity of enjoyment. you know, just other activity. For me, it's stuff like uh going to the range. It's all standing. If I'm handguning, all my guitar playing is is standing. You know, these are just activity. They're just staying active. But I digress. Um injuries though. Let's talk about the injuries. Couple things, the drugs, but I don't think his drugs were as high as we'd like to believe because he's still alive and healthy. Let us be clear, this guy competed for in as a pro bodybuilder at the highest levels for a decade. He's still alive and healthy a lot while all these other guys are dropping dead. So, I think we have to look at and say, was he using as many drugs as these guys today? I don't think so. Why is he alive and healthy? I don't think he was abusing as hard as we think. I'm not saying he wasn't abusing. He was abusing pretty hard, but not to the degree that all these guys are dying. So, there's that. Um, but as far as the injuries, a lot of the stuff that bodybuilders use to prep for the contest to get that dry, shredded look, uh, makes tendons weaker. Everybody's aware of this, right? the drug combinations and the hormone profile that gets you super shredded tends to weaken your tendons. Well, it's going to predispose you to injury. Number two, even what a lot of other the contemporaries said, they're like same problem that Ronnie had. Training that hard too close to the show. Like I get it. The hard hard training is going to build muscle. When you're six weeks out from a bodybuilding show and you're dieting down that shredded, you're not gaining muscle anymore. you should be thinking in terms of maintenance, but Dorian's mindset was always pushed everything all the way to the limit. So, when you look at his injuries, they weren't in the offseason, not when he was eating more and at a at a healthier body fat. He was at a healthy body fat. It didn't happen. Those injuries occurred as he was peing for shows and continuing to do all the forced reps. the rest pause, you know. So, again, we're talking talking doing rest pause with 405 on a row. See where we're going with this? When you're at 6% body fat and on drugs that make your tendons more brittle. All right, this is where we're running into the issues. had he just said, you know, I'm going to stop a rep short of failure because that's more than enough to maintain all my muscle. No extended sets in the final weeks before the shows, you know, the last six to eight weeks, he wouldn't have had, I don't think, any of those injuries. Very unlikely. That's what was getting him, my opinion, says me. So, realistically though, he got a lot right. And the other thing we bring up, the drugs. Yeah, but what is it we always say? Drugs allow you to benefit from higher volumes of training. That's always the line we use. Didn't seem to matter in his case. So, when we always use that, that's the counterargument. Well, the guys on the drugs, they can just do lots of junk volume and benefit from it more, and a drug-free guy can't. But he didn't do any of that. So, we can't really use that that argument because it's always used for the other end of it. Just throwing that out there. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.