Eating clean always produces better results. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I'd like to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Uh but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um first off, I'm going to say that you all know what eating clean means. If I have to describe this to you, um you're simply blank stupid. All right. Uh, number two, when people say when I say good results, I mean not that a calorie deficit doesn't cause fat loss, I'm not saying in the ability to get shredded. I'm talking about your overall gym results, recovery, health, how you feel, everything else. Um, and just because some bodybuilder like, well, he got really shredded and he even gained all the muscle uh while eating garbage. Yeah, plenty of pro bodybuilders live on junk food, but they use enough drugs to bridge the gap. Okay. Are you injecting yourself two or three times, seven, 10 times a day? Are you eating 30 plus pills a day? They're like, well, no. So, why are you using that example? No, they don't need optimal recovery and health from their nutrition uh in that situation because they can just add more drugs like ah we'll just add more drugs that will fix all their recovery problems. We'll gain muscle, burn fat will recover just fine. The muscle muscle and bone will all be repaired from the drugs. That has nothing to do with people who aren't on anything or people who choose to use very conservative uh and healthy amounts of those things. So, we have to understand that difference. That is literally the worst example you could use. Um the same thing. Well, this influencer I follow does that and he claims natural. Uh he claims natural. He's a liar. Just get over it. Okay? You don't follow any fitness influencers who are well known and have a name who are natural. They can cry about it and claim it all day long. It's called lying for marketing. And if you believe it, then you're stupid. You're stupid. You're not really entitled to an opinion. You don't have any critical thinking. All right. But let's get over to the the real crux of the matter now that I've been kind of a dick about that. All right. Uh the recovery and it's massive. Whole foods produce better results in terms of recovery. I mean, we could argue towards fat loss, and I'll get to that in a minute, but generally speaking, the higher the antioxidant status of your overall diet, the better you're going to recover from training, okay? And training recovery is everything. In other words, calories and even macros are not equal. A carbohydrate is not a carbohydrate. Yes, at the glucose level, they are in terms of providing glucose as a training fuel. Fuel, sure, a carb is a carb, but that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about load on the body and other nutritional things that they bring. If it's too much refined fructose and it puts a load on your liver, that impacts your recovery even though it ends up as glucose. Okay. Um, if it's doing that and it's causing extra inflammation in the body, this is going to affect recovery. It's going to affect how you feel. But then we come over to the the rest of the profile. In other words, if you're talking a carbohydrate, are you talking table sugar? Are you talking about a sweet potato? Okay? Or even white bread versus a sweet potato. And I'm not even saying white bread's that bad. But think about this for a moment. In terms of nutrient value, a sweet potato, hell, even a white potato, even some brown rice, any of these these things, fruit, they're all extremely rich in antioxidants. They all also have fiber. Fiber improves gut health. Fiber improves your immune system. We'll get to that in a minute, too. Much higher antioxidant status. We know for overall health, there is no upper threshold to uh antioxidant status benefits from whole foods. We're not talking about when you're supplementing large amounts of a single one. All these whole foods have dozens and dozens of different antioxidants in their matrix. It's not just, oh, two or three. There's just some vitamin C and vitamin E. No, there are tons of different ones and there's a synergistic effect. Okay. In fact, supplementing single uh antioxidants has been linked to increasing cancer and doctors kind of understand why. So, you shouldn't just be loading a bunch of vitamin C or vitamin E. It's actually dumb. But whole foods a little bit different. A little bit different. There's no upper threshold. So, if your total inflammation and oxidative stress go down in the body, this resolves a lot of things. It's like all these people they worry about, well, this particular healthy fat might cause oxidative stress. Are you not eating any sweet potatoes or spinach in your diet? Like, what are you talking about? Antioxidants resolve most of these concerns that people do have about oxidative stress in their diet from certain foods. This is focus on the other end, the stuff that's actually going to help with all of it. So, your antioxidant status. Okay. Same thing, your different vitamins and minerals, phytonutrients. All right. Uh, what about fiber? I mean, fiber is a critical part to all this. If we're going to talk about training, recovery, and health, isn't fiber massive. Why? Because it feeds your gut biome. Your gut biome controls everything from your mental health, right? It affects depression, anxiety, it affects your immune system, right? Your immune system starts in the gut. This is the foundation of your immune system. If you're getting sick less often because you have a more robust immune system, guess what? Your training is going to go better. If you're eating a bunch of junk food versus eating whole foods, again, antioxidants rich in fiber, all these things, your your general immune system and and immune health is going to be better. You're going to get sick less often. You're going to recover better from all your training. You're going to get better progress. All right? Same thing. We talk about a lot of this with fiber and and foods that promote insulin sensitivity versus insulin resistance or whole foods, right? insulin sensitivity. Is it going to affect fat loss? Yes, it's going to affect muscle growth. It's massively going to affect muscle growth, right? insulin sensitivity is a huge factor in shuttling nutrients into your muscle tissue to cause it to grow, to cause them to recover, to fuel your training, everything. It's a big deal. very very big deal. Uh so you have to think in these terms of is you does your diet pro promote insulin sensitivity. It's going to affect both of those especially then the fat loss because people are always worried about insulin. insulin is not the enemy. It's insulin resistance that's the enemy. If you have a healthy immune a healthy insulin response even significant carbohydrates are not fattening. It's when you have a metabolic dysfunction. And if you're worried about that, then even protein is going to eventually become a problem in large enough amounts, won't it? Okay. So, these things matter. But then what about the fat loss? A higher fiber diet, a more whole foods diet, a more filling diet is going to make your fat loss easier. So, even if we're going to talk about fat loss, you're going to have better energy. You're going to have better appetite control. It's going to give you better adherence. Losing fat's going to be easier. You're gonna need less drugs to do it. Maybe no drugs to do it hopefully. Okay. Same thing with your immune health and everything else. insulin sensitivity. This all affects how your body partitions nutrient recovers from training. And if you're not recovering, it's hard to train and maintain muscle while in any sort of calorie deficit that is going to cause fat loss. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.