Eating healthy is not more expensive. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But if you guys would please click like down below, greatly appreciate it. If you are not following or subscribed, then please do so and drop me a comment down under the video. I would appreciate that. Thank you so much. It can be just to say hello. It can be to give your thoughts. All right. There's this massive myth out there uh you know that people have that eating healthy uh is expensive and and it's just simply not true. It's not true. But I think a lot of it is uh here's what it comes down to. People do not know what eating healthy is. They buy into healthy TM. They're like, "Oh, this healthy cereal costs twice as much or three times as much." And I'm like, "It's not healthy. It's junk food being marketed with a healthy label on it." Like it this is no better than the corn flakes or the Rice Krispies. You you'd be just as well off eating this. Like like quite frankly it's so minuscule in terms of the improvement. Uh you know, but I'm like but you could eat oats instead. You could just eat plain oats. That costs less than the cereal. You could put some banana in it as some sort of protein source. Done. How much cheaper is that? Notice I didn't say the little packets with all the junk added. Oats. Oats with some fruit. Little Greek yogurt. Done. Insanely healthy breakfast. Healthier than any cereal that has ever been sold on any shelf in your adult life. Okay? Right? This we all understand this as though we have to eat breakfast food. There's a weird cultural phenomenon with that. Don't get me started. why people think they need a different food for breakfast. I guess I'm lucky I fast in the morning so I don't have to eat breakfast foods, you know, because anything before noon has to magically be a breakfast food. It's a some religious law or something. You go to hell. All right, but that aside, let's let's think about that for a moment. Well, that's that's considerably cheaper. It's way cheaper. All right, but people don't know what healthy is. And and I'm like, let me give you examples. For most people, healthy people say, "What about healthy fat?" The average person doesn't eat any healthy fats. Healthy fats are for lean people, okay? Do you have visible abs? Man, you probably don't need to be worried about healthy fats just yet. You need to be fit. you need to get your body fat down to a to a reasonably healthy level, you know, to at least you have a a flat stomach and no love handles until you're at that point. Why are you worried about healthy fats at all? Like being fat is unhealthy no matter what you eat. So, uh why are you guys worried about adding healthy fats then? Just stop. So, what should people be eating? minimally refined carbs. Carbs that are not refined sugars and lean protein and vegetables, right? Chicken, rice, and vegetables are pretty cheap. Okay, now people say, "Well, the chicken can add up." Well, sure. If you're eating bodybuild builder levels of protein, it could add up. You know, you're going to have to come up with $3 a day for that protein source. That probably going to be the more expensive end of your food, not going to lie. Three or$4 dollars of lean protein? Yeah. $5 a day. That yeah, that would be the most expensive thing you eat if you're on a budget and you're trying to bodybuild would be the protein, okay, for the whole day. But compare that to a McDonald's. These are spend $10 in McDonald's for a lunch. $10. I can put most of you on a healthy bodybuilder diet. Like literally a diet to gain muscle and get you to 200 pounds. Healthy can be done for $10 a day. All right, you see where we're going with this? But let's talk about other healthy foods. So, chicken, any lean meat, but chicken because it tends to be the most cost effective. You can find other things. Lean meaning no more than 10% of its calories from fat. Okay. Leaner meats. All right. Uh, lowfat or fat-ree dairy? That's telling me skim milk or reduced fat milk expensive. Tell me Greek yogurt is expensive. Don't buy the flavored ones. Quit buying the stuff with all the flavoring. That's actually garbage. Refined sugars and garbage. Add some fruit to it. Add something to it that you enjoy the taste of. Done. Rice, potatoes, vegetables. I mean, technically pastas can be it's fine. I I mean I'm not going to I mean we could argue about white pasta, but compared to what the average person eats, uh white pasta is pretty low down the list of of concerns. I'm going to throw it into the relatively healthy category. Or rice, potatoes, cheaper fruits. Buy fruits that are the more the ones that are on sale. Bananas. Bananas are dirt cheap. Okay. Chicken, rice, vegetables, some bananas. little bit of lowfat dairy. Like that's all you need. This is this is healthy. Go look at the price of this stuff. Look at the price of a 10 pound bag of rice. Chicken breast can usually be got almost anywhere for less than $3 a pound. Okay. Now, if you're eating a whole pound of chicken breast every day, I assume you're trying to gain some muscle, right? Health purposes, you don't need that much necessarily. You'll need 150 200 gram of protein. You know, 100 grams a day is good for most people. So, what half an ounce of chicken breast, a $150 of chicken breast, some rice, some vegetables, some potatoes. Potatoes are a vegetable. People say, "Well, I don't like it." Well, put some sauce in. You tell me you can't find a a sauce that you enjoy that doesn't have a bunch of garbage in it. some Asian sauces, some some Hispanic sauce, like Mexican sauces, you know, salsas, all sorts of stuff with rice. But that's healthy. That is like again what I just described for 99% of Americans would probably be the healthiest day they've ever had in their life. Then there's no quote unquote health foods. You don't need organic aai berries. You don't have to buy anything special. You don't need supplements. Like if you eat like that, your need for supplements is kind of gone, right? Why are we taking a bunch of Do you really need a bunch of vitamins? Do you really need any of that? Not really. You're you're eating a balanced diet, especially if you eat lots of vegetables in there. What What is it you think you're getting from these other supplements taking? Okay, it's very, very inexpensive. Get an Insta Pot. Get a rice cooker. Cook your chicken in bulk. Like, well, I got Well, fine. Cook 10 pounds of it at a time in the oven. Okay. There's there's your solution. And these are not people say people don't don't cook have time to cook, but these are all quick solutions to cook and say you have to have an elaborate meal. Like people think that they have to have some elaborate meal. Like, well, that's why you're fat. That's why you're a fat ass because you think that every meal has to be a gourmet meal with 57 things in it and be hyper palatable for you to be happy and then you overeat and you become fat. Can't you just eat normal plain whole foods? Okay, we're talking about eating healthy. We're not talking about eating what you find delicious and want to overeat. Eating to nourish your body. That's what healthy means. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.