High-fiber foods are one of the most important things we can possibly do for our health. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you would please drop a comment down below, I would appreciate that. Thank you so much. So, let's get over to the topic. for some reason um there are fringe dieters most of it based out of people with different bowel syndrome issues and IBS and and you know they actually take dietary approaches that do not work for IBS so it's really it's really crazy but setting that aside we have to combat that because the overwhelming amount of the data around the world all the research we have generally shows that high-fiber diets and just eating foods high in fiber I'm not talking about taking fiber supplements. That doesn't always do the same thing, but high-fiber foods have profound health benefits, okay? And a lot of it has to do with number one, blood sugar control, and I think people get that, but they're not getting all the other stuff. They're missing the big picture, but we do have to talk about that. So, yes, higher fiber diets, we absorb food more slowly. We have more stable blood sugar levels, more stable energy levels. And before people say, well, if you just don't eat a, you know, high carb diet, you don't have to worry about Yeah, no, that's nonsense. That's not true either. Um, in fact, really low carb, highfat diets oftentimes cause high blood sugar, high fasting blood sugar and stuff. So, again, there that is simply not true. Uh, plenty of them have really high fasting glucose. So, what we're looking at is stable absorption of all this stuff. It gives us stable energy levels, improves insulin sensitivity. Um, so that's a big part of it has to do with just slowing down, you know, our absorption of of glucose, right? And keeping it more stable, more level. Um, again, huge benefits to that. But that's not really all of it. Um, the are tons of other stuff. A lot of it has to do uh with obvious things like lowering cholesterol in the bloodstream, particularly the LDL, the bad one. Um, again, you're having strange people who are trying to claim LDL does not cause atheroscerosis. The data is pretty overwhelming for this at this point. These are dangerous quacks who are telling you this. They they are not actual real scientists. These are generally not doctors specializing in the field. Um, the evidence for this is extremely robust. So again, fiber helps reduce cardiovascular risk, helps lower blood pressure, helps reduce the accumulation of arterial plaque and atherosclerosis uh by again it's controlled on lipids. Okay. Also the the better control of of insulin, insulin sensitivity, glucose, all of those things, right? These are important, absolutely important. Um but what about all the other stuff? Gut health. like this is really the big one. Uh so this is what we're looking at. Gut health is going to affect everything from recovery, hormones, your immune system, your cognition, neurotransmitters. So healthy gut flora we know at this point improves your immune system. We know that it's tied to things like anxiety, depression, mental health, cognition. So in other words, having poor gut health is going to affect your mood. It's going to affect your mental health. will affect your resistance to diseases to the immune system, right? Well, where does a lot of our gut health come from? Eating a wide variety of prebiotic and probiotic foods. Well, prebiotic foods means different types of fibers. And the wider variety of fiber types that we take in, eating different fruits, vegetables, whole grains, legumes, all those things. What does it do? Well, it produces larger varieties of healthy gut biome. Okay. So, realistically, what I'm saying is we should be eating, and I'm talking bare minimum, at least three or four different types of fibrous foods every day. It would behoove you from that. You know, it would behoove you to do that. So, that means, yes, your rice or brown rice or whatever, it's got its own fiber. You could add beans to it. You can add vegetables. Okay, now we're getting somewhere. Now, we're getting somewhere. So, we're looking at immune system health. Well, what about people who are training? You don't think all of that immune system health and everything else that's going to affect your recovery? Yeah. How about when you're you start dieting, you're cutting? You don't think that people have a compromised immune system when they're cutting? You don't think they get more colds and other issues? They absolutely do. Okay. Helping you stay well instead of getting sick. Kind of a big deal. This affects your immune system in a very, very real way. So, higher fiber diets help with all of this. It helps with your mood. Okay? It helps with your mental health. So if we can offset the anxiety, depression, think in terms of your gains and body composition, that is valuable to you. You're more likely to stick to your diet. You're more likely to get your training in. You're more likely to be productive with all of it. Okay? Because all of that's going to be improved by your improved gut health. All right? Then we get over into clearing out your gut, clearing out bad stuff. That also helps immune health. It also helps get rid of uh various toxins and stuff in the body so we're not absorbing them. So a lot of things that are toxic uh in our in our gut get kind of taken out by eating higher fiber diets. So yes, it does help in theory not detoxify your body but prevent toxicity to begin with. So just clearing all of that stuff out. This is a good idea, right? It's a really good idea. It's going to be helpful to you. U so then the other thing with it, what else do we have? Foods that are high in fiber are always high in what else? Antioxidants, phytonutrients, they tend to go hand in hand. So if we're eating high fiber foods, we're also eating very antioxidant foods. What does this mean? Lower inflammation means better recovery, less pain overall, lower cancer risk, lower cardiovascular risks, okay? This is critical. And I'm not telling people to go do an all plant-based diet because you guys know how I feel about animal proteins. But here's what I'm going to throw out here. What's optimal for health? that anything that doesn't have animal proteins better be high in fiber. I think that is a good way to put it, right? Because I'm not telling people they're like, "Oh, something like a vegan." No, I'm I'm pro animal protein. I'm pro dairy. I'm pro certain meats, you know, leaner meats. Absolutely. Okay. I'm a big fan to say the least. Very, very big fan to say the least. So, that would be a good rule to follow. Look, if it doesn't have animal source protein in it in significant amounts, it should probably be really high in fiber. It's also going to help you with dietary control, weight management. People say, "What if I need to eat big to get big?" Eat more healthy fats. It's not that hard. Like, you can fit that stuff in. You don't have to eat junk food and low fiber foods to do that. Now, there are occasions where you could just use white rice and that works right for a lot of people. No problem there. But again, just getting fiber in overall, good idea. Okay, it's a great idea for all of these things, for your gains, for your health, for everything. So again, beware of people trying to push the other. They are complete conmen. They are complete charlatans. They're in complete contradiction with everything we know about the body and nutrition, and they don't have evidence to support it. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.