Eating healthier is less expensive. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. So, let's get over to this topic. All right. Uh people try to pull this nonsense all the time to where they're like, "Well, I don't eat healthy because eating healthy is so expensive." All right. It's not. Whole foods are not expensive. Yes, certain foods can be expensive, but none of those foods are actually mandatory for optimal health, peak health, peak performance, athletic ability, body composition, being shredded, winning bodybuilding shows, uh, winning in the Olympics. Okay, let me state that again. None of the expensive foods are a requirement to have perfect health, perfect longevity, win bodybuilding shows, or win at the Olympics, or to even win in the NFL at a Super Bowl. Okay, so this is nonsense. Um, whole foods are cheap if you pick the cheaper ones. Like if you got seven options and three of them are really expensive and four of them are cheap, they all offer similar nutritional value. This isn't a difficult choice. All right. What makes people think food is healthy is healthy food is expensive? They see marketing. Okay. They see healthy TM. They see a package of junk food that has convinced you that it's healthy. Look, this healthier cereal costs twice as much. It's junk food. It's not even healthy. Like, if it's coming in the cereal aisle in a box and it's got whatever organic kaiber berries, crueltyfree, organic cane sugar, like you do realize that that's junk food, right? It's got organic humanely harvested coconut oil. All right, that's all stuff you shouldn't be eating. That is literally junk food. And it doesn't matter that it's organic. Um, you might as well just say it's organic humanely harvested rat poison. Okay, if they said that on the container, there's people who would buy it and say it's organic. It's it's humanely harvested. It must be healthy. No, it's still going to kill you. Like, dude, it's still coconut oil. It's garbage. It's trash dumpster. It's going to elevate your LDL. It's going to make you sick. It's going to make you fat. It's still cane sugar. It's still refined sugar. It's still refined. This is all garbage. Okay, this is what I call healthy TM. This is not health food. It is junk food that's slightly organic or has a health label on it. People say, "Well, organic food costs more. Do you have evidence that organic food is healthier?" You don't. And it doesn't hold up under scrutiny. And people miss that. They'll make this argument and it's like, look, no one has a financial interest in convincing you not to buy organic food. Like there there's no incentive for this scientifically. Let that sink. Let that sink in again for a minute. People act like that there's some conspiracy. Nobody makes more money because you buy organic food or don't like the people who sell organic food make more money. They have a vested interest. They're the ones who are going to push other stuff. They don't have evidence for this. So, you're back over to a corporate interest telling you what to buy instead of just looking at data. There's simply no real quantifiable data that shows that organic food is healthier in general, has is even always lower in pesticides, which may not even be a big problem. Again, pesticides are actually kind of far down the list of health concerns compared to most of the garbage people eat. So, if that's literally the reason you're not because you can't afford that, so you just eat junk, you're making the worst choice. you're still going to be more unhealthy eating the garbage than had you just bought the non-organic version. Anyway, you break it down. Um, but even then, there's not even always evidence of that. There's generally no evidence of higher nutritional value. It is just marketing. And look, if you want to buy it, that's your business. It's your money. But if you're going to make that argument because, well, my friend over here says you have to get organic food. Well, your friend is doing what's called bougie fitness. Again, it's a way to make yourself feel better and pretend that you're spending money to be healthy. It's not more healthy by default. In fact, there's almost no evidence. In some cases, literally, they can't find a difference. Some cases, it's even worse. Okay? So, again, this is not healthy just because it's got this label on it or anything that's coming in a package. That's marketing. That is companies, big companies making a product under the brand of claiming more health and fitness and they're selling you a highly processed product. Okay? What's healthy is to eat whole foods. And I'm not telling you to eat garbage. Some people think all of a sudden they're thinking bacon and butter and all this stuff. That's junk food, too. Okay. Just stop. I'm going to list some whole foods. These are healthy. Rice, beans, potatoes, uh chicken breast, a lean cut of steak. Now, that might be the most expensive thing on the list. By the way, that one's going to be expensive. Um, within moderation, depending on the person, eggs, lowfat or fat-free dairy, whether it's milk, even lactosefree milk, Greek yogurts, right? These are health foods. Carrots, broccoli, spinach, peppers, oats. Hey, you see where we're going with this? So, so if you ask me, what's a really, really good healthy meal? Um, and this is one reason bodybuilders do so well. Lots of bodybuilders figured out long time ago. Plenty of struggling bodybuilders competed in bodybuilding in one shows on budgets and still needing huge amounts of food and all this. That's where they came up, well, let's just do chicken, rice, and vegetables. Works extremely well. So, if you want a really healthy meal, yeah, a lean protein source, okay, really lean meat of some type, okay? You can find cheap ones. You're going to pay three times as much for some versus others. But if you decide you can live on chicken instead of steak, your grocery bill goes down. Problem solved. And it's not like the chicken isn't potentially slightly healthier in some cases. All right. So, a healthy meal. What I say is a perfectly healthy balanced meal. Chicken, rice, vegetables. There you go. Steak, potatoes, lean steak, potatoes, some steamed vegetables on the side. These are healthy meals. starchy carbohydrates, comp complex starchy carbohydrates, a lean animal source protein vegetables. Now, if you need calcium and other stuff, some dairy, throw in a glass of of of uh fat-ree milk, throw in some fat-ree Greek yogurt. Make sure if you want to get a little calcium, a little dairy, a little extra B12. That's a perfectly balanced meal, guys. That is what I would refer to as a healthy meal for people who actually care about their health. They care about their fitness. They want to gain muscle. They want to be lean. They want to feel good. They want to have low rates of disease. That is healthy eating. That is how we would define eating healthy. And I just gave you one example. There could be others. I gave you a couple. Okay? If someone says, "I can't eat that. Really? You're telling me you can't eat chicken, rice, and vegetables every day. You can't eat eat, you know, steak, potato, and vegetables every day." Well, that's your problem. Your problem is you don't want to actually eat healthy. You want to buy garbage junk food that's hyper palatable, still full of crap, still full of refined sugars, and then claim it's healthy, but then you want to eat that. And then you want to claim you can't afford to eat healthy because you can't buy the expensive junk food with a healthy label. Stop lying. Stop coping. Stop pretending eating healthy is the is the expensive thing. It's because you don't want to eat healthy. It is a copout. It's a cope. And if you learn basics of cooking foods like I just listed, almost anybody will have great health. Almost anybody will get in shape eating those as as ideas. Not saying you have to do those exact things. It's just giving you ideas of very budget friendly, perfect, healthy meals. And that's it.