Elite athletes with great physiques built their muscle in the weight room just like the rest of us. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals about this today. Um, if you would though, please remember to click like down below. If you are not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you would be kind enough to drop a comment down below, I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. So, let's get over to the topic. Okay, people will see athletes with great physiques. we can set aside maybe gymnast is an exception. Um because they're doing but they're still resistance training. They're doing millions of pull-ups and dips and things, but still still resistance training. But setting that one tiny group aside, it'll always be whatever swimmers, sprinters, fighters, boxers, all these different boxers, UFC people, okay? Like they look great. And then people get this silly idea that they're just going to go box and build that physique or they're just going to go sprint and build that physique. And I'm sorry. Uh this is insane. And it's and it's it's a position of ignorance because people literally don't know anything about sports. Okay? And everyone who just heard the sprinter thing is laughing. Like isn't that the most asinine thing you always see people have been saying on the internet for years and years and years? Well, if you want to know how to do your cardio, look at a sprinter versus a marathon runner and look at the muscle difference. And uh so hit cardio. And it's like really most elite sprinters back squat 500 plus pounds. You know what? I think that sprinter built most of his muscle doing barbell squats. That's what I think. You know how I know that? Because I, like most coaches, have a pretty good idea of what their training looks like. Um, people are insane. They They really are that ignorant. They are that ignorant. And there's no reason for that level of ignorance. Sprinters spend hours they spend thousands of hours under a squat bar. It's normal for for highle sprint training. This is a normal standard thing. So you wonder why they're muscular. Well, few things, you know. Maybe genetics, maybe the fact they do tons of weightlifting, maybe they're fast twitch fiber dominant, maybe their own peeds. All right, that's a that's a heck of a combination. It's a great combination if you want to look jacked. All right, I digress. You know, Mike Tyson Yeah, Mike Tyson had like a 405 bench press. Get your bench press up to 405 and I promise you your upper body's going to look pretty jacked, too. Not saying you look exactly like Mike Tyson, but you know, but you see the point. Uh they'll bring up Jon Jones, Carter McGregor. Really? I remember when when Jon Jones was training conjugate method I promote. Remember when he had hit a 500 pound box squat on camera, he was training with bands and chains and all that stuff that I promote and put a lot of my clients and athletes on. What are you guys talking about? You guys think Jon Jones looked like that for fighting in the ring? the man was moving elite elite lifter level weights. He could be a successful competitive powerlter and make a lot less money than he makes right now. But you see the point. A lot of these elite athletes, you start looking at their lifts and you're like, they could be power lifters. Yeah, cuz they train similar and they lift weights and they get jacked. Same thing. Everyone's like, you know, Conor McGregor's looking good over here. Then you see him doing like squats with 405, see him benching 275 for reps. Like, well, yeah, no wonder. Uh cuz he's lifting weights really, really hard. So, again, people have these ludicrous ideas and it and it's there's no reason for that anymore. This should have gone away 50 years ago, you know, back when it started becoming mandatory for all sports to lift weights. Like you guys remember when Evander Holyfield got up over 200 pounds becoming like a heavyweight champion, right? How'd he do it? He realized he needed to gain muscle to be a better boxer. So he went and trained with Mr. Olympia Lee Haney. He went and found the greatest bodybuilder of the era and said, "I'm going to go work out with you to gain some muscle." So, how do you guys think if Andrew Holyfield then got up there looking all jacked because he trained with a Mr. Olympia in the weight room five days a week? That's how he did it. And look how far back that was. That was all public. Like, it was all publicized. He's training with Lee Haney. Oh, he got big. He put on all this muscle weight. He's up here knocking people's heads off in the ring. All right. By that point, it sh should have become obvious as to what was going on here, guys. It should be obvious what was happening. Why is this still a conversation that people are having? They're still doing it. Well, and then they'll say even sillier stuff. Well, you don't need to lift ways to be a great athlete. Yes, you do. You don't need to lift ways to be a great fighter. Yes, you do. Tell that to Conor McGregor and Jon Jones. Tell that to Mike Tyson. Tell that to Evander Holyfield. You don't need to lift weights to be a great fighter. Okay. So, all these great fighters, all these champions who are really strong in the weight room, they're just doing it for fun. Is that what is that what you were saying when you say that? When people make that statement, my question is, so they just did it for fun. That had no carryover to their sport at all. They did it just to do it because they thought it would be a fun hobby. They trained that hard and built 500 pound squats and stuff like that just for fun. All these champion fighters, and it is pretty much all of them, right? They did just for fun. All these NFL players did just for fun. All these sprinters, they just squat five and 600 pounds for fun. It's not making them better sprinters, even though their coaches force them to do it or they're off the team. It's just just for fun. You don't need it to be a great athlete. You sure? And why do all great athletes lift weights today? Maybe that's a factor of why they're better. Because the great who didn't lift weights back in the day can't hang with the ones who do today because it makes you a better athlete. They're outgunned. So again, people had these nonsense ideas that come from like the 30s and 40s. It was, "Oh, we don't need to lift weights. It'll make you slower. It's better you just get strong by doing sports." That is outdated. That is a dead concept that nobody follows in the real sports world. No coach will allow you to take that mindset. They're just going to cut you from the team. You're off the team because they know. Yet for some reason in the other minor populace or especially little circles of fighters and stuff, they have this idea and it's not based on reality. And these people who are all buff, they did it by lifting weights, not by playing tennis. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.