All right, guys. The single most useful advice I can give people who want to go on gear, cash in their natty guards, who care about their health. Um, hey everybody. It's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today. If you guys would please drop me a like and a comment. I would appreciate it so much. And let's just kind of cover the basics. And I think what people need to understand uh when they go this route, most of you are not going to be world record level powerlifterss. You're not going to compete on the Mr. Olympia platform. Okay? So, when guys are cashing in their Natty card, they really do need to think about the long-term health ramifications of this stuff. Um, and what I would say in regards to that is think through what you are using, why you are using it, is it been FDA approved, how much are you using? And really ask yourself, you know, is it worth it? You know, critical analysis and and what I mean is if it's not currently say FDA approved, I would ask the question of do you really need to be using it at all? And again, I know people are going to say, well, stay nutty. Well, not everyone wants to stay natty. So, please understand that not everyone wants to stay natty. Um, so so generally what what is FDA approved at this point? Testosterone, dandrone growth hormone, it's about it. Notice a lack of orals. Um, a lack of a lot of other stuff. Um, maybe some stuff to control estrogen either blocking at the receptor or lowering levels. But think through even the the health consequences of those things. Right? Because low estrogen levels horrible for your health. It will kill you. It will also injure you. It will rupture tendons, but it'll make you look shredded. So, the reason I say particularly um even even nandrallone still carries some risk even though it's FDA approved for long-term use, age patients, anemia, things like that. Um it's still not as safe as say just testosterone. Um, testosterone and growth hormone are bioididentical. They are things that your body knows how to use. All you're doing is taking hormones that your body normally produces and you are raising them to higher levels. Is that 100% safe? Absolutely not. It's absolutely not 100% safe. Is it lower risk than the other stuff? Yes. Okay. Then what you also have to think about is people say, "Well, what about the estrogen? What about the DHT?" Um, well, if you're going to go that route, then you're probably going to lose your hair. So, you guys need to quit with this. Oh, I care about my head of hair, but I want to use significant amounts of gear. Well, if you're genetically prone to balding, deal with it. Your other option there is to use nandrallone. Okay, there's your option. Okay, it's easy on the hairline. Keep the testosterone as low as you possibly can. As far as things like prostate, that's subject to a massive amount of debate. if elevated androgens or even just a replacement amount is going to cause maximum uh benign prostate hyperlasia. Okay, so really what we need to be thinking about though outside of those things is is heart injury, right? Heart health and injury. Um, so again, all nandrallone, no testosterone, too low of estrogen, okay, you're going to run into potential cardiac problems. Now, Nandrallone is great for joints and other stuff. Also can affect a lot of guys sex drive negatively. Whereas in testosterone, nothing but a bonus. Same thing, growth hormone kept in reasonable reasonable levels, very low on side effects. It goes too high, you start having insulin resistance issues. a potential risk of organ growth, bones, extended gut. So again, we're kind of in this look at these things and and ask yourself the question on that. What's the minimum amount that I need to use to reach my goal? If your goal can be reached on two units of growth hormone, you don't need four, you don't need eight, you don't need 12. So again, too much growth. We see that all the time, especially guys who run too many peptides. I see that more than anything now. guys who run all these crazy peptide stacks are getting the giant growth gut. Okay, guys are wanting a better physique. That's not how you get it. And growth hormone good for injury prevention, helps with tendons. But generally speaking, um, unless you even need the extra ump from something like nandrallone, your safest bet is to stick with testosterone and growth hormone and to be asking yourself, how much do I really need? Okay, you don't need a,000 milligrams if your results can be reached on 500. What about 250, 300? Plenty of guys use doses like that year round, have great health markers, and just slowly chip away at making gains, you know. So, the real issue then becomes with the testosterone of, well, how do we control, you know, estrogen? How do we deal with gyno? How do we deal with bloat? Well, here's the thing I would say. If your diet is dialed in and you're lean, you're not going to bloat on testosterone. Not a reasonable do. I'm not talking about guys running five grams. I'm telling you that if you keep your diet super clean, carbohydrates are controlled, electrolytes are controlled, no junk food, and you're at a reasonable low body fat, even 700 a gram of testosterone is not particularly going to bloat you. It's when all these other things go into the mix. Okay? It can be controlled mostly with diet unless you're trying to get really dry. But then people say, well, that's why people run, you know, all these other things, Winstrol, Masteron, whatever for that dry look. Well, you can get that through the same pathway with testosterone if you willing to crater your estrogen enough aromatase inhibitors, aromomas, whatever, but it's going to be disastrous to your heart health. It's going to create higher risk of tendon ruptures. So, that's what you have to think about there of saying, is it worth it? Do you need to be dry shredded contest lean bad enough to take those risks? And I get it if you're going to do a bodybuilding show or a photo shoot. But what if you're not? You don't need to worry about that. I would say you don't need to worry about controlling estrogen levels at all if you're not trying to do that. Keep your diet fix it with diet. People say, "Well, what if I'm prone to gyno?" Well, if your diet's on point and you're lean, your estrogen is still going to be reasonable. That's where something like tmoxifen comes in. Guess what? Tmoxifen also helps with lipids. So a person can completely offset any risk of gyno. They can offset a lot of the negatives to lipids of testosterone with Nulvadex if they need to. And a reasonable amount doesn't need to be a lot, right? But without the other negatives, the effect on tendons. Are you going to be dry? No, it's not going to make you dry. You're still going to carry any extra water, but you're not going to get gyno and you're not going to suffer the same health consequences of if you lower your estrogen itself. So, if this is kind of what I would say with guys, look, testosterone, growth hormone, all most of you need if you're going to go this route. Think through what you want to do with your estrogen. If you really need some extra push for more size beyond that or you're particularly worried about your hairline, this is where nandrallone comes in handy, but understand it's going to be a slightly harsher risk uh you know to your cardiac health. It's a little stronger than testosterone in terms of muscle growth, but generally test will get you where you need to go. Again, I would point out to people um how much do you need? Ask yourself what's the minimum amount you need to reach your goals. And if that number is zero, then you don't need to use it all. So that's see how easy that is. But if your goals are obtainable on 300 test or 500 test and two or three units of growth hormone and four units, then that's all that you need. Should have some common sense here, people.