extreme muscle soreness or doms is not actually normal. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below um I would greatly appreciate it if you would subscribe or follow if you are not yet um I would appreciate that also. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment down below just to say hello or to give your thoughts on the video, your input, I would appreciate that. So thank you so much. So, let's hop over to the topic. Um, yeah, soreness is not normal. Um, it's normal when you're new to training. It's it's normal due to novel training response, but generally speaking, we shouldn't be sore all the time. Am I saying we should never be sore? No. I mean, we're all going to have a muscle that's going to get sore once a week or something here or there. You know, some soreness if you're training really hard, fairly common. Uh, but we're talking relatively small amounts. And here's a perfect example. The people who on their leg day, they're like, "Man, I'm crippled the next day after a leg day." And I'm like, "Is it your first leg day? Did you not do one in three months?" I'm like, "Well, no, it's like that every week and I almost want to skip leg day because it's like, okay, so why do you guys doing that to yourself? you like looking at these memes talking about leg day and then and then trying to push so hard that you get sore because maybe you've created a preconceived notion that you're supposed to get sore like something's going on because it shouldn't be that sore. I personally do get a little bit of quad tendon, you know, dump sometimes a little bit uh depending upon, you know, what my workloads look like, but for me that's always from machine work, not my actual squats. you know, occasionally get some some glute doms. I occasionally get pecs, you know, so these things happen. Things happen. And I'm saying that as a guy who's a 500 lb squatter and then I do high rep leg work, too, right? You guys see me do tens and 15s all the time for legs, right? As a 48-year-old man. So, I mean, I I am clearly doing work there. Um, so here's here's my thing on it. There's three things that tend to cause soreness. All right. Three things that tends to cause soreness. Um, four things really. Novel training response, but infrequent training falls under that. So, the fourth one I'm going to say is infrequent training falls back under novel training response. You did something that your body really isn't used to that really shocked the body. Okay. So the warning signs your body makes all the connective tissue sore because DOMS and muscle soreness is not in your actual muscle fibers. So we need to be clear the parts of the muscle that actually grow do not get sore from training. Okay? And a lot of people are not aware of that. They're thinking, "Oh man, my muscles are really sore. They got work." Uh no, that's not actually what where the soreness is. It's it's usually in the connective tissue on the ends of the fibers and the ends of the muscles. So those don't really grow as much from training. That's not what you're trying to stimulate. It's connect that's connective tissue, not actual muscle tissue. So it's think of it as small tendon and collagen, not the contractal proteins that make the muscle bigger. Okay? So a novel training response like that can cause it means you whatever you did, you're not doing often enough. And it's one thing I tell people, look, when you throw a new exercise in, sometimes you don't want to go 100% the first week doing it, especially if it's something that puts you into a lengthened position. Okay? All right. Uh, so maybe not go as hard. Maybe don't go crazy on the ball. Sometimes on a new lift like that's just added in, it's permissible to go to only two sets. Maybe if you go three, don't take the sets to failure. It'll cut the soreness down. You're still going to get a growth stimulus. your rep or two from failure on a new exercise like that, pushing it, you're going to get a training response, you get a lot less sore, get a lot less sore. You haven't done a front squat in a while, well, you know, maybe go hold back just air the first week you do it. Just saying novel training response, but you're also not training often enough is is usually the case. Um, people who go take a week off, man, go take a week off on vacation from lifting and come back after a week. hole and actually train hard. Yeah, you're going to be hurting for days. Novel training response again. You've drained. It's a new stimulus. You took too long between. All right. Um excessive muscle damage also or excessive eccentrics. Oo, that's a big one. Um this is one reason so many people like, "Oh, I love eentrics because they make me sore." There's a data at this point suggesting eentrics may not be as even as important for muscle growth as we thought. Some experts are claiming they're in a normal work set, they don't help at all under, you know, when it's only normal work set. This is a big debate right now. But what we do know, really slow eentrics cause extra muscle damage and they don't cause any muscle growth. That has been confirmed for 10, 20 years. Eentrics that exceed about 4 seconds do not cause muscle growth or what I mean is they cause less. you will gain less muscle from that set according to data they figured out a long time ago. So that extra time under tension is hurting you. But what it does do is make you really sore. Forced eentric reps can make you real sore and it's because it's creating muscle damage. Um and same thing with large amounts of of length and position movements. Too much of that. Same thing causing muscle damage. People say, "Well, don't we need that?" No, muscle damage actually turns out it's not part of the growth process as we've studied it. Um, fatigue can be like actual mechanical fatigue occurring on the muscle fibers that you want to grow. Absolutely. But the actual muscle damage and that muscle damage, by the way, is is chemical in nature. So, it's like a chemical cleaving um and breaking down of the muscle tissue. So, it's not it physically pulling it apart. It it's a chemical process. No, it doesn't appear to be part of the growth process, but it will make you more sore. Okay? It will cause your brain to perceive soreness. All right? It's not linked to muscle growth. We know that. Now, that's a big one. The other one, too much volume. You threw too much volume in too fast that you're not recovering from. You're going to get sore. So, if you're getting sore every time and you've addressed the others, you're not doing a bunch of crazy force reps, you're not doing a bunch of super slow negatives, you're training the muscle or the movement frequently enough and you're doing really high volumes of training. Well, you're just getting sore from the high volumes of training. You threw in more volume than you can handle too quick. Let's say you normally do three sets of an exercise and sometimes you say, "You know what? I feel like doing a four set today." Okay, that's not too bad, right? That's a significant increase in volume. Not the end of the world. But if it's a hard, we're not talking a leg extension for 20 reps here. We're talking something remotely hard, right? And you go from three sets to six sets. You're like, man, I got sore up. I'm limping for three days. I can't raise my arms. Well, yeah, because you threw more volume in than you were ready to adapt to. And there's no need for that. Like, you're not going to see a bunch of growth. People forget individual workouts contribute minimally to growth. It's the accumulation over time. So jumping in and trying to just, oh, let's just shock it and add more volume than I can recover from all at once probably not really causing any extra growth. That one set would have done it. One extra rep will do it. Like literally, if you've been doing three sets of 10 and they're hard and you squeeze in one more rep, that's a good growth stimulus. Okay, so these are the causes of muscle soreness and they're not beneficial. They're they're not normal if you're training correctly. And that's the whole point of this