Exercises that move the body through space are invaluable. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, all right. So, when we think about these different movements that move the body through space, body weight exercises, I don't mean body weight exercises, though, because you need to add weight, right? It's not about the ability to move your body weight because if you're only moving your body weight, you're a weak ass mo. Sorry, that's reality. Um, and I'm not trying to be mean, but if you can only do one chin up or one dip with just your body weight or 20 air squats, you're weak. Like, you're really weak. And that's okay. We can get stronger. Uh, so I'm not talking about that nonsense. Oh, you need to have the ability to to move your body weight. Well, I'm 210bs. If I put 210 on a bar and and struggle to squat it, we got a problem. [laughter] So, that's not the point. So, when we talk about body weight exercises, we're talking about adding weight to them. Like everything else, we need progressive overload. All right? You need progressive overload. And I I do a lot of body weight exercises weighted for, you know, 20 plus reps. Uh but the the idea here uh the idea here is not because it's your body weight, it's because it moves the body itself through space. Um and we need to to have a discussion about that of why that's invaluable. And and people miss the mark on that. Um and a lot of it is about stabilizer muscles. And when I say stabilizers, I don't mean when people make fun of of others who use that term. What do you mean by stabilizers? Do you think there's little tiny mystical magical muscles? No. All the major muscles in your body are stabilizers for various movements. Okay, we all get that. Your lats can be a stabilizer, your biceps can be a stabilizer, your abdominals, your intercostals, uh your hamstrings, right? These muscles are all stabilizers in different movements. And so when I say stabilizer muscles, I do mean the the actual stabilizer muscles, okay? And particularly a lot of muscles of the of the trunk. So, a lot of exercises that move our body through space put a large amount of stress on stabilizers on one opposing muscle groups trying to balance all of it. All right, [snorts] your biceps are going to get worked on your dips as stabilizers. All right, you get that. Your triceps are going to be used on pull-ups, but so are all the other muscles of the of the trunk. Okay. So, for me, examples of body weightight exercises I get big on doing or we'll call them exercises again that move the body through space. Squats, deadlifts, pull-ups, chin-ups, right? Dips. I mean, in theory, if you could do muscle-ups, but I'm not big on muscle-ups for muscle building for a lot of obvious reasons. a multi- movement pattern, you know, which means something is going to be your limit and that's the thing that's going to get the growth stimulus more. Um, but I mean, sure, and I I kind of exclude stuff like handstand push-ups just because they're too awkward to set up and they limit range of motion to some extent, unless you have special bars. Um, but sure, they could fall in that category. They could fall in that category. But why do the stabilizers matter? because it adds extra easy training volume. In other words, when we start thinking about uh you know minimum volumes to get a good training response, this adds to it. In other words, you don't have to do as much training if you do exercises that move your body because you get more stabilization involved. When people argue that these stabilizers do not grow from training, um, I'm going to say that's a profoundly ignorant statement because it's only been 57 studies that have found they have. So when people make that that argument, they use it as an excuse to get on the machine. Um, I'm sorry, that's not evidence-based. You're now over to machine dogma, isol isolation dogma, and it's absolutely not science. It's not research because again the problem is if you claim stabilizers and things don't grow then we shouldn't have studies showing that they do and we clearly do. We clearly do right. So the other thing to think about is not just the efficiency of hypertrophy. That's a big one. What about the neural drive? What about the coordination? Okay. [snorts] So, think about that. Particularly, I'll say the squats, the pull-ups, the dips, especially when they're weighted. There's a lot of coordination happening through the body here. Okay? You are moving your whole body with a weight added and having to balance it, having to stabilize it. All right? Those are awkward situations. You're training yourself to get really really strong in awkward situations where you're having to balance your body. In the cases of some of it, use your whole body as a unit. Right? So, so, so obviously it's only the upper body with the other two, but with squats, you're having to use your whole body and coordinate a movement pattern under a heavy load repeatedly. Well, what does that do for athletic ability? does a lot. It's a reason back squats are so popular, you know, among elite athletes around the world and and strength coaching programs for them. Okay? Brings a lot to the table. So, all these movements that do this, they improve coordination. They also improve neural drive because again, and and that's that's a big part of of the neural drive thing when we think of getting stronger. So, by doing these movements, our whole body gets stronger. we we learn to use large portions of our body at the same time. Okay? [snorts] So, the neurological benefits are high. So, that's going to improve just your overall performance across the board. All right. It's going to help you in any sport you want to do or or in real world activities, right? Absolutely counts. I mean particularly the fact that all this stuff works all the muscles of the trunk like that becomes very important in any any type of sport right becomes [snorts] critical because we're building all those muscles and we're training oursel to brace and use all those things right almost every sport you can think of that's invaluable I'm sure people will come up with exceptions but they don't matter because the exception doesn't make the rule right so when you look at these movements they have the highest growth potential because of all the other secondary muscles involved that will get some growth stimulus. Okay, they're going to help us with our coordination and athleticism. They also even help with conditioning when the reps go up, right? Start doing 12 to 20 rep sets of squats, which is everything you see. I think I did 12 here with 405 and I think I did 20 uh with 315 in here. and tell me that your conditioning doesn't go up, right? Because you're having to brace your core in those deep breaths on every single rep for those high reps and then move the weight which has a huge amount of exertion. It will get you into shape, right? Because the more muscles involved, it starts having a cardiovascular taxing effect as well. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.