 exercises that move the body through space are invaluable. Hey, everybody, it's Jason Blah here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop a comment down below. I'd appreciate it so much. All right, so when we think about these different movements that move the body through space, body weight exercises, I don't mean body weight exercises though, because you need to add weight, right? It's not about the ability to move your body weight, because if you're only moving your body weight, you're a weak-ass mobo. Sorry, that's reality. Then I'm not trying to be mean, but if you can only do one chin up or one dip, with just your body weight or 20 air squats, you're weak. Like you're really weak. And that's okay, we can get stronger. So I'm not talking about that nonsense. Oh, you need to have the ability to move your body weight. Well, I'm 210 pounds. If I put 210 on the bar and struggle to squat it, we got a problem. That's not the point. So when we talk about body weight exercises, we're talking about adding weight to them. Like everything else, we need progressive overload. All right, we need progressive overload. And I do a lot of body weight exercises, weighted for 20 plus reps. But the idea here is not because it's your body weight, it's because it moves the body itself through space. And we need to have a discussion about that of why that's invaluable. And people miss the mark on that. And a lot of it is about stabilizer muscles. And when I say stabilizers, I don't mean when people make fun of others who use that term. What do you mean by stabilizers? Do you think there's little tiny mystical magical muscles? No. All the major muscles in your body are stabilizers for various movements. Okay, we all get that. Your lats can be a stabilizer. Your biceps can be a stabilizer. Your abdominals, your intercostals, your hamstrings, right? These muscles are all stabilizers in different movements. And so when I say stabilizer muscles, I do mean the actual stabilizer muscles. And particularly a lot of muscles of the trunk. So a lot of exercises that move our body through space put a large amount of stress on stabilizers on one opposing muscle groups, trying to balance all of it. Your biceps are gonna get worse on your dips as stabilizers. Your triceps are gonna be used on pull-ups, but so are all the other muscles of the trunk. Okay, so for me, examples of body weight exercises I get big on doing, or we'll call them exercises again that move the body through space. Squats, deadlifts, pull-ups, chin-ups, right? Dips. I mean, in theory, if you could do muscle-ups, but I'm not big on muscle-ups, we're muscle building for a lot of obvious reasons. It's a multi-movement pattern, which means something is gonna be your limit, and that's the thing that's gonna get the growth stimulus more. But I mean, sure, and I kind of exclude stuff like handstand push-ups just because they're too awkward to set up and they limit range of motion to some extent, unless you have special bars, but sure, they could fall in that category. They could fall in that category. But why do the stabilizers matter? Because it adds extra easy training volume. In other words, when we start thinking about minimum volumes to get a good training response, this adds to it. In other words, you don't have to do as much training if you do exercises that move your body because you get more stabilization involved. And when people argue that these stabilizers do not grow from training, I'm gonna say that's a profoundly ignorant statement because it's only been 57 studies that have found they have. So when people make that argument, they use it as an excuse to get on the machine, I'm sorry, that's not evidence-based. You're not over to machine dogma, isolation dogma. It is absolutely not science, it's not research. Because again, the problem is if you claim stabilizers and things don't grow, then we shouldn't have studies showing that they do. And we clearly do. We clearly do. So the other thing to think about is not just the efficiency of hypertrophy. That's a big one. What about the neural drive? What about the coordination? So think about that. Particularly, I'll say the squats, the pull-ups, the dips, especially when they're weighted. There's a lot of coordination happening through the body here. You are moving your whole body with a weight added and having to balance it, having to stabilize it. Those are awkward situations. You're training yourself to get really, really strong in awkward situations where you're having to balance your body. In the case of some of it, use your whole body as a unit. Obviously, it's only the upper body with the other two, but with squats, you're having to use your whole body and coordinate a movement pattern under a heavy load repeatedly. Well, what does that do for athletic ability? It does a lot. The reason back squats are so popular, you know, among elite athletes around the world and strength coaching programs for them, okay? Brings a lot to the table. So all these movements that do this, they improve coordination. They also improve neural drive because again, and that's a big part of the neural drive thing when we think of getting stronger. So by doing these movements, our whole body gets stronger. We learn to use large portions of our body at the same time. So the neurological benefits are high. So that's gonna improve just your overall performance across the board, all right? It's gonna help you in any sport you wanna do or in real world activities, right? Absolutely counts. And particularly the fact that all this stuff works all the muscles of the trunk. Like that becomes very important in any type of sport, right? It becomes critical because we're building all those muscles and we're training ourself to brace and use all those things, right? Almost every sport you can think of, that's invaluable. I'm sure people will come up with exceptions, but they don't matter because the exception doesn't make the rule, all right? So when you look at these movements, they have the highest growth potential because of all the other secondary muscles involved that will get some growth stimulus, okay? They're gonna help us with our coordination and athleticism. They also even help with conditioning on the reps go up, all right? Start doing 12 to 20 reps sets of squats, which is everything you see. I think I did 12 here before a five and I think I did 20 with 315 in here. And tell me that your conditioning doesn't go up, right? Because you're having to brace your core and those deep breaths on every single rep for those high reps and then move the weight, which has a huge amount of exertion. It will get you into shape, right? Because the more muscles involved, it starts having a cardiovascular taxing effect as well. All right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time. Thank you.