Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blah Strength and Fitness and today I'm going to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this nonsense. Someone just sent me some stuff again saying Maxa got hurt again on machines. All right, quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. So again, I've covered this, you know, in a stream. Yeah, this guy's now been hurt multiple times lifting moderately lightweight on machines. And this is what I mean of a couple of things. People keep listening to these silly kids who built their entire physique off trend, right? Guy promotes eating junk food, you know, protein cookies and all sorts of crap. I mean, let's talk about injuries and inflammation alone. Okay, if you're standing around eating garbage that causes inflammation, all these extra refined sugars and sugar alcohol instead of just eating whole foods because it's got protein added in it, that's going to affect injuries. So again, people need to be aware, you know, if you have someone who's literally like, "Oh yeah, I eat all this this junk, but it's protein and it's made by supplement companies and and they're promoting this as fit or healthy." It's not. And I'm not going to say that's the main cause of the injuries, but let's be realistic. Inflammation absolutely is going to contribute to your injuries. Quit inflaming your body with garbage, right? And protein cookies are junk food. It's garbage. Like it's garbage. It's no place in your diet. Eat whole foods, guys. Chicken, rice, nuts, seeds, fruit, you know, right? Real foods. All right. But let's come over to that to this other point. You know, this is what I tell people with the all machine training and all so many of these evidence-based guys are like, "Well, you know, the machines, but you don't have any evidence in machines build more muscle." You know, that's what's crazy. They act like it's some sort of evidence-based approach because, well, we've got studies showing that tension is tension. Um, yeah, but what you have from those studies showing tension is tension, they show that isolation movements and machines don't build more muscle, right? They don't build more muscle than just doing free weight stuff and bigger movements. That is what the evidence shows. So, it's not an evidence-based approach. It's it's they're not superior. There's no benefit to you doing all these machines and trying to force the the body into isolation with things. There's no actual benefit. You don't gain more muscle doing it. It just means that you can gain the muscle, right? So, machines can build just as much muscle as a barbell. that's what they show. So to promote them is an evidence base because you lose all the benefits. And I and I think this is a a perfect example when you see these guys who are training only on machines like this and they're still getting hurt. So you know people have these these ludicrous ideas that it's somehow safer. Well, there's there's no actual logical reason to think machines are safer. You know, people like, well, you're you don't need to learn form. Uh you know, you're not form. You're not going to have accidents from lifting too heavy with bad form. Well, why don't you just use good form? Like, this is not an argument. Learn how to lift correctly. You guys watch me do 500 lb squats and stuff at almost 50 years old sometimes. And I'm not getting hurt doing it. Learn how to lift, have fatigue management, quit using the drugs that cause injuries. So again, um, this is this is the problem too, and I'm going to get to that in a minute, of why you guys have to quit following influencers who did nothing but drugs to build their their physique. They're they have no resilience. They just break. They just break. But let's come over to the to the issue with machines. You're locked into a fixed plane. And here's the thing. In some cases, a machine might be so I want to be clear. for one person, that one machine might put you into your perfect biomechanical angles. Everything's going to be perfect and beautiful. The problem is you're still lifting weights in a fixed track. It's a problem with the Smith machine, problem with a lot of other machines and it may not be the most natural movement curve you because you're locked into a path instead of your body being able to move in the way that your joints and everything want. And that might seem like a minor point till it comes to overuse injuries because people are like, "Oh, it's bad." It's not just bad form. It's bad form and overuse. The overuse is the number one cause of injuries in the gym. Okay? Overuse meaning repeatedly, particularly put into a bad angle. So, if your form is really bad and you're repeatedly hitting those bad angles, yeah, that's going to cause more overuse. But if a machine locks you into a fixed path and part of that path is putting your tendons or joints at a bad angle for you personally that's not ideal for your biomechanics, not your natural movement pattern, it's going to happen or your overuse is going to go up. Your risk of overuse is going to go up. So yes, if you're doing that on that machine, you can just as easily rip a tendon. You can damage a joint. can rip stuff off the bone and tear stuff from the overuse on that machine in some cases if it's putting you at a bad angle much easier than you would with a free weight because you're you're being put into a movement pattern that isn't your natural normal pattern or your tendons are are set to work, your joints are set to work, you know, in a strength curve that where your body wants to be in. Okay? And so then it's putting it into into strange angles. Sometimes you wouldn't be your natural movement patterns through those planes. Okay? And that's fine for one off. That's why being really really strong is useful. But when you're doing it over and over and over and over hundreds of times, okay, these guys get hurt. And I think we're seeing the clowns like this get hurt because this is clownery, right? To come in and train only on machines while using a bunch of trend and eat protein cookies. This is clownery. This is ass clownery and it has no place in fitness. But we come over to the other point. Okay, all these kids like this who they can claim daddy all he wants. It's very obvious that he loves 19 norm probably trend. Um the high injury rate is is definitely definitely correlated with trend. Every real lifter knows this. Trend and injuries go hand in hand. They're like peas and carrots. Um plenty of power lifters learned this and admitted this the wrong way. heard like Andy Bolton say one time, every time he's ever been injured in his entire life, he was on track. His words one time I saw him say that every time. Every time he was ever injured, um, you know, so you have these these kids like this who do that and they don't know anything about training and they just do a bunch of trend, train on nothing but machines, eat eat still kind of junk food and then their audience falls, but then they get hurt over and over. They get hurt and it's not because they're going hard. Some of the fans, well, you get hurt going hard. Really? You're gonna tell my 48-year-old butt that you get hurt just because you go hard? Really? I hope you're kidding because that's not how it works. It's not how it works at all. You get hurt from doing stupid stuff, having overuse injuries by not knowing how to train correctly, right? which is what he has repeatedly now at a very young age while using the wrong drugs and eating a bad diet. And that's well and good if you want to mess yourself up. But when you have half a million followers who are following your every move and you're literally just a drug clown, you're now hurting your audience who are imitating you. They're imitating your exact same stupidity and ignorance. And then they're going to get hurt and they're going to eat bad diets and do silly goofball training and they're going to get hurt and banged up. Also, this is a problem.