Fiber is fitness. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, part of the problem here we run into also though is that people will uh say, "Well, I can't handle fiber. My gut can't handle I have these issues." And it's like, okay, well, you're going to have to heal those issues and you need to stop doing the things that created it. All right. Um, this this one blows my mind. And I've I've had this happen in live streams. I've had even clients say this. Perfect example, alcohol. If you're going to choose to to consume alcohol, you need to accept that there are enormous consequences. Like, stop denying it. Okay? And the gut health is one of them. I've I've had that happen where people have admitted that. Um, again, even a client of mine who actually said it in live streams before came in and said that. He's like, "Yeah, no, I used to have some IBS and other stuff, and I did listen to you on it, and I cut my drinking back to almost zero. You know, I occasionally have have a beer, but it's it's, you know, not very often." He's like, "And within like six weeks, magically, my IBS went away. It just went away." Okay, that sink in for a moment. Like people do stupid stuff like this. Like no person who legitimately cares about their health is going to consume alcohol based on everything we know, right? So put that in. It's like, oh yeah, all my gut problems went away, right? And that's just one example. um eating too much junk food, eating too much refined sugars, things that disrupt your gut biome because you need all that fiber, but because that's the other end of it. As long as your fiber is low, your gut biome will never be healthy. You will never have a healthy gut. All of your fitness, all your health, all your immune system, it all starts in the gut. So, people not understand that. They hear this and I'll hear even some of the the hardcore keto people and which, you know, kind of annoys me because I do lower carbs and I've in the past done AI lost a massive amount of weight on low carbs when I was younger. Um, and I do have high carbs at different phases in my life still, but I I generally find lower carb diets fairly pleasant, you know, and they'll pull this, well, you if you're not eating carbs, you don't need fiber. That is a moronic statement. Provably false. Basically a mentally statement. They're thinking of insoluble fiber, right? It's like because insoluble fiber is going to slow down the absorption of carbohydrates and lower, you know, blood sugar response, right? It's going to lower the and lower the insulin response. Okay. But that's insoluble fiber or soluble fiber. I mean, like you're thinking, oh, oatmeal, you know, and and there's truth to that. There's definitely merits, particularly for someone who doesn't have an extremely high metabolism and energy turnover. Um, there's there's truth to that, right? Potential benefits, better health, keep you leaner, and that's definitely a point. So anyone consuming carbohydrates uh that soluble again is your friend, right? It's going to can help control your blood sugar and then in turn improve insulin sensitivity and things. Absolutely. Okay. Absolutely. But we're talking all types of fiber. The insoluble fiber, the fiber that your your body doesn't digest so easily, doesn't absorb in the water the same way. Okay, this has way other benefits. You know, really high on the list being feeding your gut biome. Okay, feeding your gut biome, which in turn improves your recovery, your your immune system, the neurotransmitters of your brain. So again, another issue, you know, people wonder why we have so much mental health issues, you know, say in the United States today. you think it's a low-fiber diet. It's like this isn't even hypothetical. This is this is provable data. Poor gut health negatively affects brain neurotransmitters, everything from your dopamine, serotonin, and everything else, okay? Has a negative effect on these things. So yes, your depression and your anxiety um and delusions and everything else are impacted by your diet on numerous levels. But again, we could talk about blood sugar spiking because you're not getting enough enough fiber if you're eating carbohydrates. That's up there. insulin resistance negatively affects the brain. But the the actual gut flora itself absolutely affects depression, anxiety, other mental health issues on an enormous level. Your low- fiber diets are contributing to poor mental health. Also contributing to poor immune systems. We just had to deal with this whole crazy pandemic situation, right? There will be people saying, "Oh, we're going to have more of them in the future." Why don't you work on your immune system so that you're not really as affected? Because if you have great immune system because you have a healthy gut again, eating plenty of fiber, getting sunlight, you know, other wide variety of things, but gut health near the top of the list. Uh you're not going to have to worry about these things as much. Okay? you'll be part of the healthy population that builds immunities quicker to these situations, right? We need the fiber, right? We need it for our overall health and fitness. And then we get over to the points of of the other the other things. um making it easier to control what you eat, more stable energy levels and better satiety. You feel full. Don't need to overeat as much. Easier to stay leaner. You know, people are always like, "Well, how much fiber should you eat?" as much as you can. Build it build it up over time. Your body adapts. Your gut biome as it improves in health tolerates more fiber. It's no upper threshold. And this freaks people out. I mean, experts and medical doctors and even biologists who study history have said, "Yeah, I mean, honestly, humans do once you're adapted to, you're used to it for years. 150 grams of fiber a day is extremely healthy." Oh, and also with all that fiber, that's what cleans out your bowels. That's what cleans everything out. Helps rid your intestines of waste products, of toxins, carcinogens. Okay. It's also one of the first lines of defense of, you know, reducing toxicity and toxic loads in the body. Way up there. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.