Filming our lifts is a powerful feedback tool. Hey everybody, it's Jason Wah here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciated. If you aren't following or subscribe, please do so. Reach over and hit that button. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment down under the video to give your thoughts or say hello, I would appreciate that. All right, let's come over and let's talk a little bit about um filming our lifts. And I think it's a very sad state of affairs that we have people um who abuse this to the point to where some gyms are banning it now. Like this is actually a really bad thing for lifters. It's a really bad thing for people who were serious about their gains. Uh because the the lifting world is different than it used to be. Uh meaning we didn't have all these cameras back in the day, but there were tons of experienced lifters, tons of experienced coaches. Like you would go to gyms and almost any mo remotely serious gym had old-timers and coaches and powerlifters or bodybuilders there. There were people there to kind of watch what people were doing. There were people who would take you under their wing. People would assess your list. Like it wasn't like today to where um everyone was on their phones and and everything, right? and and music blocking everything out if you had a Walkman or something, you know, like we didn't have the little the same digital stuff, okay? Or you guys could just have something really tiny to put in your ear and and play music with on a Bluetooth like you had to have like a CD player or something uh walking around like stuck to your belt. So things were a little different. So yes, it was more uh social. It was more social in the sense that lots of people would would look at your form. They would tell you how your squats look, you know, tell you how your something looked uneven or wrong. You know, a lot of other people chatting there, spotting you, they'd let you know like there was more community. And because we don't have that today and there are far far far more people with no clue how to lift be or are the vast majority of the people in the weight room because it's so much more popular now. uh you just don't have access to the same feedback and and and mentorship and stuff that we had, you know, 25 plus years ago. So, without that, the ability to film your lifts is kind of a big deal, right? It's a really big deal. Um because it allows you to look at your stuff. It allows you to assess your form, your bar speeds. Like, we're at a point now where you can look at your own lifts and see how much the weight slowed down on the last rep. Okay, you can look and see was your your bench uneven? Was one arm lower than the other? You know, was your squatting uneven? Did it look catawwampus? You know, we can see all those things easily now. And you can do it without trying to look in a mirror because mirrors are a problem, right? People get hurt using a mirror incorrectly, right? So, so having access to this allows you to do that. It also gives you better access to coaching. Like I require, you know, most of my clients to film stuff. I mean, occasionally I do get one who doesn't and but they're also not as super serious in their goals. But I occasionally do get a client who, yeah, my gym doesn't allow filming. And sometimes with them, if I need stuff, I'm like, I need you to join a different gym because we need to be able to assess what you're doing. You know, I have the benefit of being able to film myself all the time. And I do. I film everything, as you guys know. I document every workout. Um, so in the case of that though, you know, I can assess everything. I know how deep I went on a on a dip or a squat or whatever. Like I can assess it every single day and I have the footage to go back and compare even over time, you know, whereas in without that, we don't have it. Okay? We don't have it. And that's been the interesting thing too, you know, that I've noticed. You'll get people who will critique your form when you put stuff online and you're like, I don't you don't have any stuff up. Like, well, I don't film mine. You know, and it's like I don't think those people realize because they don't film their lifts. You'd be surprised how many people have no idea what their lifting looks like, you know? So, there are people who will who will critique you online and then if and I've had people do that. I'm like, why don't you go film it? I've actually have had a couple do it. Um, on occasion you'll get them to do it, not very often, and they'll come back and say, "Oh man, my lifting is worse than yours." Like everything they thought that they were complaining about mine, they realized their form was worse than the form of mine they were critiquing. And I'm like, "Yeah, that's what happens when you don't film." Right? People assume that their lifting is doing way better than it really is until they film it. Okay? And that's why it's such a powerful tool because it allows you to really see what it is that you're doing. Okay? And not just yourself, but it allows other people because then you can go to coaches, you can go to friends, you can go to whole groups. There are groups and forums to where you can literally upload your a lift and your in your form and and people can tell you, you know, was it good or not? How heavy, how close to a max, where did the form degrade? Where's your weak link, right? Why why are you you struggling? Why are you grinding on that spot on a squat or a bench or a deadlift or whatever? And people can assess it, okay? They can assess it. So, you can literally go to the internet now and do that. That's why it's such a powerful tool for both yourself and your ability to have other people look at it. Okay? So because it is so powerful and so useful when we get to a point to where people are now abusing stuff to the point to where some people are like I'm not comfortable with someone filming in the gym or gyms are outright banning filming. Okay, this is a problem and this goes to show the harm that people are causing to everybody. So so the people who've had these bad ethics and they do stuff like filming people don't want to be filmed and then uh you know putting it up to make fun of them and all this other stuff. This has created a cascade of of negative things, right? To where something that is one of the most valuable tools that we all have available is being shunned in many places. Okay, this is a problem because again any good coach, any good lifter will tell you the feedback of being able to film your lifts is really valuable. If you don't have an experienced coach watching everything that you do in person, the ability to film your lifts is invaluable. It's invaluable. But now we're having a problem to where because a few bad apples, you guys know the expression, a few bad apples spoils the bunch. Okay, this is now what we're seeing. So because of this, unfortunately, we now have gems doing that. Why? Just because these people couldn't behave. So the people who are doing this need to think through the fact that not only is what you're doing unethical to that one person, this is creating a larger cultural cascade of negative effects that could impact everybody who's serious about their goals. Okay? Because now, just to make noobs and other people happy so that they're comfortable in a gym, more experienced lifters who really understand they need to be filming their lifts, they know they'll benefit from it are now suffering all because of a few bad apples. Okay, so this is one reason this stuff needs to be enforced more of and this is what I would suggest to people. Enforce people who are doing the bad stuff. Don't punish the people who are being responsible and doing it correctly. That would be my advice to gems and to other people, you know, just for me personally. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.