Filming your lifts is an extremely valuable tool for your gains. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But if you guys would please click like down below on my video if you aren't subscribing or following me, please do so and drop me a comment down below with comments, questions, thoughts on the video or just to say hello. I would appreciate that. Thank you. All right, let's get over to the point. Um, I understand this is a topic of controversy today. It's become one in recent years due to certain pe people abusing uh social media, using it to film people in the background, call people out to act like primadana's in the gym. Um again, this is this has been a real problem. But I want to present the other side of the equation because that's a very small tiny tiny tiny demographic who are ruining things for everyone else. And and we need to be clear on that. Hey, these people who are doing this nonsense are getting filming being looked at as a negative thing. Certain gyms are banning people filming and this is extremely harmful. I and I want to be clear, this is harmful, not just because of, you know, the nonsense they're causing is only a tiny number of people have really had problems from this. Um, and I don't want to discount that, uh, because those people have valid complaints. I mean, if someone is is filming you in the gym and uploading it to make fun of you while you're at the gym working out, yeah, that's definitely unacceptable. That's a negative thing. Uh and and that should absolutely be called out and avoided. Common sense, right? Like a decent human being or a mature decent person is not going to even do that to somebody. Let's let's just make that perfectly clear. Someone with a love for the iron game and respect for the iron is not going to do that. Okay. The problem is in it's ruining for everyone else. Uh because the fact of the matter is filming your lifts if you do not have a coach or an absolute elite lifter or an elite coach watching every work set you do to guide and make sure you're doing things correctly. And in many cases, that's always how it work. best gyms in the world and the best lifters. They were surrounded by the other best. Everyone's watching them. Uh they're helping them. They're giving advice. Coaches are there. You go to the strongest, biggest gyms in the world, that's how it is. But most of the people aren't doing that. Okay? Uh so you're not under the guidance of an expert. And what I'm going to say is a lot of times we go off of feel. We go off a feel instead of looking at what's really happening with an exercise. Looking at our biomechanics, looking at where our bar speed slow, looking at where our weak links are. All right? You see where I'm going with this? When you start filming yourself, you realize how bad your form is. Like, it's it's funny to me because I personally I film every work set I do. I vlog all of my training and vlogs by day with all my lifts listed underneath year round. So all this stuff in the background is stock footage from my vlogs. Like right now I live six days a week. All six workouts go up on every platform. Okay. I'll get people who criticize who have no clue what they're talking about, you know, and they'll chime in because they don't film themselves and they probably if they started filming themselves and then they saw the things they write to me, they would probably be horrified at what their lists look like. Um because that's the interesting thing. You know, people have this idea of what they think their lifts look like and what they're doing till you see it yourself and you're like, "Oh my god, am I really doing that? Am I really dancing my feet around on the bench? Are my wrists really cocked backwards on the bench like almost like a JM press happening? Am I really doing this nonsense? Oh man, I thought I paused. Did I really just bounce that? I thought my butt didn't come off the bench. I thought I did this. I thought I was going deeper on this exercise. This is what I felt." until they see it. And then people realize, oh man, a form doesn't look like what I think it does. Okay? And they don't realize that till they look at it. And the same thing when they're like a rate of perceived exertion. How much is the weight slowing? Uh where's my weak link in a lift? Like they think they feel it or they're like, well, you know, I mean, I really feel my shoulders on this, so it must be my shoulders is a weak link when it's their triceps. when you look at the bar path and then their shoulders hurt and they feel the shoulder activation because they're compensating for weak triceps. All right, this is what we mean like filming your lifts will tell you everything about what's going on. It will give you the ability to look at your exercises to check your form to know what's happening, right? You'll see where your form breaks. You'll see where the bar slows. You can see where your weaknesses are. Okay? You can you can literally observe these things by filming yourself. It is such a powerful tool. And I as a coach because I do virtual coaching and I've been doing it gosh like six years now as a as a full-time endeavor and I did it part-time a bit before that. Uh and and in that case, you know, I've worked with hundreds of clients and people until they sit down and film their lifts and really start filming their lifts, oftentimes they have no idea what their lifts look like. They have no idea what they're doing wrong. They're like, "I thought I was doing stuff right. I thought my form was was good on this movement." Until they see it and they're like, "Man, that is not what I thought it was going to look like." And it happens to even me sometimes. There are times when I'm doing a lift. I had something back in I haven't done in a while and I and it feels a certain way and then I see the footage and go, "Oops, look at that." And I'm over 25 years in the game. I'm a coach. So, if I'm in a situation to where I feel something and it feels feels like it should be right on something I just worked back in and then I see the footage and go, "Good Lord, what was I doing?" So, if that happens to me, what do you what do you think is happening to someone who's only been working out a year or two? Hey, do you see where we're going with this? All right. You don't know how deep you're going. You don't know where you're moving always. And and I'm not saying feedback of how you feel can't be useful. can be extremely valuable, but there's going to be cases where stuff is really off um that you don't realize till you film it. And it's funny because, you know, you'll see people who go online and criticize other people's form and they don't have any up. And it's like you do realize you your your form may actually look worse than the person you're criticizing. And it's just and they don't even realize it, you know, and they're up giving giving advice and criticism. um and they probably have glaring issues in their form that needs work. But again, valuable feedback. We can see what's going on. And it's it is such a powerful tool and it's an amazing tool that we have the technology to do this. Like I've been doing this a long time. We didn't have smartphones when I started. So people are like, "Oh, you didn't film this lift or whatever you claim you did." It's like, "Yeah, I didn't because we didn't have portable cameras in our We didn't have that. What are you talking about? We got a big VHS thing. I'd had to get a VHS recorder. We didn't have a digital, you know, an HD camera that I could record and save directly onto the computer. What? You guys kidding? It's an amazing tool though. It gives us so much ability and it gives us the ability to put our stuff online to send to coaches, to send to lifting groups, for other people to assess and help us and give us advice. It is such a powerful tool and not using it is potentially leaving gains on the table, leaving strength on the table, muscle, uh the injury prevention, all of this stuff. So, yeah, it's a tool that I am an enormous, absolutely enormous advocate for. Um, so I tell people you need to film your lifts and we need this out here as a counter to all this stuff of the no, don't allow people to film so that people understand it is beneficial. it is useful to allow us to film and we can't let a handful of bad apples spoil the batch. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys