So, the key to success as a fitness influencer is to be a fake natty and to make up bull crap training programs. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. You know, and this is the sort of topic that I used to discuss uh when I was at my most popular and I've had people say, you know, you really should uh go in hard on some of that stuff. Again, this whole next generation of guys doesn't know that. They're not aware of those OG days. And I I think that we need to discuss that, you know, and that's the problem with everyone following these these various fitness personalities. They really and truly think they're natty. Um, which is which is ridiculous, especially when you consider that many of them really have have no idea how to train. They don't train hard, a lot of nonsense. And and I think as I've said many times, uh, a lot of their programming is just endless junk volume, right? Because they need complexity. They can't sell you new programs and new ideas unless they're continually throwing new exercises at you um, and doing excessive amounts of volume. And I think this is one of the big selling points with a lot of the ultra high volume training is that it gives excuses to add complexity in a dozen new exercises, right? Because it's always shocking the muscle, trying to work the muscle from every angle. And I'm not and let's be clear, guys. We're not saying a lot of muscles don't benefit from two or three different angles. Okay? I'm not I am not stating that. Let me be clear. Um, if you're ab seeking the most possible muscle development, yeah, every muscle probably does need to be hit from at least two angles. Okay? And especially we start factoring in, you know, overlap on big compounds, you know, as many as three, you know, and again, we're we're not in denial of this. That's not what we're saying. Okay? [snorts] No, you're probably not going to optimize a 100% of all your muscle growth off of a single exercise. get a pretty pretty sizable chunk of it, but no, you're not going to get every last bit. So, so again, we're we're not in denial of this. And we're not saying uh that maximizing development, particularly for like a competitive bodybuilder, that they might not need, you know, as many as three different exercises to get that last angle. There might be that last head of a muscle that's lagging for them. And in a competitive environment, no one out on the street's going to notice it. But yeah, when they're standing side by side next to some other competitive bodybuilder on a stage and they're down to that last point, you know what? That last little pop to the lateral head of the tricep or the rear delt or the rectus forous on the quad, you know, it may make or break them in that environment. Okay. So, so we understand that. Not saying that's not the case, but to have just a really good impressive physique or to be jacked, completely unnecessary, you know, and yet these these people sell this and they do it because otherwise they wouldn't have content. Okay, they need to have that complexity because then how are they going to show you 27 new exercises? How are they going to have these detailed discussions about you know this is really where your elbow position should be on on a cable uh press down and this is difference between using the Vbar and the rope in terms of what heads of the muscle it activates right if they're not throwing all this out because they can't just tell you yeah you know do a weighted dip or or you know some sort of heavy press and then an extension or pullover you know cover everything in the tricep which it will you know tricep has two functions Not really a lot else going on there, guys. And most of those functions can most of the muscle fibers can still be hit off of a single function. You know, barring something like the deltoid, which is probably the most complex muscle we're going to train, but ironically gets hit by every single upper body exercise. Hell, even your standing curls hit it. Um, yeah, there's more complexity there. So, we could we could definitely make a case for a little bit of complexity with delts. Sure, but by and large, this is all nonsense, you know. But here's the thing. Most of them don't necessarily have a huge amount of trained knowledge. It's just drugs. Drugs, genetics, getting lean enough, you know, and and that's the big factor, too. If they just get lean and they use some gear and claim natural, that goes a long way, especially they swear up and down how natural they they are, you know. But again, it's leanness. But the other thing people point out too, they're like, "Well, you know what? What do the drugs have to do with the leanness?" Well, a lot of these guys use lots of drugs to get leaner. That lean look these guys oftentimes have, they use drugs is for fat burners, drugs to suppress appetite. Not just about anabolics. It's about half the time T3. Now, everyone's getting into fat burning peptides, appetite suppressing peptides. I've seen guys for years and years if you're talking about they chew their nicotine gum and they do they do all this to suppress appetite so they can still eat junk food. You know, they don't want to eat clean year round because again, man, how do you keep a lazy undisiplined audience if you're like, "Yeah, man. I just eat clean year round. I eat chicken and brown rice and broccoli every day." Boy, that turns off that general population audience, but it's really what they would be doing. or they're like, "I live on uh you know, steak, eggs, and vegetables." If they go lower carb approach, all those those things work. Time proven classics for dudes who are looking into bodybuilding stuff. They're time proven, just eating clean. But a lot of these guys, they don't have the the discipline to want to just eat clean. So, they just use lots of drugs to help them get leaner. And again, getting lean, then a little bit of gear gives them that look, particularly they got the genetics for it. So, then they just they do the whole fake natty thing. And then they sell the fake natty because then they can sell supplements to their naive audience and claim the supplements help. And then they can also give them false hope. That's the biggest part, too. Hey, you can be where I'm at natural. This is this is obtainable natural if you follow all my stuff for 10 years. If you buy my programs, if you buy my supplements. And then when they they don't get there in 10 years, it doesn't matter because I got a whole new crop of idiots. Right? And and they are idiots. We I was young and naive, too. Like, look, we when we're young and naive, we are idiots. I'm not trying to be mean. It is the reality. And when you accept that, it gets a lot better. When younger guys finally step up and go, "Oh my god, I am an idiot. He's right." And all these older guys who are who are saying the same stuff are like, "Yeah, we were all idiots like you, too. Oh my god, maybe I should listen." Because that's what's going to happen. But then it's too late. They've already invested years into following this guy, buying all the programs, buying all the supplements. And then they just move on to the next new batch. And then they come up with 17 new exercises and 17 new splits and all these new supplements to sell them. And they just make money, money, money, being a fake natty, selling BS, terrible programming, everything with bad fatigue management, too. And then they use it as well. Also, I've just I spend hours a day in the gym on this crazy high volume program. I've been there two, three hours a day. five, six days. It gets my discipline. That's why I'm there. I just outwork. And then they have all these kids who aren't on anabolics trying to do these sort of training volumes. And then they need they sell them the preworkouts so that they can make it through the horrible fatigue management, stupidly high volume programs. And then they sell them recovery supplements when they're not recovering because the stems are burning them out even more with all the high volumes of training. And it's just a vicious cycle. And that's what this whole industry and all these channels and influencers and everyone have been built on for over a decade. And it's just rinse and repeat over and over and over. And that's why I do [snorts] not want to be part of this community, right? Even for me on the tubes. The tubes is my lowest uh income stream these days. I'm not trying to make all my money there. Why? Because it's not worth it. You got to sell out to do it. got to sell out to do it and just be a piece of filth like all these guys. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.