All right, let's talk a little bit about fitness influencers who try to promote that, hey, it's fine to eat junk food, drink alcohol, things like that. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals about this today. Uh, just a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like, and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. All right. Um, I honestly believe that these influencers are not fitness people. If you're out here telling people to eat junk food, oh, just work it in in moderation. You're telling them it's okay to have a few alcoholic drinks every night, um, just admit you're a grifter. You're not interested in fitness, you're not interested in health, and you're not interested in promoting it. Okay? Let's let us be clear. Um, because the the issue we have is that the majority of people can't really moderate junk food. We know this. This is why we have an obesity epidemic in America, right? What you have are a couple of really skinny guys who say, "Well, I can be really lean still and moderate it and count it. Um, half of which use fat burning and appetite suppressing drugs." You know, notice these same guys who say this and they're lean. They love to use their trend whether they admit to it or not, which not only helps burn fat, appetite suppressing. Tons of them are like, "Oh yeah, chew all this nicotine gum and all this other nonsense to control their appetite while they're eating garbage." And we need to be clear. um that is an evidence-based position to take. So when any of these people, which is really strange to me, you have this whole circle of evidence-based people who call themselves that and then they talk about, oh, counting macros and working in 20% junk, and they believe that that's a science-based approach. Uh no, the only reason they're thinking that is because it falls back on, well, calories would affect fat loss. metaanalysis has been very very clear on junk food recent meta. So all these people who said this if they want to use the umbrella evidence base they need to be like yeah you can't drink soda you can't drink sweetened beverages that would be evidence-based. Why? Because the studies show that one sugar sweetened beverage per week is enough to to measurably increase diabetes rates and cancer rates. Okay. So, if you're truly promoting fitness, you're going to say, "Yeah, you know, you probably shouldn't be consuming this stuff." And it shouldn't definitely shouldn't be every day. We We all understand this, right? What about refined red meats like bacon, sausage, things like that. The same meta analysis, looking at those things determine, yeah, one one uh piece of that a week is enough to cause harm. It's enough to increase cancer risk. It's enough to create problems. Those these foods are horrible. They're not stuff you should be eating. They're not even foods. Yet, these people will promote, well, you know, I have it I just worked in and they literally will just work in sugar. Like, why are you adding this stuff with refined sugars, table sugar, high fructose corn syrup, and they're act they're just mixing it into their other stuff like it's nothing. Okay? And that's fine. Say that it work. You can still lose fat doing so. Sure, it's harder, but it can be done. But if they're going to use the term fitness, that's going to be my problem. If they're going to claim to promote health and fitness and they tell you it's okay to eat garbage like this in moderation or try to eat in moderation because you can still lose fat while doing it in a calorie deficit, they need to say, "Hey, I'm a fat loss influencer. I'm a weight loss influencer who's going to give you horrible strategies that will work if you if you're willing to put in extra effort to make it work because it does require more work. Like anyone who's struggling with fat loss, trying to moderate junk is a nightmare. Pick anyone who's ever been morbidly obese like me. I lost around 150 pounds 25 years ago or so. I was over 300 pounds when I first got into all this. It's why I have the loose skin. We can't do that crap. you know, and so therefore, the people who struggle the most with fat loss are the ones who can't do the crap they're trying to promote. So again, these people are grifters. They're frauds. And half the time they're using drugs to help them even control their appetite as a highly active person with muscle to still eat this garbage because they still can't get lean without using some drug to help because it messes their disregulates their appetite to eat this stuff. But again, it's not just the fat loss. It's the cancer. It's the diabetes. It's the heart cardiovascular disease. Junk foods, ultrarocessed junk foods cause these things. And before people say, well, they don't cause it alone. The research shows that it does increase the rates no matter what. All other variables being equal, you are going to be at a higher risk of all these things. That's not my opinion. That is m meta analysis looking at multiple nations around the world. This is the conclusions of a leading expert. The leading scientists are saying, "Hey, all this junk even in moderation can still kill you. It's just a much lower chance if you moderate it. But it could still give you cancer. It could still create all these problems." All right. Alcohol the same way. Anyone who is up to speed on all the research knows all the previous research was biased that said, "Oh, alcohol in small amounts may have benefits." That has been overturned. That was biased research in general generally by doctors and researchers who themselves were drinkers who wanted to justify it. So they had their own bias, poor sampling data, poor collection data. And when deeper multivariant analysis has been done looking at all that stuff, they've determined, hey, it's not actually true. None of these things are helpful. not helpful at all. And any benefits they found from wine, it was pointed out doesn't remove the poison from the wine. And all the benefits were from the polyphenols from the grapes. You could literally eat a handful of grapes every day and get 100% of those possible claimed health benefits from wine. The only benefits were because it was made from fruit. Just eat the fruit. So what does the leading research then say today? Again, multiple meta analysis by the leading cancer experts have found alcohol is a is a level four carcinogen even in moderation. And what they've said, moderation, one to two drinks per month, not per week, not per day. So all this stuff, people say, well, that's not enough to affect the liver. It's not, but it is enough to give you cancer. They found seven types of cancers because again we're talking about well the liver will filter out the small amount of alcohol. That's true. Liver does a good job of that. However, all the tissues that are exposed to it before it reaches the liver. Keep in mind when you drink alcohol, it doesn't go directly from the tip of your lips to your liver. It's got a long path to get there. Everything it touches on the way, guess what they found? mouth, esophagus, stomach, intestines, colon, and then other even other organs further inside. Everything [snorts] that the alcohol touches on its path to the liver, one to two drinks a month has been found to be correlated with higher rates of cancer in every single one of those organs. This is not my opinion. This is the data and findings of the leading cancer researchers in the world. At least one of which got up and said when he released his findings that he likes to drink casually and he was very upset by his own research and didn't want to believe it. And that's why he double checked it, triple checked it, went over it over and over because he didn't want to believe even his own research because he likes to drink. But he said at the end of the day the evidence is there whether I like it or not. So any of these fitness influencers who are telling you it's okay perfectly you can be part of a healthy lifestyle to have alcohol in moderation is a lying piece of crap. They're a grifter. They're just telling you what you want to hear to sell you products. They're trash. They're trash human beings.