The entire fitness industry has pretty much run a con on people in terms of nutrition. Uh they've made things more complicated than they need to be instead of pushing the right stuff. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please drop a like and a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Let's get over into the topic. Um, and I think particularly this comes into the case when people start getting into these in-depth discussions about counting macros. Oh, yeah. Yeah. And we can eat this this junk if we just count our macros, track our macros to the gram. Do you understand that? That's almost meaningless. And I hope people grasp that. Um, the same thing. Well, we can have this in moderation and that it'll work out and this is the exact amount of protein we need. Okay, I'm I'm going to be realistic. Yes, I am fully aware of all the studies and data on protein intake. But what do the studies also show us? Body composition is generally favorably improved with higher protein intakes, particularly high quality protein. Like we are aware of this, right? Anybody not understand that? Yes, we have great data that muscle growth caps at probably about 1.5 grams per kilogram of body weight. So what does that mean? Means if you're a 220 pound man that's 150 grams of protein. Okay, we all get this. Everybody understand that? But what about body composition? Ah there's studies showing 300 350 400 grams of protein makes you lose fat more quickly. Even if you try to force feed a little bit more calories in sometimes like this is it's favorable over and over and over. We'd then make the argument that if you really care about body composition, you want to be leaner, you probably should just eat tons and tons of protein. Okay? And has this ever not worked for anybody? People will argue these points back and forth and and they are technically right on the muscle growth aspect, but a lot of guys are wanting to get leaner. They're wanting to get leaner while making gains. And if your goal is to recomposition, you should just be hammering down tons of protein. Okay? See how uncomp uncomplicated that just got? It shouldn't be in terms of, hey, what's the minimum? I should probably be hammering down more protein and not from adding a bunch of protein bars from real food. All right. Same thing when we get into these conversations about tracking every macro. There's no evidence whatsoever that this works. Number one. Number two, uh, weighing everything out, your margin of error is still 10%. So, if you think you have your macros to the gram, you don't. They're plus or minus 10%. If you weigh all your food on a digital scale, you're just ballparking it. Again, does everyone understand this? This is why once you know how calories work, you know the portions of your food, you're pretty well good. Uh, simply because you can't track accurately enough. You don't really know what you're burning. You have a ballpark estimate based upon what's happening with the scale. Same thing with the food you're eating. It's just an estimate, guys. And I'm talking digital scale due to moistures and other stuff in your food can be off up to 10%. In terms of your calories. So, if you are weighing out exactly 3,000 calories to the gram, weighing every last bite of everything you eat out with a digital scale, you're still eating somewhere between 2,800 and 3200. And it was very, very, very easy and very likely that if you're changing foods around, you're going to have days where you eat 2,800 and 3200 even though you measured 3,000. Do you see the problem with all this? But why are they calling for these meticulous macro accounting? So you can work in junk. That's the only reason we come over to you if you're your junk food. But we know that junk food's harmful. We know that refined sugar in moderation is harmful. And again, any of these people arguing otherwise, they pretend to be evidence-based. No, junk food is bad. It's been found repeatedly. Look at the most recent meta analysis on sugary drinks, processed red meats, half a stick of bacon a day. Measurable, confirmed by meta analysis, higher health risk. A single sugary drink. So again, what is that? Around 50 grams of refined sugar [clears throat] once a week measurably increases cancer and diabetes. This is metaanalysis. In other words, this stuff has no place in a in a healthier fitness lifestyle. But they're wanting you to to track everything so that you can work this garbage in. They're over complicating this to feed into people's bad habits and addictions because it's marketable. And anyone who says, "Well, it's too hard to eat clean." No, it's not. I have two to three cheat meals per year just fine and my health is great. Keeping in mind you guys are seeing me do stuff like 12 reps of 405 on a high bar squat at age 49. Health markers are good. Blood work is good. I feel good. I'm going to say I'm pretty good health there. I don't think we can argue against that. Uh but back over to that point, it's not hard at all. It's because you people are addicted to junk and these fitness people promote it. Okay, here's the other problem with the approach. Every bit of junk you're working in is less healthy food. So, let's come over to the other point. What's the study show on things like fruits and vegetables? There's no upper threshold of the health benefits. In other words, if you eat 30% more vegetables versus what you're eating right now, the research says your health will be a hair better as a result. It's open-ended. This is what the best studies around the world have found. Your vegetables and fruits and things, these these really, really healthy foods. All right. Have open-ended health benefits. The more you can squeeze in, the better. So, if you're eating 500 calories of garbage, that's 500 calories of cantaloupe or avocado that you could have worked in instead and gotten all these other health benefits. And then you're also going to recover better from your training. So, how how does that affect body composition in the long term? It does better health, better recovery. Again, they're promoting nonsense. Kind of see where I'm going with this. Notice that I'm like, man, you know, fruits, vegetables, and and protein sources. People argue with those protein sources don't have those other things. Exactly. So, maybe you're a lot better off not eating the junk food because you're already going to be eating a fair amount of protein. It doesn't have these antioxidants and stuff. And so you should probably have all your other food, but your fruits and vegetables outside of your protein sources. I'd argue we could eat almost entirely these whole foods and a ton of protein. And we come back over to look, if you're trying to be leaner, shouldn't you be protein overfeeding anyways? Doesn't it slowly chip away at body fat? According to studies that looked at it, if you're consuming massive amounts of protein, even if you're not technically in what should be a true deficit, you still slowly lose some body fat. Why are they over complicating all this stuff when they're just like, "Hey, how about you just eat whole foods, as many fruits and vegetables you can force down, and tons and tons of protein. Done." They'll pull the same thing with alcohol in moderation. Oh, well, we can moderate it and track. No, you can't. Again, anyone telling you this who's claiming to be any sort of science-based or evidence-based person is a complete liar. [snorts] They have no credibility at that moment. And we have to be clear on that. All the research around the world shows that a single drink a month is enough to increase cancer rates. It has no place whatsoever in a healthy lifestyle. Back to the same thing recovery, muscle protein synthesis, alcohol is a complete negative here. Not just your health, but your gains. Why would you consume it? If we're going to talk about fitness, let's talk about fitness. Get rid of all this garbage. Stop eating junk food. Stop consuming alcohol. and eat a healthy diet with lots of fruits and vegetables, lots of protein. And if you do all of that, you're probably going to lose body fat without tracking anything. That's what all the data shows. If you do all of that right, you can probably eat until you're gorged every day and still probably keep getting leaner over time. People say, "But then I might not gain muscle." Well, you're not shredded enough for that to matter. Then in which case, you do be need to be worried about it. But if you don't already have a six-pack, is not a problem. And number two, the heavy protein feeding seems to cause muscle growth to occur even at a calorie deficit. Again, we understand people have over complicated something that shouldn't need to be. And all these other problems come from the junk. People like, "Well, I have this health problem or this gut issue or or whatever else." No, you have it because you eat junk food and alcohol. That's what caused it. For 99% of people, that is why you have these gut issues. Stop doing that. The problem goes away completely. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.