Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I feel like rattling the cage a little bit, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it. Um, this is something again I feel like needs to be said. Way too many people here in the so-called fitness world um, promote purely bodybuilding and then they're using the fitness tag. They're hashtagging fitness, calling it fitness, calling themselves fitness channels, pretending to be part of the fitness world. No, you're part of the bodybuilding world. Just stop. And and here's here's perfect examples. Anyone who is making content or promoting, well, I only care about hypertrophy. I only care about muscle growth. Well, purely for bodybuilding purposes. Like, that's fine. Call yourself bodybuilding and don't pretend that you promote fitness. Don't pretend that you care about fitness. Don't pretend that it is even an interest of yours. Don't pretend that you're going to make your clients fit. All right? It's no different than if someone gets up and says for powerlifting purposes, right? Purely for powerlifting purposes, right? That's a called a powerlifting influencer or a powerlifting channel or a powerlifting page. It's not about fitness. So, we need to be clear on that. If a person that's all they talk about in training, like, well, we don't care about this the lifting because we just care about the bodybuilding end. So, we need to do this and we can take all these stabilizers out. we do this on this machine and they're rating tiers of exercises based upon what they believe is going to give the best hypertrophy stimulus as if it actually was the case. Um again, when you have every study that look looks at it says even isolating a muscle doesn't necessarily cause more muscle growth in a big compound that works it as a primary mover. This stuff just kind of goes in the toilet. But if that's what they're then promoting with these lists, that's not fitness. That's purely bodybuilding. These are people who only care about a specific type of physique enhancer. And notice I didn't even say physique enhanced. They're looking for a very specific type that not even everyone finds appealing or is the goal who even cares about how they look. So, we need to be clear. They're they're aspiring to something very specific, but it's not fitness, right? If you're not promoting well-rounded athleticism, you're not promoting fitness. Okay? In other words, if your idea of cardio, right, and there have been times I was guilty of this. So again, let me be clear. I am calling out myself in certain years where I really I put my fitness to the side for powerlifting purposes. Okay? Well, I really had no business using the fitness tag in those situations. Okay? There's no business using the fitness tag in that situation. Okay? So, your idea of cardio is just getting on a treadmill and walking slow, this isn't going to get it. And I'm not saying walking is not good for you. Let me be clear. I think walking is great for you. I think getting a high step count, very useful, very valuable. But if you're not promoting actual anything athletic, no running, nothing higher intensity, no no general phys, no higher intensity stuff. You don't have any running, nothing with a sled, nothing with with a prowler or weighted carries or anything for cardio. It's just, you know, less cardio on a bike. It's not fitness. But they'll argue, well, that's all a bodybuilder needs. But again, then call it bodybuilding and quit pretending that you care about fitness or health or anything else. Okay? We we need to be very clear on that. You know, the same thing if they're going to talk about the training. Well, I'm not I don't care about strength. I don't care about carry over to other endeavors. I don't care about moving my body through space. Okay, then stop talking about fitness. Right? And the problem is is that the whole fitness tag is including these these bodybuilding specialists, okay? And it's getting thrown in, but it's not If we're going to talk about being fit, we need to be talking about overall athletic performance. I mean, CrossFit is fit. That counts as fitness, right? You go to the CrossFit boxes, what they're doing is fitness. They're working on strength. They're working on conditioning. They're working on power, right? I mean, you go to Westside Barbell, even though it was a powerlifting gym, broad range of athletic abilities. That's fitness. They're out here doing all that conditioning work, really high rep stuff, lots of big compounds, you know, doing all these different training modalities. Okay, that's that's fitness. Okay, that's fitness. Not, hey, I just care about how I look in the mirror. And I'm not telling you that that that's let let me be clear. Let me be clear. I'm not telling you that that's not okay as a goal. What I'm saying is don't pretend that it's fitness because plenty of dudes can can do be not fit and just do plenty of trend, bump their protein up and count their macros and still eat a garbage diet and and have a great physique but if they have the genetics for it. If it's purely the pursuit of a specific type of physique or they're pursuing purely aesthetics, right, that's not fitness. Just stop using the tag, stop using the word, stop using the name because you don't you don't have a right to it, okay? Any more than I would say the same to the purely powerlifting channels, right? Just call it a powerlifting channel. All right. Same as if someone claims to be whatever fitness channel, they don't care about strength at all. Well, we got a problem here. you don't care about body composition. So if you don't care about any of these things, if you're not promoting a a healthy balanced body composition, you know, a reasonable body fat level, right? You're promoting large amounts of atyposity because you don't have to be ripped to shreds to be crazy fit. That's not necessary. In some cases, you can go too far to where it does hurt fitness in the case of a lot of the bodybuilding. Okay? Okay, you don't have to be crazy ripped, but you should be at a healthy athletic body fat. Should be promoting that. We should be promoting healthy diets. If people over here trying to work junk into their macros or work alcohol in that that's not fitness, guys. That is not fitness. You're just saying, "Hey, look, I can still bodybuild and get get lean while doing this." It doesn't mean you're going to be fit. Doesn't mean your performance is going to be optimal, that your health markers are going to be optimal, because that's what fitness is. You are athletic, strong, conditioned, healthy. Okay? You're able to function. You're able to get up and function at a high level. You're way above average your ability to get up and just get stuff done. Work capacity, right? If you can't run, if you can't lift a heavy weight, you don't have good blood work, you're not fit. At least in the sense of physical culture terms of fitness. So, these people need to drop this nonsense. Just stop. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.