People over complicate fitness. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. And when I mean over complicate, they love to create complexity for things that don't necessarily need to be complex. And and what I'm saying is look, if you're a highly competitive athlete, yeah, you certainly need, you know, more complexity in your training and your nutrition than the average person. But the overwhelming majority of people who are trying to get involved with fitness, are not trying to compete at that level. They don't have crazy extreme goals. You know, mo look, most of them would be happy if they could bench 300 pounds and squat 400 and have a six-pack, okay? And maybe a bicep vein. You Let's Let's be realistic to the average dude who's out there working out. Those would be dream goals. Like, man, if I had all if I had a bicep vein, visible abs, I could bench 300 and squat like 400, dude. You know what I mean? Like they they would be happy with that. Yet, people with these sort of goals get involved in all this craziness and listen to all these people who give them complexity. And again, let me be clear. You know, when I'm coaching people for nationals and powerlifting, obviously, we're going to have a bit more complexity. But again, these other goals only require consistency. Look, you don't need to know that much. Use decent form on big lifts, right? That's it. Do big lifts. Train them really hard. Progressively, overload them. Try to use good form, right? Avoid hurting yourself. Avoid flopping around. That's it. Just get progressively stronger. You got a weak link, you got a muscle you really care about more, do some isolation for it. Pick something. Pick something that you feel the muscle, you know, it's the primary mover. If you like incline curls, do incline curls. You like barbell curls, do if if they feel good, it's probably a good exercise. And I don't even think that's necessarily has to be true, but it's a general rule. I think it's completely fair assessment, especially on your single joint and smaller movements. Look, if that if that exercise feels really good in the muscle, you're probably going to see good gain doing just progress on it. Train it really hard. Train it to failure. As far as even loose form versus strict form, mostly personal preference, decision on how much it affects overuse. There's not even evidence that either one causes more muscle growth. It's been studied pretty heavily. No determination. Same thing watching the real world. People obsess over certain things. And I'm saying big exercises, we have certain form criteria in place just to not be stupid or to make sure that the lift counts compared to other people, you know, or that you're actually working what you're trying to work. Obviously, a bench press, if you're bouncing the bar off your chest, you're probably working your chest less. If you're lifting your butt off the bench, you know, again, this is this is probably problematic. Um, learn how to just get tight and lock everything into place when you do most lifts. They won't hurt a lot of times. You're like, "What hurts when I do this?" Well, you're just loose. That's your problem. Learn to get tight. Set your feet correctly. Grip bars correctly. Stack everything correctly. All right. Learn proper technique. People way over worry about how much they train. Can you progressively overload? You recovering, you're good. If you're not recovering, things hurt, you're getting overuse, you're you're doing too much volume. Just stop. Doesn't matter what someone told you. If you're doing so little that you're not getting enough stimulus and you don't feel like you're progressing, yeah, you may want to add a little more. See how simple that is? Nutrition. Eat whole foods. Get lots of protein. Get plenty of vegetables. If you're struggling to gain or lose weight specifically, you may need to count calories. Probably not a bad idea. Eat whatever diet style you want. Do you feel really good doing low carb? Do low carb. If you feel better on high carb, do high carb. What gives you the best energy? Appetite makes you feel the best. Well, that's probably a good idea for you, right? Um, meal timing has been largely debunked. I mean, intermittent fasting can be a useful tool. We're seeing more studies now showing how soon you eat after working out doesn't even matter. Unless you're training multiple times a day, but then we come over to you're probably doing too much, right? Pre-workout nutrition, parworkout nutrition, post-workout nutrition, all been overrated, of minimal importance other than people trying to glean that last tenth of a percent in a competitive environment. Not that complicated, guys. Eat whole foods. Get lots of protein. Find an eating strategy that works for you, that you're comfortable with, uh, that you enjoy. The foods, you feel good, and eat whole foods. Stop eating junk. Quit trying to work junk food into your macros. That's just creating complexity for no benefit. You're just going to feel worse. It's going to be harder. I get it. Some guys are like, "Well, I need the junk food to gain weight." Well, add peanut butter. See how easy that is? Add some healthy fats in. Problem solved. This is super easy. Supplements, you probably don't need any. Look, if you need something to fill in a gap, by all means, but for the most part, you probably don't need much of any. I mean, protein powders are a nice convenience. You know, creatin has some benefits. Maybe if you're worried about deficiency, you know, multivitamin, everything else pretty much a ripoff. You know, we know pre-workouts are a ripoff. That's that's they're just addictive. And then you then require them to have a good workout anymore. Stop. Test boosters ripoff. See the problem with the way people want to do stuff? They they want to argue complexity that doesn't matter. Why need this advanced periodization scheme? Why is complexity created by coaches is is psychological voodoo. It doesn't have physical benefits. So why are you bothering with it? I mean, I get it. If a coach is giving it to you and they're doing something with your mindset and using it for voodoo, it matters. But if you don't know how the voodoo works for programming people's mindset with it, then you're just going to be doing silly random stuff, adding complexity for no reason. You don't need to periodize anything. You don't need complex splits. You want to split something, fine, do an upper, lower. I mean, if you really want to do a push, pull legs, go ahead. That's fine. Full body works just as well. I could argue better in some cases. But you know what? You don't need ever need a complex split. I'm going to do a pushpull legs upper lower fiveday. Yeah, I'm sorry. That's stupid. There's no physical reason to do any of that. You just want complexity for the sake of complexity when you could have got just as good, if not better, results with something less complicated. Right? You know, the main thing is train hard, train hard, train progressively, eat well, eat whole foods, eat lots of protein, focus on your recovery, your sleep, your stress management, and an overall healthy lifestyle, get quality sleep, focus on your sleep hygiene. Like, this stuff is what most people need to know, right? This is what they need to know. And yes, that was 455 for six reps. All right, we squat around here. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.