influencers like to create problems that don't exist to sell you supplements. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. Um, just give you guys a quick reminder. If you will please click like and give me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. But let's get over into the topic. And we see this a lot uh in the little health sphere also, but the same scam applies in the lifting world and and exercise world also. And I'm going to go into that in a little more detail here and explain what I mean. And then I think people can extrapolate and realize how much of this nonsense you see just, you know, around supplements in general. And I've done a lot of videos explaining that it's not even legal for companies to really make stuff that works. They're severely restricted. And if something works too well, it becomes outlawed uh for a lot of obvious reasons because it's competing in the realm of drugs. And we can't have that. And obviously big pharmaceutical companies can't have that for profit reasons, but it's also a regulatory reason is why it makes sense also because you can't have drug-like effects in inconsistent dosing that becomes uh potentially deadly actually if it's something like lowering statins or affecting blood sugar or whatever, right? that's actually can kill people uh because the dose is inconsistent. Unlike a pharmaceutical in that different herb or extract or or plant that you're doing, it could be 30 or 40 or 50% stronger bottle to bottle which can actually kill people. So, people forget about that part, too. All right, but let's come over and and talk about the sort of nonsense they do. And this is one of the things I've I've noted uh really high volume training for example, right? Really high volume training. Um it's something that came out of the supplement world for the most part because lots of people 30, 40, 50 years ago like you go even back to the 80s, right? When the whole hit fad started coming out and people were realizing they could do less and then that went crazy and extreme also. But people started realizing even in those errors, you know, you didn't you didn't need as much volume as people taught you that you needed in order to get really big or to even compete in professional bodybuilding. My god, turned out it wasn't as much and there were plenty of examples of guys who proved it. Um, but that being that being said, you know, the thing is people get written all these really high volume programs, right, that they can't recover from. they can't uh replicate their performance session to session. They're getting tired. So then what happens? What happens? All these companies create preworkouts, right? You need a better workout. Now, keep in mind, the research on pre-workouts has shown they don't improve gains. And this is a point of contention. You know, people have gotten upset at me with that. Well, I don't take it for gains. Well, why are you taking it to get a good workout? Well, why do you think that it gives you a good workout? Well, because I feel like it does. Okay. All right. But it's not giving you any gains. Like again, this has been studied. So, one of the pre-workouts that was so overwhelmingly uh powerful that it was outlawed, CRA, you guys remember that they did a big study on CRA and when good programs and nutrition were were given. So, they had the strength and conditioning coaches at the university write the workouts for the test subjects. Um they had reg the registered sports dieticians at the university who write the the diets for the sports teams wrote the diets the muscle growth diets for these subjects. So they had high tier coaching and nutrition. When they were compared the crazy group didn't make any more progress. They gained no more muscle and no more strength. Okay, that's telling because that means when good programming and good nutrition were in place, there was zero benefit at all. Why? because there was good fatigue management and recovery. Okay. So, people say, "But I'm doing it." But no, you are taking it for more gains because you believe that you'll have better workouts and that those better workouts are going to cause more gains. But we come over to bad programming. A lot of these influencers, they push bad programming really that only works for guys on large doses of drugs. And some of them are like, "But this is what I do." And I'm like, "Yeah, but you're on a gram and a half a gear." But I I'm natural. No, you're not. we can look at you and tell like common sense guys we know better stop you know and they'll give them these these crazy workouts and then it's like oh I can't recover from obsession to session is too much I need something to keep me pumped through to make it through the whole workout so then they need all these stimulates and pre-workout so they sell them they create the problem which means workouts with bad fatigue management and junk volume so guys are not recovering session to session Okay, see where we're going with this? I recover session to session just fine. You guys are watching me do eight rep sets, 500 lb on a deadlift. I'm 49 years old. Doing weighted pull-ups 70 90 lbs. I weigh over 200. Like these are normal workouts. I don't have joint problems. I don't have recovery problems because everything's programmed well. But they give them bad programming. So then they can't recover. They and their their workouts are poor. So they they give them all these stimulants and stuff to make it through the workout. Hey, great. Great. Except for one problem. Now they're they're working even harder. Well, we'll help you. We'll give you post-workout recovery shakes to help you recover from this ridiculous amount of workload you can't handle. And then they're like, "Well, I'm starting to overtrain and I'm taking these stimulants." Oh, man. Especially people who work out at night. The guys who are working out at night and then taking these pre-workouts now they need sleep aids. They're going to sell you sleep aids to help you recover from all of it. My tendons hurt from the overuse and the the the reduced sleep. Oh man. Well, hey, we we've got this joint support. I've got this collagen supplement. And here's these really expensive sleeves to put over your your knees and elbows to help. Okay? Do you see where we're going with this? Again, please note, I don't need sleeves. I'm doing 11 reps right here with 405 on a high bar squat. I I don't need sleeves for my knees. What are you guys talking about? Bad programming. They create problems and sell them the solutions. The same thing all these flexible dieters. Oh man. Now we can we can eat junk. All right. So now you have dietary deficiencies, but I'm going to sell you these green powders and these extra vitamins to make sure that we'll get through those deficiencies as a garbage ass. If you just count your macros, you can eat 20 or 30% junk, right? All this nonsense, right? Now they need all these vitamins and other things. And they're going to sell them the garbage junk food that fits their macros. Oh, we have these Quest bars, Quest cookie bars, instead of just eating real food. >> [snorts] >> Hell, that was Rich Piana's thing. Then he sold a junk food product called Real Food. They just spin off of this stuff over and over and over and over and people just buy into it. Okay? Do people not understand these people are conmen? They're charlatans. They're giving you horrible advice that only is possibly if they really did it work for them because of the heavy drug use. horrible advice, but they look great. Well, yeah, they have good genetics, they're lean, and they're on a lot of drugs, okay? And then they just keep selling you the solutions to the problems they create. And we see even worse in the healthossphere, don't we, man? Look at the whole healthossphere. They just create problems that don't exist. Oh, we have problems with parasites. We have all these parasites. I'm going to sell you these cleanses. This is a a liver cleanse, a colon cleanse. And I'm going to sell you grounding pads, you know, all sorts of crazy, insane hippie nonsense. Completely unproven, unsupported by any evidence. They just make it up. They're just as bad. They make it up as they go. And you know that it's a con man the second they start in with, "Oh, we're going to help align your chakras or we're going to ground you to the earth." Get out of here. That person is a either a complete con man or they are crazy. Okay, con man or they're crazy chakras. As if any such thing actually exists. Just stop. And they're going to make it part of your your health and wellness program. Then they're going to sell you products around all of it. But yeah, I mean ju just giving an example of the parasites and the cleanses and it's like you know I don't know you you want to cleanse your liver. Your liver is great at doing it itself. Why don't you stop consuming alcohol and refined sugar? There you go. Done. There's half your liver problems gone. Almost all of them. Now your liver will be fine again. The insanity of this stuff. So all these health and wellness people, not all of them, but a pretty big chunk of them are just as bad. If they're selling you supplements to fix all these problems, they're a scam artist every single time. And any of them who disagree, send them here to me. I will be happy to tell them that they are a shill and a scam artist all day long. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.