Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about all the social media influencers who admit how difficult it is to be as lean as they are, to get as lean as they are, and people miss that. Uh, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. Um, and this is a topic we have to have because I think people truly don't understand. They're under the assumption when they see, you know, some of these really really ripped influencers and and fitness personalities that they're like, "Well, if we just eat healthy and eat clean and train, then we'll we'll get really lean eventually." And they're not understanding that these are unsustainable. Like these these the levels of lean you're often seeing, um, these people are not getting there just by eating healthy, okay? They're not getting there just by training and doing cardio. Um, what you often times find is that notice. So, perfect example, a lot of these guys, they'll get shredded. And I don't even always mean contest shredded. I'm just talking lean enough to have really, really, really good abs if they're someone who struggles with appetite. Notice how much they talk about how much they suffer doing it. And I don't think people understand that. Again, they're thinking, well, this is sustainable. And they're not understanding these guys are not staying that lean year round. Um, and it's oftentimes extremely difficult. So I I again I don't think they understand that plenty of these people and if they admit it, okay, it's not like they don't admit it or they develop eating disorders and and all sorts of issues as a result of dieting down super super lean. Um, but I know plenty of these guys, they don't have a six-pack year round. Even though they might get real lean, you're like, man, they look great there. Keep in mind, lighting, Photoshop, dehydration, plus the dieting, they're not always as lean as you think. And that same person might not even have a six-pack 3 to six months out of the year. Like almost half the year, sometimes a lot of these same people, they don't even have a six-pack. They don't have abs. Um, so, and I think that that has to be noted when people are using this as goals. So, again, you have to understand that. And I I know a lot of these people when you start listening, they start talking about the things they take to suppress their appetite. And I and I want everyone listening to grasp that point. Tons of these influencers you're looking at admit to using multiple drugs to suppress appetite just to get that lean. And they they admit their quality of life suffers. I mean, everything from using nicotine gums all the way up to things like clenbuterol. Okay. So they're using sometimes black market stimulants that help with all this speed up activity. Um so and we'll see plenty of them when they do admit it they're like yeah I use Clint and Yohimi you know so they're using multiple fat burning uh substances that work at these different receptors or using gops are using thyroid hormones again other stuff to suppress appetite nicotine gums extreme dietary approaches. um you you'll see a lot of that or extreme protein overfeeding and and they'll admit they're like I'm having to drink two gallons of water a day on top of it just to to keep my binging at bay. Okay, so we have to understand this impact on quality of life. Okay, there is a a definite impact on quality of life occurring with this and and so we need to understand this isn't always fitness. And no, I'm not telling people to run around and be fat. I'm not telling you to be at an unhealthy body fat. In fact, I would say to men, yeah, you don't want to be over 20% body fat. No, it's not healthy. It's not a good idea, right? You should be under 20%. I would make a good case if you really wanted optimal health. If you wanted to be 100% optimal, to be fair, you could be a bit leaner than I am now and actually be pretty optimal. So, let me be clear. I'm not even saying well you know that I am the pinnacle of fitness perfection or anything because I'm not you know in all honesty optimal absolute 100% optimal health and fitness I could stand to be leaner than I am and and again just objectively speaking I could stand to strip off another 10 pounds of body fat from where I am right now and would be in a really really good place in terms of that. So again, let's this is not me telling people, well blah is is the pinnacle of perfection or anything because I'm not. I got plenty of loose skin from losing fat. I'm 48 years old, you know, but I'm in a healthy athletic body fat range. Um, but I could get leaner and and be pretty optimal in terms of health. You can go leaner than I am, but I think, you know, I would say really that optimal range for most guys is somewhere as low as 10% up to about 15% body fat is for really probably the the best spot you could be. 10% may be too lean. There are going to be guys out here who really struggle to be at 10%. Just due to the appetite in uh just the struggling with their their diet and body image. But I think we also have to understand um the body dysmorphia that can come with forcing yourself to get too lean. And I get it. A lot of times some people's activity level. Like look, sometimes when you're eating really clean and you're a super high output athlete, you don't have a crazy appetite. You end up g getting pretty dang lean just due to the activity. Especially if you do certain stuff, lots and lots of cardiobased activities and sports and stuff. Sure. And I and I think we we see plenty of that. Dudes can get pretty pretty dang lean, guys and gals both. Definitely leaner than I am, without having appetite issues. There's plenty of cases, but we do reach a threshold to where when people are chasing the body composition in and of itself where it comes at a psychological toll. It comes at a quality of life toll. And you have to think about that. And a lot of times people will emulate that and go, "Well, I want to do that. I want to cut down to that level." And my question would be, is there a reason you're doing it? Okay. Or you have a photo shoot planned or you have an event plan? Like, do you have an actual reason? And if they got something like that, I get it. They're like, "No, I really I just want to get real lean. I want to get some photos. I'm going to have a photo shoot lined up so that I can have just to have." Okay. Yeah. Okay. I can get that. And and I don't think that's an unreasonable. So, let's be realistic. If that's what someone wants to do, sure. Okay. Understand that it may come at a price. But when it's something, oh, I've got a day at the beach plan. I'm like, you're going to de, you're going to try to look like that for a day out in the sun in the beach? You sure? It's like, wait, what? It may involve dehydrating yourself and you're going to be out there on the sunny beach. This could actually hurt you. You know why? Just to look good for an hour at the beach. What happens if you end up in the hospital? Have we not seen this happen to some influencers? Have we not seen this happen already to a couple people? I know that we have. Well, what happened to Cali Muscle? Um, so again, be aware, think this stuff through. And I think what people need to understand, if you're not someone who just gets to that level with these other activities, this creates eating disorders sometimes. And I've known guys personally. I've been in these circles, guys. I've been around a lot of this. I do know other people here in the fitness game who put out content and I've known people who've developed some eating disorders and extra body image disorders from that. So, just be aware of that of that dark side of it. Like, this is not it doesn't come for free. It's not like everybody can just diet down to that extreme level of lean and just bounce back and be okay. Okay? There's there's a toll that comes with that. And the problem is a lot of times once you've done it and then you got all the pictures and it's like um unfortunately I see a lot of guys in there unhappy not being there and it's like they had to make real sacrifices to get there you know um affected their sometimes their career affected their relationships their marriages their girlfriends boyfriends right this sometimes comes at a price because of again the emotional sides and the crankiness and the things they give up for it. Um, it can it can be a lot. It can be daunting and then they can't sustain it and then they want to sustain it, you know, again, they get that image of, but this is what I can look like at my best in this photo shoot. Okay, and it's not sustainable. This is and then that affects their self-esteem. So, be aware that these things can happen. So, I always remind people of this. Um, look, if you're someone who gets there easily, it's totally different. Totally different. And that happens with athletes in certain endeavors because their energy output is so high. They eat a really clean diet. They're just not getting hungry all the time. They're not having to do other stuff. But when you're getting to a point where you are having to use appetite suppressing drugs to get to a certain level of leanness plus fat burners, there's going to be a rebound on the end of that. Okay? And what I would ask people is if you're getting to that point, like you'll see this influencer doing it, do you have a good reason? Like are you literally doing a bodybuilding show? Are you doing a professional photo shoot? Do you have a payoff for the sacrifice you're going to make? And I think this is a question people need to really sit back and ask themselves. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.