One of the new trends with fitness influencers is to now claim that doing anything over eight reps is completely useless. Uh doesn't build any more muscle. There's no point. It just creates more fatigue and therefore you're just going to overtrain easier. Uh and we get everything we need from eight reps and less. And to me, that's just silly. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. A quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And please drop me a comment down below, uh, stating your own experiences with this of using a variety of rep ranges. Um, and to me, this is just ludicrous, both historically, um, both looking at some of the best of the best lifters, looking at my variety of clients. Um, and and I find that hilarious because some of my strongest lifters, like if you guys remember, I had clips up of Perry and some of my other guys all doing high reps. Um, what I mean strong, uh, Nicolo and Perry I both had benching in the 400s and they were not 300 lb guys. Perry was like 215. Um, Perry was squatting over 600. Nicolo was deadlifting over 700. They did tons of stuff above 10 reps. Okay. And so again, to me, this idea, they're even talking hypertrophy. These are all hypertrophy oriented guys. And I'm here as a strength coach literally having my elite power lifters do sets of 10 and 12 and sometimes 15 or 20 rep sets, right? And so, so it's just ludicrous. In fact, some of my strongest lifters only did one to three reps for some stuff, like a small amount of their work, maybe 10% of their work. uh sometimes some speed work for for very low reps with lightweight then everything 10 plus I'm talking everything leg pressing incline rows pull-ups their hamstring work everything and these are these are guys who have had who were benching over 400 squatting 600 plus deadlifting in the 700 or more right some of them literally doing 10 rep sets on deadlifts uh like like one of the guys there was doing 550 that's 250 kilograms or sets of 10 and I put up clips of him doing that back then. So to to me this is insane. Like what are you guys even talking about? And I get what they're saying. They're trying to say, "Well, look, it's just generating extra metabolic fatigue and calcium ion fatigue." Okay, but that's not a big deal. Like, if we're at a point to where you're recovery is so bad that you can't handle some high rep sets that it's somehow interfering with your recovery, how bad is your lifestyle? I mean, yes, it's it's a certain amount of fatigue, but there's also a different fatigue that comes with doing too much really low rep work also. And I find very much to be the case that most of my lifters can only handle so much heavy work. It's a relatively small amount. The only way that we can do mostly heavy work is if we keep the volumes excruciatingly low. Okay? And I get that if you're going to do, you know, what you'll see some guys like Paul Carter doing, and I'm not saying it's wrong. It can work for people with very limited recovery, very limited time. I don't really have a problem with what he's saying. Look, you know, three sets done twice a week per muscle group, you know, five to eight reps, progressive overload. Yeah. For someone who doesn't have a great and perfect recovery situation, I actually think that can be absurdly effective to be fair, like it actually works, right? It it does work. Okay. Now, that being said, um people who really are focused on recovery and optimizing recovery, it's not a big deal. We can do more volume than that. We they do way more reps. Um and I've even had times where I was at my biggest and strongest, a little bit a little bit younger and needing more. U because I'm like 211 right now in this video you guys are seeing here, but I was like 240. I was doing 20 rep sets of squats and good mornings and stuff, but I was also, if you guys remember, I hit like that 605 on the Camber bar. Um, you know, on a back squat was deficit deadlifting like 625, stuff like that, right? But I was doing sets of 20 all the time, even on compound movements. Uh, but you know, definitely my reverse hypers, my belt squats, my back squats, my good mornings. I was doing sets of 20 on rows. Okay. Actually, I think at one point I hit 22 body weightight pull-ups on a set on camera once. So, to again, ludicrous. And people have always gotten big. Getting big on high reps works just fine as long as progressive overload is present. You can get big on fives, you can get big on tens, you can get big on 20s. As long as progressive overload is present, meaning you're either adding reps or adding weight, you're going to grow from it. But the thing that we also have to think about is how much of our joints and stuff can can handle too much big heavy weight. Okay? And and this is where I would argue there's a there is definitely a use for the lighter weight stuff. Um you know, perfect example doing something like skull crushers. Like if you're going to do something like that that's hard on the tendons, phenomenal tricep exercise. You get too strong doing six to eight reps on that. I wish you good luck. Same thing. You guys really want to stand here and do curls in that rep range, big free weight curls. Um, your tendons are not going to like it. Especially a lot of the isolation movements. Um, especially isolation work. But I don't think in this video here I'm really doing anything. Everything is eight plus that I'm doing in the background here because this is from some training uh I was doing here. Um, and this video will be up later also. But yeah, it's it's the issue is it's just not going to fatigue you that much. And I understand they're like, "Well, it could be unnecessary fatigue," but it's really not because you also get a different type of fatigue from going too heavy all the time. And it does beat you up, right? If you're doing fives and sixes all the time on everything, it absolutely pounds your joints into the ground. And anyone who's done it for any length of time knows that there. So, there's absolutely a use for different rep ranges. And my point I always make to people, everything creates fatigue. You're going to have all types of fatigue. You're going to have differing fatigue. Yes, you're going to have metabolic fatigue from from the higher reps that you have to recover from. You're also going to have pounding on your joints that you're going to have to recover from from the really heavy low rep stuff. So, it's kind of like pick your poison or maybe spread that work out a little bit. You can either rotate it in phases or you can rotate it through different workouts or certain exercises to where you go, okay, maybe I'm not going to do the really high reps on a back squat. perfectly fair. But when you get to that leg press or that leg extension or that hamstring curl, you know what? Doing some 10 to 20 rep stuff makes a lot of sense. And it has worked. And no one has ever struggled to get jacked in any generation doing really high reps um and even combining really high reps with lower work. And in fact, there have been many, many, many, many, many champion power lifters, strong men, and bodybuilders who have used all of them with great success and been some of the greatest lifters and bodybuilders all through history going all the way back to before the drugs were even wide use. Obviously, people say, "Well, with with drugs, okay, fine. You can go back to the 50s and 60s when it was a lot less of the case." And guys did just fine doing sets of 10 on all sorts of stuff. A lot of them did fives. A lot of them did tens on all their supplemental stuff. And look at the old Reg Park successful bodybuilding stuff. Doing any everything from 5x5s all the way up to 25 reps on some of the exercises, okay? And people got big and strong and jacked doing that just fine. This is complete nonsense. Complete nonsense. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.