People need to stop obsessing over optimal gains and start obsessing over making any gains. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I'd appreciate it so much. And um let's just call this what it is. This is calling out all the nonsense in general in this industry. Um people putting out info with all of this talk of optimizing gains, maximizing gains. uh 95% of people who lift, guys who lift, this is not their problem. Okay? And the people who are talking about maximizing every drop of gains, unless you are a competitor in something, bodybuilding, powerlifting, strongman, the very idea of that is is ludicrous because you're not going to maximize your gains. All right? you are not going to dedicate enough of your lifestyle for the next 12 years day in and day out to actually maximize your gains anyway. Okay? People who don't compete in anything just simply do not have the drive or motivation to usually do that. Okay? So, let us be clear. Uh because you're talking about tripling your obsession, the amount of time you invest in this, the energy, the money, at least triple chasing two or 3% more progress. Meaning instead of making, you know, 97% of what you could have, you're chasing 100. The investment for maximizing is absolutely enormous. Therefore, most people because it's going to be such an insignificant thing, it's literally going to be the difference between uh getting my your squat, you know, that say it's at 405 of over a certain time frame getting it to 485 versus 500. Okay, this is this we're talking at that level. Your investment for that is going to be several tiers higher. Okay, the problem is people aren't making any gains. And this is what I find by and large as a coach. Um the people who come to me or people who come for my info are coming to me because they're like I am not making any progress or I'm getting hurt. They're like I was making decent progress but I'm pulling stuff. I'm getting hurt. I need some guidance because I'm being injured. And if I'm being injured and I'm pulling my back and pulling my pecs, pulling my hamstrings, I'm not making gains, whether that's in size or strength, which again, enormous overlap. So people get so hung up in this optimizing, right, that they don't make gains at all. And and people say, "Oh, well, this is an advanced lifter problem." Really, in my experience as a coach, it isn't. I've had numerous clients who were at the novice level who came to me and they're like, "Look, I was I know I followed your work before. I built a little bit of a base and then I went over and I started following these other people. Um, and I've been doing this 26 set per chest workout per week and I'm not seeing I'm not getting any bigger." And you're looking and and they're literally over here doing 26 sets for their chest, including barbells, dumbbells, weighted dips, incline, flat, flies, everything. They still have no chest and they've been doing it for months. Someone who already had spent a few months working on their new gains, went over to a program like this, and they're just making nothing. They're like, "I haven't made any gains in six months. My chest doesn't look any bigger." are like, "I can't bench 135 for five reps. I can bench 125 rep. I can't even bench a full plate per side for five or six reps." I get people like this. And then you look at this insanity. They get caught up in this. Oh, this program will help you maximize gains. And it's like the problem is they're not making any gains. All right? No gains. I see guys out there who are doing some of these these more complicated programs with endless volume, endless exercises, five different exercises for a muscle group, six exercises for a muscle group, 18, 20, 25 sets for a muscle group, trying to optimize their gains through all this optimal volume, and they're not making any progress. I've had advanced lifters do the same thing. You guys remember Justin? Um, I've started showing Justin stuff as a client because he comes in off and on. I coached him for years and he's had to drop in and out. Um, I think like six years ago, right? He was stuck. He'd already been training over a decade. He already had like 12 years under the barbell. He was stuck at like a 400, 405 squat. He was stuck on a bunch of movements. I ended up getting him squatting into the 500s. But he's like, I haven't made any gains for a couple years. He was trying to do all this stuff to maximize gains. endless volume doing over 20 sets, 20 30 sets of muscle group just not getting anywhere. And I think this is the problem. People get so hung up in this. I'm going to do all these things. I'm going to optimize every angle, optimize my volume, and they make no progress. In reality, any of these people who are doing this usually would be happy with any progress if they were gaining measurable muscle relative to their experience level. if they were a novice still or a late novice and they had put on, you know, six, seven, eight pounds of body weight over six months or a year and didn't gain any visible fat or looked a hair leaner. They'd be happy. But they're not an advanced lifter who's like, "Oh man, I I put on I did a DEXA scan. I put on a pound and a half muscle this year. My bench went up 5 lbs, 10 pounds. My squat went up 10, 15 pounds." Right? But they're not the the problem that people have is they reach a certain threshold and they hit a wall. So this entire discussion of oh we want to maximize your gains, the perfect exercise, the perfect combination to to get all these fibers or we need to do whatever 27 sets. Their audience doesn't need this. the number of people who would actually really need to be focusing on optimizing, it's only competitors. And there would there's not enough competitors for anyone to make their living as their followers off of. Like, you're not going to make a good strong living putting out fitness content off those people. The majority of the people are not. And the majority of even if they're really strong, they all stall. Everybody stalls. They stop making progress or they start getting hurt. We have to be focusing on hey are we making any gains and this is one reason I tell people do less once you start getting anything going there's going to come a point where we want to do more and more and more what happens overuse accumulates inflammation accumulates we're not recovering session to session what happens all this effort to optimize is now causing no gains whereas if the people came in and scaled back and said what if I just did a third of this, half of this, but I pushed progressive overload, they would be making progress. Even if we're say, well, it's not optimized because they're only doing X amount of work. There's there's some data they could be gaining more, but what they've been doing with the other stuff is gaining zero. Would you rather be making 80% of your possible optimal muscle growth and not be getting hurt, not having overuse, or make a zero and feel beat up and fatigued? This is not a difficult choice. And that's the problem. Everyone is out here preaching optimal instead of how about anything. And half their followers are not making any progress. That's the point. And it it would be different if they're really advanced. I get it. When you get really advanced, it starts to reach that point. You know, it's very difficult to make gains once you're repping 315 on the bench press, repping 500 on a deadlift. Sure, it gets real hard to make any progress from there. But that's not that's not the audience of pretty much anyone out there. And if it is their audience, it's a tiny percentage. It's a few percentage few percentiles. That's it. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.