it makes sense to focus on a handful of exercises. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, and when I say this, I am not even talking about volume. I'm not talking about your frequency. I'm not talking about uh your rep ranges. What I am discussing is the concept of progressive overload and understanding that yes it can absolutely be beneficial to work muscles from a couple angles. Okay. But if we did say dips and bench press, you hit all those muscles from a couple different angles or bench and an incline, right? Uh squat and a deadlift hit most of the lower body from a couple different angles. So when we're talking about this, we're talking about the fact of motor unit learning and progressing on exercises. Uh and I'm not saying you have to do the same exercises for years and years on end necessarily, right? But generally speaking in phases, it is in your best interest if you're not blasting tons and tons of drugs. If you're trying to maximize muscle growth, maximize strength, all these things to focus on a handful of exercises, right? You need to make sure that those exercises cover all your needs. And again, it doesn't have to be all compound movements. So when again when I make this conversation, people are like, "Oh, so you're saying we don't ever need to isolate anything." Well, no. Look, if your biceps really need to work, one of those exercises can be a curl. Okay, you see where we're going with this? Right? Anybody not understand that point? But doing six different types of curls, it's going to be harder to progress on. And biceps don't have six different angles. So the point we're making here, particularly though with our bigger exercises, there's going to be a a motor unit learning component. There's going to be a skill component. And so if we are spending significant amounts of time over a prolonged period of time, focusing on those movements and progressively overloading them, what's going to happen? Well, we're going to get a better insurance of uh progressive overload, right? We're going to have more progressive overload. are going to um have better carryover in terms of then mechanical tension on the muscles. Uh because a lot of times when we think of of that mechanical uh tension, we have to understand [snorts] it is there is a neurological component, right? Your nervous system is what fires all those those muscle fibers. And once you get used to doing a movement and you have the skill down on that movement, and I don't care if it's a back squat or a barbell curl or a chin-up, right? What happens? You're more efficient at it. So, what does that mean? So, what do we mean by neural efficiency? So, what creates a neural efficiency that lets you get a really ma heavy max bench or a squat? Well, you're really good at recruiting the muscle fibers on the movement pattern and in those ankles. Well, what causes muscle growth? Well, recruiting muscle fibers because we put mechanical tension on them. See where we're going? So, in other words, if you're more efficient at the movement and you're able to move heavier weights for more reps because you're dialed in the skill on those exercises, is our growth potential going to be potentially higher? And I think the answer to that is yes. Now, is that an absolute statement? No, it's obviously not an absolute statement. Okay? Because you know, reaching failure is reaching failure, particularly on smaller movements. Okay? I get it. Definitely on single joint movements, we we can make the case for the fact that it probably is a little less important. Why? Well, because you just reached muscle failure, right? And and if you've reached muscle failure uh on a single joint exercise, you've probably recruited just about every single muscle fiber in in the primary mover. Okay? And hopefully that's not that shouldn't be a controversial statement. So again let let me be clear. So we could take that even to a multi- joint movement definitely on a single joint movement if you reach muscle failure the muscle that is receiving the most load is probably just about every single muscle fiber has been recruited. Again, anybody disagree? Po hope hopefully that's not a point of disagreement. The argument could be made if you're really bad and new at the movement. Okay, you could have some other stuff that that causes that breakdown, but when you get better at the movement, you just get better at recruiting everything. Um, so I I think the case that can be made, particularly for the bigger exercises here, is that as you get more efficient at it, you get better at hitting all the secondary muscles. Now, that's going to be a more controversial statement, but it makes sense. All right. If if your quads were causing you to fail a squat, but you got better at the squat, your your neural drive goes up, your efficiency, your technique goes up on it. You get better at recruiting all the other muscles when you get close to failure or to failure. Okay, we see the same thing on studies on EMGs on the bench press with competitive powerlifters. What happens like a bench doesn't there's it's not a chest versus a front del versus a tricep exercise. When you take competitive powerlters who have advanced bench presses and they start measuring EMGs, you can't even tell a close versus a wide grip apart. They're just like everything just gets recruited once you get heavy enough and hard enough or to failure. Like even when they've done studies on six rep sets, whatever to failure, they're like, man, everything hits 100%. All the muscle fibers, like all of them, the triceps, the delts, the pecs, everything. Less experienced lifter with less skill in the movement, you're going to see more dominance, particularly if they change grips or technique. So, do you see the point we're we're making here? that in general if you're really focusing on mastering a number of and a handful guys I don't mean just two or three I mean it could be six seven eight exercises but I'm going to make a case that for for almost everybody exceeding about six to eight probably [snorts] the upper threshold if you're doing more than that um there's probably some junk in there it may may not be ideal and you're also spreading those those uh the learning curve further among those exercises, right? You're not getting as much skill mastery. And the point here is that skill mastery on exercises is going to raise their potential. And again, people say, "Well, what about overuse?" Well, you could you could change them if you're seeing some overuse. You could do a variation. You could switch the style of bench you're doing. You could switch to a different like you're getting overuse from an incline bench. Okay. Well, maybe you could change it for a dip at that point, you know, for for three, four, five, six months, right? Solutions, solutions. But by focusing on a handful of movements, you're going to be able to get better progression on them and it's going to raise the gross. It's definitely going to raise the strength ceiling. Like, that's should that's not even a point of debate. Anyone who argues that is just flat out a dumbass, right? doing the exercises you want to get stronger at makes a lot of sense. But when we're talking the muscle growth, I think there's still a case to be made for that. And I get it. People on huge amounts of drugs and genetic freaks have different rules, but that's not most of you out there. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.