There is no pathway by which dietary intolerances can cause fat gain. This is a complete scam. Hey everybody, it's Jason Vloa here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciate it. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would also greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. All right. This is one of these things that I see a lot of on social media. Do you see it more in the like the the hippie type fitness or what I call also the healthosphere, you know, which is usually just like the soccer mom types who who try to give a lot of holistic stuff and they talk a lot about how you know your food intolerances and different different balances, but it's it's none of it's based on reality generally. And so this is a big one. And again, most men and stuff I've noticed don't fall for this. This tends to be kind of like the the whole mom crowd and the holistic fitness. They really fall for this nonsense. And what we need to understand there there is no pathway by which a food intolerance can make you gain body fat. Are there pathways by which you can gain a few pounds of water and hold it? Of course, but it's temporary. And guess what? It goes away if you just stop eating the the food you're intolerant of. Okay, does that make sense? Uh so people don't understand the difference. Like people will will say, "Well, what's a what do you mean?" because I've seen people they get inflammation, food allergies and food intolerances all confused. These are completely completely different things and and you can't use them interchangeable because keeping in mind these are medical terms. Okay? So, let's let's step back and remember that because I had someone say, "Well, that sounds like inflammation to me." I'm like, "No, dude. You have a food intolerance. It's giving you gas and diarrhea." And and they're confusing it with inflammation. Inflammation is a hormonal response to the whole body. Okay? And it can be localized, but it it is a hormonal response. No, dude, you just got diarrhea and gas, which is generally what a food intolerance causes. So, um, most food intolerances are caused by one of a couple of things happening in the in the GI tract. So, okay. So, let's understand that, right? An allergy is a systemic autoimmune response. For example, if you're allergic to a food, your immune system basically goes into a freakout mode with stuff with cytoines and other stuff and it causes massive problems. It can even cause anaphylaxia, death, things like that. Like a food allergy is a systemic response, right? So, if you're having a food allergy, it's not necessarily going to give you gas and bloating. In fact, it should never give you gas or bloating. That's a dead giveaway. That is not an allergy. Does it cause swelling? Like, do you break out in hives? Does your throat close shut? Do you lose the ability? Do you go in convulsions occasionally from eating it? Right? Does that make sense? Like those are fairly severe, but if they're less severe, maybe you'll break out in hives. Your face will swell. Maybe your lips will swallow a little bit when you eat it. That's really minor. That's the minor. the more serious end, the most extreme. Then you go into convulsions. Your throat closes shut. Um, which I have had happen to me before. I'm very familiar with it. So, I'm not going to go into what what causes that, but yeah, I've had to have my stomach pumped in ER after being injected with epinephrine. That's that's an allergy. So, understand the difference. A food intolerance is a gut malabsorption issue. Okay? Do you see where we're about to go of why an intolerance can't cause fat gain? What causes fat gain? Energy turnover. Calories in versus calories out. If you have a food intolerance, you're generally pooping most of it out. How are you going to gain fat by pooping undigested and unabsorbed calories out your butt? I'm going stop it though. I want people to really think about that. How does pooping out undigested calories sometimes is is diarrhea. How does that make a person gain fat? You're literally taking in less energy. Your your your calories out just went up because doesn't that count as calories out? We count that as calories out, by the way, in the calories in calories out equation. uh because you don't always get all your C calories and there are foods that are prone to giving like 10% 5 10% of their calories never get absorbed in even by the gut and they just go out like nuts for example you know made one of those so it happens right you just you poop them out guys so that's part of your calories out so if you have a food so a perfect example one most people know um lactose intolerance Right? You have someone say, "Oh, I gained weight from it." Well, you might gain a little bloating, but it's temporary. And if you're lactose intolerant and you keep getting bloating and gas and occasional diarrhea from a food and you keep eating it, I'm sorry, you're stupid. Like, you don't need a health guru to tell you, hey, this food that makes you bloated and gives you liquid uh explosive diarrhea, you should stop eating it. And that's what I would tell someone with something like that. Like if if you need somebody to tell you this at this point, I don't know, maybe you struggle to tie your own shoelaces or something. Um maybe you need a guardian. Like if you're at that level, you're you're functioning at that that level. Uh maybe you need a guardian or someone to, you know, handle your business and tell you what to do legally. you probably shouldn't definitely shouldn't be have access to your own bills and bank and driving a car un like you shouldn't be doing stuff like that like if you're at that level. So, this is a no-brainer. You know, this is should be common sense. Anyone of average intelligence uh should know, hey, this food gives me gas and diarrhea when I eat it. I should stop eating it, right? You definitely don't need to pay a guru to tell you this. All right? But that's that's what a food intolerance is. So, think of there's other intolerances you can have and generally it's either caused because you don't have an enzyme. of lactose intolerance, lack of the lactase enzyme to break down lactose and it's why it goes away in lactose-free dairy. Whereas in a kazian allergy like people have a dairy, you don't have a dairy allergy, you have a kazian allergy. That's a real allergy. That's one of the one of the types of protein found in milk. Quesian, right? So you may not depending upon the quality of the whey, you may not get the allergic reaction to whey protein. You'll 100% get it to cheese, Greek yogurt, milk, any of those definitely. Okay. But that's going to fall back into that full body autoimmune response, right? You're going to have an allergic reaction. Totally different. So, the food in time, but you can't gain weight from an allergic reaction. In fact, uh since serious allergic reactions can be deadly without treatment, um you're going to lose a lot of weight when you're when you're dead. You lose it really fast. So, no no pathway by which that causes fat gain either. Okay? So, again, keep in mind any swelling or bloating you get from any of these is temporary. And if you just stop eating them, it goes away. It's not fat gain. But if anything, and I'm not trying to tell people this is a, hey, you should do this for weight loss. If anything, a food intolerance is probably going to make you expel more calories. Now, you might feel like crap, so you might exercise less, but unless you were doing, you know, a thousand calories of exercise a day, that's not really going to be a factor. Like, it really isn't going to impact you enough for that because you're still expelling undigested calories. That's what a food intolerance is. You're not absorbing it.