Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and today I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about macros and macro recommendations. If you guys would please give me a like down below, a comment, a follow, I would appreciate it so much. Let's get over into this conversation. I think I saw I think it might have been it was Mike Doulsece's recommendations a while back. Um, and I think someone brought those back up of his basic recommendations are look try to get you know about 04 gram of fat per pound of body weight. We want about 08 grams of protein per pound of body weight. And outside of that, filling your calories with just whole foods, micronutrient- richch foods, focusing heavily on carbohydrates. Um, kind of beyond those numbers is generally advisable. Um, and honestly, I tend to lean in the direction of saying, uh, those are solid recommendations. You know, people start asking about macros. We can make a case for running low carbs in certain situations when you want to drop water, when you're trying to do things like that. Maybe you want more healthy fats to reduce some inflammation in some way. Um, we can make a case for in certain cases running really, really low fat can be helpful for certain medical conditions, maybe for losing body fat. But realistically speaking, for anything that's truly sustainable, really sustainable long-term health to where you have good training fuel, right? Because most of us, we need to be athletic. Let's let's be realistic here. We all need to be athletic, not just, oh, let's lift some weights. We We need to be doing cardio. We need to be doing conditioning. We all need to be doing strength training. If you really and truly care about your health and fitness, you're going to have some combination of these things. Okay? So, realistically, you do need enough carbohydrate for your training fuel. Okay? Any way you break this down, right? We need enough protein to maximize muscle growth and recovery. And we need to be looking at again and I'm not saying very low-fat diets can't be useful in some context. Not there's case plenty of cases where I've used them. I recommend them. But realistically sustainability, hormone health, vitamin absorption, right? Controlling inflammation, you do need a certain amount of healthy fats. And so even when when we talk about uh that 04 grams, you know, we're talking about uh polyunsaturated fats, monounsaturated fats, right? But if if we look at something like say the Mediterranean diet, a perfect example doesn't more or less a Mediterranean diet if with the context you're going to make sure you get enough animal source protein to get near those other numbers I I've listed, you know, about point about 08 grams per pound of body weight. So, what is that for a 200lb man? Which a 200lb man is big, you know? That's that's that's a pretty big dude, guys. That's 160 grams of protein, right? But we don't need huge amounts of of animal protein to reach that number. We really don't because if you're eating all these whole foods, that's pretty pretty reasonable. Uh but look at something like say the Mediterranean diet, just using that as an example. Doctors, nutritionists everywhere, like yep, it's really really good. Uh but it's all mostly whole foods. There's a a decent amount of lean animal protein in there. It's a lot of starchy carbohydrates with fruit, some fruit, a lot of vegetables. Okay? And those starchy carbohydrates comprise a, you know, big chunk of your calories, right? A big chunk of your calories. And again, a lot of healthy fats. So you look at it that particular diet and it's very rich in minimally refined monounsaturated fats, nuts, seeds, plenty of them. Extra virgin olive oil or even olives themselves. So again, we start looking at that. But where else can we get those same that exact same monounsaturated fat is found in large amounts of say avocados found in almonds, almond butter. So these are these are foods that I eat right now. Like if you guys look at some of my grocery baskets and stuff, you'll see avocados and almond butter and stuff. So, so you're seeing that push towards plant source minimally refined or unrefined monounsaturated fats and then polyunsaturated fats. Okay? And then again, the same thing, you're going to see some cultured dairy and stuff in there, right? relatively low, tends to be quite low in saturated fat and animal source fats for the most part, you know, barring like some yogurts and things and a little bit of cheeses and stuff, right? So, you do see cultured dairy and all of that. So, a diet like that tends to fall within these parameters. And so, when we're looking at that, that point4 u on the fat is enough to say because we don't have exact numbers. People say, well, how much do we need for hormone health or whatever? We don't have exact numbers. Same thing for vitamin absorption. But if you start getting right around that range, so again, let's take it down to let's say you're a nice fit trim 170 pound man, right? You're lean athletic with abs, whatever. So 170. So what is that for protein and u and fat? That's about 140 grams of protein and about 70 grams of fat. That's going to be pretty suffic. That's about right. you look at that and go, "Okay, that makes sense. That's going to maximize muscle growth." Because anything over about that 08 gram per pound of body weight, there's no evidence at all that it helps with muscle growth. There can be certain metabolic benefits, other stuff, absolutely not muscle growth. Absolutely not. Muscle uh retention and a calorie deficit. Okay, we can come over and look at that. Okay, about that 70 grams of fat right in that range. Yeah, you're going to get plenty of fat, soluble vitamins, plenty of absorption of those. going to get enough healthy fats to help lower inflammation. They're going to help with insulin sensitivity. So then if you're filling the rest of this with nutrient-rich carbohydrates, fibrous carbs, starchy carbs, you know, potatoes, sweet potatoes, brown oats, whole grains, you know, oats, right? Fruits, vegetables, right? Starchy starchy vegetables, root vegetables, green leafy vegetables, fruit. you're going to be in a pretty good place. So again, nutrientrich, a diet rich in polyphenols, fiber, phytonutrients, antioxidants, decent amount of lean animal protein. So that's usually the numbers, you know, and if you're doing this, uh, calorie management is going to be relatively easy. You may not even need to track calories. And that's, I think, a valid point that we need to come to with some of that. If you're right about that range, you're just looking at your food saying, "I'm trying to get right around this protein and fat." Okay? and you're looking at those healthy sources and you just roughly know, hey, an avocado has this much this much almond butter, whatever. If I throw in a spoon of extra virgin olive oil over here into my my whatever my brown rice, right? You know, you're right around whatever that 70 grams say in that in that situation. Okay? You know, you're around that 140 grams of protein, especially if you know, you're like, you make sure you get about 70 80 grams probably from animal source, all those other whole foods to fill it in. You may not even need to track calories. You could probably just eat to society and if the scale starts dropping a little bit, you can throw in a little more foods. Well, I'm probably just not eating enough. If it's dropping too much, if you're starting to gain weight, you probably won't gain weight easily on a diet like that, honestly. And most of us don't really need to be bulking bulking anyways. Okay. So, this sort of of macro approach um I think is reasonable. I think it's healthy. I think it will work for people who want ideal body composition, athleticism, are looking for good health markers, right? You want pretty blood work, a good lipid profile, good inflammatory markers, good glucose, u insulin sensitivity, all these things, right? This is a good, solid, reasonable approach for it.