Machines are inferior for hypertrophy. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. And I am very aware that my statement is controversial. Um, I am very aware there are plenty of my contemporaries out there who are going to disagree with me adamantly on that and that's okay. Um, the case I'm going to make for this is [snorts] based upon both observations in the real world and what we know from hundreds of studies. And again, the studies are not the beall end all. We know that exercise science as it pertains to hypertrophy is not particularly consistent or good, but we do have data. Okay? And what I want people to think about there for a minute, um, in the real world, barring guys who use lots of drugs, almost everyone who's jacked does mostly free weights. Okay, let's let's be clear on that. The guys who are really really jacked, who use a lot of machines, also use insane amounts of drugs. Um, I have repeatedly made that point clear that a lot of the bigger free weight exercises with certain drug combinations and certain drug doses become almost impossible to do. Therefore, um, things like back pumps, uh, cardiac inflammation and things limit their ability to do those biggest movements. It's not that the movements are inferior, okay? And at a certain point, any stimulus makes you grow if you're on enough drugs. And believe me, most of these big bodybuilders are in that category. They use insane amounts. They're not on, oh, you know, a little test and a little growth. Okay, just stop. Grams and grams and grams per week, six or seven different anabolics, insulin growth hormone, IGF-1, shotgunning, just massive amounts of everything. Yeah, they can do whatever they want. They're going to get big. All right, but uh back over to this point, your observation is in the real world that most jacked people best physiques tend to do mostly free weights, body weight type movements, things like that. When a lot of drugs are not in the equation, we all know this. We have watched this for decades. Let me be clear. We have watched this for decades. Anyone who's hung around gyms for years and years or looked at the trends knows this is a fact. Okay, we've been observing it forever. So let's not pretend the anecdote is not in that favor. Well, let's talk about then the evidence of the guys who try to they want to optimize everything. Okay. So then you start looking at the data. What does the data actually generally show? There's whole meta analysis that show that isolating muscles does not cause any more muscle growth. Right? Generally speaking, their argument tension is tension. The data seem to support it. Okay? In other words, as long as a muscle is a primary mover taken through a significant range of motion, it doesn't matter whether it's a compound or an isolation, they both cause growth. Except compounds cause the growth in more than one muscle generally. Yes, there may be one muscle that seems to fail first, but that's not even really true, is it? Notice your form changes when you get to failure or the last rep or two before failure. That's because you're compensating and the muscles that are reach starting to reach failure, you're compensating away from them to use the muscles that still have strength left. So even then that whole idea well if one muscle is not going to get as much well it generally will at least a couple of the muscles because your technique will shift to put more load on that stronger muscle as the sets get really fatiguing. That isn't true if you're not getting close to failure. Now that's the argument. Well, if you got three reps in reserve then of course they're absolutely right. but you're also training like a and you shouldn't expect results anyways. So, so it's kind of the argument that people make, but the the data shows that the same thing. There have been studies looking at strict form versus loose form. No, as long as the target muscle still gets pretty close to failure or fails even with cheating form, it still receives maximum growth stimulus. It doesn't seem to grow any any less than the strict form. This is what studies show. Okay, this is this is if we're going to go purely off of scientific evidence and we're going to ignore the real world. A dude's getting crazy jacked on squats and deadlifts and pull-ups and things. Okay. Right. And bench presses and incline. Um this is just evidence, just the scientific literature. Okay? Compounds do not cause less muscle growth in isolation. isolation doesn't cause more than compounds even in the target muscle as long as the target muscle is a major primary mover. It's been pretty well established. That's the argument then made well see it doesn't matter because tension is tension. That's their counterargument. So people are saying well see this counters what you're saying. No I'm saying it's still inferior for growth just not in the individual muscle. Okay that's the point we're going to make. Okay. So the same thing loose form doesn't cause less growth in the target muscle, right? Well, what about all the secondary muscles? Okay, this is the point that we're going to drive home. The big compounds and a lot of these big movement stabilizers do grow. And that's their other argument. Well, you take the stabilizers out, it allows the primary movers to do more work, but they don't do more work. This has been well established. This has been very well established in the evidence. By removing the stabilizers, they don't grow anymore. No, it doesn't make the primary remover grow. It's nonsense. Not what's been found. Trying to isolate muscles doesn't make them grow any faster. The stabilizer muscles absolutely do grow. Is it the same growth as the primary movers? No. But has it not been shown consistently that a lot of these antagonistic muscle groups, dynamic stabilizers, particular if you think of things like lumbarge paradox? Are you telling me hamstrings don't grow on back squats? They absolutely do. It's been proven in the lab. Okay. Stabilizers grow. Telling me your abs and your and your erectors and muscles throughout your whole trunk do not grow from squats and deadlifts. Really? Because it's been demonstrated in the lab that they do. Therefore, all these efforts to try to take stabilizers out on machines is doing what? It's causing less muscle growth throughout the body. And that's the point we're making. Your bigger free weight movements are going to cause more muscle growth through the rest of the body. And people will argue, but it's only a small amount. Okay, cool. So, um, let me let me put it a different way. So, if you have a choice between right now going to your work and working and making $20 an hour versus $21 an hour, are you going to say, "Well, I don't want the 21 because it's a small amount. What about 222? How small does the amount have to be for you to say it doesn't matter?" People like, "Well, no, no, I want the extra." Exactly. So, we put it in something like that. Everyone gets it. When it comes to the the muscle throughout the body, well, you know, sure, all those muscles are growing, but it's not as much. It's free muscle growth throughout your whole body. All these other stabilizers. It's superior. Full out superior. Better overall muscle growth with no negatives to the primary movers.