Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I'm going to talk to you guys and gals a little bit about how full body programming tends to remove a lot of the organizational problems that we run into with training. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. Um, thank you. All right. So, a couple of things that I want to note here up front. When I say this, people will jump in and say, "Oh, you're only saying this because you're doing full body." Well, guys, I program all sorts of stuff. Let me be Let me be clear at this exact moment. I have clients who are doing conjugate all the way up to including band chain specialty bars. I have clients who do 4day upper lowers. I have clients who do three-day pushpull legs. And I have clients who do full body training. Okay, so let us be clear. I and I actually have a couple of guys selling body part splits. All right, let me again be clear on that. I am not telling you there is only one way to train. Um I am by no means dogmatic on that because I literally write all of these type of approaches for different clients. All right. Um, and I will also say when people try to get into the small minutia of, hey, which of these is going to give the most muscle growth? Do we need the higher frequency of the full body? Do we need the the benefits of of multiple exercises and more focus on a body part? Right? They ask these questions. And here's what I'm going to say. Those differences are going to be relatively small. We could argue about that stuff all day long. Okay? Those differences are going to be very small. I'm going to say that out of any of those approaches, whichever one you consistently find works with your lifestyle and you are most motivated to consistently put in the hard work on is probably going to get the best results irrespective of whatever minor differences are happening in muscle protein synthesis. Right? So in other words, we can go to the two extremes all the way from a body part split to literally doing full body. And I I legitimately believe that the differences in the gains in muscle protein synthesis between any of them, whichever is ideal, is going to be potentially offset by motivation. like motivation and fitting into your life are actually a little bit more important in the grand scheme of things because at the end of the day, as long as you're training consistently and hard with good fatigue management, progressive overload, you're going to make gains. So, let's get back over to to where some of the perks are of the full body. Like, right up front, it removes all these problems. Hey, where do I put a deadlift? I don't know where to put a deadlift. Should it be on my back day or my leg day? Should it be on my upper body day or my lower body day? Right now, that's easily solved by conjugate because it's going to be on the squat and deadlift day, you know? But you guys see where we're going, right? These confusions. Anytime you take a big exercise, it's like, oh man, where do I put it? Right? Things like deadlifts, which are one of the best exercises you can possibly do, get really confused by people. and then they'll argue about where the best place to put it is, as if it really matters. And I think that's the problem we've run into is the way our mind works. We like to organize things. That's one reason a lot of people like body part splits. Let me be clear, there's zero actual benefit to doing a body part split. Mechanistically, there's no benefit. Mindset wise, as an organization, we really like to organize stuff. Okay? And a lot of people really like that idea of focusing on that one muscle and really just focusing on that one area or region or one or two muscles muscle group. You know, it could be their whole back and biceps. You know, they like to they enjoy that. And if you really enjoy that, it makes a lot of sense to do it, doesn't it? Right. So, here's the problem it runs into. Where do we put the exercise? Oh my god. Then guys start coming up with crazier splits. I I want to do I think I've heard someone say they do chest with their biceps instead of with their triceps and then and and then do their their triceps with their back and you know they get into these complicated messes and people start overthinking something that's completely irrelevant. It's completely arbitrary because there's no actual reason to put all this stuff like that in one day physiologically. It's purely psychological. All right. Full body removes all that complexity. Now, we just come in and train the body. There's really no complication of, "Oh, where do I put it?" You put on any day you want. You can do it every one of the days if you can handle the fatigue. So on and so forth, right? It removes these organizational nuances. Like as long as you have a muscle that every muscle gets hit by something somewhere on the full body, you're good to go. I literally written for some people, they either squat or deadlift. I don't even have all of them do both. Some of them do both, you know, because we're still hitting the all the, you know, the quad and the hamstring. You can really look at it like that. Okay, big deal. Because we remove all these problems and we no longer have to overthink this. Any exercise can go on any day. Complete freedom to plug and play with no complications with your self-imposed split because those splits are self-imposed. They don't mean anything. Like there's no physical reason. It's all psychological. All right. So, not to discredit psychology because psychology is massive just like I already said, but it removes this problem. All right. Number two, really big in terms of practical benefit and organizational. What happens when you miss a day? What happens you get sick? What happens though if you really need that setup? You're like, man, the way my setup is set up, I really need to do chess on Monday. Um, but then you have your split or whatever your upper lower. What happens when you miss a day or you miss half the week and then you got to figure out where to replug it back in? You're going to have muscles that are not going to grow at all. You're going to have an entire week where something is not getting growth. What if you have a really bad workout? You get sick and and the workout's horrible. All right, you're you're losing an entire week of downtime. Oftent times, this is a problem. People are like, "Well, it doesn't matter." Yeah, it does matter. You absolutely drain. This is why I tell my clients when they don't want to lift when they go on vacation, do not do that. Just stop with this nonsense. You need to train. All right? That being said, on a full body, doesn't matter. Why? Because everything got trained, right? Your entire body got trained your last workout. So, what happens if you have to take three or four days off? What happens if you miss five days of training while you're you're dealing with something and something comes up? Every muscle got trained most recently. You don't have a single muscle that got skipped for the week. You know, like nothing is getting out of whack. You can pick right up where you left off if you're doing full body because it's all full body. Oh man, my gosh. Am I supposed to restart with a leg day or the upper day or the the lower day? Where what do I put in here? all these problems go away because you're just training your whole body every time. It's like, God, do I do my workout A or my workout B or my workout C or or it's if you do the same thing every day, you just you're right back to where you were. Done. Problem solved. It removes these problems if there's a missed day in your schedule. It's just beautiful. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.