Full body workouts tend to remove the overthinking and complexity that we have with splits. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciate it. If you're not following or subscribe, uh please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. So, let's get over to this. Um you know, I've kind of run the full gambit of this. I've started out originally years and years ago promoting lots of full body training, drifted into more splits. I've coached plenty of people on splits, coached a lot of people on conjugate. I still have clients who successfully run conjugate. Um, I still have some clients who run three-day pushpull leg splits, but I have some on full body also. So, my thing with this, all my original work was really famous full body stuff. In fact, I was probably the most popular when I did that. Um, but that the point I made is that all these old school guys trained very successfully like this before anabolics existed. Uh, and even with the ones who did have access, they didn't have access to a lot of things. It was just stuff like debolt and they didn't use much of it. And yet they these guys all had phenomenal physiques. They were strong. They had great results. Um, and then we look at the different researchers. all these debates still in the data regarding uh can we optimize gains off of a you know a single uh bout for muscle group per week? What's our carryover with different stuff? You know, we get into this complexity and there's still a lot of points of contention, a lot of points of debate, keeping in mind there's a lot of issues with exercise science in regards to um you know, sample size, it affecting the statistics, the length of the um the studies and so on. So, all of that aside though, there's still massive debates there on that. But one thing that we do know with it, um, obviously people can get great results on any sort of split. I've shown that with clients. Uh, we've seen it in the real world, right? There are people who get good results on body parts, splits, upper, lowers, full body, all of that. Okay? It's not an issue. We know that people can get results on all of it if they train smart, they train hard, they put in the effort, their nutrition is good, people get results. And let's talk a little bit about mindset though and complexity. And I think the thing when it comes to full body training, and this is something I said a decade ago, right? I said this a decade ago. One of the beauties of it is you literally don't have to stand around and think about where you're going to put exercises. If you have an exercise that you really like that you get a lot out of and you want to do it, you can literally do it every workout. As long as you recovering from the total workloads and volumes you're doing, you can throw it in wherever you want. Okay, we have to we don't have to worry about these questions. Here's one. Where do I put deadlifts? Do I put it on back day or do I put it on leg day? Do I put it on upper body? Do I put it on lower? Body usually throw it on lower. Do I put it on? Okay, we got to push pull legs. Do I put it on the pull day? Do I put it on the leg day? Where do I fit this thing? Oh my god. Because it works so many muscles. And this is kind of one of the things we run into a lot. The big effective exercises, people start questioning where do they put them? It's like you saw me start this with a pullover, right? A classic old school exercise. You know, when you throw a pullover out there, often people go, "Oh my god, these look great. I see why the old school guys did them. I like how it feels. I don't know where to put it. Does it go on my pull day? Do you go on my push day? Do I put it on chest day? Do I put it on back day?" Now, if you're on an upper lower, it's real easy. You can do it on upper, right? People get these these problems. They have these problems. Where do we put exercises? They want to have an arm day. They want to have a chest day. Well, where do we put the closed grip bench? Where do I put the dips? Do you see the issue? And it's fine because we would laugh and say, "These are artificially created problems." Okay, we have these organized because we want to do all of our stuff. We want to focus on that that muscle or that muscle group or that thing and we want to be able to do a lot of work for it in one day. Okay? Right? That's that's kind of the idea. But it we have to remember these are still artificial constraints and for organization for our brain. And that is ultimately one of the issues I always said with a lot of this and I'm not the only one. I've known some other really good lifters and coaches who say the problem I've always run into with any sort of split is where do we put stuff? I mean before long you think about westside they're like oh we're just doing back on all four days. All the upper all the lower days it doesn't matter. We just do back on all of them. So then you start to look at that and go, "Well, wait a minute. If you're doing rows and pull-ups on your lower day, isn't it a full body?" You know, you have to start asking this. Or then they're like, "Yeah, we're doing the reverse hypers even after the It's like what?" Before long, they're turning into full body with some of it. Okay, we run into these things to where it's just like it's not really following the true split. So then when we do full body, more or less, those constraints are removed. You know, you can do squat, bench, and deadlift all in the same day if you want. It's fine. You're going to do them at a competition anyways as a powerlifter. And I think we have to remember that. Yeah. At a powerlifting meet, you're going to have to max on all three of them. And you're probably going to do three heavy attempts. You might even fail one. Then have to you're going to have to do them on the same day in competition. You do them on the same day in a workout. Same thing. Look at some of these classic classic old school routines. Oh, we're doing breathing squats, like widowmaker squats, pullovers, dips, pull-ups, okay? And maybe some calves. You know, it's like it's a full body routine. The old edge park 5x5s, you know, he's got everybody, it's just training everything at once. And the thing is with it, it works. And people say, "Well, what about the frequency? Don't certain muscles need more time to recover?" Do they really? Do they need more time to recover? Even if they do, how about you look at the training volume? Okay. So, if you have certain muscles that maybe seem like they don't recover fast enough session to session, do you change the frequency? Well, no. If you're just going to do full body, whatever, three times a week or whatever times, you just adjust the volume. They're not recovering, you're probably doing a little too much. If you have a muscle that needs more work and it's recovering, you just do more. Hey, I'll put a second exercise in. Right? You're like, man, my chest needs more work and it seems to recover. I could do bench press and dips in the same workout. Right? Same thing. Maybe your arms aren't getting enough for some chin-ups or pull-ups. So, you just do curls. Make sure that you do curls all the days. You know, that's the the whole point with it. You know, everyone's then like, well, do different muscles, do different frequencies. Well, the amount of work you do will dictate the recovery. So if you have a muscle that's not recovering at that higher frequency, just do less volume. Just do less work for it. And if it's still not recovering, then there's a problem with your systemic recovery. So again, you don't have to overthink these things. You simply look at we just train the body. We get in and you just train the body, right? That's the idea. You get in and you just train your body. It's full body. And if you have something that needs more work or that you want to give more attention to, you just throw another exercise in. Right? Well, my biceps really aren't getting enough with what I'm doing. I feel like they need more. I throw some incline curls in on the full body. And then you no longer have to worry about organizing which lifts go on which days. All the overthinking on that can simply go away and you come in and just train your body. And if you want to happen to leave a lift out that day, you're not feeling it, you can just skip it. It's not like you're not going to hit it again in a couple days anyways. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.