Full body workouts remove unnecessary complexity. Hey everybody, it's Jason Lawa here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, and you know, the the reason I say this is because so many people out there, so many coaches, coaches love to sell complexity. A lot of people out there believe that if they if they make stuff more complex, they're going to get better gains. And the reality is that's just simply not based on evidence, right? And when we really start looking at evidence, both historic real world, keep in mind, full body routines worked great all through the 50s and 60s and produced the best physiques in the world just fine. Physiques that by modern standards, like if you didn't have drugs, everyone would think those physiques are great, right? The average person will go look at the the top bodybuilders from the 50s and 60s today who think modern stuff is freakish and weird. They don't like it. And they'll say, "Wow, they had great bodies." Right? So, if if you're simply trying to be really impressive or attractive to normal people to look for them to say, "Wow, you look better than all of us." All their methods worked just fine. When you look at the data, um, we know complexity doesn't matter. We know splits don't really matter. Uh, we know that effort probably is more important than volume. And we know higher frequencies seem to slightly bias uh, overall muscle protein synthesis. In other words, hitting the same muscle two or three times a week works a lot better. Okay? hustle no recovery is king. Uh you know so so what is it I'm even doing you know at the time of this I generally come in and do four exercises three times a week. Now I take my one really weak point because my biceps are legitimately lagging behind the rest of of my musculature you know from all my years of powerlifting. So I come in and I do just some curls on my off days, right? I do two sets of curls on my off days. But generally it's four or four exercises, right? We don't need complexity and most of my clients train that way. I have some people on conjugate still. Uh I have three people on conjugate at the moment. Uh otherwise most my people do full body, you know. I have I think I have like one guy doing a non-conjugate upper lower because he really likes it and it works for him. But you know, we we don't need all the complexity. And when you look at it, when you go full body, it forces you to remove the complexity that we don't actually need because then we're coming in because what do we really need? We know that higher frequency training close to failure or to failure tend to produce the best muscle growth even more so than volume does. Okay? And if we kind of work off the idea, and I've said this before, again, not talking about winning the Mr. Olympia. But if you just want to look really really impressive to normal people, you probably only need to isolate your weakest link. If your biceps are your weak link, isolate your biceps. If your cash's weak link, isolate them. Your your side delta your weak link, isolate those. See how simple that is? Hey, whatever your weakest link is aesthetically, visibly, proportion-wise, yeah, you should probably isolate it. Otherwise, you could focus on big movements, right? focus on big movements and you'll just build everything. And on a full body, that works, right? And I would say on a full body, as long as you have some sort of push, some sort of pull, and some sort of leg exercise as a big movement, you're you're doing pretty good. You're pretty well covered, you know. And then, of course, you could always always hit, you know, your weak link. uh you know so for me I think at the time I'm doing this voice over I tend to do these in a series of rotations so I can re redo material later um like the the week I'm doing this it's uh deadlift weighted pull-up weighted dip and then a pullover one day my next workout was squat bench press weighted pull-up pullover okay um and I like to throw in a finisher so you could pick four big exercises you know you could put two pushes in in there. I used to a long time ago come in and just do it used to be now it's a pullover at the end and occasionally used to throw a curl in at the end. Uh but I used to come in and do some sort of deadlift because I didn't squat for a while. Some sort of push, some sort of pull, and then an overhead press. I always ended with an overhead press as as my as my finisher. These days I I end with a pullover. uh most of the time and that works just fine. Progressively overload those movements and but I used to focus more on overhead pressing because I wanted the shoulder strength and the overhead strength, right? So, you know, it would be a closed grip bench or an incline or a weighted dip for the chest. It would be a pull up weighted pull-up weighted chin up a row for the back and so on. Um and and that works fine. And I would say to anybody, you're like, as long as you were progressing and you do some sort of leg, you know, preferably a squat or a deadlift variation, a push and a pull, and then you could add in one or two exercises for your weakest movement pattern or weakest body part. You're good, right? And you want to generally repeat the same ones. You could alternate them every workout if you want. You want to repeat them enough that you can progressively overload them. Okay, this sort of system has worked forever. Um, it's worked forever. And what's interesting, I I know uh one guy, I don't agree, we disagree politically, so and we've had some stuff on that that were kind of not on my friends list anymore, but I know a very successful former powerlter who was a bodybuilding coach, successful bodybuilder, preps people for bodybuilding shows. Like his workouts kind of look like that, too. It's like three days a week. He's like, "Dude, you don't need to be in the gym more than an hour. Three times a week." He does four exercises. He has clients prepping for for bodybuilding shows, doing four exercises. It's like, "Man, you shouldn't need more than four exercises in a workout. Train them really, really hard." I thought I thought it was fascinating. And his people look just as good as their competitors. right? He looks just as good as his his competitors and he's in his late 40s, you know, reasonably successful at bodybuilding. So again, people think that they need all this complexity, but when you go full body, it removes it because then we're no longer worried about, oh, I don't know what exercise hits, what, where do I put a deadlift, where do I put a pullover? Now, how about you just come in and do them? And you're not going to go wrong here. Look, as long as you have a big movement that's a leg exercise, a push and a pull every workout, you're going to see good progress if you push them hard and progressively overload them, right? Because that covers your basics, then some accessory and weakpoint training, like whatever you feel needs. See how that works? Because people say, "Well, if you only do that, you're going to have some imbalances, right?" So then you you focus on your weak points after done. So whatever is being under stimulated, whatever is not growing quick enough, at the end of it, you can do some extra work for it, right? You can do some extra work. And if you need to on your off days, if you have a truly weak body part, you could come in and do some high rep work for it. Just that one body part if you need to. Perfectly fine. There's no rules here. And that's the point with all of this. There's no dogmatic rules with any of it. All right, guys. That's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.