All right, let's discuss why full body routines have the potential for more muscle growth. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys about this. So, please drop me a like and a comment. Let's get right over to it. Now, when I say the most potential, um, I'm generally speaking in terms of without a bunch of gear, right? We're talking natural, you know, drug-free lifters or people on very modest amounts of chemical enhancement. either one of those groups. Okay, so I do need to define that context. And we also need to point out that um we are only talking about optimizing physiology. We're talking about muscle protein synthesis. This doesn't include psychological factors. I did a video recently on the psychological benefits for many people on full body programs, but I've also pointed out that uh for other people split type routines, some people are more consistent. They're more motivated on them. And I do need to be clear at the end of the day because, you know, muscle growth is limited. We're only going to stimulate so much no matter what we do. Um, and it's all about consistency over time. That better mindset is possibly very possibly and probably worth more than the physical benefits that we're going to break down here. In other words, so if you're just highly motivated and you really enjoy a three-day pushpull legs or uh, you know, body part split or an upper lower and you're really consistent with it and motivated and you enjoy it. Okay. I'm not telling you to switch to full body because if if you're more motivated and and more consistent, if you're just 10 20% more consistent on that sort of split, you're probably going to get better results. And we can we absolutely cannot discount the power of both mindset, motivation, and even placebo when it comes to this stuff. Like you cannot discount those things. So when I when I make that statement, I want to be clear. We need to be crystal clear that we are not saying uh that it's automatically better. Just saying there's a potential for it. So So what's going on with the potential for it? Um couple things to think about is going to be limited muscle growth per workout. Look, one to two sets per per body part is actually going to give you the lion share the muscle growth you can gain in a workout. Not saying it's 90% or 95, but it's up there. It's more than 50%. And there have been been some studies, limited studies showing that. Couple of really hard sets, you know, and anything past about three sets in a workout for a muscle group, you start to see hypertrophy slide off very very rapidly after that. There's there's only a very small amount of muscle growth. So, we have to understand that, okay? Right. Doing 10 sets in a workout might for many people if their heart sets completely optimize every single last drop. I don't I don't think you're going to ever see, and I think the data is pretty clear on this. When you look at the majority of studies, anything past about 10 in a workout, you're probably seeing zero extra muscle growth. It's probably near zero without heavy amounts of drugs. But the difference between two or three versus 10 is very, very small. Okay. So, so we have to understand that. So, again, if we're looking at at efficiency, it makes it makes a lot of sense to say, well, I'm just going to do a few sets so I can do them more often. And here's the reason. Um, muscle growth doesn't last that long. There's a lot of contentions on this. Um, I've seen certain people like Dr. Mike point out, well, the evidence for that is really weak. Um, and what's the evidence? Well, we've seen some studies showing at least uh a number of them myofibrillar growth only lasting about 28 to 48 hours after a workout, no matter no matter how hard you train. Uh there's been some that showed some some uh extra cycloplasmic growth or at least muscle protein synthesis in the cycloplasm lasting up to about 72 hours. Um, so again, we could we could argue whether there is some additional myofibrillar still trickling down, but the point is you're not growing past about 72 hours from the workout. You're really not. You're draining from that point. Now, people will point out what body part splits there's overlap and there's certainly truth to that, particularly if you're deadlifting on a pole or a back day, even for the lower body, but the upper body, it it makes a lot of sense. We get that. So, so we have to be clear, but they're much smaller amounts of muscle growth in that overlap. And at the very least, that's what keeps you from dtraining. Like, let's say you you do a three-day pushpull legs even. The reason you don't lose muscle week to week is the other movements. Uh we know that if you're immobilized in less than a week, you start losing muscle. Like, if you're put in a cast, muscle growth starts reversing in less than a week. You actually get smaller. But that other movement uh does prevent some of that. But the truth is you're not growing that long. So the whole point here is see where we're going with the amount of muscle growth stimulus. So if you're going to stand here and say h well if you're doing fairly small volumes let's say it's as low you know it's 60% of your possible muscle growth instead of 100% per session but instead of doing it once a week you're doing it three times a week. And on a full body, if we're training like a Monday, Wednesday, Friday, every muscle is being hit three times a week. See where we're going with this? The total potential for muscle growth is higher. Also, even the workloads per set are higher. So, we're looking at workload and tonnage. um doing say a perfect example do one set of squats three times a week all out hard sets versus doing three full sets in a workout like let's say whatever let's say normally you could do up to um you know I don't know 300 pounds for 10 reps or something. Okay, you're not going to replicate that over three sets. You do it once. So, do you understand that even the workload per exercise if it's spaced out is going to be it's going to be higher? The workloads are going to be higher. The quality of sets are going to be higher. Okay? The muscle growth stimulated per set is going to be higher because you're more recovered and you're back to a new stimulus each time. Because again, a lot of times on a full body type setup, we're training, you know, on average three. Sometimes some people do four or five, but that's extreme. uh your your training frequency is higher for every muscle. So your total amount of growth time per week has the potential to be higher even if the individual stimulus is lower. So think of it in terms of more exposures even though they're weaker the sum total is more. So think of it this way. Let's say um and I'll put this in a simple math. Let's say that once a week for doing something if you went all out you'd make a hundred $100. Right? Right? But what if you only made $50 by doing the way less, but you did it three times a week? Well, you'd make more total money for the week for the same number of hours. All right? For the same same amount of time invested, you would end up getting more out of it. And that's that's essentially what we're looking at, at least hypothetically, in terms of the potential. uh that starts to go away quickly once drugs and stuff go into the mix and we have extended muscle protein synthesis growth times. But before drugs became the norm, say in bodybuilding world, this sort of training was extremely common. It was extremely effective. And again, I'm not saying splits don't work. Not saying they can't work. I'm not saying if you're motivated to not do them. All we're talking about is uh is your potential going to be a little higher? And you know, ultimately it's it's you could do less total sets and still have the more potential for growth, so less overuse and everything else. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.