Gaining muscle is the fountain of youth. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you will please click like and drop me a comment down below, would appreciate it so much. Um topic I'm very passionate about even though obviously my big passion is strength. My background is strength. Um I have always promoted that gaining muscle is kind of the best pathway to strength. Um, so setting the strength thing aside because again we don't need to have all the discussions of neural drive and technique and coordination, let's just talk about the muscle mass in because well we know it makes you stronger and there are elements of strength that help with with keeping us young and quality of life. But I want to talk specifically about the muscle mass itself. Right? Uh we could have those discussions about sarcopenia. We could have those discussions about, you know, strength keeping you from getting injured and other things, but really let's let's talk about the the other stuff first. All right. Muscle mass itself is protective against cardiovascular disease, diabetes, cancer. Okay. Now, when I make that statement, we're talking about probabilities. We're talking about stacking odds and stacking biology in your favor. It is not an absolute. Okay? So, don't be stupid. You know, when you bring that up and you point out, yeah, there's plenty of data showing the pathway and the statistics by which muscle reduces cancer. Well, I know this jack guy who got there was a jack guy who got cancer. What about La Lato? Uh my my skinny grandma never got cancer and lived to 103. Okay. The outliers don't change the stats. Okay. uh it's possible to win the lottery and it's possible to get hit by lightning. You don't use those as examples of saying, "Well, you know, everybody could just win the lottery one day. No need for you to work because you'll just win the lottery." Like that's that's the level of logic you're at. It's silly. Well, it's silly with those other things, too, because we're just talking about stacking odds, right? You know, whereas and I would say to someone, if you wanted to win the lottery, uh the best chance would be to uh work really hard in a bunch of overtime and spend $20,000 on lottery tickets. You'll you'll stack your odds much better. See, that makes more sense. Doesn't mean it's efficient, but you know, it makes more sense. But I digress. Back over to the point. Muscle mass lowers cancer rates. Uh we have studies showing it not only reduces the chances of getting cancer, and we know the pathways uh if you do get cancer and you have to go through chemo, it actually if you lift weights still through it, you have twice the survival rate, right? You have double the chances of surviving the chemo and the cancer. Double. But why do we get the lower rates to begin with? Well, because muscle mass is highly insulin sensitive. If you haven't figured it out, cancer cells are highly sensit insulin sensitive. So if you're insulin resistant, tumors are a problem. Okay? In other words, this is one reason obesity and other disease, metabolic diseases, contribute to higher cancer because in the event that you form even the smallest tumor, if it's more insulin sensitive and and out competes the other surrounding tissues for fuel, your body's going to have a harder time destroying it because we get cancer cells all the time. Our body usually does something about them. except when it doesn't. But if they're starving them because you're you have just lower circulating glucose in general because you have more muscle tissue that's a glycogen dump and with high insulin sensitivity you produce less insulin have lower circulating glucose from the muscle. Okay, that dramatically reduces cancer rates because your muscles compete with the tumors for energy. All right, as you can imagine, diabetes, the same thing, right? Diabetes, these are the diseases that ravaged us with age. By the way, in case you're unaware of this, this is the stuff that really messes with us. Cardiovascular disease, the same thing. There was some very long-term meta analysis that determined that lifting weights is the best form of exercise we can do for our cardiovascular health and lowering heart attacks. All right. And just because the other is called cardio doesn't mean that it's best for cardiovascular risk. It's just the name. It's just an old word from a long time ago. Now doesn't say mean cardio is not good for your heart. It is. The two together work really well. But if you only picked one, the weight training. Why? Because again the muscle mass cardior protective, right? Lowers triglycerides. uh changes your lipid profiles to some extent. So again uh and then if you look at all the insulin sensitivity and other stuff just lower inflammation through the body. Having muscle mass from gaining muscles lowers overall inflammation. Well, if we have lower overall inflammation, we feel young longer. It slows some parts of the aging process. And I'm not saying we can save them all forever. We can slow them. We can reduce the effects. Okay. U then what about just being leaner, right? Because all these other problems we think of it comes from being fat. We think of getting older. Oh, I'm g fatter, metabolism slowing down. And you know what it turns out? Researchers have found that even up into your 50s, there is zero metabolic slowdown hormonally. It's all muscle. The reason your metabolism slows down with age is because you're losing muscle with age. But if we're lifting weights and gaining muscle, you know, and eating sufficient protein, you know, doing our training two, three days a week at least, right, what happens? Well, we gain muscle. So, we actually end up with a much higher metabolic rate, not a lower. Okay? It completely undoes all this talk about slow metabolism formation. Completely undoes it, reverses it, and goes the other direction every single time. Okay. So again, better metabolic rate, you're going to be less fat, it's going to be easier for you to stay leaner, you're going to feel younger, look younger, look healthier. But all these things, the lower inflammation, then also the other fact, let's talk about the staying young to being strong. Well, muscle mass makes you stronger. 90% of our strength comes from our muscle growth, right? all these other factors that we talk about even as strength coaches for powerlifting and whatever it's only about 10%. That's what what pretty good data shows. It's about about 10% maybe a little more. Your total strength comes from all that. Rest of it is just by gaining muscle. Well, if we have more muscle, we're just stronger. We're more competent. We also are going to have higher bone density. Things are going to break less. Okay? We're going to have more cushioning against wide varieties of injuries. and we're going to be just more functional. And being more functional and being able to move and move yourself and pick things up as you get older and older and older is going to let you function as if you were younger than the other people that you know who are the same age as you. So again, all this stuff is about uh, you know, being as young as we possibly can for our chronological age and functioning at the highest level, feeling like we're at the highest level, and looking good, you know, and gaining muscle will do all those things. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.