All right, guys. Bulking is pretty much dead based upon all the available evidence these days. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and uh if you will please drop me a comment and a like down below. I'd appreciate it. All right, let me get over to this topic. This is something I've been saying for a while now. And this is one that I've had to change my position on. Uh you know, again, a lot of times people will be like, "Why don't you change your position on something?" Or then they get mad when you flip-flop. And it's like, look, in this case, I used to be probulking. I I believed that it helped. I believed the leverages and everything involved help you gain muscle and all these things, right? However, I was wrong. Okay, let me be clear. I was wrong. And there's enormous amounts of evidence, both anecdote and scientific, at this point, showing I was wrong. And so were all the old school coaches who believe that. Um, and and I think a lot of it comes down to still this idea that because we can lift more weight when we gain fat on a lot of movements because we get better squish, better leverages that it's causing more muscle growth because it clearly makes you stronger, right? We all know that. What's the best way to get your squat up? Just get really fat. Now, I'm much leaner and you guys are watching me, you know, do like 12 reps of 405 on a squat there, right? Um, but it took me a long time to build up to that and I've been actually getting leaner and still being able to squat like that. Uh, but the reality is it creates a lot of misinformation because it's like, oh well, we just get stronger, right? These certain lifts go up as we gain fat. So, it's got to be helping us gain muscle because of progressive overload. Well, the problem with that is is multiffolded nature. Uh, multiffolded nature. And I'm going to get to the point of where there are cases where uh you may want to gain fat, but it's the exception, not the norm. So again, we always have when having these conversations, having an exception to the rule doesn't change the rule for 98% of the population. Does that make sense? Right? Hopefully people understand that concept. You know just like like anything else um the top 1% or 2% the same rule may not apply to them right there may be economic perfect example put it put it in perspective that people will get economically right the needs of the top 1% economically are probably not the same as for everybody else we all get that right so because they exist rules that we give the middle and working class should just be ignored well because the 1% have completely different situation ations. Therefore, the things that work best for us, we we can ignore them because they exist. So, I'll I'll address that in a minute, though, when it comes to people getting contest lean, needing to gain fat, but that's less than 1% of people who train. Okay? It's a tiny tiny segment. Now, that being said, uh every everybody else when we start looking at the data, here's here's the problem. uh will both the the muscle growth data as well as when you think about progressive overload. So the argument here is okay but if we're able to progressive overload more weight then that's following more tension on the muscle therefore that's causing more muscle growth. Well that would be great but the the data doesn't support that in the lab doesn't cause more muscle growth just causes more fat. And here's here's the reason. When we look at progressive overload, progressive overload doesn't mean move weight by any means necessary. In other words, if you go from doing a strict barbell curl to a cheek curl to put 10 more pounds on the bar, did you progressively overload the biceps or did you progressively overload the movement pattern? Well, you only increased the movement pattern. The biceps didn't get any more work because you just cheated to to lift more weight. Do we do we get this? There's no increase in mechanical tension at the muscle. And it's the increase in mechanical tension at the muscle fiber that stimulates muscle growth. Right? In other words, going stricter with a lighter weight may produce the same amount of tension. Um, if you add anything that improves leverages you have to add weight to get the same tension. So that's the problem with the the the fat situation. It improves leverages on a lot of these lifts. And if you're improving leverages, you have to lift more weight. It's not that, hey, now we can lift more weight so we're growing more. No, no, no, no, no. If you improve leverages and you used to do 200 lbs for eight reps, you have to do 210 or 220 for eight reps to get the same stimulus. You're not getting more stimulus, you're getting less. So, you have to increase weight to get the stimulus at the muscle fiber and the tendon level like it's going through the muscle. Okay, do we understand this? So the fat is not doing that. Number two, uh when we've looked at studies to where they look at calorie surplus versus muscle growth, very very very tiny surplus has caused the same muscle growth as a 10%. People people think a 10% surplus is is a small amount. It's not. It caused mostly fat in the lab. Okay? So when when surpluses as small as 3% have been measured, they cause just as much muscle growth as a 10% but with way less fat. Again, we we all understand this concept. A tiny surplus caused just as much muscle growth as a more, you know, robust even a 300 calorie surplus. There was no muscle growth benefit, only fat. This is what's been found in the lab. We have countless studies where even advanced athletes have recompositioned. Okay. If gaining fat was necessary to gain muscle, why do athletes in control clinical trials at 15% body fat recmp sometimes? They gain muscle and lose fat at the same time when it's studied if the programming and diet are good. So, if that's the case, then it's simply unnecessary to gain fat, even for for more advanced lifters, right? And I'm not telling people they don't need to gain weight. Look, if you're 10% body fat at 150 pounds, you're going to have to gain weight to gain muscle, but it's best to gain lean muscle. Like, you still don't have to gain fat. So, if you want to be 160 pounds at 10%. and you started at 150 at 10%, you're going to have to gain 10 pounds to put the 10 pounds of muscle on. But if you were fatter, you might not have to do that. Let's say you were 180 at 20%. Well, no, you don't have to gain any weight. You'll probably just recmp just fine. with good diet, good training, you'll eventually get down to the to, you know, 15% body fat at the same body weight without gaining any weight. So, the point is, yes, there are cases where you need to gain weight. Now, the exception to all this, of course, is people who are contest shredded. Like, if you're walking around at 6% body fat, yeah, you're probably going to have to gain some fat to gain muscle. Why? because you can't recover. Your body is too depleted to gain muscle because you're at an unhealthy lean body fat. You've dieted down for a bodybuilding show or a photo shoot. You're too lean. It's not healthy. Your hormones are out of whack and not just your testosterone, all your hormones. So, unless you're injecting every single hormone you need, um your recovery is going to be lower. Going to have all these problems. So yes, in that case, bulking up and gaining a little bit of fat will be beneficial. You may need to go up to 10% body fat. Okay, do we understand that? But for everybody else, gaining fat is simply not necessary for maximizing muscle growth. It's completely different pathways in the body, and all the evidence indicates it's just simply not necessary. Maximum muscle growth has been obtained over and over and over in the lab with no fat gain. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.