Gaining fat can make you stronger, but it is not going to help you gain muscle. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals about this today, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it. Um, and I know these sound like contradictory terms because people always bring this up in the topic. They're like, "But if I'm getting stronger, I'm gaining muscle quicker." Yes and no. If your muscles are getting stronger, you are gaining muscle. But just because you move more weight, which now technically meets the definition of strength, in other words, if you squat 400 lb instead of 350, you are technically stronger, doesn't necessarily mean your muscles are proportionately bigger or stronger. And I and I think this is the distinction people don't get because h how do we define strength? What is strength defined as? Nothing ambiguous. I hate people say there's all types of strength. No, there isn't. Shut up. Stop. That is a a backwards moronic statement. Strength is the production of force against an external object. How do we generally measure that? Well, lifting a one backs. Okay. Now, people say, "But we could do different leverages and that." Okay, but that's besides the point. If you get better leverages in place and your moment arms and everything are better and more perfect for it, see where I'm about to go with that? Well, then guess what? You're stronger. You produced more force. Okay? Again, we have to understand that you did produce more force. You might have done so by cheating the leverages a little, but the force was still produced exerted against the object, right? You're exerting force against an external object. Okay? Body fat can facilitate that. And you have to understand that if it helps with your squish and and I'll make some of this gets really easy. Everyone understands uh if you put wraps on your elbows or your knees, you can probably lift more weight with those joints, right? because you improve the leverage. You have an external leverage advantage. Okay? You have an ex a force that is not the muscles helping you push against that limb. Okay? Fat can do the same thing. Big fat belly can trim range of motion a little, help you bench more. All that extra fat in the chest can change the leverages against the way the tendons press against everything. Okay? on a squat, more abdominal fat, more thigh fat, even small amounts, creates more squish out of the bottom, which is where you're weakest, and so on and so forth. If you can squish against your fat, same thing on the bench, too. Man, that's a one. What if you're getting fatter just around the whole torso? You got some extra fat. You can pop those lats and that fat against your arms more. People say, "Well, it's not a lot. Does it need to be? If you get a little bit of boost out of the bottom, which is where we're weakest at the bench, you get that little bit of extra pop and leverage to these different things, it can add up. Like, if you get really fat, it could it could add up to 50 or 100 pounds. Okay, think about some of these really fat world record level benches. Do you honestly think if all that fat was gone, a lot of them wouldn't lose 50 or 100 pounds on that bench? a lot of them would some of the really fat squatters those leverage. So it and it works on the on the smaller scale. So yes getting fatter can improve strength in terms of absolute strength. Now your relative strength fat fat gaining 20 pounds of fat is not going to make your relative strength go up. It could it could get worse, right? Because that 20 pounds of fat might only equal 20 pounds of extra weight lifted. You know what I mean? And well, if you're already lifting double your body weight, your whole ratio went down. Understand? Ratios went down. So, what about the muscle? People are like, "But it's got to create more muscle, but it doesn't. It's been studied in the lab." Okay, that's external leverage. The muscle fibers are not getting additional tension on them from that. Therefore, they're not growing anymore. Just because you're holding a heavier weight in your hands or on your back doesn't mean your quads and your pecs and stuff are contracting harder or getting more tension. They're not. Especially if it's just helping you out of the eat the hardest part of the lift where the most tension is. Okay? So, it it doesn't do anything. And then when it's been studied, calorie surpluses that are large enough to cause fat gain do not cause more muscle growth in the lab either. And recomposition is certainly possible. And I think people forget that we when people say, "Oh, we can't recomposition." Then why do we have studies this year, last year, 15 years ago, 20 years ago, 25 years ago showing even advanced athletes when diet and training are dialed in, they recomposition. It's not rapid. It's very, very tiny amounts of fat loss with tiny amounts of muscle gain. But when you're an advanced lifter, that's amazing. Oh no. If every year after you've been training five plus years, you could gain a tiny amount of muscle while losing a tiny amount of fat at the same time, that's an absolute win. Okay? And that's drug-free. I It's been done in numerous studies for decades. We've seen it repeatedly. Recomposition is fine, but studies on the bulking show the same thing. Only a very small calorie surplus seems to contribute at all to muscle growth. And anything beyond that does nothing but make you gain more fat. And it doesn't matter that you're gaining fat leverages and more squish and moving more weight. You're just getting more squish and leverage against the weight. It's no more than if someone puts on a slingshot or knee wraps because they're lifting more weight, they think they're gaining more muscle. It doesn't. It's not more tension, okay? It's removing tension. That's why you're able to move more weight. The problem is people really think that way. People really do go, "Well, I'm overloading because I'm using that to help me lift more weight and it's letting me overload uh the lockout." And they truly think that they're gaining more muscle. Well, that's just not based on biomechanics, not based on science. It's not based on reality. It's just letting you cheat more weight up through, you know, external leverage. Doesn't mean you're gaining more muscle. And the fat doesn't either. And this is confirmed in the lab. We we see it. It's not causing you to gain more muscle. Even the extra nutrition isn't causing it. Um and and even then unless you're quite lean, really lean, uh a surplus itself, even a small one, may not even help. The evidence for that being necessary to optimize growth is actually kind of lacking. But what we do know is that when it's anything more than an extremely small, and I'm talking 50 60 calories. So all this old 10% surplus, that's massive. You're going to gain mostly fat on that. Just be aware, right? This the study that looked at the one of them was a 3% surplus as measured in the lab versus a 10%. The muscle growth was the same. The 10% just gained a lot more fat. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.