Getting thick requires years under the barbell. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. Uh if you aren't following me or subscribed, please do so. And if you guys would please drop me a comment down under the video, I would appreciate that so much. Thank you. Um you know, this is something I kind of bring up with topics. You know, I've told guys if they're just trying to look big quickly, reasonably aesthetic, all that stuff. I always tell guys things like, "Yeah, just really, really work on your shoulders, work on your lats, it's what will quickly give you the appearance of of, you know, more aesthetic look like someone who works out because the wider shoulders, right? Just having wider shoulders." And that comes from both delts, comes from having lats. So, any of that will spread everything out, make you look wider. And that's also when guys get leaner, which is what will give, you know, guys who are not big yet. It's what will give you that more aesthetic look. Um, and and this has always been good advice. This is kind of the Hollywood advice. This is one of the things they do with actors, they really come in and hammer that stuff. Like I've almost seen that always when you really look at when it gets released, what a lot of these actors do. They just have them do big heavy compounds, you know, squat branch, deadlift, dips, all that stuff, right? And then they just hammer the heck out of their shoulders and stuff like they go really hard in the shoulders and then the lats uh because it works. And so I mean we'll see them doing just big compounds but then you'll look at their other stuff like man they have them isolating all three heads of the delt. They're not isolating a lot of the other stuff. What are they doing? You know and they're having them just push that stuff. Uh why? Because you know it will make them have that look quickly. But there's a whole different ballgame to being thick, really thick to where when you were walking down the street, people know that you are big, right? Uh you know that look front to back like so some of this like when you guys will see me turn or whatever uh I'm thick front to back. That is something that takes a long long time because for that to occur you have to gain a lot of these various support muscles. I mean, you have to have pecs. You have to have mid traps, upper traps, romboids, like all these other muscles. You can't just have a wide back and be thick, right? You can't just have wide delts and be thick. Like, so to be thick, you have to have all those those go muscles. You have to have hamstrings, right? So, when you turn to the side, your legs look bigger, right? They can look big from the front with quads. Like wide shoulders and some lats will make you look wide from the front. But that thickness, it is something that takes years to develop. And it also takes a lot more muscle. You know, again, as long as you're lean, you can have a certain look really easy. And I And again, I tell guys that like if you just want to quickly just kind of get that look you guys are looking for, just get real lean. I mean, obviously work everything. You want to work every muscle in your body. You know, don't leave anything untrained, but just really double down on things like pull-ups for your lats and just do lots and lots and lots of delt work, right? Because it works. You'll look wide, okay? You'll look wide up top. You'll have the vtaper. You'll have the wide shoulders. Like, you'll look quickly like someone who works out. Like people, yeah, that guy's in shape. He lift you. He's got Look at the wide shoulders, right? People can identify it. But you're not going to look really big and thick. that front to back that comes from years under the barbell, okay? Hamstrings, traps, forearms, because having a wide back is not the same as a thick back. And the thicker your back is, the more everything pulls back, the more the chest sticks up, right? So then obviously you need pecs and everything too. So a totally totally different. So, a lot of those guys who have less time in the game, when they turn to the side, you can see the difference, you know, and they still look good. Don't get me wrong. I'm not saying they don't have nice physiques. I'm not saying they don't look good. And I'm in no way belittling or making fun of, right? This is this is not what this is about. We're none of us are trying to make fun of anyone. But we are talking about that there's a difference. And you can see the difference when dudes are walking down the street. You know, when somebody is strong because they have that thick look. You guys know exactly what I'm talking about. you're like, man, they got traps, they got hamstrings, the power look. And all all serious bodybuilders have that, too, right? Because they all have to be big. So, since everything is big, they're going to have thickness also. Um, but it takes time and there there's a big difference between being able to create an illusion by focusing on certain areas and making sure that they they grow really quickly and just getting lean because again, you can create an illusion real quick. You get a small waist, you get a vtaper, and you get wide shoulders, right? You're going to have the illusion in terms of proportion of of of you're going to look good. Honestly, like re realistically for the for the younger guys, that's how you're going to look good. Like people are going to look at you and be like, "He's got good physique, right? They're going to say that. Girls are going to notice. The other dudes are going to notice." People will notice, right? That's what you view as a guy's in shape. The guy works out and they know it instantly. if you have the Vtaper going as the shoulder to waist ratio, but nobody's looking at that and going, "Oh man, that guy's big." When they see you in person, it's that thickness, that density. And because those are bigger muscles, they take a long they take a long time to really fill out because, as I've said before, you have to have traps. And I mean your whole trap, romboid, hamstrings. How do we build all that stuff to deadlifts, good mornings, RDL's, rows, pull-ups, but usually tons and tons of rows, right? There's a lot more that goes into that than just getting a nice vtaper. So, it's something that takes time. It takes time and and it almost always requires requires you to be strong because again when we think of thickness versus just like so that's a perfect example of a thick herculean look versus you know the more polyian aesthetic look right if you got good jeans for the aesthetics you can attain that pretty quickly and we all know it we all see it we've seen it happen many times but the more herculean look is really uh the power look right it's it's the power look it's the strength look Um, but again, I do point out that is also required to be an open bodybuilder. Uh, you have to still have that look anyways for for that because they have to be big everywhere. And if you're big everywhere, you're obviously going to be big in the power muscles that make you look thick and you're going to be big in all those muscles that make them look aesthetic. You're going to be big everywhere. They're called pro bodybuilders. Uh, but always remind you guys, it's this is not something you you will reach in a short amount of time to where you are really filling out a shirt, okay? Where you're really filling out the shirt. That's thickness. And it takes time to get there and it takes a lot of weight. You again, you probably have to be strong. Most guys who are going to get there, they're doing some heavy deadlifting, a lot of heavy rows because all those go muscles have to be built. the stuff on the back side of the body so that when you turn to the side, you don't disappear. Because we see that with the other look, too. You can always tell those those slimmer guys, it's not because they're skinny, you're thinking of a slim. No, they just haven't built those muscles yet. So, they're they look nice and wide, good vtaper, wide shoulders from the front, they look great, right? But they turn to the side and they disappear. And and there's nothing wrong with that. It just means they're a short timer in the game with a lot of that. And and there's nothing wrong with that. Everyone starts start. Everyone starts somewhere and just keep moving forward, guys. So again, if you're trying to get thick and have more of a power look, just understand it's going to take a lot longer and it's that simple.