All right, I know that this is a point of contention. This is a point of debate. Um, this is going to be a controversial topic, but please just hear me out on this. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. I thought I would uh share with my opinion with you guys on this, but if you would please click like on the video down below. If you aren't subscribed or following me, please do so. And if you will please drop me a comment down below just to say hello or to give your thoughts, I would greatly appreciate that. So, thank you so much. So, we come over to Ompic and the GLP drugs and all of this stuff. Um, again, this is a big controversy in a lot of circles. A lot of personal trainers are against it. People scream about the side effects, but I want to point out a couple of things in terms of the social dynamic of why this is a positive thing and why it's going to move our society as a whole towards being healthier and focusing on it. All right. Um, and what I will say on this, people will say, "Well, what about the side effects?" It's like, well, what about the side effects of being 50 or 100 pounds overweight? Okay, I want people to think that through when they jump up and make that claim and you look at these drugs, okay, and you look at their potential side effects and then look at the data on being 100 pounds overweight and tell me which one is worse. Statistically, you were far more likely to die young or have very serious health side effects. you are way more likely from being morbidly obese than you are from taking these substances under the care of a medical doctor. So, we need to be we need to be clear on that. Not saying there are not risks or side effects. Compare them to being 100 pounds overweight. We're in a completely different league. Okay? That ladder is super deadly. Guaranteed deadly. Not risk, not maybe. It is flat deadly for literally everybody. The other is a gamble. Think that through for a moment. Uh, also the whole point here is again you're talking under the care of a medical doctor. If your doctor thinks it's a good fit for you, they're monitoring you. They're keeping up with your blood work. They're watching for side effects. You see where we're going? This is a good thing. Now, a lot of people say, "Yeah, but they should do it with diet and exercise." I agree. I lost 150 pounds as a young man with diet and exercise. I fully agree. I I I agree with that. I'm a coach by profession. I live healthy eating and training. Like it is literally my entire lifestyle. That's my profession. Of course, I feel that way and I and I think that's reasonable. The problem is people aren't doing it right. Getting most people on board with that has been extremely difficult. So much so that this is why we saw the haze thing, the health at every size nonsense, which is doctors and experts disagree with that. So anyone who tries to push that, you are in complete disagreement with science. Like medic every medical doctor, every researcher in the field will tell you you are crazy. You are delusional if you think it is possible to be healthy and and be morbidly obese. They're like impossible. You can't. If you do, it's going to be very short term and your your health is going to absolutely decline. 100% chance. Okay? So, it's nonsense. The problem is why do people go that way? Well, it's come over to the body positivity and it's because for a lot of people in our environment full of junk food and our bad eating habits and our poor mental health and food being a coping mechanism and drug, it's very difficult for the average person who gets overweight to lose weight. Once they get there, it's very hard in this environment. Okay? Therefore, that's why the health at every size rub. It's like people like, I can't do this. So, let's just convince ourselves and try to force everyone else to believe that we're healthy and beautiful and everything else, right? Since it's too hard, it's too much work. Let's just let's just try to convince everybody so then we'll be okay and we'll be accepted and and and it's all good. That's literally where it came from. But now when people are going on these these substances, they're like, "Oh man, it's pretty easy to lose 30 40 lbs. This is not bad. This is easy. You see where I'm going?" Now all of a sudden it's becoming socially acceptable to do this. So then then if it's socially acceptable and all the celebrities are talking about, everyone's doing it, you know, and it becomes a norm, then it's like, well, then this health and every size thing starts to go away. What do you mean bossy positivity? What are we talking about? uh all the everyone's getting getting leaner and and and losing the weight. Uh we need to be able this is the social movement now, right? That's a positive thing. Now people say, "Yeah, but what about the habits? What about the losing muscle?" Well, this is where trainers and other people come in. And this is why as a trainer for me, I'm like, I'm not worried about this. Do you know why? Well, I'm not technically a trainer. I'm a strength coach, not a personal trainer. But even if I were doing personal training because it's going to push more people towards health, okay? they're going to realize they can't stay on the drug forever. And once they get used to losing the weight, like, man, I got to change my habits. I got I might have to have some help. It's going to push people towards healthy eating in the long term. The same thing, they get weaker, they're losing muscle. Uh they need a trainer. If they don't know, they're going to have to come learn from people. They got to learn from people like me who put out free information online, guys. I have free programs. Like, as people get more into this, this is going to push fitness. So, we need to be clear on that. This will push more people in society towards fitness because it is now going to make obesity more socially unacceptable again. You understand that the reason we've had the problem too is because the food environment's created and the garbage food is there. It's become so common that people have pushed back and said, "Oh, we need it to be acceptable. We can't have discrimination. Everyone has to accept our our poor lifestyle." Right? This is what's happened. And I'm speaking as someone who's been over 300 lb. So no, don't start with a sore. You're whatever. I was ashamed when I was fat. And you should be. It's it's it's horrible for you. It's horrible for you. And we all know this. So let's come over to to that point. It's going to push it back towards being socially unacceptable. When that happens, it's going to push more people towards fitness. Does it mean they're all going to do it the smart way or the right way? the healthy way. No, but a lot more will. A lot of people will. It's going to push people in the direction of saying, "Hey, you know, let's get fit. We can't stay on this drug forever. It's a good to get us started, but we're going to have to change our lifestyles if we want to stay there. We want to fit in. Everyone is now looking better. This obesity is out. It is not popular. It's not socially acceptable." All right. This is going to push a culture back towards gyms. It's going to push the culture towards healthy eating. It's going to push the culture away from junk food because that's the other thing. People don't want to eat junk food when they're on the drug. That's why you lose weight. By the way, people understand that the almost the primary mechanism is the loss of appetite and cravings. That's the primary mechanism by which these substances are helping people lose body fat rapidly. They have no desire to eat the junk anymore. This is a big deal. Okay? Because we get rid of that, then it becomes easier for us as a society to say, "Hey, let's get rid of the junk. Let's just get rid of it." As a society, look, more people aren't craving it. They're like, "Yeah, I don't need this anymore." So, these people are right. We need to just get rid of this stuff. You do that. Like, if we as a society just pretty much ban and get rid of the garbage, junk food, these problems go away. This gets more people on board. Once they've lost the cravings, they don't want it anymore. Like, what are we talking about? Why do we want to keep this stuff? What was the reason? Oh, so we could be fat. We could be fat and unhealthy and have cancer. So again, this is going to push the entire culture towards health and fitness. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.