More than 15 to 20 sets for a muscle group in a week is almost always going to lead to overtraining. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Um, just a quick reminder though, if you will please click like down below, it'd be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following me already, please do so. Um, and please leave me a comment down below. Now, I know this topic gets really, really complicated when we're talking about conjugate training because people are like, "How do we count maxes? How do we count speed work?" So, let's just set that to the side. Let's not even worry about that. That really complicates it. When I talk about this 15 to 20 sets, like I'm going to go out on a limb and say that even the secondary stress, you start getting past about 20 sets, it's a problem. But usually, you know, when we're talking about volume, uh, you know, we're usually talking about direct sets. And I'll go so far as to say is that if you were doing a lot of big compounds, even six hard sets, six to nine hard sets a week for a muscle, right? And I'm talking stuff to where you only count the bench press towards one muscle, for example, right? Um, so I'll even say six sets. So, if if you were only counting one muscle per compound movement, six sets a week uh will probably be pretty good. People say, "What do you mean?" Well, if you count bench press and incline is chest only, for example, you know, right? Uh so then again, you start looking at stuff like, "Well, am I doing six for my triceps, six from my my front delts?" Well, yeah. Yeah. I mean, this is what I mean. This is what I mean total. Um, so when you start kind of counting only one muscle per compound movement, yeah, if you do it that way and twothirds of your training is compounds, I'll go so far as to say that most of you out there make really good gains on six sets a week, really good gains. Um, but if we're going to start counting the totality, if you start counting everything, that's what I mean. So, if you're counting front raises, incline, dips, bench, everything is front delts. Yeah, this is when we start talking 15 to 20. If you count all your pressing as triceps, all your dips is triceps and your extensions. This is what I mean when we start talking about those upper thresholds. And I'm going to say, you know, based on my experience, but when I mess with stuff, too, I've noticed muscles that when I start hitting those crazy volumes, they don't really grow. I don't see growth in those muscles. If anything, they they stagnate. So, when I've started doing that much bicep volume, you know, I kind of find the same thing. Like, my biceps do not seem to be growing when I do that. Um, and and conversely, when I'm only doing about six, seven hard sets for my quads in a week, my squat and stuff tends to start going back up if it's really high quality work. Like, I start getting stronger at the big movements from the hypertrophy, right? things grow. Um, and it's the same thing I've noticed with clients and and I'm aware there's data on a lot of this stuff, but there's also been former data in studies showing when sets start getting, you know, really high, they did gain less muscle. Like when we started looking at studies looking at 15 or 20 sets of muscle group and some of those older studies, those groups did gain less muscle than the 10 sets. Like there was an older study done and I know it's considered outdated. A lot of people disagree with it, but I mean it showed 10 sets was producing about maximum growth. The the group that did 15 sets saw a hair less, they still grew. The 20 sets saw even less growth, but they still grew. I mean, that's kind of telling. And realistically when you look at most of even the best bodybuilders whether they're natural or enhanced I mean that right around that you know 15 set a week starts to turn into the that threshold to where guy that's where they're training okay that's where they're training even ones who are purportedly low volume like Dorian because he didn't count his warm-ups but his warm-ups were work sets by every standard. Um, but that's that's kind of the upper threshold. You don't see that many of them. I mean, really, you look at the training of even these these Mr. Olympias. Very rarely do you see any of them winning who are doing over 20 sets and it's closer to 15 16. Seems to be kind of a sweet spot. You know, again, if we're careful how we count the work. Um, and the stuff I've noted too, cuz I've done phases where I'll do really large amounts of high rep band stuff and everything, throwing in lots of isolation for weak points. But can I say that things like my biceps and stuff really grew when I did that? I don't think that they did, right? And I've noticed the same with clients. And yet, I've had plenty of clients who we do about 10 sets a week, 10 to 12, and they do phenomenally well. Like a lot of my drug-free guys, not talking about my dad body transformations who will do six sets all the time and they'll be fine. I'm talking my guys who really have kind of serious goals um who are drug-free. And I've gotten guys like 500 squats drug free doing that. I've gotten guys dramatically bigger doing that without gaining any body fat in that 10 to 12 set range working really hard, you know, with a combination of compounds, isolations. Okay, that 10 to 12 set, it's it's a really good sweet spot. And I think for a lot of drug-free guys, it really is. Um, now I don't know how we necessarily want to break that down when we start talking conjugate. I'm talking guys who aren't doing that. Um, could we say some of the speed work counts? Yeah, I think that it does. But I would realistically count all your speedwork total is maybe three work sets. And I think it works in that context. I might count ramping to a one rep at max as one work set since we're only going to ramp to one max at a time. Right? Most time we're doing one per workout twice a week. H that one set isn't going to make or break you on your your count. So I might not count it at all. Okay? I might not count it at all. Think of it just a primer for your hypertrophy work. But yeah, I mean I'd go out and on a limb and say look all the muscles the muscles that got worked in speed work counted as you did 10 sets of speed work just counted as three work sets and I think it works. I think it works in that context, right? So, let's say, what do we mean? Speed benching. Speed benching. Uh, say you do 10 sets of speed bench. And so, let's say you do three sets for your chest max day, three sets for dynamic day, then you do the speed work. That's nine sets. I think it's going to be about right in terms of where your growth is. Now, if you happen to do a second chest exercise on max effort, takes you to about 12 where we're really in a sweet spot there. I mean, that's kind of what I was doing when I got my close grip to 365 on conjugate before. More or less what I was doing about 12 total sets. My quads were massive when I got to that that high. It was above parallel 605 camber bar years ago. I was seeing about 12 work sets for quads a week. My quads were getting massive and it was carrying over to the maxes. Um, so so again, it is that's a really good sweet spot. And would I say for certain weak points, yeah, if you have one weak muscle, could you be hitting that 15 to 20? I think that's reasonable. You know, would I count rear delt work as front delt and front delt work as rear? No. But I'd count all of it as side delts, right? So, if you're doing your math kind of in that context, uh, you know, I think that 16 to 20, you can probably get away with about one muscle a week for most people if it is truly a weak point and they're really high quality sets. But in my experience, when we start exceeding, especially that 20, I just don't see growth. If anything, I see people stagnant. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.