I have a very good set of rules to determine if something is a good source of fat or not. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But if you would please click like on the video, it would be greatly appreciated. If you aren't subscribed or following me, please do so. Now, if you would be so kind as to drop a comment down under the video with your thoughts on it or just to say hello, it would be greatly appreciated. So, thank you so much. All right. So, when it comes over to fats, and and this is going to be a very unpopular opinion because people are big on putting added fats in their foods. Um, and I am a firm believer that this is just generally an unhealthy practice. This is probably the leading cause of obesity right up there with refined sugars. Like, I would go so far as to say that obesity would completely go away. 90 to 95% of existing obesity would be gone within 5 years if people simply stop adding fats to their foods and refined sugars to their foods. Like this would resolve it. We'd be done. I don't even care about how sedentary you are like at this point. I'm not saying I don't care, but let's let's be realistic, okay? We know what's causing it. It is the excessive calories and it's the excessive fat calories. We store fat, right? We don't store that refined sugar. It just creates a metabolic issue, appetite issues, metabolic issues. It's going to make it worse on the fat side. All right? But um so how do we make something not an added fat? Only eat it in whole foods. And and I'll give you guys a rule, and this is where people uh get lost on it. All right? The presence of protein or fiber. This is what we're looking for. Okay? If, and I'm going to take it a step further, uh, if a fat source does not have protein or fiber, it's it's junk food. You really shouldn't be eating it. You shouldn't be putting it as a food ingredient. Okay? Now, right there, that upsets all the people that have people who said stuff like beef tail is not a refined food. It is objectively considered to be a refined food by every metric. Like, no one considers it a whole food other than the weird carnivore col. That's it. Nobody else. Okay. Nobody else considers it a whole food. Um, so that's a perfect example. Butter, perfect example. Any oil. Yep. That includes your olive oil. I don't see, you know, realistically, this is going to again upset people. I don't see how extra virgin olive oil is particularly better than canola oil. Both going to make you fat. One of them's got more polyphenols than the other. That, okay, fine. But you're still going to be just as fat. I mean, we could make the case for the canola oil technically being less fattening by a tiny margin. Um, having to do with with oxidation of fatty acids, right? Because PUFAs speed up fat oxidization more than do and MUAS do more than saturated fat does. Been proven in the lab. This is not even in question. All right. But they're all junk food. All everything we listed is junk food. Okay? Um because all plant sources of fat come with fiber. So as soon as you take the fiber out, it's garbage. Same could be said of sugars actually, right? Once you strip the fiber away, it's now junk food. So most of your fruit juices, they're junk food. All right? So, let's give examples of of good plant fat sources. In the animal sources, it's more to mitigate the damage. So, I'm gonna But let's get over to the plant stuff. All right. Olives. Notice I didn't say olive oil. Olive oil doesn't have fiber. Olives do. Peanuts, nuts, right? There you go. There's your health. Let's think of your really healthy fats. Nuts. Avocados. Okay. Well, what's going on? There's tons of fiber in this. And the presence of fiber means that other stuff is in there. This means we've kept most of the phytonutrients, the antioxidants. All these beneficial things are present. All these beneficial things are present. So very easy, isn't it? Oils bad. Nuts, seeds, olives, avocados good. Does it matter that it's the same fat? It's the whole source of the food and the context matters. Okay? Because what's going to make us fat? The hyper palletability of just adding these oils, we're increasing calorie density uh for very little satiety when we add oils to anything. Okay? The same thing when we add the other fats uh the butter, the tallow, all this crazy nonsense. These are objectively worse than the oils. Um, I don't see how anyone makes a case otherwise. It's not a data driven point. And the oils are bad enough, by the way. So, let's come over to those and I'll make my point. Presence of protein. In fact, I'll go so far as to say that when fat calories start exceeding protein calories in a uh a source that doesn't have fiber, it becomes problematic. Why? Saturated fat in excess is bad. Actually, saturated fat in general can raise LDL, but we have cardioroprotective benefits that make saturated fat benign. So, and that's where we need to be clear. You get crazy people now who like saturated fat is good. No, it's not good at all. There there is no data supporting anywhere it being good for you. It's it can be a neutral calorie source and that's fair, right? But where does that occur? usually with the presence of large amounts of protein um certain electrolytes and things. So, case in point, look at the look at the data on whole milk versus butter. This has been studied. People who consume whole milk, they don't see a negative hit on their lipid profile. Seems to be completely neutral. It's not positive, but it's not negative. Okay. same amount of fat is consumed from butter in test subjects. We see a negative impact on their lipid profile. Okay? Once we've removed the protein, the calcium, the magnesium, all that stuff, we've stripped it out. It's now junk food. It shows on the blood work. It's actually butter is horrific on the blood work. Now that margarine, trans fat margarine are illegal. Butter is just about on the worst thing now. Like in terms of the effectiveness, butter is now top of the list. Now that the worst thing has been outlawed in the United States, butter is now back to being the worst. Okay. I guess beef tallow would be up there, too. Uh negative hit on your your inflammatory markers, LDL, cholesterol. Again, you've taken the fat from the steak and cut it off and then you've rendered it. Okay? So we've removed all the protein, the B12, all these things that could give you some cardoprotective benefits, we've removed. So it's the same thing with a lot of these processed meats, bacon, sausage, where the fat is like 70, 80% of the calories now. Okay, what happens? What does the blood work look like? It looks horrible when you eat it. Cancer goes up. Cardiovascular disease goes up. But a steak doesn't necessarily do that. Okay, understand the difference. Once we start trimming the protein or the fiber away, it becomes a junk food, okay? We lose a lot of the health benefits of the plant fats and then we lose the protective benefits of the animal fats. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.