Gut health impacts everything from your mental health to your immune system. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribe, please do so. And if you would be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that so much. Thank you. All right, let's get over to the topic. Um, so I've made some posts on this on Facebook and I've had someone say, "I don't think you've really done a lot of videos on this. You know, you don't talk about gut health a lot. I think for me it's because the understanding that we have just a normal healthy diet. What I define as a healthy diet, right? It's going to automatically give you good gut health. Why? We're not eating huge amounts of saturated fat. We're not eating refined sugars, refined oils. We're eating tons of whole food, tons of fiber. Okay? So any diet that has lots of prebiotic food in it, we're eating wide varieties of of whole foods, fruits, vegetables, we're getting, you know, 50 plus grams of fiber a day. Uh we're not putting stuff through our gut that is going to kill off stuff. We're not drinking alcohol. We're going to tend to have good gut health, right? Wide varieties of fire, fiber, and plant matter. So again, whole grains, legumes, fruits, vegetables, all this stuff, the stuff that we know builds gut health. Okay. And it's crazy that we're at a point where people are have such horrible gut health that they're undertaking zero fiber diets because they have IBS and other stuff because they've had such horrible diets that their gut health is suffered. So they're using a band-aid instead of fixing their gut health. To me, that's insane. It's like, man, you guys are really really going to have major problems in the future. Um, you know, and they they think, oh, well, now I'm fixing my problems. No, it's going to keep exacerbating. you're going to make it worse. Um, but the the point that we have to think about here, you know, people will say stuff like, well, I don't need a healthy diet because I need this other food to feel healthy or to feel happy, right? That's what they'll say. But it's like, but but what do you mean? Like, if you don't have healthy gut flora and you're having, you know, insulin resistance from this stuff and your your gut flora is out of balance because you're just giving it tons of refined sugars, not enough fiber, your your brain neurotransmitters are going to be messed up anyways. not going to be happy. And I think that's the point they're missing. Um, and I'm not saying psychiatry and and meds are not important in many cases, but we have to start with the basics. All those things affect neurotransmitters, but so does your gut health. Okay? So does your gut health. And we know that poor gut health and gut flora imbalances absolutely contribute to anxiety. They contribute to depression. Okay. So, how many of these these mental health issues do we have? Not saying they're directly caused. I want to be clear. I am not saying bad gut health is 100% the cause. Okay? Because we don't necessarily have evidence for that. We might be able to make some case for that, but I think that's still a little bit of a push, you know, uh but we know that it will absolutely exacerbate it. There's data on that. My god, we've seen data on that. nutritional deficiencies alone, right? Nutritional vitamin and essential fatty acid deficiencies are absolutely linked to making these problems considerably worse. Well, gut gut health, too, right? Because if your gut floor is out of balance, neurotransmitters out of balance, you're going to be more prone to these mental health issues. They're going to be worse. So, is it any wonder that we have the mental health crisis that we do, right? Granted, we don't always have the best mental health care. Like, I'm not arguing that we we do in America at least. Okay? No one's making that argument, but is it any wonder that you can pile on top of that horrible gut health because people eat low-fiber diets and they eat lots of junk and then on top of that alcohol and other stuff which deteriorates the health of all of this? Is it any wonder some of these people like, "Oh, my gut health is so bad. I'm having to do a zero carb carnivore diet. Uh, wow. Which you shouldn't be. There are other better solutions to that, which it's insane that anyone gets to even that they think that's a solution. But the fact that they're even willing to try something that extreme that their gut health is that bad. This is how bad of a problem we have. So, if we're this bad as a society, no wonder we have record highs for anxiety disorders and and chronic depression and the need for the meds for all. No wonder our our whole body is out of balance, right? And we know this is the case. Uh same thing with with immune system. Immune system starts in the gut. Immune system starts in the gut. Why do you think doctors have even told people for decades, oh yeah, man, eating more yogurt and everything will help your immune system, healthy bacteria. Okay, and that's one aspect. Yeah, there's several live cultures in there, but there's tons of others that you can benefit from, right? Gut health is where the immune system starts. That's your foundation. Okay? So, words, your foundation for your immune system there. It's how we fight off stuff. Didn't we learn our lessons with the whole pandemic? not that long ago of how unhealthy we become as a society, right? We literally had a super flu shut our nation down for the most part, our world. Come on, guys. Let's get our immune systems fixed. Uh we we need to address some big problems. Okay, let's let's start talking health and fitness. Let's talk about, hey, let's get off all the junk and let's fix our gut. Let's eat whole foods. Let's eat fiber. Not saying we don't eat animal stuff, too. I'm big on animal protein. So, don't try to do not try to pin me as a vegan here. That's not going to fly. I love meat and I'm very pro dairy. So, let's not go there. I am super massive on animal source proteins. Enormous advocate for it. Actually, a 220 pound advocate for it. But I digress. Immune system. Um, same thing with fighting cancers. People not realize this is a factor in cancer. So your ability to fight off colds, flu, the rona starts in the gut. Your mental health, your focus, your concentration, your mood, your depression, your anxiety starts in the gut. Your ability to fight off things like cancer, it starts in the gut. Lifters, athletes, your recovery. Think about everything we just said talking about recovery, immune system, all these things, your mood. Uh, do you think that's going to affect your training and your recovery? Do you think having a strong immune system probably going to help with your recovery? Many of you guys, you get too far into your training, you start getting sick because you've been training a little too hard. Yeah. The factor, guys, gut health. And that the scariest one that we have to come back to is people will eat stuff all these things that's horrible for their gut health and claim, well, I need this to be happy. I need it for a fulfilling life. Well, really, you know what? But I think I think that you need a healthy gut and I think you need neurotransmitters that support joy and happiness and mental health and balance. I think I think that you need that, right? I think you need proper dopamine responses, right? I think that you need a healthy neurotransmitters and a healthy dopamine response. And all that starts with taking care of your gut health. And then on top of that on taking care of your other stuff like your insulin sensitivity and your inflammation in your whole body. But those things all go hand in hand, don't they? All the foods that promote gut health tend to promote improve insulin sensitivity and stuff also and reduce inflammation. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.