Guys, stop skipping leg day. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciate it. If you're not following or subscribe, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Thank you. All right, let's get over to the topic. Um, first of all, strength, sports, all these things. guys are always skipping a leg day because a lot of times guys feel stuff like, well, it's not manly, it's not masculine, which is ridiculous. Um, when you think of step back and think about the importance of hip extension, leg strength, and what all it's used for in real life. Really a silly take. Number two, they think women don't notice or don't care about their legs or glutes. Uh, which nothing could be further from the truth. All right. Number three, you're literally killing your fitness. You are hurting your fitness. You're hurting your uh ability to cut. You're hurting your metabolic health. You're hurting your cancer risk. Everything. So, I'm going to briefly go through all all of all of this. All right. First of all, the whole concept of it not being manly. Yet, every single thing that guys think of is hyper masculine. Legs, glutes, hip drive, hip extension is absolutely critical. All the physical activities that dudes think of. All right, let's go down the list. Soccer or football, right? Somewhat. How about American football? How about rugby? How about any contact sport where you push or pull? How critical are glutes, legs, hip extension? Absolutely critical. Absolutely critical. That is where your power is generated. Show me any guy who plays any of those really serious contact sports, who doesn't squat, doesn't do various hip extension work, build their glutes, build their quads, build their hamstrings, all of them do who are successful at it, and they're really good at it. Okay? Really, really good at it. So, all these things that guys think of as these masculine man's man sports, they're all low, very lower body dominant. Not saying the upper body is not used, but push, come to shove, they are about fighting. You say, "Well, boxing, well, what about every other martial art?" You tell me boxing doesn't use hip extension. I think we know that it does. You tell them tons of the best boxers in the world weren't good at back squats and didn't have glutes or legs. Of course they do. Every other sport, absolutely. Look at the squats of all these UFC fighters and cage fighters, everything. Tons of them were super strong. Tons of them were powerlifter strong on their squats and things. So if these guys who all these guys think of as hyper masculine u this whole concept that guys have, oh yeah, that's a serious alpha male, right? They get this idea, but then you don't want to do the things they do. You don't want to train anything like they train while pretending that it's somehow protecting your masculinity. That's a very fragile masculinity, guys, to where of getting under a heavy squat bar and training your quads and your glutes is somehow not masculine. Yeah, I'm going to disagree. Even things like hip thrust and glute bridges, you'd be surprised how many of those guys do five, six, 700 lbs on those lifts. It's part of their their their training for so for every serious strength, every power sport, every sport that involves speed. also jumping, sprinting, running. Most world-class sprinters are insanely strong at squats. They all train their legs. They are required to train their legs. Okay? Have all of that. Then you can talk about bedroom muscles. Guys, all women don't care. Really, you don't think hip extension and glute strength and stamina matter there. You may want to look at the biomechanics of these movements. It absolutely matters. On top of that, then dudes will say silly stuff like, "Well, women don't care. Women notice." There were surveys done where women, the first body part they notice on a guy, and they're looking at a specific body part was the butt. How are you going to build a muscular butt without doing squats and training your glutes? Very least you need to do squats. Women notice. They care. They also do notice your legs. They notice your lack of legs. If you have good legs, sometimes women will compliment them when you're out in shorts. If you're in shape, it absolutely happens. Ask me how I know. Look at my calves and legs. Next, again, back to the thing. Women actually like glutes. And I actually had a younger client. He didn't want to do glute bridges in the gym because there were some girls watching him while he did it. And he was embarrassed. Really young client. He's like, "Well, the girls are watching me and I'm doing a chick exercise." And I'm like, "No, dude. They're probably watching cuz there's a young man training his butt." And they like butts. They weren't looking down on you. They weren't making fun of you. They were probably like, "Oh, wow. Okay. All right. More dudes should be trained in their butts. That's probably what they're thinking. And it's a lift." A lot of them do. And knowing respect. So, it's a just strange idea that guys have. It's really, really strange. But then what about all the health benefits? We have more muscle in our lower body than our upper body. Means you're going to get more metabolic health, way better calorie burn, you're going to be able to eat more food without getting fat. So again, what if your goals are to get lean, have abs, all this stuff, a lot of these guys who pursue this, that is their goal. They're not just training upper body to be fat. They want to be lean. You don't think your legs massively contribute to your energy turnover doing cardio and other stuff. Your metabolic rate is enormous. Absolutely enormous. What about things like your free testosterone, your overall health, all these things? You don't think it it factors into all that? It does. Absolutely does. Uh what about cancer risk, diabetes, heart health, all these things? Cancer. Let's talk about cancer alone. You're already in the gym working out. You're going to skip legs. Knowing that muscle is protective against cancer and that you have more total muscle fibers in your glutes and quads and legs than you do in your upper body, you're literally helping protect yourself against cancer. And a lot of guys may not care till someone you know dies of cancer. I mean, a lot of you younger guys, you hear that, you're like, "Okay, you have a family member die of cancer ever." Whole lot they get their attention. Yeah. Was it pretty horrible? How how did you feel watching that? How'd you feel about that? You do realize training your lower body can help reduce that. Same thing with diabetes. Helps protect against diabetes. Also helps protect against heart disease. Same thing with your grandpa or grandma breaking their hip. That's the end of their life pretty much once that happens. You know, training your legs will help prevent that later. Stop and think about the quality of life down the road. You're already in the gym working out, guys. you're already in there. Go get under a squat bar. Go do some glute bridges or some deadlifts. Go do these big, heavy movements to train your lower body. You're going to be better at sports. It'll technically carry over into fighting. If you're trained and actually learn how to do it, be more athletic, stronger, harder to kill. You'll be more attractive to women. You'll be better in the bedroom. You're less likely to die of cancer, diabetes, and heart disease as a result of it. The entire idea of not training your legs is ridiculous. And if you actually think that you're it's it's harmful to your masculinity, you're not masculine to begin with or you wouldn't be worried about it. Fix it. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.