Guys will stand there and pretend that size and strength are not enormously related while ignoring ridiculous overwhelming amounts of evidence in front of their own eyes that they are. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you'll please click like down below would greatly appreciate it if you would uh please follow or subscribe if you aren't yet. And if you'd be so kind as to drop a comment down below, uh, I would appreciate it. It could be to say hello or your thoughts on the video. All right, let's get over to the topic. You know, I made a state this on Facebook the other day and I'm going to kind of read it out to you guys what I wrote and it's kind of funny and I said, "Guys over 10 size and strength are not related." Said, "But show me a guy who can bench 315* 10 without a big arch." Aigrass squat 405 for 10. Conventional deadlift 500 for 10. And still be able to do 10 plus reps on a dead hang weighted pull-up with a 45 lb plate. Who is small? I'll wait. I got few people who chime in like, "Yeah, it's pretty obvious that that's the case. They're not going to be small. They're going to be monstrous." Right? Anybody who can do this is going to be, barring walking into a pro bodybuilding show or high level powerlifting meet, is going to be the biggest dude in the room. He is going to walk, that guy is going to walk into the average box gym and be the biggest mofo in the weight room 99% of the time. And 99% of the gyms on earth, he can walk in the middle of the day. The odds are there's not going to be anybody in there bigger than him. Not saying they don't exist. There plenty of guys who are. They're not at every gym. That guy is a rarity and he's going to be big, okay? He's going to be big. Just because he might not look like the biggest dude on camera doesn't mean he's not going to be big, real big in person. So, my point with that, you know, I had people, they tried to pull up all these different things. You power lifter. I kind of pointed up to that guy. I said, "Okay, first of all, he doesn't squat, deadlift, or do weighted pull-ups. one trick pony who quite frankly, let's be realistic. This is a guy who claimed world record level lifts, right? World record level. Put it in video titles for years. Never stepped on a powerlifting platform. Made videos saying he was going to go compete in powerlifting. Far as I know, he lived in a major city. He could have walked into a powerlifting meet. He probably had five of them, six of them within an hour of him that he could have just walked into every year. Probably right there in his own town, I bet. never did one. Never bothered while claiming a world record level bench press while making tens of thousands of dollars in ad revenue on his YouTube. All right. Yeah, there's no no possible reason to lie on that one. Making tons of money. Nobody would ever lie and do a fake lift for money. It's never happened in the history of the world. So, because that's never happened, it's very obvious that uh you know, my whole statement is wrong because you think there's one guy who you're convinced his gym lifts were really big on a single lift that we still didn't talk about reps and the relationship between size, strength, and you know, overall workload. All right, you know, see what I mean? So, I'm going to point out so this Olympic lifter has this really big squat or snatch and I'm like, okay, but there's no real upper body involved. You don't have to have uh for these movements when they're technically done correctly. It's hip extension, quad. So, but where's all the rest of the lifts? And like, do you really think that guy is small? So, the guy has small arms, right? They show like a guy whatever snatching 380 lbs with big ass quads and small arms, but there's no arms involved. Where's the bench press and the pull-up? I want to see the guy flat back bench 315 for 10 reps. I want to see the guy rep out heavyweighted pull-ups for high reps from a dead hang. Let's see it. Oh, okay. But he's got quads. So, if the rest of his body was proportionate to the strength he displayed, would he be small? Of course not. So, that people want to pull these single isolated events. And that kind of displays my point. That is my proof to you that I'm right. So if people want to dispute this point, it's like, okay, but go find me any IFBB pro bodybuilder. He can do it. Well, yeah. Yeah, because there's a huge relationship between size and strength. You would pull anybody at the Mr. Olympia lineup. Open bodybuilding right now. Take them to the gym. How many of them could do what I just said? I don't They don't need to be a powerlifter. We're talking about doing sets of 10, guys. Doing sets of 10 with strict form. Bodybuilders love to fly back bench. Bodybuilders love to do asigrass squats. Telling me any one of those guys wouldn't do everything on that list for a warm-up. Okay, maybe not the pull-ups. The other list, you telling me any one of those guys that would even be a super crazy hard set for them to do? I bet you it wouldn't be. Like, do you really see Ronnie Coleman struggling with that or do you see that as a warm-up? I promise you Ronnie Coleman could have added a plate to everything on that list and done 10 reps. Let me state that again. I am sure beyond a shadow of a doubt looking at Ronnie Coleman's lifts and size he could add a plate to everything on there I listed and do 10 reps. No problem. It is prime. Jay Cutler, I bet you the same thing. So, all right. So, all the Jack dudes can do it, right? All the really jack guys. How many small guys? People like, well, what if I find one? The fact that you have to search for one answers the question. Okay, so you can go scouring the entire ends of the earth looking for this mythical person who can do this. You know, keep in mind, didn't Wendler joke about that? He's like, look, you guys want to talk about size and strength and bench press? He's like, I don't care that you have some mythical mythical person who's 150 pounds who benched 400 pounds that you're sure existed um deep in the mountains of Saskatchewan and Canada that no one's ever actually seen in real life, this legendary creature somewhere is completely irrelevant to the topic because in the real world, here in the real world where the rest of us live who go to gyms and see lifters. You're not going to see anybody be able to do everything that's on that list and not be crazy jack. In fact, I'll go far, let's just talk upper body. Let's take a squat and deadlift out because they're going to be big with they're going to have to be at a high body weight to hit those lifts. They're not going to be 140 pounds. So, we can look at the pull-ups and go, "Okay." So, guy who's got legs, too, he's doing those pull-ups, that weight, he's big. Same thing on the bench. How many guys do you know? How many guys have any of you ever seen in your life who can straight up bench without a big arch just walk in and raw dog 315 for 10 reps? Who's not a dang monster? How many? I want everyone to count. Sit there and think of every example you've seen in your life because we all know people who can do it. Okay. So, here's what I'm going to say to someone. Some someone who's seen hundreds and hundreds of lift goes, "Well, I did know a guy. I met a guy about seven years ago." Right? You see where we're going? I met a guy about seven years ago at this one gym this time who straight up at 170 lbs or 160 lbs. Uh I watched him do, you know, 315 for 10 reps like that flat back and I was just amazed. Yeah. But you've probably met 200 guys who could do it who were jacked. The fact that you had to go find the one example and it be just one lift. The fact that you could only think of the one you met seven years ago, but the other hundreds were big old dudes tells you everything.