Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and today I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about healthy fats and body composition. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click a like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, so let's get over into the topic. Occasionally I do get people who chime in at me, I don't want to listen to you about fat loss or body composition. You're not shredded. And they forget that I lost 150 lbs before. And then I got sick, spent a year in bed, regained 100 pounds, and rel. So I'm someone who successfully lost 100 plus pounds of body fat twice. Um, you know, in my over 25 years in the fitness game. And so I do think I know a little bit about that. I mean, all things considered, no, I may not be the most ripped, most aesthetic dude walking around at 49, but I do know a lot about body composition. Um, and you guys kind of see in this video, you know, pretty strong dude. I mean, I'm doing sets of 10 with 405 on a high bar squat. So, let's let's talk about this though. Um, in terms of just science and data and everything else. Uh, and I I think that we have to look at the role of of healthy fats, right? I think they need to be a high priority. Now, am I saying the ultra high carb, ultra lowfat approach can't work for lean gains? No, I'm not saying that at all. saying that can work pretty decent. The chicken and rice bodybuilder approach absolutely does work. So, you know, when I discuss stuff like this and I discuss having a couple different methods, it's like when people say, "How come you'll discuss the merits of of focusing on heavier weight or then the merits of of higher reps, you're flip-flopping?" No. Telling you there's two different approaches that can have pros and cons. And that's what we have to understand. Obviously with really high carbohydrate ultra ultra ultra low fat. This doesn't work if your fats like 300 fat calories a day. I'm talking just enough to survive. That's what what we mean by the ultra low fat being good for, you know, avoiding fat gain because we don't readily store carbohydrate as fat as as humans that easily. It's generally dietary fat. But I digress back over to the point with the training there or or the diet, I mean. So when we look at the benefits of healthy fats, we have to understand inflammation control, insulin sensitivity, high on the list. Now when I say healthy fats, I'm going to say some fats are more benign. Um I don't mean saturated fat. Look, I like red meat and I like steak and I I eat a decent amount of it, but let's be realistic. That is not a healthy fat per se. Too much saturated fat from directly from meat if it's in large amounts. So, let me be clear. Moderation, it's fine. Can absolutely be offset with the other healthy fats. So, when we're talking about that, what we mean is monounsaturated and polyunsaturated. And I'm not talking about eating them in and processed food form. I'm not telling you to go drink seed oils, but I also would never tell you to eat butter either. All right? We don't need refined saturated fats anymore than we need refined polyunsaturated fats. That's that's just stupid. That's going to make you fat and sick. Data is is overwhelming. It should not even be a topic at this point. It's insane. But in terms of healthy fats, um you can get away with fermented type dairy, saturated fats, and and dark chocolate, cocoa. Uh but Greek yogurts, most cheeses, certain whole food type cheeses, they they're going to be okay. They're going to be neutral. In fact, they can have some reducing cardiac sugar. Some of them can reduce certain types of inflammation. So, those are still okay, but it's not what we mean by the focus on healthy fats. We're talking polyunsaturated fats with a bias towards some omega-3. It's going to be what? Walnuts, any nuts, seeds, uh fatty fish. Okay, those things, right? Definitely fatty fish, walnuts, that that's going to be your top tier sources of of healthy fats in terms of polyunsaturated, right? What do they do? They improve insulin sensitivity. Uh they reduce inflammation. Okay, if we're reducing inflammation, our training is going to we're going to live longer. But what we're looking at too with that stuff is improved insulin sensitivity, reduced inflammation. You're going to recover quicker from training. All right. insulin sensitivity beneficial for muscle growth, beneficial for fat loss. And we have to be clear on that. The higher your insulin sensitivity, the better you recomposition and partition nutrients, right? Muscle tissue starts getting more of a bias towards fat tissue uh for the accumulation of of nutrients and energy. Okay, good thing. How do you utilize the insulin that's produced from your carbohydrate and your protein? It's kind of a big deal. Right? So, you want to avoid insulin resistance. That means not a lot of saturated fat. Not definitely not from say your red meat and other stuff. If you're going to eat it, you want more of it coming from whole foods type dairy. Uh can be reasonable. Definitely don't be eating big piles of sausage and all these refined red meats. Absolutely destroys these things. Okay. But your fatty fish, your walnuts, you know, black seeds, those are all fine. But I think what what gets missed a lot is is the monounsaturated fats in this conversation. Okay, monounsaturated fats, when we look at the data, there's some compelling data that shows they may be even more heart-healthy than your polyunsaturated. But the same thing improved insulin sensitivity, reducing inflammation and again they make great carriers for uh antioxidants in the form of of fat soluble vitamins like vitamin E, vitamin K. Okay, these are a big deal. So when we talk about monounsaturated, what do I mean? Avocados, dude. I love avocados. Okay, one to two avocados a day is pretty much a a multivitamin. When you start looking at the vitamin profile, loaded full of fiber, but that monounsaturated fat, the same thing that's in olive oil, right? So we can include olives and extra-virgin olive oil in there. I'll include avocado oil. I actually have a bottle of both in my pantry. I do those a little bit for cooking. Like if I'm going to cook, it's going to be in those. Okay. But avocados way up there near the high of the list, top of the list, right? Due to all the stuff they bring. But olive oil, even olives, absolutely up there. But what's another big one? Almonds. Most nuts, but almonds, right? How about almond butter that doesn't have any junk added? Man, that's a big one. So any of the nut butters are going to do that, but a lot of those are going to be a little more lenic acid like peanut butter. It's going to be more biased towards omega-6, which is good, too. But but really that almond butter is a perfect example of something you can add to your foods mixed with stuff works great. Like almond butter mixed in with Greek yogurt and then whatever other flavorings you want if you're doing more carbs, fruit, frozen fruit, or a little protein powder or throw some walnuts in there. phenomenal, phenomenal. Um, but those sort of foods, this is going to help you gain muscle and lose fat. It's going to help you with your training recovery. They're going to help you with your heart health. Now, all those other things help too. Obviously, better training and better body composition help with heart health, but these these foods do as well. So, we absolutely should if you're not going to do the ultra ultra lowfat approach. Um, and with high carbohydrate, I think putting a heavy focus on healthy fats is generally going to be the way forward. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.