Ultra high protein plus weightlifting is the long game for fat loss. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys about this today. If you guys would please give me a comment and a like below, I'd appreciate it. But let's get over into the point. All right, when it comes to weight loss, you know, a lot of times we focus uh, you know, on things like cardio or or purely reducing calories and all these things. And yes, these can be shortterm effective strategies uh for fat loss and weight loss, but if you're really looking at the long game in terms of body composition, all right, looking at the long game, even if you're a really obese person, lifting weights and hammering down protein isn't the fast way for weight loss, but it's the long-term effective ive strategy that will get you leaner and keep you leaner. Okay? And again, I'm not talking about contest lean. I'm not talking about for competitive bodybuilders or people getting shredded for a photo shoot. Although, here's where the joke comes in. That's not what we're talking about here at all. But they all obviously do that, right? Do you ever meet anybody who's getting ready for a bodybuilding show or a fitness modeling shoot who doesn't eat massive amounts of protein and lift weights? No. So, it's still part of even that strategy, right? We all understand this. But let's think about it for a minute of why this works. And this is basic stuff. I get it. People are like, "Oh, this is so basic. We shouldn't need to cover this." Well, a lot of people are new to fitness and a lot of people are not not understanding that. Um, like cardio can be a useful tool. Don't get me wrong. Don't get me wrong. Cardio can be a great tool, but for actual as a real fat loss tool, H you got to do a lot of it. Got to do a lot of it. Okay. Comparative to weightlifting. And we have studies on on both of these. And so let me explain. The studies that look at weightlifting versus cardio found even in the short term weightlifting causes just as much fat loss as reasonable amounts of cardio. Not talking about people doing four or five hours a day, right? Most people aren't doing more than an hour a day. It's like they're probably not going to lift more than an hour either. Uh they lose just as much weight, but they gain muscle and have better body composition, better metabolic rate. Okay, think about that. The short term versus the long term, but then they gain muscle, too. So, they end up with better body composition even with similar fat loss, you know, when it's plotted for, you know, five or six months. But think about the long game here. about the long game. You gain muscle, your energy turnover is higher all the time. Okay? Put on 10, put on 20 pounds of muscle, and 20 pounds of muscle is a long game. Most of you are not doing that in your first year. And keep in mind, it rapidly diminishes after that. It's probably a several year commitment. How much more calories do you burn laying around? A lot more. How much do you burn when you get up and move all your neat? And people forget that most of your calorie extra calorie burn beyond base metabolic rate is from your neat just moving around. But when you have another 20 pounds of muscle, you burn a lot of calories moving just moving around doing any activity. Your calorie burn goes up all the time. Okay? Even at the same body weight, not only are you gonna be much, much, much leaner at the same body weight, you're going to burn more calories, it's easier to stay leaner, right? We all understand that if you're 180 pounds, I'm just going to throw it out there. versus another person who's 180, but one of them has 20 pounds more muscle. You're probably burning four or 500 more calories a day just through your normal day-to-day activity. What does that turn into over long periods of time? So, think about that in terms of sustained fat loss. Think about that in terms of the long game. Your metabolism is higher, but then it also makes you burn more doing the same amount of activities later, right? You're you're a bigger engine. You need more fuel, more calories, more energy to do the same task. Okay, car people will get this. No replacement or displacement. You want to see You want to see an engine that sucks down, right? Get a really high displacement engine. Just taking a leisurely trip to the store, you're going to burn through way more fuel. This the same way with muscle. it you're going to be a little bit inefficient. Okay? And you're still building it year after year after year. So this improves, right? At the five-year mark, your metabolic rate is going to be a lot higher. At the 10 year, it's going to be even higher. All right. So what about the protein? Well, the protein does both. We got studies on protein overfeeding that shows when enough protein is force-fed, like we're talking insane amounts. I don't mean 200 grams. We're talking like 400 grams of protein a day. What do those studies find that people lose fat even when they try to overeat eating their normal diets? Not saying they try to overeat using, you know, pizza and ice cream. Anybody can get fat doing that. But the ones who who they forced them to do their normal diet they were doing and then add like 200 more grams of protein shakes to it, they all start losing fat. Why? Of course, they also gain muscle. Um, so what happens here? Higher the thermic effect of the protein, the appetite suppression of the protein, the muscle building of the protein. Okay, so again, if you're looking at the long game, we find that heavy protein overfeeding causes small amounts of fat loss on its own while still helping you build muscle. In fact, you build muscle just as easy as you do on a calorie surplus when you protein overfeed, even if you end up in a small deficit. again, if you're not shredded already. We're talking people at normal reasonable body fats. So for people who are just trying to slowly just chip away month after month after month and get leaner and leaner and over years, lifting weights and eating a really high protein diet allows you to do that without having to restrict yourself or starve yourself. Okay? Because the total effect is all of it, the protein and the muscle both will make you burn more calories through your neat through thermic effect through everything else be base metabolic or you're just going to burn more energy all the time due to both of those separately. So they really add up synergistically. Okay? You're just going to burn more energy all the time, month after month, year after year. The protein is going to be appetite suppressing. So you're going to be less hungry while burning more energy all the time. So what this means is again when you think about the long game, if you take this approach versus just trying to restrict yourself and doing cardio, what you're going to find is that you're a year deep into it, two years deep into it, your energy turnover is going to be way higher. you're going to be able to eat more food and with all the protein being appetite suppressing like hunger and appetite is the number one killer of fat loss. Okay, this combination fixes both of these for a prolonged periods of time for years and possibly even decades. This is your win strategy.