Once you are legitimately strong, doing high reps on big compound movements is amazing for muscle mass, athleticism, everything else. Uh, hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here from Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but if you would please give me a like and a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, let's get over to the topic and and this is stuff that we've seen. Uh so let's let's set aside athleticism in sports. We we know this stuff works here. Uh but you even see it in bodybuilding. We've seen it in bodybuilding many times. Um and we've seen people point this out. Um you know, we've seen guys like Dante Trudeell point this out decades ago. You know, he would say stuff like, "Look, if you can squat and deadlift 500 lb for 20 reps, bench 300 for 20 reps, you're going to be an absolute monster." Absolute monster. And he's right. Uh, and people forget about that. And I think I just did a video uh about how stabilizer muscles are built on big compound movements. Um, but I think that applies even more so when we're doing the really high rep stuff. And the reason for that, because they're not under the direct tension of the weight, it's more indirect. The longer difficult grueling sets work those stabilizers really, really hard. And and I mean examples you're seeing here some stuff in the background like doing sets of 12 of 40 405 on a squat. I got like eight reps here. Sometimes I get nine. Um you know with 500 on a deadlift. I think there was an 18 rep set with 225 bench trying to get to 20. But yeah, stuff like that. So this is this is what I'm talking about. Trying trying to get to, you know, 10 plus reps with these big movements. Now are they grueling? They're absolutely grueling. Um, but do they work? Because when I was at my biggest and strongest, you guys remember when I hit that 605 camber bar squat, I was only doing some singles. Everything else is really high. I was doing a lot of like 15 to 20 rep sets, but I was doing like sets of 20 with 300 on on the squat as back off work after maxing and stuff. Um, and I was also weighing, you know, like 245. I wasn't I was fatter than I am now. It's another reason I'm not as strong on those movements. But still, you get the you get the idea and I'm not alone in this. So, when you see guys who get to the ability to move big weights for a lot of reps, um the hypertrophic potential is massive. And when I say this, we're not talking about weak guys, okay? We're not talking about weak guys who haven't built a base. I'm talking if you can reach, you know, stuff like my dad bod strength standard. That's a perfect example. Like if you can bench 315, squat 405, pull 500, uh, you know, you've got a solid, respectable base as a as an advanced lifter, right? Because those those are advanced lifter numbers. If you can hit all three of those, you're you're very much an advanced lifter. No one's going to disagree with that. you either you're either fat, you're on a lot of drugs, or or if you're not either, then you've spent a lot of years under a barbell. But if you're trying to kind of get up to that next level, uh we know this works. All right? So, if you have enough of a strength base, and I'm not talking about coming in and doing 135 pound squats for 20 reps, like that's not going to cut it. But but if you're strong enough to put some decent weight on the bar, all these things work with the high reps. Um, and it's it's something we've said before, you know, doing doing a lot of reps with a heavy weight is the key to getting big. And I'm not saying low reps don't work. They do. But I think something that we have to think about in this equation, the total hypertrophic response is pretty high from the allout set. So, even if you do three really all out heavy high rep sets of squats a week and that's pretty much your your quad work and you just did three of them a week throughout the week, that's a ton of work. That is more than enough to grow on because people get too caught up in the volume and they think when I say reps, we're talking about volume. No, we're not. This the effective reps are still pretty similar as a a somewhat lower rep set. It's not more actual effective volume, but there's some things to think about. of why this works. Uh, number one's going to be obviously the stabilizers and growth response. Widowmaker squats got people really big back in the day. The old school super squats programs, dudes got really, really big. And it worked for football, worked for bodybuilders. A lot of dudes built really good bases uh doing that. Uh, this what I did early on for my squatting when I was when I was pretty new to the gym and it got it got me up to a 405 squat and I did that less than two years in the gym. Uh, you know, so those things work, but those super squats programs were stuff like uh you do one set of breathing widowmaker squats trying to get to 20 reps. You're taking about your 12 rep max and you're doing rest pause reps. You get to about 10 and then you rest pause and get all the way up trying to get up to 20. Well, it's exhausting but the growth stimulus is massive and then afterwards you usually do like a high rep set of pullovers. Okay, it would be a high rep set of pullovers and then um they would be super setting chin-ups and dips to failure afterwards. We're talking these workouts could be done in 30 minutes. They built massive bases. Okay. So, there there is that whole splash over through the body. And when we talk about stabilizers growing, I think it works better when the reps go up. All right. The other thing, um, when you get strong, the reason this helps, really heavy weight beats you up. Okay? Like, yeah, you're watching me do, you know, tens and twelves and stuff here. 405 on the squat. I'm trying to get that up to 20. Sure, I could do a five rep set that is a five rep max, but what's going to be the difference in terms of the the way it beats my joints up in fatigue? Yeah, the other is grueling in terms of endurance. Yes, they're grueling. Yes, they're they challenge your conditioning. Of course they do. But they don't beat your joints up because for me, 405 on a squat's just not that heavy. Same thing with a 225 bench. Like my my shoulders don't care about 225. Was I even before that doing like sets of five or 315? Sure. But which one is is harder on your joints? Like if you're taking rep 225 and you're able to do more than 10 reps at 225, it's just so small impact on your joints. And notice that with that I can do the really wide grip. We can do it all flat back and there's just no discomfort. Okay. And it's the same with squats and deadlifts with weights that you can handle 10 plus reps with good form. They just don't beat you up at all the same way, but they still make you bigger and they still make you stronger. You know, and I would I would point that out to anyone. You know, you take any weight um and you get to where you can do 20 reps with it, think about what your max is going to be relative to that. If you if even if you haven't maxed out and you were to come in and test it um and you take a weight and over time you take your 10 rep max and you build it to 20 reps with a moderately heavy weight, your max is going to go up tremendously. It's not uncommon for that 20 rep set to be, you know, about 60% of your max. So you see where I'm going here, right? So it works, guys. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.