High protein plus fasting is a phenomenal >> [snorts] >> uh body composition tool. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, and I get it. I am not contest shredded. So, in this I'm I'm not just talking about my personal experience. I'm talking about the personal experience of many others, including people I do know out there and people you would recognize who do get absolutely shredded to the bone with this approach. Um, so just because I choose not to be shredded to the bone doesn't mean this doesn't work for other people who want to do that. It doesn't mean I didn't lose over 100 pounds doing it. And I think um you know when we have these conversations it's this strange uh position that people take that uh they wouldn't take fat loss advice from someone who's not completely shredded to the bone irrespective of if they've lost 100 or 200 or 400 lbs in the past you know and I and I I think that's a point that has to be noted there. Um, you know, I'm I'm not like shredded, but I've also been like 50% body fat before. I've also been over 300 lbs. I have been ridiculously enormously fat when younger. Okay, so we we do need to be clear on that point and we have photographic evidence of this out there. Um, I have lost enormous amounts of weight previously, like in the range of up to 150 pounds. And when I got sick, I gained 100 pounds again. Um, depression, being bedridden, uh, disability, all that stuff at the time, and then relive I I I took it back off. And granted, that's been over a decade ago. Um, so I do have a lot of personal experience with fat loss. And then you guys see some of my clients who get pretty lean. Um, but it's not just me. I mean, God Burkin and everyone else. Oh, even Kenobody promotes this. So, it it clearly works for these other people. And those guys are really lame. Okay. So, in me stating this, this isn't just about Jason Blah's personal anecdote. No, it's about what's worked for a lot of people. Not ju it's not just about me. And I think people make that mistake, you know, when we discuss things sometimes, um, because they're so used to people who are influencers who don't read or know anything, who just have their personal anecdote. They don't coach people. Um, so that being said, no, it works great. Um, and and I've known people like my friend Alex Leaf, I've seen him discuss that. he did his his uh graduate work in protein metabolism and but he's the one who did the stuff on the protein overfeeding. But I've seen him say that he's he's kind of said like look if you feed enough protein and you combine it with fasting he goes it's almost impossible not to lose fat. It's like using the word you know kind of almost impossible meaning it's it's possible to not lose fat doing it but it's excessively difficult. Does that make sense? you know, not saying, you know, some people wouldn't be able to gain some fat doing it, but my god, is it hard and it does make fat loss easy. And here's the thing, it also makes recomposition easy. And I think that's the point we have to remember. Uh, protein overfeeding itself is associated with recomposition pretty successfully in studies. Like we see this a lot in lifters um in studies, even advanced athletes gain muscle and lose fat when protein gets high enough. You know, we have protein overfeeding studies. The same thing, right? And but let's say we throw this away. Let's say we don't need need studies at all for this. Let's say, well, I [snorts] only care about the real world, not what some dude in a lab coat measured. Okay. Well, how many bodybuilders How many successful bodybuilders? Yeah. When I'm getting ready for the Mr. Olympia, I inject my protein way up. Okay. So, how about that? So, let's say you don't care about science. You only care about what the best of the best have done. Okay. Well, how many pro bodybuilders do 500 grams of protein when they've been prepping and this going back even 20 years ago? They're prepping for the Mr. Olympia and uh they're eating like 500 grams of protein. We saw tons of them do it. Seems to work. It facilitates fat loss, body recomposition. But that's in guys on lots of drugs with great genetics. So I was talking about studies because these are looking at normal dudes, you know, because you have to be you have to remember that when you're looking at a pro bodybuilder, they're they're genetically gifted. Okay, we all get this, right? They're all on lots of drugs and they're not exactly the average Joe. In other words, I'll go so far as to say you take the average guy for the past 30 years who's on the Mr. Olympia stage and you take the average person and you have them take the same drugs and training in whatever that guy did or they you really think they're going to look like them? Do you really and truly think that just the train they do their training split in their drug stack they're going to look just like them? No, I don't think so. We hopefully we all understand this. If you don't, I got bad news for you. you're going to need more than their drug stack and their training split to look like them. You're going to need to pick the same parents because they're they're they're not the average bear. All right. Um but when we look at the same thing with fasting, uh the whole idea with fasting is that it's been noted you lose more body fat during the fasted window, but you regain more fat during the feed window. We all understand this, right? this way like well it still balances out on the calories except that when you protein overfeed protein overfeeding seems to blunt fat gain including during your feed window protein overfeeding tends to preserve muscle better even during the fasted window helps you gain more muscle during the feed window so what I'm saying here the combination of when you start eating large large amounts of protein 200 250 300 or more grams and you only have a six or eight hour feed window, it is very easy to start seeing significant shifts in body composition. So much so that you may not even need to track calories. You may just need to force the protein down. You might your appetite's going to be easy controlled. These are both very good strategies for burning fat and gaining then potentially gaining some muscle because we're talking body composition. We want a little bit of both. Even if you're losing fat, you want to keep all your muscle and maybe in a perfect world gain a little bit. That's your best improvements in body composition, okay? [snorts] Makes it a lot easier to do because again, the ramped up metabolic effect of the protein overfeeding, the appetite blending of it, the appetite blending of the fasting. So then when you do get in your feed window, you start eating 300 grams of protein during only a six or an eight hour feed window in the afternoon. It's very, very hard to overeat. Excessively difficult. Not impossible. Again, please note, we're not saying it's impossible. It's just really hard to do. Makes it a really useful tool here. Like, you almost have to go out of your way to mess up. You have to actually try to mess up, right? And that's the point we're making here. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.