High volume was always a scam to trap gym cells. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, I'd appreciate it. And I'm someone who's used a wide variety of volumes, uh, every training modality known to man. And here I am these days, I've got more and more and more into this as time has passed into saying, "Look, I need less and less and less, you know, and here I am." And people are like, "Wow, you're in a 49. you're probably in the best shape, probably close to as strong as you were 20, 30 pounds heavier and younger. Uh, training very, very little. My workouts are less than an hour, my three main workouts, and then doing a couple sets of curls on the off days, right? And here we are. Did I'm up to like 13 reps with 405 on a high bar squat, stuff like that. 19 pause reps on strict benching with 225, so on and so forth, you know, doing that work. But the thing is, it's not just about me. It's like so many people try to tell you this before and I and I know Menor went a little bit crazy later in life, and I'm not talking about his stuff, but even his early work, you know, he hung with Arnold, almost beat Arnold, but didn't whilst training maybe 20% of what Arnold did. You know, we saw Dorian Yates, we saw Dante Trudeell decades ago saying, "Look guys, we can get crazy jacked on lower volumes." One guy I knew when I was younger who had the best physique of anybody in the gym, um, only trained like six sets of body part. He he had trained like 45 minutes to an hour, three days a week. You see where we're going with this? We had just pushing hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard hard progressive overload sets to failure type stuff you guys saw when I first started doing the YouTube you know that's when Martin Burkin had come on the scene and he made a lot of waves you know three sets of a lift do like five lifts a week three sets of each just drop sets and then if you need to a couple curls or extensions or calf raises yeah guys out of the gym in an hour three times a week. He had a phenomenal physique. Okay? And we're not talking about winning the Mr. Olympia here, guys. We're just talking about do you want the best physique in your circles? Well, dudes have been able to do it with that sort of training. And here's the problem with the ultra high volume. And this is the the issue is the scam end of it. It's a trap for gym cells. Okay? for the guy who has no life. And I hate to say that. I mean, I don't want any of my audience to think I'm talking about them. Hopefully not. I think most of my audience are not really in that category. Most of them have lives. For the gym sale, doesn't have a girlfriend, no life, no social life, wants to spend all his time in the gym because he doesn't really know what else to do. And he thinks maybe if he just makes gains, you know, he'll get the things that he wants in life, he'll have that perfect body, that perfect that gym cell is the perfect person to market your stuff to of the ultra high volume because they're always convinced if I just do more work it's going to be better right instead of an hour or three days a week and maybe a little in between or some cardio or conditioning or a weak point what are they then doing two hours a day four days and five days six days a week no seriously how many of the gym cells who are following these different people putting them out protocols are doing 30 sets of muscle group training for two hours a day, six days a week. That's their target audience because they can get that guy training forever. Then they can sell him all their programs. Then he's got to watch all their content discussing every new exercise and periodization approach and angle and perfect exercise. Here's my tier list. Like really, you got four exercises in the top tier and five exercises in the next tier down going all the way down the row? You telling me you've had to come up with nine different amazing exercises for one muscle? Who Who is that marketing to? It's not marketing to people who who have lives and just want to train really hard and get their gains and get out. That's the marketing to the guy who's gonna obsess and do 30 sets of muscle groups, gonna spend two hours a day in the gym because he has nothing else going on. The same guy, he's going to want to buy all your supplements because he's going to then need to to get through the workouts. He's going to need to buy your pre-workout because it's just so much dang volume. You might even need your your preworkout drink, your intra-workout drink, your post-workout recovery shake, your cortisol lowering supplement. Do you see where we're going with all this? This person, they can sell all this stuff because they have nothing else going on. They can sell them all the silly programming that's probably not going to help them, all the exercise selection that's not going to help them, and just feed into their gymness. And all the while, there's some other dude at the gym, some OG still following some crazy old power building or heavy duty type protocol who's doing what? Who's got a better physique than them? Who's bigger, leaner, more jack, stronger, working out an hour a day, three days a week, Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and coming in and walking on the treadmill in between, right? that dude is there and that's how he's training. In the meantime, they're just wasting all this and then they're wasting their little bit of money and then you're you're they're not going to escape from the gym cell thing because they're spending all their time training, all their time focused on the recovery. Now, their whole life is having to revolve around it. And then you're selling them all this crap and they're not even a competitive bodybuilder. let alone a pro card holder. Let alone most pro card holders in any of this aren't making a living at it either, let alone actually making a living at it. And you got them dedicating their whole life to it. They're not making a single penny off of it. It's nothing but an expense. Like this is a trap. This ultra high volume is a trap for the gym cell and then it keeps them in their gym cell status because now their whole life has to obsess around it. Okay? And even though they look good, they're still socially awkward and maybe their their dating circle is going to be pretty small. You know, keep they keep them trapped in this in this mode. keep them trapped in this mode. And notice the way they market to all of them. Oh yeah, it's about the the gains. It's about being the top five percent. It's about being the truly dedicated. And yet none of they're not even doing any better than than the the o OG guys who are doing 20% of the the training time that they are got a wife and kids still beating them. Okay. It's a trap. It's a scam. It's a scam. And it's an intentional one to get these people to dedicate all their time than to making the influencers money, the supplement companies money, the supplements they're pimping. It's just making them a market. And then because their whole life is built around it, they don't get other interests and activities and things of the same degree. So you keep them trapped in forever until they finally burn out and then you have a whole new generation of the next ones. This is why when you see people who are saying, "Yeah, you don't need that much training. Just train really, really, really hard is detrimental to their business model. They don't like it. It's not good for them, right? The reality of it. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.