Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about uh reasons people might want high protein beyond muscle growth. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not uh subscribed or following, please do so and drop me a comment down below if you would. I would appreciate it so much. Thank you. Let's get over into this topic. Um, you know, this is something that I've I've tried to always give the best information possible when it comes to protein intake and trying to dispel myths with industry nonsense and uh protein companies and and again, I've always pointed out to people that at this point uh the data between muscle growth and uh protein intake shows that we need less protein than than pretty much what the supplement and fitness industry has put out for years. But there are other things going on besides muscle growth. And so I think this is what creates confusion. Um is that people don't understand that yeah it can go beyond muscle growth. There are absolutely absolutely reasons why a person might want to consume ridiculous amounts of protein that have nothing to do with muscle growth. Okay? So we need to be clear on that. And so I want to go a little further into it. So, one of the things um that we need to look at is like recent videos. I tend to put out videos on this pretty often that in terms of uh muscle growth really exceeding about8 grams per pound of body weight, you know, around 1.5.6 grams per kilo of body weight doesn't really cause any extra muscle growth. And we we do need to be clear on that. There's a lot of data on that. There's been enormous amounts of research, metaanalysis looking at serious athletes, natural pro bodybuilders. Like these are not arbitrary things, right? And this is keep in mind there are actual financial bias in the fitness industry due to supplements and protein to to get people to say more than that. So if anything, if you want to talk about a financial bias, it's in the direction for the higher amount, you know, but this is what's been pretty consistently noted in the research. Now, if you start going much below this, particularly like what they found with say vegan diets, there was that one study done to where uh you know, a vegan diet on only 1.3 grams or 1.2 grams per pound of body weight or kilo of body weight, sorry, you know, a little bit less than that when it's all plant-based actually was a problem. Okay. Uh that was done in a group of extraed female lifters and what they found was that yeah they struggled to maintain muscle and strength let alone gain it when that occurred. So that's definitely uh something to factor in because again we pointed out well sometimes that intake can promote really robust muscle growth still even though slightly lower intakes when it's mixed quality protein meaning there's animal source or whey and other stuff in there, right? And and we we've all seen this data. We and we know that. But then when it comes to all plant-based because of the lower bioavailability, sure, that's a bit of a problem. Like the the bottom end of that that recommended range, you know, which could be like 6 grams per pound, right? If it's not heavily biased animal source, guess what? Um if it's all plant-based, yeah, that seems to actually not really be enough. Okay. So there's definitely lower thresholds in there too to where it may not be enough to make any real progress. Okay. So again, we want to be clear on these things. So you have all of this to look at, but then it's pointed out and I've had people say, "But I've seen other people point out that there are benefits to higher intakes. What are you talking about?" But they're not talking about muscle growth. Okay? And there's a couple of things we could look at. We could look at some of the data on connective tissue. And I think this is worth noting. Um, connective tissue, tendons, particularly as we get older, right? I'm 48. Um, we know that older lifters, as we get older, middle age and up and up toward elderly, uh, we're not as efficient at absorbing all of our protein. Okay? It's a little bit harder to get everything we need. Uh the same thing when we start looking at some of the the data out there on tendons, connective tissue, bone density, uh having intakes higher than this could be beneficial. Okay, it could be beneficial. So again, if we start drifting towards that one gram per pound, that's going to potentially in the case of stuff like tendons and connective tissue and collagen synthesis, okay, it may be beneficial still. And and we could make the case for that for people lifting really heavy. They want to make sure their tendons are recovering. And the same thing I do like if if I get a client for example who we're down at that that slightly lower range they've been having a little bit of tendon inflammation a little tendinitis you know that's a case of where I I will even as a coach tell that client um that you know okay maybe bump let's add another 40 50 grams of protein in a day over which you've been eating like bump your protein up it could be beneficial in that case uh towards you know connective tissue if that struggle ling with recovery. Okay. And and I feel like that does need to be addressed in this topic. So again, the reason I always mention the the other figure for muscle growth because if we're going to talk about only muscle growth, we're talking about muscle growth. If you have someone who's young and fit, um they're on a tight budget. You know, protein is the most probably the most expensive thing we consume in our diet in terms of different calorie sources. Uh they're on a budget. Uh, keep in mind protein causes a lot of satiety. Maybe they struggle to eat enough whole foods without resorting to junk. And I'm not a fan of people eating junk food to get their calories if we can avoid it. That makes the sense though for them to say, "Hey, that other number, it definitely makes sense to aim for because it will save a little money, right? It will give them room for a little more antioxidants and stuff, higher quality food, won't suppress appetite as much so they can eat whole foods in place of some more refined junk to reach their calorie intake or their food needs. Okay, it makes a lot of sense. Okay, but that doesn't mean there are not other benefits. So there's both connective tissue benefits, there's metabolic benefits. All right, and that's the other thing to talk about. Um, you know, if we're going to have this conversation about body composition, recomposition, uh, fat loss, you know, we've got data on protein overfeeding. And to be fair, we know that large significant amounts of protein overfeeding absolutely helps with body recomposition. But when I say that, I want to be clear, they're not gaining muscle faster. except what we found and and and I personally I I know and I'm friends with one of the guys who co-authored some of the the studies on protein overfeeding. Um yeah, what's been found in some protein overfeeding studies is that when they force-fed huge amounts of protein, and I'm talking about when they had people track their their intake, like you know, who were consuming that target amount, right? they're already at that target amount at around that 08 grams or whatever per pound of body weight and they're at maintenance calories and they found their maintenance calories. What happens if they throw another 200 grams of protein a day on top of it? Meaning, so that's what's happened in one of the studies that they did. They gave them enough food to add 200 grams of protein from whey every day and they expected them to eat it early in the day. Kind of start your day early with that massive protein feeding and then try to hit your same target food through the rest of the day. So it ends up something like close to two grams per pound of body weight. You know, it's what they ended up with in that case like two grams per pound roughly if I recall. Okay, that's a lot of protein. In other words, if you're 200 pounds, that's like 400 grams a day. That's a lot, you know. And then so it tried to create a calorie surplus. In other words, they're like, "So if your maintenance was whatever, uh you eating 150 grams of protein at 3,000 calories and maintaining, we want you to try to eat that same 3,000 calories of food and protein and add this extra 200 grams of protein to it for like another 8 900 calories on top of it to create a surplus. Therefore, it's a protein overfeeding." And what they found is they didn't gain weight. Most of them lost body fat. They all gained muscle. They lost body fat. Some of them lost body weight. You know, the the point here is what what are we looking at that the protein overfeeding might have literally created such an enormous metabolic difference that they started losing body fat due to due to combin. But it's it's also been speculated that what thermic effect uh suppressed appetite that maybe they weren't really eating the surplus because it was so hard to overconume with that extra you know eating that first 300 grams of protein a day. It was blunting appetite enough a lot of them might not have been finishing their food. They were eating significantly less calories than the target aim for due to due to the suppressed appetite combined with a higher thermic effect because again calories in calories out. It's not just calories in. It's not like your maintenance doesn't stay the same no matter what you eat. It can change easily a thousand calories a day on the output side based purely on what you eat. So again, that combination could have been it. But then people say, well, if they're going into a deficit and they're losing fat, then why why was they're still gaining muscle? Well, because of the the anabolic benefits of the enormous protein, right? and the fact that we know that a true calorie surplus isn't required to gain muscle anyways. So again, we start talking metabolic benefits and recomposition fat loss. There can be benefits to eating huge, I mean ridiculously huge amounts of protein, okay? And that's the point with all of it. So there are reasons why people might want to consume more connective tissue, appetite, body recomposition. It goes beyond just muscle growth.