Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and today I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about the fact that historically people haven't even needed to bulk cut or uh track calories to recomposition. Uh but if you guys would please give me a like under the video, please follow or subscribe if you are not yet and drop me a comment down below to give your thoughts or just to say hello. I would appreciate that so much. Thank you. All right. Um, you know, something that doesn't always get mentioned, but I've seen different people point this out. This is often pointed out as a rebuttal to a lot of the evidence-based people when they do discuss the bulking cut eating, calories in, calories out. Um, and and it's stuff that we discuss in detail here that on my page and on my channel, obviously, we discuss these things a lot. You know, energy turnover, energy in, energy out, thermic effect. I mean, this is stuff I do care about, but realistically speaking, people on bro diets and bodybuilders have oftentimes not needed to care about this stuff at all. Okay? And we need to be clear on that. Guys who do the burough type diet, oh, let's just eat really lean meat. We'll call it chicken, rice, and broccoli, but just really lean meats, lean proteins, u starchy carbs like rice, and then vegetables. People who eat like that generally have historically had no problem just recompositioning for years at a time without tracking while still eating very large amounts of food. Um, and I think the point that people forget here is that once we kind of start taking the dietary fat out of the equation, we have very little means to gain body fat. Um, and so if you end up eating overeing, you don't really gain fat. And I think people forget that uh and or if you do it's very very minuscule amounts and it's actually relatively hard to do then that sort of approach again and we're not talking about consuming a bunch of sugar. I'm talking about you're eating rice and potatoes. Okay? Right? You're eating rice and potatoes and then people and I'm talking people just do the lower fat bro approach. I'm not saying if you start adding a bunch of healthy fats. I say if you do that you're you're going to need to track calories again. to some extent you might need to actually um because again the energy surplus does matter but I mean historically people had no trouble with this and just eating pretty large amounts of food high volumes of food plenty of carbs lots of lean protein and just gaining muscle lossing fat all the time and and I'm sorry this is done for decades this was done for decades and as long as people did this and they trained really hard and really effective they got results. Now, does that mean you're going to get super shredded? No. But it means you're probably going to recomposition to some extent. And I mean without tracking, yes, you're going to have months where you gain weight. You're going to have months where you lose weight a little bit. But generally speaking, people who eat in that manner, if they train really hard, tend to always be making fairly lean gains all the time or they tend to start dropping body fat, right? Even if they don't always track. So what you see is people who eat in that manner and just eat clean tend to stay in pretty decent shape in terms of body fat all the time. And and if anyone who doesn't believe me, just go ask any of the old-timers, like guys who who were doing this 20, 30 years ago and then look at how some of their physiques look like I don't even care about that. And I've known plenty of guys when I was younger who they didn't track all that. They're like, "Man, I just eat lots of protein and rice and uh don't eat junk and I keep my fat low and I don't eat any junk food at all." They had great physiques. Um, and we've seen plenty of bodybuilders point that out. They're like, "I never really tracked anything. I just cut certain things out a little bit when I wanted to prep for a show and added more cardio and got leaner." But they already stayed pretty lean year round because they just ate generally clean. So, people say, "Well, how can that be?" Well, because then you just focus on the training as long as the other's covered and you're eating close to maintenance calories, maybe a little over, maybe a little under. If you're eating very little fat, uh again, you might need to supplement some some healthy fats in small amounts just to ensure health. Uh and and that was oftentimes done. Or they would throw a little fish in, they'd eat fish once or twice a week, problem solved. And they get their omega-3 fats. This is a very traditional approach and people were not always tracking calories and still stayed in good shape and they just made gains all the time, but it was, hey, let's force down lots of lean protein, lots of clean carbs, okay? And by clean, we usually mean starchy carbs. We're talking rice, potatoes, maybe even pastas, you know. Uh, and it worked great. It worked great forever. phenomenal physiques were created for decades doing this, right? So then what do they do then? They just focus on the training because as long as you're training is then you're going to gain muscle. We all know this, right? As long as you're not creating a big calorie deficit, so you're not losing weight quickly. You're eating lots of protein and you are training truly effectively and hard, you're going to gain muscle to some extent no matter how many calories you eat. You are aware of this. Hopefully everyone is aware of this. They try to make this argument. Well, I feel like I'm spinning my wheels because I'm not gaining weight, but I'm not gaining muscle. Well, no. If you're staying at the same body weight and you're not gaining muscle, your training sucks or you eat garbage in your diet. You're either not recovering because you're not eating decent foods or enough protein or your training just flat sucks. Period. Your training sucks. And I'm sorry, that's a cold hard reality, guys. If you are not gaining muscle at maintenance calories, your training is bad. Yeah, increasing calories can help you gain muscle, but it is not ever a requirement. Like, never has it been a requirement unless you are shredded to the bone to to eat a calorie surplus to gain muscle. So, if you are maintaining weight and your training is good, and you're eating enough protein, you 100% chance will gain muscle guaranteed. So, your training is lazy, your training is bad, you don't have proper fatigue management in or you're not doing hard enough work sets, you're not doing right exercises correctly, something is wrong. So, what I would say to these people, that's where people mess up. they're trying to gain muscle and then they focus too much on the the diet end when it may not be necessary. Look, just eat clean and eat lots of protein, you'll gain muscle. Like that that will sum it up. And I'm not saying we can't be more exact than that and we can't fine-tune because we can. But if your goal is to just gain some muscle, that will 100% ensure it. We are done on the nutrition end. If you're just trying to gain only 50 or 70% of the possible muscle you could gain, which means you'll be gaining something, that's all you have to do done. That's the entire nutrition end. So, what's possibly left? Your bad lifestyle or your training? Are you sleeping? Are you drinking alcohol? You doing coke? Well, no. Those are those aren't problems. So, then your training is bad. Fix the training. Get in there. Get your training on point. Don't be lazy. Train hard. Do big exercises. Fill in the gaps with small ones. If you're not pushing getting stronger with decent form on your big movements, well, that's that's the problem. It's why you're not gaining muscle. Okay? I'm sorry, guys. And while I like curls and things, you're not going to curl your weight of 20 pounds of muscle growth. It's never going to happen. Reality. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.