Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha strength and fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about uh real world strength or functional strength as many people like to call it. Sometimes I think it's a funny term. Uh but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment. I would appreciate it so much. Um I would make the argument that sometimes this this gets overhyped. It gets a little overplayed. I do appreciate where people were coming from with it though. Essentially, it's taking people away from machines and saying, "Hey, what sort of movement patterns are actually going to make you strong?" Uh, like you doubt do in the real world. It might carry over to some type of work, uh, carry over to sports, things like that. That's what they're saying because all strength is technically functional. I I mean, let's be realistic here, right? And as much as I might say ah machines can be very limited isolation work can be very limited if you get really really strong on machines for example right let's say you did nothing but hammer shrink machines um are you still going to be stronger than someone who's never trained at all these different activities I think the answer is yes okay so so we do need to be clear that there is a lot of strength that is universal to some extent so again I'm I am by no means a purist on this idea. And that's kind of the point I want to make here. I am absolutely not being a purist. I am not saying, "Oh, only these these certain types of patterns are functional." Um, I'm not going to make that claim. Not going to make that claim. But what I will say is if you think in terms of of being able to give up and push or pull against stuff or or the real world, what really are we talking about? Um I I think we can make a case for any of the six movement patterns. I think we can make a case for a loaded carry, you know. Um and some stuff should be obvious. And we think about functional strength. Would it help you in a survival situation? Would it help you uh in a scuffle? Is it just going to help you pick up stuff and move stuff and be and make life easier? Are you going to have good bone density and everything? Is it going to improve conditioning overall? Um and and I think certain movement patterns are going to lend themselves more to this than others. Like I mean the obvious one I started right up at the start of the video. You saw me start with a loaded carry, right? Got like 100 pounds in each hand, walking up and down the sidewalk, gripping it. Like that one. And I think we all universally agree something like a loaded carry. I don't care what school of thought you have on this. Every single one of us look at that and go, you know what, that's a really good way to train. If I want to bring in all the groceries in one trip, man, that's going to have some high specificity of training for that, right? And I mean really guys, really if we talk about real world strength for us in, you know, civilized first world countries, I must say that's probably the top of our list. I mean, we're not going to be fighting bears with our bare hands, but man, we might have to carry those groceries all in in one trip. So, I'm going to say right off off the bat in terms of your ability to function in today's real world, man, the loaded carry is king because that's going to let you get all the groceries in one trip. And that might be for many people the most arduous task and and heroic and herculean task they undertake all week, you know. And I'm I'm being a little tongue and cheek, but I'm also being dead serious. I mean, realistically, I mean, how many of the dudes suburb suburb dads out there? Come on, guys. How many of you really place a lot of your manhood in that ability to bring all the groceries in in one trip? I mean, I am being serious to some extent. We can think of that as funny, but there there's a degree of truth to it. You know what? If you wanted to be really good at bringing all the groceries in one trip, man, a load of carry like that builds your grip, builds all your ability to pick it up, carry it, hold it under load. It's going to give you good conditioning. It's going to get you. It's good stuff, man. It's good stuff. I'm gonna I'm gonna put that right up at the top of the list. But I think we can put any standing exercise or anything that moves your body through space. Like particularly P like so I like my bench. I like my incline bench. We could argue they don't have the greatest functional strength. You know, I think they would for punching if I So we're going to talk a lot of sports. Yes. But outside of say the ability to to push something like that, you know, but how much of that could be handled with overhead pressing? Um, so I I mean, what are your big ones then? Deadlift, squat pattern movements. That's really going to give you the most strength. It's going to carry over to stuff. Overhead pressing. If you got a push tip up over your head, how about pull-ups? I think pull-ups are going to count. Why? Because if you got to pull yourself up something, pull yourself up a tree, pull yourself up a ledge, climb up something, man. Getting strong at pull-ups is real useful. I mean, even if you got to push back up over maybe a dip. So, so of course we could argue rows here also off the floor, but doesn't deadlifts really kind of cover that, but it's still a standing movement. Like anything that's going to build power transfer from the floor is good. But if I were to narrow some of these down, you know, what's what's really going to be the big ones? Like what would I really say? Where's where's the real money? Um, overhead press or a push press, a squat, a deadlift, pull-ups have to be in there. And notice I said pull-ups, not even a chin up. Like, so if you're really looking at where again, we come over to might need to pull yourself up something, guys. Like that's a basic one. Loaded carries over top of the list. How about the sled work? I mean, realistic, if we're going to narrow it down and talk about really truly functional patterns that are going to carry over, I'm going to go with a sled, a pushing and pulling a sled of some type, which you'll see me do here later. Okay. Right. I'm going to say a loaded carry, definitely. Squats and deadlifts. And a deadlift is going to be the common sense is the ability to move a heavy weight off the floor. The squat's going to give you most of your leg strength, ability to transfer it. Does it have to be a back squat? No, I think any squat pattern works. I think a zer squat, a front squat, I think they can they can all work there. I think they can all work. I think any type of deadlift could really work. So, do we even have to do the classic powerlift ones? I think some sort of overhead press and particularly a push press. How about if you clean it in? How about a clean and push press, some sort of squat, some sort of deadlift, some a weight, a pull-up, definitely a pull-up. I say those are your kind of your big four. Now, could we make the case for a bench press or pushing stuff away from you? I think we can, but man, if you get really good at push pressing and overhead pressing and you can get that downward angle, especially you get used to pushing it with a sled again, you know, I feel like that's that's still largely covered. I mean, so what are your most functional patterns really for just real world strength? Those four movements and then some sort of sled and a loaded carry, a sled or a prowler, a loaded carry. Like you get really good at those six things. And like I said, the squat can be I mean, my god, it could be his archer squat if you really want. I mean, that's a pretty pretty functional think about just getting stuff up off the floor and whatever. I mean, we can make a good case for that. Those are this is your functional strength. Now, that being said, could you just get strong in general though and conditioned in general? Sure. And there's all going to have carryover. But if you wanted the stuff that's going to probably have the highest specificity to your ability to carry the groceries in in one trip, which really is there's our king of what we're going to ever do dayto-day as a legendary real world thing is that grocery trip. Man, I think I think these will get it done.