I'm going to tell you how to build a massive back. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. And if you guys would please remember to click like down below, be greatly appreciated. Uh if you have are not following me or subscribed yet, please do so. And if you would please leave me a comment down below. It could be your thoughts, just a hello, anything. Uh just kind of reach out, say hello. Thank you so much. I would appreciate that. All right, let's get over to the point. Um, for me, the three cornerstones for a back, and I mean, I've always had good back development here. Uh, people usually comment on that, especially for a powerlifter. Uh, it it really is about rows. It's about pull-ups and deadlifts and other hip hinges. Uh, and that really is the keys. Too many people I see lots and lots of this. I see this a lot. I see guys um struggling with back development. They focus on silly stuff like aligning fibers, squeezing their lats at the top, and and what I'm going to tell you is that's that's complete nonsense. All of that is complete nonsense. Um, what's even more interesting, uh, I'm all my reels and shorts, I get tons of criticism anytime I I do standing rows, anytime I do pull-ups, people telling me I'm doing all of them wrong. And yet, I'll have a bigger back than them. And it's like, you guys might want to rethink this. And and it's like you see this and go, you people have clearly never watched any Mr. Olympia train their back all the way back even to the Arnold and Franco days. Um it's it's really strange. None of those guys did any of this stuff people worried about. They didn't swing weights to their hips. They rode to their to their their chest or their stomach, whether it was a barbell to dumbbell or up to their armpits with a dumbbell. They pulled heavy on pull-ups. Okay? Usually focused on the stretch at the bottom. That's all they cared about. And almost none of these guys worried about squeezing the weight. And it's and the reason I say that is none of that is necessary. Um there is literally no biological or biomechanical reason for you to squeeze at the top or focus on any of that nonsense. There's no reason for you to focus on swinging a weight to your hip. Build your back. You know, a lot of these guys will will be like, "Well, I I believe that if you swing a dumbbell or whatever toward your hip, it engages the lat more instead of the trap." And so, you're not trying to build the whole back. I mean, that's the really strange thing to me. I'm like, if you want your pulling to be more lat dominant, stop rowing. Okay? You need to understand why you do each of these exercises. Why do you want to make a row more lat dominant somehow instead of just building your whole back? The benefit of a row is that it also works the upper back a little bit better. If you wanted it to be just entirely more lat dominant, you would do a pull-up or a chin-up. Okay, this is where where people don't stop and think. Like, pick the right tool for the job. Like if you actually just do the lifts correctly. You don't have to think of stupid stuff like that. It's a waste of time. Do you want the lift to be more lat dominant? Do a pull-up. Done. Pull-ups and chin-ups of any variation. I mean, in theory, a lat pull down if you're not strong enough. Work your lats more than your upper back, meaning your traps and rear delts. They still work them, by the way, just not as well. It's more lat dominant with a vertical pull. So, there's your solution. Instead of rowing incorrectly, just do a pull-up. Okay. All right. Now, here's we're about to go. Same thing people think they've got to swing all the way up over the bar on a chin-up or a pull-up or or any of that trying to get more upper back when it's really it's a lat exercise. You don't need to do any of that. That's why you have the rows. See how easy this is when you just simply say, you know what, if I can find a vertical pull and a horizontal pull, I can just do them normal. I can just row in a straight line up towards my chest. Whether it's a barbell, a dumbbell, whatever. Problem solved. Like even on this seal row, right? I'm not doing sets of 10 with 225 here. Um, imagine trying to swing this towards your hip. No, just row. But when people are standing or using a dumbbell, they'll try to do that. It's nonsense. And if you want a little more upper back, it's what I do sometimes. You'll see me do the um I'll do them on an incline with dumbbells. Okay, that will change that dead angle up more towards a little more trap. Problem solved. All right. What about all the hip hinges? This is where you get the other stuff. You know, people worry about that squeeze at the top. Really, a deadlift will do that. Not that it matters. There's no real data, but you're compromising performance on your other pulls to try to squeeze in the shortened position. Don't get me wrong, I believe there is some data to contracted position movements. They're currently out of the current researchers are trying to circles of them are claiming it's way it's a waste of time that the shortened position is useless for building muscle doesn't do anything. I don't agree with those evidence-based people. I don't agree with those those as we would put it pencil neck nerds. Uh but I I think both do matter. But why would you mess around and reduce your performance in the stretch trying to stop and squeeze in the middle of of reps instead of just performing the normal tempo? If you really want a squeeze in that position, do a deadlift. Like look right there. You just saw me do a deficit deadlift. How much tension was I holding in that shortened position with the the scapula retracted? Compare that to your little rope and it was held for several seconds and it's done on our speed pulls too. So you're pulling. All right. If you want additional trap, you want your erectors. This is where all the hip hinges come in. Good mornings deadlifts, deadlift variations. You guys will notice I do a lot of speed pulls against bands and chains. You don't think those bands and chains on speed pulls also work the upper back? Ever done? Put 150 pounds of band tension across a bar like I do and do some speed pulls with it. Come back. Tell me tell me what your traps feel like. Okay. The other thing to getting your back thicker. This is where you get that thickness too. Deadlift variations, good mornings, all these tools, they will build that extra thickness, that extra density. Okay? You can look at someone's back from behind and you can tell if they deadlift heavy. But even here, right, I'm doing a 500 pound. Good morning. Right. So, again, let's talk about back development. I do a lot of real high rep stuff in here, guys. You guys know you a lot of tens and twelves and Yeah. But then we do some heavy chins and pull-ups. But the good mornings, yeah, I'll do twelves and stuff on those. But notice we go heavy, too. We do go heavy. Do you want that density? Okay, so again, the same thing. Even though I'm not super lean, I notice that grainy look up there to the back, that muscle density, that muscle maturity. That's from the heavy work, the heavy deadlifts, the heavy good mornings give you that that density, right? That's where you get that. So, this is what I'm telling you guys. This is your trifecta. This is your trifecta. rows, pull-ups, deadlifts. These are the tools. Get strong on them. Yes, chase performance on them. You should be doing good full ranges of motion, but get strong at them. And strong can mean tens. It can mean twelves also. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.