What is the trick to losing stubborn belly fat? Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would also greatly appreciate that so much. Thank you. So, let's get over to the topic. Um, this is again one of these confusing topics. It's one of those to where people love to market, they love to sell. reality, you can't really target your belly fat itself as far as the external belly fat. So, that is really problematic, you know, because um when people talk about belly fat, and they'll mention, oh, this study on belly fat, visceral fat, but that's not the stuff outside. In other words, that visceral fat is underneath your abdominal wall. It's around your organs. Does that make sense? So that removing that fat isn't still going to remove the pudge at your stomach. It's not going to remove your love handles. It's not going to remove the belly in the front. That's all subcutaneous fat. The stuff you can pinch, right? The stuff you can touch, right? That's right there under the skin, that's all subcutaneous. And quite frankly, you can't really target that, right? You can control how much of it you gain because really the only thing that stores there is is dietary fat. But that doesn't prevent you from losing it. In other words, a calorie deficit and burning through energy, you can still do that on a really highfat diet, too, and still lose that because we're creating an energy deficit. So, you can't target that. Can Now, are there things you can do for the visceral fat? Sure. Um, anything that hurts your metabolic health, it's going to cause a a larger storage of visceral. You know, people talk about cortisol and belly fat, but cortisol doesn't cause more fat storage. It absolutely doesn't. That's complete nonsense. It might bias you towards more into that visceral fat area when cortisol is chronically elevated. That's what they mean. But it's not going to create it out of nothing. You're not going to gain more fat. Like that's complete nonsense. If anything, it your metabolic rate could be up due to elevated stress, especially again if it suppresses your appetite at all. If you're not a stress eater, the opposite, you know, so keep that in mind. There's your context. But that being said, sure, keeping your stress under control can help with that. Anything that creates metabolic dysfunction is going to cause that fat around the organs. So, what does that mean? Refined sugars, too much saturated fat. Those things all store there, right? That's your concern. Refined sugars, uh, saturated fat, trans fats, there's your big one. But trans fats are largely unavailable, at least in America. I know I have an international audience here. I know Canadians are we still have it up here, that margarine and stuff. Um, we we don't have it here anymore, though, right? We don't have it here anymore. So, it's really become a a non-issue as far as any of that is concerned. So, uh that being said, what can you do about the belly fat itself? All the fat under the skin, you just have to create a calorie deficit. And I'm going to say this as someone who I lost well over 100 pounds. Probably 140 to 150 pounds when I was younger. And when I say I don't know the number, I was scared to weigh myself. I estimated I was probably as high as 320. But I was so embarrassed at how I look, I didn't step on the scale when I was really fat over 25 years ago. But I got down to 170. Um, and I learned a lot of tricks along the way. Um, and again, as a coach and and everything else, learned a lot of tricks. I can tell you the real trick though to losing belly fats, play the long game. Play the long game on your fat loss because what if you're trying to lose the fat around your belly, you don't want to lose muscle. People like, I just want to lose any weight. Well, that's not going to make that waist or that stomach smaller just to lose any weight. If you lose muscle in your legs and calves and you lose five pounds that way, does your belly get smaller? Hell no, it doesn't. See what I mean? That's why it's important for us to understand we're trying to lose fat, not weight. And by keeping muscle and building muscle, your metabolic rate is higher. So, I can tell you right now, as someone who trains and lifts, if you're lifting weights and you have gained 10 pounds of muscle over where you started when you started dieting versus losing 10 pounds of muscle, that's 20 pounds of muscle difference. The metabolic rate difference is massive. Absolutely enormous in terms of the amount of extra food you can eat. So you see the problem if we lose fat. When people talk about the yo-yo dieting, it happens because people are losing muscle. And we know like easily 30% of the scale weight you lose can be lean tissue and muscle. If your protein's not high, you're not lifting weights. If you're just doing strict dieting, starvation, or a bunch of cardio, not resistance training, walking and cardio and jogging does not build muscle. Don't let anybody convince you it will. Okay? Not going to build muscle. All right? So, that being said, well, what do we do then? That's not building muscle. What do we do? Well, we lift weights. Lift weights. Eat protein. That's how you play the long game. Like, if you really want that belly to tighten up, you need to make the muscles everywhere else grow. Your back, your arms, your legs, particularly your legs. ladies because you burn more calories just moving around, walking, doing the other stuff. Okay? And no, you're not. People also say, "Oh, yeah, so I don't worry about weight. I just worry about that." Well, I wouldn't say that either because you're not gaining 50 pounds of muscle. Okay? People also have that misconception. Unless you're using a lot of steroids, and I mean a lot. You're not you're not putting on 50 pounds of muscle. So, just forget that. But we can bias towards gaining some muscle. You need to be doing some big movements, right? You need to be lifting weights. you need to be eating higher protein. Why? We get a better thermic effect. We build more muscle. More muscle equals more metabolic rate. And if the scale is going down and every pound you're losing is fat and none of its muscle, you're losing more fat. So, so let's say you lose 10 pounds, right? And all of its fat versus losing three pounds of muscle with the same amount. Well, you lost more fat. You lost seven more pounds of fat with three more pounds of fat with that same weight. But guess what else did you do? you kept a higher metabolic rate, you're burning a little more energy as a result. You can eat more food. It's going to be easier. So, you need to lift weights. This is the key. Um, you know, cut cut the junk out of your diet. I always say to guys, like, if you really want to get your energy turnover high, cut out the refined sugars, cut out all the garbage fats, cut the saturated fat. Look, increase your protein, increase your fiber. Focus on those numbers. So, when you're looking at foods, you're like, "Well, I I I know that we need to eat less and move more." We don't need to eat less volume. We just we have to change it to where you're eating more filling foods. Okay? If you increase your fiber, you look at everything that you eat is either really high in fiber or really high in protein, guess what? You have a higher thermic effect, you're going to be full longer and you're going to be less hungry. And in some cases, you literally, if you cut out a lot of the junk and you're just eating the whole foods, you know, I'm chicken, brown rice, oats, broccoli, you know, fruit, watermelon, vegetables, you know, all that stuff. And you're not adding a bunch of junk to it. You might find that even when you're eating less of going from 3,000 calories down to 2,000, you literally might be eating more total food and have a fuller stomach if it's all cleaner whole foods. And I don't mean stuff you buy in a box. I'm talking foods made from single ingredients, right? Watermelon is an ingredient, a box of whatever cereal is not. I don't care how healthy it says it is. So, eating whole foods, okay? And then on top of that, maybe do some walking. There's your solution. Lift weights. Eat lots of protein. track calories a little bit. Eat more whole foods, more fiber, more protein, cut the refined junk out, but like I said, lift weights, walk more. That recipe will for a lot of people out there will get them down to their goal weight eventually. You're not necessarily going to look like a bodybuilder or physique competitor or anything like obviously not, but if you're just trying to lose a bunch of fat and be look leaner and more toned as people will call it, then guess what? There's your easy solution. And it is very straightforward and it's just about consistency. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.