How do we progressively overload while preventing overuse injuries? Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Uh quick reminder, if you guys would please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you would follow or subscribe if you have not yet, I would appreciate that also. And if you would be so kind as to drop a comment down below uh the video, I would appreciate that as well. Thank you so much. So, let's get over to the topic. I had someone ask this in the comments on the tubes. Uh, obviously this goes on more than one platform, but they ask, "Hey, you know, uh, if you're going to progressively overload, don't you have to do the same movements for a while? So, how do we prevent overuse injuries?" And I'm going to address that from a couple different perspectives. U, now, for more novice lifters, it's less of a problem because they're usually not lifting very heavy. Um, you know, and heavy being relative, right? Heavy being relative. Uh, usually workloads are very limited. Most novice programs you're in the gym three days a week. Yes, you tend to be squatting a lot, but squats are relatively rare on overuse if done correctly. You know, with weights that that are in the range of novices is using. Most noviceses aren't doing more than about 225 for work sets here. This is not a major concern yet. So, setting some of that aside, I think this gets approached a couple different ways. One thing I could point out in the conjugate system, uh, we avoid overuse by rotating movements all the time. So, for example, uh, you're maxing on two different lifts every week, but those lifts change. So, notice like right there at the start, you saw me doing a medium grip bench, and you saw me doing a closed grip bench with a Buffalo bar. You'll see me squatting with different bars. You'll rotate, you know, things like different types of deadlifts, different types of good mornings. So, we're changing our maxes all the time, okay? So there's there's no real risk of overuse on the maxes from the max work unless you pull something from overuse somewhere else which does happen. So you have that um the same thing when you look at the dynamic effort work. We're rotating bands and chains all the time or you're rotating movements. If you don't have bands and chains uh you're going to change bars, you're going to change box heights, you're going to change stances. Okay, so these are these are things to think about. Also, um the other thing that we have to remember, let's say you do rotate movement somewhat frequently. Well, you need probably at least 3 weeks of a movement before you ever rotate it. Let's be clear on that, you know, when it comes to overuse uh because of draining on movement patterns. But I I want people to think about something here. All right, are you ready? You can track progressive overload over time over a year and rotate movements in and out. In other words, in other words, let's say a seal row like you see me doing a seal row right here with 245 on the bar uh on my Cambridge bar. Okay? So, you take a seal row. Let's say you do a seal row for three weeks in a row and then you rotate it out. You know where you were on the seal row. Okay. So, let's say you were doing 205 pounds for sets of 10 and that's where you left off and you don't do it for 3 weeks. You rotate something else in 3 weeks, four weeks, five weeks, but you still have your notes. You know how much weight you do on that lift. You know how many reps. So, when you come back to it, you might be a hair weaker the very first workout. It may have drained a little bit. Okay, no problem. This is a hypertrophy exercise. Are we that worried about a little der training? I get it on a main movement. You know, I get it on a main movement. You know, your squat, bench, deadlift, and so on. This is a hypertrophy movement. You're locked into a position. There's not a lot of technique. So, same thing with any machine lift. So, anything where you were locked in and there's less skill component, your bell squat, your leg press, a seal row, you know, an isolation movement, there's no skill component to doing this strict, especially a strict isolation. Okay, you tell me your incline curl has a movement pattern knowledge. Come on, shut up. A dip does. All right, so there should be no loss in performance. You should be able to pick back up 10 weeks, 12 weeks after doing a lift like that and do the exact same weight or more if you gained muscle because that's the point with progressive overload. Progressive overload causes muscle growth. So if you gained muscle on the other movements and none of the muscles involved in that movement atrophied and it's a low skill movement, you should not have regressed at all. And by the second workout, you should have progressed. So let's say you didn't do a seal row for 12 weeks. You regained got used to it on the th first workout. So the next workout that you do it, if you gained muscle in your lats and your traps and everything, you should be stronger. So, if if you had been doing, you know, whatever, 205 for 10 and it's been 12 weeks and those muscles got bigger, by that second workout, you better be seeing 11 or 12 reps. You better be ready to go up to 215. Okay? If you didn't, then you didn't gain muscle. And I think people forget this, too. It's not always the progressive overload on the individual movement. It's the fact that if you got bigger, it carries over to other things. If your chin-ups got stronger and your biceps grew, won't your strict curls be stronger? They should be. This is a thing to factor in also. So then the other thing about overuse, people are like, well, how do I prevent overuse? Why don't you change your grips and stances more? Okay, you could have two or three different small variations in your bench grip, right? Uh you could do pinkies on the rings, you can have a medium grip, and you could have a closed grip. Why can't you rotate those? Why can't you do the same thing on an incline bench? Your pull-ups, your chin-ups. How about if you change the grip width every time? Like even set to set. Maybe it's an inch wider set to set. Maybe maybe you move that grip in two or three inches here or there. Chin-ups, pull-ups. Maybe you could spend a couple weeks doing overhand grip pull-ups, a couple weeks doing chin-ups, underhand grip. All right, squats. You could rotate box squats, back squats, you could rotate bars. All right. So, you guys will see me right here. And throughout this clip, you saw me doing doing a max here with a with a Buffalo bar of 500, but then you also saw me doing speed boxes with the safety squat bar with bands. I'll probably be doing them with chains this coming week, you know, after this video is made, right? Rotate rotate these movements around. And if you're getting bigger and stronger, your stuff is going to transfer, particularly the low skill movements. That's a dead giveaway that you're training if it's been effective or not. It's not your dips and pull-ups and bench presses or squats because those can drain. It's the low skill movements. Anything done on a machine, anything that's an isolation movement doesn't drain to that same extent. Like you don't lose neural drive. So if you gained muscle, you should be stronger on it even if you haven't done it in months. And it might not be the very first workout, but the second workout it better be. Okay, so this is how we prevent the overuse. This is how we balance progressive overload with avoiding overuse injuries. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.