Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about volume and intensity in terms of muscle growth. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, so again, it's going to be a topic where I think every coach, every lifter, everyone out there looks at the different ends of this. Um, we re-evaluate this all the time and it is honestly quite quite frankly this has been one of the largest discussions in at least on the bodybuilding and hypertrophy side of the lifting world for the entirety of my life. Um, and and even at the age of almost 50 years old, this is something that is argued continually. Um, and it's a it's something that people change positions on. But here's the thing that I'm going to say when it comes to muscle growth. I think volume is largely um a product of how hard you are training. And it really is true. And if anything, too much volume uh too much just excessive volume I think if you're not using a lot of drugs does stunt muscle growth. Um and I think my biceps are a perfect example of that, right? I mean, realistically, if people were to go back and look at the last few years, um, I've probably done more total sets and reps for my biceps than any other muscle in my entire body. Nothing else even close other than triceps probably being a close second. It's certainly not my lats, certainly not my quads, all these muscles everyone thinks of minor. It's definitely not my calves, right? and yet they didn't grow that well when I did all that volume. You know, I did that for years. Um, just using me as an example there. And it's kind of ironic. And then when I looked back and said, you know, when I just trained them really hard with less volume, they were they were bigger. What happened here? Um, and and I think that that's the interesting thing is that that when you get into even these science-based stuff, there are schools of thought to where there's one whole school of thought and researchers that found that high volume caused less muscle growth and others that claim that it's the driver of it. Um, so this tells us even from the evidence-based side, it depends on which researcher and scientist you asked. Okay? And we need to be clear on that. There is not a definitive answer there. That research is still heavily contested. It's just that people would have you believe that their particular school of thought because of the popularity on social media is the only one there and that they're just automatically right or they have have us pretend that that science is even particularly good science. The reality um as someone who's seen the various applications of this applied, some of the best physiques I ever saw when I was younger were guys who ran variations of Dorian's type of heavy duty training. Uh people who ran like Dante's old um dog crap training, stuff like that. I remember decades ago, dudes were getting crazy jacked all the time training with those sort of methods. dudes doing just really a handful of really, really, really hard sets with progressive overload did fine. Martin Burkham had a phenomenal physique. Tons of people got great results following his lean gain stuff. Are we seeing a pattern here? And I'm not telling anyone to go to the crazy end of the menor spectrum to where he went in his later days. It's not what we're talking about. Oh, one set a week. Yeah. No, no one's telling you to do that. And it's almost a straw man, you know, towards this sort of conversation when people point out that, well, he didn't produce any champions. But that's not what we're telling you to do. But what we were seeing with some of these guys, people got great results on as little as three sets. Let's be clear, three sets a week for a muscle group. Of course, talking big compound movements in that case, right? that kind of matters because there's going to be overlap. Okay? In in other words, if for your upper body, you know, we're talking about overhead pressing as your shoulders, uh, bench press or dips for your chest, a chin up or pull up for your lats, that three sets turns into a lot of other muscles. So, we do need a context for that. And the same thing with progressive overload present. And I think the thing to look at with the progressive overload is not so much that the progression itself is the driver. I think the mechanical tension and the intensity is the driver. The real driver of hypertrophy and I think even the scientific literature supports that when you understand that a lot of the higher volume studies are subfure sets. So in other words, in order to get the mechanical tension, you have to be really really fatigued from the previous sets to start getting there. It's essentially doing tons and tons of warm-ups so that the work gets really hard once you're tired from it. And I think that's the the case that people would make. H you could have just skipped that. While some other people would argue, yeah, but I feel like the injury rates higher or the, you know, other problems from just going all out hard with less volume and continually adding weight with it. I think the argument some people would make is not so much of the the efficacy of it but rather their concerns for injuries, you know, but but realistically these guys um often promoted very low volumes of training and yet people got really really really jacked doing it. And it's not the case of oh let's try to make it efficient because people want to be lazy with their time. It's the the issue of you just can't sustain the the intensity and you start getting hurt if you try to, right? You start trying to do 10 drop sets with force reps or force negatives or or whatever um pushing to to failure every set and then doing extended sets, you're not going to do 10 sets for a muscle group in a workout. You're going to start getting hurt. You're going to not recover. You're going to get beat up. And the main thing is you're going to you're going to get injured. Okay? uh because of the the overuse and stuff involved, but it's it's more the issue of you simply can't handle it. So, people aren't trying to be lazy. It's that you simply can't recover or not have injuries when you start pushing really and truly hard. You can't do that much of it. But, but ultimately, um when I say this, I think it is the intensity that the driver Not just the progressive overload. So when we say well progressive overload well progressive overload I think is largely evidence of hypertrophy. It's not necessarily the driver. It's the workload itself. It's the intensity. It's the tension being placed. The mechanical tension especially near the ends of those sets. The tension on the individual muscle fiber that occurs as we proximally get closer to failure. Okay. progressive overload is evidence of it. In other words, if you're able to add reps and add weight over an extended period of time, you have to have gotten bigger. And if you're not doing that, then you're not going to failure either. Then you're not you're not training that hard. So, in other words, if your capacity to do more work goes up, that is an evidence of hypertrophy. And if and if you're not actualizing that in the gym, then you're also no longer training hard. But ultimately, I do think at the end of the day, um, as far as volume relative to intensity and muscle growth, I think that it's more the case of the less hard that you train, the more volume that you have to do to stimulate muscle growth. And I think that's a good way of looking at that situation. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.