Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I thought I would chat with you guys and gals about the question of can you even trust someone who pushes and sells supplements uh with any of their advice. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. All right. Um so here's here's the thing. Uh we know supplements don't work. Like if if you don't understand this already, um there's a problem. You're probably 16 years old, you're gullible, you're a silly kid. Uh we know this. Every experienced lifter has figured this out in the game a long time ago. Um I've done countless videos explaining why they can't legally sell you stuff that works unless they spike it with drugs, which is illegal. Um what how the laws are written on this. We've covered this over and over and over, right? It is it's literally illegal for a supplement company to give you guys stuff that's going to help you gain muscle or lose fat. It's like a felony. So, just an FYI, remember that when when they're marketing things to you. But here's the other thing to think about when it comes to when guys tell you, "Hey, this is what I use. This is what I endorse. Use my promo code." They're making money off of it. And people say, "Well, okay, they do that and they got to make their money." Really? I I got to make my money, too. And I don't do that. I sell coaching. I have ads in my videos and stuff, but I don't do that and I still make my living doing this. So, uh, you know what I would point out there? No, they don't have to do that. But I want people to think about the issue with it when people are making money on it. Um, how about the industry itself? This is something I noted years ago with badly written programs that that get put out. Okay. Notice that programs are put out that are written entirely for guys on lots of drugs, right? Some of these crazy body part splits that people are like, "Man, I'm trying to do this and this is this isn't working. The amount of the the volume they have me do in session to session for individual body parts. Um, I'm struggling to recover, you know." So, here's kind of a thing I've said with that. What did the supplement industry do? This is how pre-workouts got pushed out originally. They created the problem. This is called the Hegelian dialectic. problem, reaction, solution. So they create the problem and then sell you the solution. Okay, we need to be clear on that again. They create the problem then sell you the solution. All right, so you ready for it? So, people are struggling to make it through the workouts that they're writing because of the the too much volume, too much workload, not enough recovery, the way they're written, these fiveday body part splits and stuff written for guys on drugs. So, then they sell you a pre-workout to help you get through it. So, now people are stemmed up. They're taking all these stems, they're doing this stuff, right? So, they can make it through the workout and to get the psychological drive that they need instead of just like, "Hey, man, you guys should be able to make it through work. You should be able to train hard to get in, but you should be recovered enough to get in and kill it again next workout. And anyone don't tell me, "Oh, you don't ever kill it." You guys have watched me do a 600 lb squat when I was at my heavier body weight before I turned down. You guys watched me squat 600 lb and then do sets of 20 with 300 afterwards. Okay? Three sets of 20 with 300 lbs after a 600 pound squat. So, don't even give me that crap. All right. So next, that's what they do. So then they sell you the pre-workout so that you can make it through their poorly written poor fatigue management programming. You don't think that's done on purpose? Then on top of that, guess what they're selling you? Let's get all these post-workout recovery because we're giving you workouts you can't recover from. So now we're going to convince you. They also made a bunch of goofball fake research to convince you you needed post-workout shakes. Not true. Create the problem, sell you the solution. So now the supplement industry had people doing that. They designed all this stuff. This was sold in the magazines. All these workouts that were sold and then even later put online. Poor fatigue management. Can't recover from them. Can't make the workouts because of the way they're recovering session to session. So they sell you the pre-workout to make it through. Then they sell you post-workout recovery. Then on top of that, now that they've created the problem, then all the notice all these sleep aids came out. all these supplements to help you then with the sleep aid and to wind down because they're selling you stimulants and if people aren't training early in the morning people afternoon evening training they're now selling you the pre-workout so now they got to sell you the stuff to make you wind down. All of this could have been avoided had they not just created piss poor programming. The whole industry was built around this sort of nonsense just to sell people more stuff. So here's the problem. When you got an influencer who has a financial investment, when you have an influencer who has a financial investment in selling these products, well, we saw this before with all these magazines and other stuff and websites. They create the problems and then sell you the supplements to fix it. You see the level of dishonesty involved. Now, all these influencers who are then pimp and supplements, they know these things don't necessarily work, they're already dishonest. They're already liars. They're literally scamming you. So, when they start giving you advice, how do you know it's not to sell you stuff? Like, well, you need this amount of protein, but then they sell a protein powder. Okay. Well, here's the workouts that I that I put out right here. Here's the workout. This is great. But then they sell you the pre-workout when you can't recover to get the energy to make it through the silly volume. Oh, we're going to do 22 sets for a muscle group in one day. Okay. All right. So, they sell you selling you the pre-workout to make it through. Do you see where we're going? Once they're making money on supplements, they have a financial interest in giving you bad advice that makes you need the supplements. How can you trust anything that they say given that we know that's the history? And then you know that they're selling stuff that they are know doesn't work and they're being dishonest from an industry with a history of giving bad training advice and incorrect nutrition advice just to sell more products. So how then can you trust anything that someone says who is in bed with the supplement industry or they're selling you products? They have an affiliate code. They're getting a kickback. They're getting a 10% or 15% kickback from everything that you buy off there. And then they push these products. Oh, this is what helps me get through this workout. Yeah. How can you trust? You can't trust anything they say. You can't trust their lifting advice. How about even more? You know, they're all on drugs and lying and well, I did it with just this product. I did it with just this workout. Okay. So, you can't trust anything that they're giving you. You can't trust the workout advice. You can't trust the nutrition advice because they're trying to sell you products. Oh, we can just make this fit into our macros. We work in this junk. Oh, here's my my junk food protein cookie that I have an affiliate code for. See where we're going? They're involved in scam artistry. How do you know it doesn't carry over into every single piece of advice that they are putting out? At that point, it becomes suspect. You should probably find sources of information that don't get make money off giving you bad advice would be my advice.