How much protein do we really need to gain muscle? Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, would also greatly appreciate it. Um, get over to the topic and I and I think that we have to understand some nuance with the topic of of protein here. Uh we have really really good actually amazing research on the on this at this point. Um and because we have research on this for professional bodybuilders, Olympic weightlifters u literally professional athletes at the elite level have been studied pretty closely in the lab on this to see where maximal muscle growth, nitrogen retention, uh you know stuff on DEXA scans where this occurs and where where it drops off. So, it's just this isn't really subjective anymore, but I want to make a note that just because uh you know this is the proteins that you need to gain muscle does not mean that there are not um at times metabolic benefits uh energy turnover benefits connective tissue things like that collagen synthesis. All right, there are other things involving protein beyond just muscle growth. So again, I want to be clear, particularly, you know, you start talking something like bodybuilder contest prep, okay? There absolutely can be a place for very large amounts of protein overfeeding and and it literally no longer has anything to do with gaining muscle or even preserving muscle. At that point, we're getting to like a nutrient partitioning and thermic effect, appetite suppression for someone trying to get absolutely shredded at a level they're not even going to be able to sustain. Okay, so just a little side note before I go there, people are going to throw in, but this pro bodybuilder or that or this this coach recommends this for these contest prep bodybuilders. And I'm like, that's irrelevant to gaining muscle and it's irrelevant for those of you just trying to get lean enough to get abs and hold on to your muscle. Okay, not relevant. Not saying we dismiss it either because it's obviously it obviously has its place. Um, so that being said, you know what what's the the data show? About 1.6 g per kilogram of body weight, which is about I think it's been translated to whatever uh 82 gram per pound of body weight. So what is that for you know uh someone like me? uh you know about 1 160 grams. All right, 160 170 grams of protein. Um and beyond that point, what does that mean? Means adding more protein, we're not gaining more muscle. And that's assuming, you know, mixed quality protein than some of its animal source. Uh we can make the case definitely what we've seen on on vegan diets, they do not compete in terms in terms of that when you go into that range. So that range we've kind of noted is about 1.2 to 1.6. six grams per kilo of body weight. You know, we did have that that study last year done on a bunch of women who were trained advanced lifters already. We'll call them trained, right? They had at least three years of serious training experience. Um they floundered when they were put on a vegan diet with 1.2 grams. Okay? So again, lower lower protein bioavailability uh combined with being too far near the bottom of that threshold. Okay. So, so what did we see in that case? Uh, they found that they struggle to retain muscle. Not even talking about gaining muscle, they struggle to retain muscle and strength when put on that. So, this kind of shows us especially when it's lower quality protein. Um, because again, this is where we get protein quality. People get this silly idea that people literally say stuff like, well, you know, uh, because whatever it's organic or something. No, it's it's still plant-based. you know, they'll pull the same thing. Oh, well, um, so wouldn't a freerange chicken or whatever have higher quality protein? No, not at all. You could make cases for certain certain vitamin or mineral content for raising environment, but no. I mean, animal proteins it is it muscle? Does it contract? Is it in that type of animal? Like, that's going to determine it. Now, will the health of the animal determine how much muscle they gain? Potentially. right? Potentially, of course, it would, but it's not going to determine the the amino acid content of it. So, just your context there. Uh, so when we talk about protein quality, understand that. And I think what really upset some people like, well, what about drugs? That'll improve definitely protein content. That's the whole point. So, that's that's why we would laugh at something like that. Well, I mean, this this cow has been given all this this trend. It's like, yeah, we're going to grow more protein and more meat. Like, what do you think these drugs do? It, believe me, it's not going to reduce protein quality or quantity in the muscle tissue. If anything, what they had to do, uh, say for cattle, and we're getting sidetracked here, what they had to do for cattle is they had to start adding estrogen because we ended up with too much protein. What do they mean? because it's it burned off all the intramuscular fat. So what they found when they were giving trend to cattle because they still do that here in Texas where I live that's the norm. Um the trend burned off all the marbling to where you have just pure dense protein all the way through. So it actually dramatically improved protein content and quality at least per cut of meat. So they actually had to add estrogen just because people wanted marbling for flavor. Right? We we got too lean here, which really, you know, I wish they would do from a health perspective. That would be ideal, right? It's really we should be doing, but I digress. Um, back over to the point, that's there's there's where our caps are. And going beyond that is not going to cause you to gain a single drop of muscle. And that's what we mean. People say, "Well, it's got to be a little bit." No, that's that's what we're saying is that that 1.2 to 1.6 six gram per uh kilogram of body weight is your your optimal range in that upper end of it. They cap it there because they can't really find any data showing any extra muscle growth like nothing beyond that which makes sense. You know what are we eating protein for? Various metabolic benefits turnover, right? We're only turning a couple grams of that protein into muscle a day. So even if you're eating say the 150 grams, right? you realize only two or three grams of it's ending up as new muscle tissue, right? And then we have the whole amino acid pull in the body happening to where we're continually turning over protein. Hundreds of grams every day. Uh so again, we're not going to discount obviously the role of protein. Protein is critical, right? But the amount that we've often been told we need to maximize muscle growth has been a little overstated. The one one gram per pound of body weight. And I'm not saying it's bad target to aim for. It's a nice round easy number to aim for. It will put you above where we know the maximum optimal threshold is. All right. So, I don't think there's anything wrong with the gram per pound as a standard. It's worked forever. Just be aware uh it's not absolutely necessary and you're not necessarily making any more gains over if you had just gone, you know, 20% less. Now you start going more than 20% below that sure we can make a case for it may not be optimal at least according to the data particularly depending upon protein quality but uh that's your number you aim for and that's what you need to maximize absolutely maximize every last drop of muscle growth. We're not talking about recomposition. We're not talking about other thermic benefits appetite suppression talking purely about gaining muscle and we're talking about potentially preserving muscle in a deficit. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.