All right, let's talk a little bit about complete back development. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you were not following me or subscribe, please do so. Um, and if you guys would be so kind to drop me a comment down below to give your thoughts or to just say hello, um, I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. So, let's get over to the topic. Um, people over complicate back training with silly nonsense. Let's be realistic. Tons and tons and tons of people have built massive, dense, ripped, thick, insane backs off of pull-ups, rows, and deadlifts. Okay, let's make that clear. So when people start talking about why I do this cable and I do this line up the fibers or I squeeze and contract really does anyone really think that's what's built great backs? No. If anything, it's been my experience that's guys with small backs who are just lazy and they're looking for some sort of little cheat that they think will allow them to just not get really strong at these basic movements. Um, and I'm not saying some refinement isn't ever beneficial. It can be, but that refinement is almost never that nonsense. The refinement is always traps, right? Better traps, maybe a little bit of rear delts. That is 100% of the refinement. The thickness and the size and the density comes from the basics. So, let's talk a little bit about those basics. And really, for most guys, just get really strong at pull-ups and rows. So, the trick with the pull-up, obviously, number one, you're trying to build lats. Okay, we're going to have barbell rows to worry about the entire back. When you start worrying about other stuff besides lats on pull-ups, that's where I find guys don't build lats. I've seen plenty of guys out there who are like when they do pull-ups, they're successfully swinging all the way up over the bar. I've seen guys who pull all the way up, get their nipples to the bar, they do like 20 of them, right? I watched a guy do that and I'm like, "Hey, that's great from from a athletic perspective. That's cool. Do you think he had a back? Was his back even remotely close to mine? No. His lats were like half the size of mine. Which again, you look at it and go, "Dude, you're doing 20 pull-ups. How in the hell do you not have a back?" Because he's focused on these other performance elements. Um, it's been my experience to trick wide lats with a pull-up. Just make sure you get the stretch at the bottom. bring it up to the point where your your shoulder blades pinch together because keep in mind when you go beyond that, what are you doing? You're working all sorts of other muscles and you're taking the lats out. And we get those other muscles from the row. So, if you're shortch changing your lats to deal with that, I'm not telling you not to. If you enjoy doing that and you want that sense of accomplishment or you feel that's a proper pull-up, by all means, do what makes you happy. But if you're going to be concerned with your like I want a really really really wide crazy wide back. Uh you need to make sure you're focusing on the lats on the pull-ups. So a fairly reasonably wide grip the stretch at the bottom. Keep the chest up. Don't try to swing over the bar. Keep the chest up. If you keep the chest up, yeah, especially if it's wide grip, it may very well limit your range of motion. But it's because you're keeping the lats involved. And once the lats have reached their range of motion, that's it. You're done. Right? that that's going to get you wide back. Okay. Rows. All sorts of rows. I'm a fan of every type of row. Penlay rows, bend over rows like you saw me doing there. Yates rows, dumbbell rows, one arm dumbbell rows, incline dumbbell rows, inverter. You guys have watched me do all that stuff over the years. I love rows. I think rows in general are great. And some of my clients do cable rows if the others bother them. But if you're looking to just base build and any sort of just bend over barbell row, they can be a bit of a cheat row where you use straps. You can be really strict like you saw me doing. I mean, I'm doing sets of eight with 225 there. Just raw dogging it. Strict. Okay. You'll get a thick back. So, what the row brings is that not only does it continue to build the lat, it builds that upper back also. It builds the whole trap. Really gets your traps thick, rear delts while continuing to build the lats. So, that combination, there's your onetwo punch. Man, that's a winning combination right there. Okay. Now, you build a really thick back if you just do deadlifts with rows, but that width, the pullup is really what gives that width. The the heavy rows is really what gives that depth. And it's because the rowing just and then the deadlift complements that even further. The rowing is what builds all that other musculature, helps build those those some of the T-spine, some of those erectors through there. uh builds the entire trap, middle and and lower trap 100%. It may not give you perfect for the upper trap, but then we can do some other stuff for that, can't we? Okay. And it still builds the lats really effectively, just maybe not as good as the pull-up, but combine them together, we got a winning combination. All right, then you go over, what about deadlifts, man? Deadlifts, dude. deadlifts that will help build the whole trap up, give you that next degree of thickness, builds the erectors. Obviously, the deadlift builds the lower body, a lot of stuff really well, but it builds the back, but it will also give you that extra thickness because it builds the erectors all the way up all the way from the base of your spine all the way up under your traps. It will build erectors and then it helps with the traps. Okay, deadlifts will add that next degree of thickness and density. There's your combo because then So, what else do we want beyond that? Well, if you want some other stuff, this is where we start looking at, okay, what's going to help build the upper traps and rear delts a little. Um, and there's a lot of tools for that. Of course, you see me doing pullovers in here, too. I'm a big fan of pullovers. I think they're great, great just overall builder for the upper body because they've worked pecs, they work lats. Um, they do work rear delts a little bit, but they work the long head of the tricep a lot. That is one of the beautiful things about them. Okay, so you have that with pullovers. So, you could add that to the repertoire. You know, could you do some pull? Can it help with your lats? Yeah, absolutely. It'll give a little more stimulus. I have it in here because it's a good lat exercise that I do. You know, a lot of people like you could just do, you know, the straight arm press downs. You could, but pullovers bring more to the table. I don't think the straight arm press downs a bad movement, but man, pullovers pullovers are great. Plus, they're great for your shoulder health and other stuff. Yeah, they can help a little bit, but then so then what else will we look at? If if that's not all you need, you're like, "Okay, so now I have a really big, really thick, really dense back, but I do need to take that upper part kind of to the next level. I'm a bodybuilder. I just want that that yoke a little more." You could do other stuff. That's where you'll see me do stuff like the upright rows in there. That's where stuff like an upright row helps. That's where stuff like when you get up on a 45 degree incline and do dumbbell rows. Why? because that stuff's going to work the posterior delts and the upper trap all at the same time. Okay, so again, they those mus they work other muscles too by the way, but we're only talking about the back. We don't care that they help with the side and front delt when we're talking about our back. But so yeah, those other exercises like that for you would think of as for the yoke. So once you have that wide, thick, dense back, if you want a little more yolk look and you you're not getting all of it that you need from the row in the deadlift, yeah, something like an upright row or those really high angle or 45 degree incline dumbbell row, stuff like that can really help finish out that area, too. But for most guys, man, just get really good at pull-ups like I talked about. Get really good at barbell rows and you will have a great back. You just have to get really strong at them.