What are the minimum and maximum number of sets I would recommend? Uh, hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this, but a quick reminder, if you will click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Uh, so over to the topic. Um, minimum sets versus maximum. I'm going to I'm going to kind of briefly briefly cover the minimum. Um, realistically speaking, I wouldn't do less than three sets a week. All right? And I'm not saying one set doesn't produce pretty good growth. Um the problem is then you're only doing it once a week. Uh so the frequency is too low. So what I'm going to say is kind of my minimum my minimum is going to be three. And I'm not saying you have to spread them out. You could do them in one day. Um I would almost recommend them be spread over two to three sessions, you know. So, even if you did uh an upper lower or something like that, sure, you could do do two sets of muscle group on each one for four or you could do full body three days a week. I mean, you could do a push pull legs with with three sets in there. Um, but I think with some of that, uh, you may you will get some overlap. Like, I've known guys who train that way, but they had overlap, right? So, what do I mean by that? Um, I knew a guy with a phenomenal physique who trained crazy low volume. He had a better physique than I do and he was around 40 when I was younger. Um, that's how he trained and I've said that numerous times. He did like a three-day pushpull legs. He was on gear though. He was on plenty of gear. Not like today's doses, but he was on a lot of gear. Uh, but still it's kind of how he trains. If you think about it, back in bicep day for him, he would do like weighted pull-ups, three sets of weighted pull-ups, three sets of like stiff leg deadlifts and then three sets of curls. Notice there's overlap. There's going to be lots on the stiff leg deadlifts just like those his squats. He did squats first on the leg day. There's overlap with those stiff leg deadlifts and the squats. So, we would look at that and say that's three sets, but it's really not. Um, but if if we're gonna because again the biceps got worked, the lats got worked on with like six sets. But if we're going to uh spread it out, um I I like the idea of you could do a set for an exercise three times a week on a full body. Works great. Works great. I'm not saying you shouldn't do more. I do more. I I do two different exercises. So that's if there's generally with a lot of my training. So, with a setup like that, I end I end up at about six, although biceps are getting u you know, around 12 a week right now for me. Uh but we'll go into that in a minute. But three is your minimum. And and if you do three sets, really hard sets, they're to failure or close to failure. You may want to take squats to failure, right? stuff you get stapled on, but other stuff, yeah, if you just do three sets a week, I think you'll get sufficient stimulus if the sets are hard enough with progressive overload. You will gain significant amounts of muscle. You'll actually make pretty good gain. So, when I say, you know, oh, you'll gain muscle, if you're like, oh, the bare minimum muscle, no, no, you'll gain good muscle because your recovery will always be on point, right? you won't be dealing with with any situations of underreovery. Okay? Under recovery is a gains killer. You'll always be recovered, right? And you can go super hard. You do sets of deadlifts to failure, but if you're training with those lower volumes, recovery is always going to be optimized, but you're still getting pretty good growth stimulus. So, I mean, a person could realistically off three sets a week, they could make at least twothirds of of optimal gains. It could be more. And the research usually shows pretty pretty good results on three sets when it's been studied. Uh, you get robust muscle growth, right? Even in trained trained lifters. So, that's kind of what I consider the minimum. I wouldn't I really wouldn't go under that. um maximum. My observation in myself and in clients whenever I have clients who exceed about 12 sets a week, that's when pulls, overuse, injuries, things like that start to happen. I've had one of my clients who who is, you know, a pretty public client always wants to do more stuff for things like like quads and adductors, and he strains adductors. He has a history of it even before um I coached him, you know, and that's a perfect example of like I'll prescribe he's got about 10 12 sets in there and then all of a sudden he's adding extra work. Well, that that doesn't work. You start getting hurt. You know, if you're training hard, you're going to start getting hurt more often. Overuse injuries are are going to accumulate easier, right? And and even then, if you look back historically, most of even the best pro bodybuilders, the 15 was around their upper 15 16 was the most. And that's guys on grams and grams of gear. Uh we've only seen little phases and trends where all of a sudden people push doing more. You know, Arnold during his contest prep, uh some of these current evidence-based guys, but understand, so when people look at those old-timers and they're like, "Well, Arnold did that. Arnold only did that before bodybuilding shows. He He did it for cutting purposes and he would add in lots of drugs so he could grow into the show and then he would do that to burn calories and it would help get him ripped up. Okay? Was not about gaining muscle. His off seasonasons were much much much lower volumes like 20 or lower sets when you go back and he talks about it. Uh, so that's usually what you saw. Even guys like Ronnie Coleman, you know, 15, Dorian Yates doing less. I I usually personally find that around 12. Um, for myself, most of my clients is the upper threshold. Are there exceptions? Sure. The exception doesn't make the rule. Do I have I had clients who thrive on on ultra high volumes who have a history of being athletes who do huge amounts in conditioning work? Sure. Okay. They're the exception. You got a job and you work. Yeah. Good luck with all that. Okay. Just just putting that out there. Um, so 12, that's kind of the upper threshold of what I would recommend. And any possible gains you're going to make from going over 12 is so ridiculously small that it's not worth the risk of of overuse or overreaching. And in my experience, it's not more gains. Um, I've seen people when they start hitting too high of volumes, all gains completely stop, including, and I'm talking even novice lifters. I've seen it. I've seen it numerous times. They're they they don't even finish out their new gains. They just stop growing completely when they start doing, you know, 20 25. Um it's just too much for most people, right? So, I'm going to put that upper cap at around 12. And if you're training really hard, 10 to 12 sets, 10 to 12 sets for a muscle group, if you are truly training hard, is a lot. If it doesn't seem like a lot, you're probably a lot lazier on your work than you think you are. And three is just really anything under three. I I'm just you're not going to get any good growth from at all. Um, all right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.