How do we gain muscle fast? Hey everybody, it's Jason Boa here. I thought I would chat with you guys and tell a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment uh down below, I would appreciate that so much. Particularly if you guys have been through all of this, you've been through your new gains installed. Um, particularly guys who've done a bunch of gear and then even gained some size and realized how quickly it faded, how much of it wasn't real muscle. So, let's talk about this. All right, the reality, guys, you're not going to gain muscle fast. All right, you're not not any sort of quality dense muscle. It's just not going to happen. Um, you'll get some really quick gains your first few months in the gym if you train really hard and then it's going to slow way down. Okay? And that's the reality. And and here's why you have to come to terms with that. And I'm not saying you shouldn't try to gain muscle. Not saying you shouldn't try to gain muscle quickly. What I'm saying is guys will think that they can short change the system and not realize everybody that they know of who's got a lot of muscle, big dude probably has years and years under the barbell. Okay? Even when they come to the enhanced guys, a lot of them have years and years under that, too. Um, the truth is gaining quality muscle, actual real new lean tissue protein once Duke games are done is going to be less than you think. And I I think it's shocking. I really see guys who they've been training six months who really come up and go, "Well, I think I can gain two or three pound, four pounds of muscle a month after they've already had several months of noob gains." It's like, you're delusional. In a best case, you're going to be lucky to gain a pound of muscle a month of real muscle after that. Okay, that and that's really really good. By your second, third year, fourth year, it's going to be less than that. Um, and it's just the reality. And I mean, even some of my clients, I put it people like, well, that guy's got lots of muscle, you know, he's got a great physique, you know, as a he's been training 12 years. Um, so the reality here's where guys mess up. Instead of just saying, okay, I'm going to be patient. I'm just going to put in the work. The biggest mistake right up front, guys bulk too fast. They're like, "If I just bulk faster, I'll gain quicker. Plus, look, the weight goes up better. I'm getting the leverage increase." And I get guys who really believe that. And I try to explain to them the fat gains that are giving you leverage increase is not putting more tension on the muscle. It's the fat making giving you a leverage advantage making it easier to lift. That's not progressive overload at the level of the muscle. Okay? It's not. And when you cut that fat, you're going to realize, wow, you didn't really gain any more muscle than you had. You just stayed lean. Um, and that's again, that's the reality of it, guys. And I'm telling you, as someone who's an older dude, been around this game a long time, coach a lot of people, that's just the reality, okay? I've been observing it for decades. If you overbulk, you try to bulk too quickly, you just get fat. You're not going to short change it. All right? And I'll talk to you guys at the end of how to how to actually do it, though. the best you can do. Um the same thing guys are like, "Well, I'm just going to try to shock my system." Well, that's not working. Let me just confuse my muscles. That's what I need. Let's just shock it with tons of tons of new stuff. Yeah. And then they they have all new motor patterns to train all the time. And unless there's a system to it with something like conjugate and a lot of that is done for uh neural drive and avoiding overuse and other stuff. So again, powerlifting training, but for gaining muscle, uh yeah, that that doesn't work. Muscle confusion. No, none of that helps. It's not useful. Um, doesn't matter what big bodybuilder you saw doing it. They're at a point where they're using sometimes so much volume and with all the stuff they're on, they just need to avoid overuse and tearing stuff. So, they're changing stuff to avoid that more often than they need to. Um, so again, consistency matters a lot more than confusing the muscles. And I'll talk about that again in a minute. Same thing, guys. Guys do a bunch of gear, right? particularly when they use the popular stuff that makes you really hold a lot of muscle interuscular water stuff like tren things like man it's working look how fast I'm gaining then they come off the trend even if they go down to TRT or replacement or they do their PCT that that fades they lose that look they lose all that fullness all of a sudden they they'll lose 10 pounds of what they thought was muscle growth it was just glycogen and I'm not saying stuff doesn't work but it also is still a slow process as far as acrewing new lean tissue, right? Actual muscle tissue. Again, it's a slow process, guys. Even in that case, until guys are using such large amounts that they can't stay on it, and when they come off, they shrink and lose a lot of it. Not all of it, but a lot of it. You can't really shortch change muscle growth. Um, you can't outbulk it. You can't just, well, let's just use more and more stuff. It's not going to work the way that you think it will. not going to gain quality dense lean muscle from it from any of that. So, how do we actually gain muscle? We except that it's slow and we have to look at it in terms of consistency, progressive overload. And truly effective training is kind of boring, guys. Truly effective training of going, man, I'm going to work on these eight exercises that I'm going to do. I'm going to have six or eight as my foundational exercise. You can do some other stuff, obviously. You know, you can do other stuff, but you're going to have a number of of basic exercises, and you're just going to continue to increase reps or weight on those month after month, year after year. Okay? Not saying we can't change some of them for variations, but progressive overload. In other words, how do you gain muscle? You take your bench press or your dips or whatever you're doing. It's like, how do you build chest? Well, your flat bench, your incline, your weighted dips, your decline dumbbell, whatever you happen to be doing, you're going to have to add weight. You're going to have to add reps. You know, you're going to be at a point where you're like, "Okay, man. I can do whatever three sets of eight uh with this amount of weight, whatever. 100 pounds total. You're going to have to get that up to 9, 10, 11, 12 reps." Then you're going to add weight, go to 110 pounds. Same thing. Then maybe 115 pounds. and you're going to have to just add weight and add reps month after month after month consistently. Okay. The same thing as far as is uh gaining weight, slow weight gain. The only way you're really it's going to be all muscle or mostly muscle or you sit there and go, you know what, I don't want any more fat. I'm not I'm not lean enough. You may have to recmp and sit at the same weight for a little bit and you can still gain muscle there. But it's the same thing. If you're gaining weight fast enough to gain body fat, it's not really speeding up the muscle growth process. I get it. If you're contest rip, every time I mention that, people like, "But this contest, you're not contest shredded. If you're 14% body fat, 15%, 20%. You don't even probably need a calorie surplus. You don't even have to really gain weight. Or if you do, it can be very, very, very small amounts of weight to gain all the muscle, right? a slow general upward trend in body weight. Consistency, consistency with your food, consistency in the gym month after month, year after year. That is the fastest way to gain muscle. And even guys, you go, "Well, what if I go on the magical supplements?" And you guys know what I'm talking about. The same thing. The smallest amount, the better. It's more keepable. Okay? Because anything that you're gaining quickly is going to be a lot of illusion. It's going to be fat that's just making you bigger. There's going to be water, interuscular water. Okay? That muscle tissue grows slow anyway you break it down. You have to be patient and you have to be consistent over long periods of time. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.