Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about the fact that the supplement industry has convinced us that we need more protein than we actually need. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Thank you. And let's get over to the point. Now, that being said, I still occasionally use protein shakes. I think protein powders are perfectly fine. Um, but what we need to be aware of, just because a product is useful doesn't mean that there hasn't been ridiculous amounts of clever marketing telling you that you need way more of it than you need. Um, and this really uh the big one that started was not just the protein intakes. That's where we're at now. It was the original, hey, you know, you can only absorb 30 grams of protein in one sitting. Okay, that that's your most. You guys go back and look at what the average protein shake content was when that myth was started. 25 to 30 gram. Okay, so we we need to be aware of that history there. Well, that's been completely debunked. We we know that there's no upper threshold. And I'm not telling people to get all of your protein in one meal. Um, even though I personally intermittent fast and I have a, you know, fairly tight afternoon feed window, there's still protein is still obviously going to be spaced out. You're getting multiple meals. But again, the data even shows that even intermittent fasting like that doesn't interfere with muscle growth like when it's looked at in studies. Um, so the same thing with the the protein, like this has been studied and they found that when you consume a 100 grams of protein in a single meal, it has just as much muscle protein synthesis. It's just that it it lasts longer, right? It doesn't spike as high. It gets to the same level that say 30 grams does and it just sustains for more hours and it just stays there. Whereas if you're doing the smaller 30, you keep spiking back up to it multiple times. But the net effect would ended up being no difference in muscle protein synthesis. This is this was a study done a couple years ago, pretty big study, really digging into it to see, hey, if we just give a 100 grams at one time, is there any loss, you know, net loss? And and there wasn't. Um, so that's again kind of supports what we know there. But that was used to sell protein shakes. And it's the same thing with the ultra high intakes, you know, and I want people to think about that. What are the odds that it would turn out that muscle growth was optimized with one gram per pound of body weight? Okay, I want people to stop and think for a moment. Does that sound even remotely right? People say, "Well, no, it sounds about right." No, no, no. Because you've been told it's about right. Really? This this is the supplement industry saying, "Hey, this is what we need." They didn't know. They had no idea. But they did notice, hey, you if we had higher protein intakes, everyone noticed, yeah, we gained more muscle. But no one had really sat down and really dug in biochemistry and studying it of where things capped where growth capped at in bodybuilders, athletes. That wasn't done for years. That was done for for almost for decades really, right? Because we didn't even have the equipment to measure all of it. But we do today. Um, so they just said that number. But stop and think about that. And here's why it's funny. really is going to turn out to be exactly a one one gram per pound of body weight of two completely different measurement systems. One of these is the imperial system, right? Who we use in the US still pounds. The other is the metric system. Literally a direct one to one carryover is going to be perfect. Do you guys see? Think about that. Really, it's literally adding a metric measurement is a ratio to pounds in a perfect one to one. Come on. Reality. It turns out to be about 0.8. And actually the math that I think they kind of came up with was because they they found when they measured it all in metric, you know, grams per kilogram of body weight, um, it ended up being, you know, right around 1.5 to 1.6 grams per kilogram of body weight is where muscle growth capped out. Okay. And this is this is pretty heavily studied and this assumes a mixed protein diet. Obviously the higher the protein quality hypothetically can be lower. That's why some of the studies found as low as a gram per pound of body weight. But that was when they were extremely high bias towards animal source. Right? Make sense? Because when it's been studied in vegans, vegans actually struggle on a purely plant-based even that 1.3 gram per pound of body weight when it's 100% plant-based. Uh this one study found some actual problems with actual muscle growth. Right? The test subjects actually didn't gain any muscle at all and they struggled to maintain strength at that. It was actually difficult for trained lifters who had already been eating animal source. So again that's starting to get too low depending upon protein quality. But it makes sense the bioavailability is lower. But they found it can be as low as a gram or a little more per pound of body weight if it's almost all high quality high bioavailable animal source protein. All right. But realistically on a mixed food diet, it's right around that 1.5. And what's been found is that people don't really gain muscle including when it's been studied in in serious competitive bodybuilders when it's been studied in compet like even Olympic uh weightlifters like this has been studied in people even professional bodybuilders and the same thing was noted you know that that u I remember Nasser way back in the day massive bodybuilder again huge guy pro bodybuilder he said he went for a whole year he's like I dropped down to 150 grams of protein just based on some of the science. He goes, "I gained just as much muscle between Olympias as I did the year before on only 150 grams of protein going all the way in for a year." He's like, "I have no problems at all. I I've saw no difference in gains cutting all the way down to that from like 300, right? So, what does that tell you?" Okay, but the supplement industry convinced us all we need that gram per pound. And I'm not saying it's a bad number. Like, don't get I'm not saying it's it's not it's not reasonable because it's it's overshooting, but it's it's not bad unless you just don't want to eat that much protein. And if you don't, it really you're going to see no difference. The problem is in the industry pushed it higher. You guys, I'm young enough to remember, I'm sorry, I'm old enough to remember. I'm 48 when these the industry for a while had uh coaches who worked for supplement companies and sponsored by them telling people even in in magazines, I have all my bodybuilders do two grams per pound of body weight. And it's like for longer talking about he's taking his serious bodybuilders and putting them on 500 grams of protein a day. And some of these these people are advocating this, but they're all they were literally sponsored people by Muscle Tech and some of these other uh protein companies, okay? It just got crazier and crazier for a while. And the reality is we don't even actually need the full gram per pound. And people say, "Well, I need it for an insurance." Well, you really don't. The insurance policy is to hit the 1.5 grams per pound of bite, which is about 08 gram. So, if you weigh 200 lb, that's 160 gram of protein, guys. For those not not uh carrying the numbers over, about 15060 grams, you'll be perfectly fine. No problems at all gaining any amount of muscle you want on the protein side.