How much protein do we actually need for muscle growth? Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you will please click a like down below, it' be greatly appreciated. If you aren't following me or subscribed yet, please do so. And if you would be so kind, drop me a comment down below to give me your thoughts or just to say hello. All right. Uh that being said, let's get over to the topic. A lot of arguments over the years on this, but this has been pretty heavily uh looked at in the research. It's pretty well understood. And when I say studies, we're talking about studies even on Olympic lifters at the Olympic level, professional drug-free bodybuilders. Like these are studies that are done on people who lift. So when people say, "Well, I don't care about um you know, some study on some novice lifters who work out twice a week on machines." Okay? And that's great. We don't have to worry about that. So because this is an area of interest um that actually matters for money, it's actually been studied extensively. Okay, notice what I said. Olympic lifters or we go to professional football players, things like that. College scholarship football players, D1 athlete. So, so we have studies on people whose muscle gain and performance actually is worth money. Okay. So, this is a case of this has been studied pretty closely because this affects people's money. Like this is business. So yeah, people kind of want to know this is not even about bodybuilding. Plus, a lot of your nutrition guys who go into this field are really serious about bodybuilding. Uh fortunately, um you see more serious nutritionists who are serious bodybuilders really than people who who do PhDs in exercise science. I've noticed that. Just just noting the difference are more likely to have gains. Um just funny observation. Uh but that being said, we have good data and what that data has usually found is at around 1.5 to 1.6 grams per kilogram of body weight, you know, and that is a little bit less than that historically recommended 1 g per pound. Uh but that makes sense because it doesn't make sense that it would just so happen to be that the ideal amounts would be exactly one gram per pound of body weight, right? Um so but that was just always a loose estimation and you know where did people come up with that original number just observation right they made that observation you know like 50 60 years ago that yeah you know if I if I get about a gram of protein per pound of body weight we seem to make a little better muscle gains this is where we make good gains at right that's just what they noted you know right around that range not very scientific but there was it's observation and then here's what turns out you go look at the research, the really deep researches conducted 50 years later, and what did they find? That that number wasn't far off. Okay, so the the old-timers in the lifting world who kind of noted, yeah, that seems to be kind of about the sweet spot, they overshot it by, you know, about 15 20%. But they were close. So you got to look at that and go, "Yeah, they" and that makes sense, right? So if you're just trying to observe, yeah, usually when we get about to this point, well, that meant they passed optim they reached optimal, went a little bit past it and found right about there was consistently worked pretty good. Yeah, it makes sense. It makes sense in just anecdotal observation because they were never below optimal. They were always a little bit above it, right? So again, what do we come down to with that? Well, that the one gram per pound isn't a bad number. It puts you well into the safety zone, right? And I don't think you can go wrong there, but keeping in mind the data shows you can get away with about about 20% less than that and still see absolutely optimal muscle growth. Okay. Now that being said, that being said, guess what? That also means that if it's high quality protein. In other words, that th those numbers you start getting, you know, down to about 1.5 grams per kilogram of body weight, that needs to be mostly high bioavailable protein. Needs to be mostly animal protein. Okay? This doesn't mean, oh yeah, I'm going to just do a vegan diet and have one one, you know, protein shake a day. Um, probably not going to work. Ideally, it's not. So, this again assumes a nice mixed protein diet with a variety of protein sources with most of them being high bioavailable protein. Notice I did not say complete proteins. That's also nonsense. Um, plant proteins are complete proteins. I don't know why this is still thrown out there. They have all the essential amino acids. They're complete. They sometimes just don't have ideal ratios of some and they're harder to to digest and absorb. Okay? We don't absorb them as efficiently. We waste some of them. We don't get all of them digested or get into our bloodstream. So that's a little bit of a problem. So again, this number assumes that it's high quality protein. So you know, my general recommendations here are yeah, you know, shoot for that 1.5 to 1.6 6 g per kilogram of body weight, you'll gain plenty of muscle, that will be ideal for your muscle. But if you want to go a little higher and go for that traditionally recommended gram per pound, it's not a problem. Like it it really is not a problem. It's not like you're going to gain less muscle. Um now, if you're on a really tight budget and protein's expensive where you happen to be, then sure, uh something to to factor in. It's something for you to consider and think about. You do have to weigh out. It's okay. Now, the other end of the equation though, people say, "But to gain muscle." Well, this number was to gain muscle. Doesn't mean there aren't other benefits to higher protein. There can be. How about fat loss? How about recomposition? How about things like occasional connective tissue? Yeah, I'm going to go go out on a limb to say there are metabolic benefits to exceeding this number, right? There's studies on protein overfeeding that that take this number and double it or slightly more. And what do they see? Do they gain more muscle? No. But they found those people lose body fat a little easier. They lose a little bit of body fat even while trying to overeat in most of the studies that have looked at that. Well, actually all of them because only been a couple studies. They're pretty consistent. Um, could we make the case for slightly older lifters? You getting middleaged absorbing a little less protein? Yeah, you may want to think about going a little higher, but that gram per pound will cover you there, by the way. So, again, makes a little more sense there. Okay, so there are situations like that. What about if you have a minor injury? What about if you've got a, you know, some inflamed tendons? You're not recovering. Okay. Collagen synthesis, tendon repair, taking your protein up a little bit higher for some tendon inflammation, uh maybe some minor injuries or pulls you're recovering from, maybe you had to have a surgery or you are recovering from an injury in the gym, a little more protein can be beneficial. So, we're no longer looking at, hey, what's ideal for muscle growth? we're like, I have some other issues that could benefit from some extra protein. In which case, you may want to bump it up. You might look at that whole thing and say, "Okay, I'm at this number, this gram per pound or a little under u, but I have this other situation going on." You may want to add 40 or 50 grams of protein. Same thing when you're trying to strip down body fat, the extra satiety, the extra thermic effect. Okay? A little more protein might be useful when you're trying to strip off a little bit of body fat. Just throwing it out there. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.