the key to getting really really strong. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys will please uh click like down below. Be greatly appreciate it if you guys would be kind enough to leave a comment under the video. I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. And if you're not following or subscribed, please do so. So, let's get over to uh the topic. Um, so here's here's me doing some lifting and I'm almost 50 years old doing a nice uh easy paused flat back. Well, it wasn't super easy. 335 bench, you know, again, flat back, heels down with a pause. Uh, 500 squat, 585 deadlift. Um, you know, decent numbers, right? Decent numbers. These are not peak for powerlifting me. This is just real solid gym lifts I hit um earlier this year. Uh, so here's the thing. How do we get strong, right? And how do we get strong without getting hurt? You know, that's another big one. Lots of guys like I can come and just do tons and tons of heavy work. Yeah, you'll get strong till you get hurt. Okay, so really the key is to just get big. Um and and I know people say, "What? Size and strength are so heavily correlated." Um and what I mean is by getting big, I'm going to do lots of hypertrophy work. Um work muscles through nice full ranges of motion. Right? Get bigger, build your support musculature. And the reason I say all that, that's what's going to uh give you number one, the base to actually produce force. And number two, that's going to keep your injuries lower, including when you max. And I know people people don't always understand that, like, what do you mean? So, okay. So, if you think about and we'll go over to the strength in a minute. Think about this from the perspective of tendon health, joint health, all that stuff, right? If we are used to training a lot of muscles through nice deep stretches, good ranges of motion, are we more resilient in those ranges of motion? Yeah, absolutely. Hey, how often do you see guys get hurt? Was it hurt on a squat when they have squat too much and then they go too heavy or they go too low, they miss a squat and then something snaps? like, well, yeah, that's usually what happens. Okay, so what happens if you do a bunch of squatting like I'm doing here? Deeper, below parallel, below competition depth pause squatting, right? Same thing on on your machine squats. You can do the same sort of thing. You go deep, you go low, you build those quad tendons, you build everything to be strong in those bottom positions where you miss lifts. No, people don't always think of that. All right. Same thing even you can start doing deficit deadlifts and stuff. I'm a big fan of deficit deadlifts. Um, fact I may start doing more of those myself. So get you get in these positions, right? You get used to those positions. Same thing when you bench. Um, what if you do all your benching with pauses? You do all your rep work relatively flat back without as big of an arch. You keep everything paused, controlled, or very soft touch and goes. What happens? Well, your pecs are used to being stretched under a load. You're going to put the pecs into a deeper stretch. They're going to get bigger, right? They're going to get bigger, but you're also going to be more resilient when you do hit a heavy bench later. Why? because you're used to being put into those deep positions where where if we miss something um you know if we're weak in those positions that's where we get hurt. It's when we hit those bottom movements and stuff where where stuff gets catawous. But the other thing is and you learn to have control all the time. So so the same thing if you think in terms of of all your hypertrophy work, right? Think about all your hypertrophy work. You're doing, you know, laying extensions like you'll see me doing here later. What do we want to do? I don't know if I have them in this video. Uh, you want to get the deepest stretch possible. You want to really stretch that long head. We want to stretch everything. Do all your pull-ups from a from a dead hang. All your rows stretch deep at the bottom. Okay. We start doing all these movements through these deeper ranges of motion. What are we doing? We're building tendon resilience. We're building structure. So the same thing. So think in terms also of when we are doing uh all the rowing and pulling and curls and other stuff. Are you building support musculature for your bench press? Well, yeah. Well, think about all those important dynamic stabilizers, the biceps, the rear delts, the traps, the lats. If you get those really big, you have more cushioning and protection. those joints are more stable because the muscles on the opposing side are stronger, right? Injury risks aren't going down. Same thing on on, you know, your deadlifting and squatting. What happens if you get really really big hamstrings, your knees are more stable, you're less likely to pull something in your back, right? This is a positive thing. This this helps us avoid getting hurt. This is how we play the long game. Plus, we're not beating our joints up. You're not beating your joints up doing six to 10 reps on these other movements through long ranges of motion with control. Right? When you watch me doing these dips later, right? I'm going as far down as my chest will let me comfortably stretch, which is, you know, my shoulders about three inches below my elbows. Okay? We're going into all these these positions. We're toughening everything up, but then we're also building tendons. We're building muscles. Muscles support your body or these movements later. Okay. Same thing with size. Get big. This is this has been demonstrated over and over and over. Muscle fiber hypertrophy has 100% carryover to force production. If you get your muscle fibers in a muscle 10% bigger, they will produce 10% more force every single time. People say, "Well, that doesn't always translate to a max strength." It doesn't because you still need the skill of maxing. You're right. But a bigger quad, if your all your quad uh fast twitch fibers get 10% bigger, your quad produces more 10% more force when it fully contracts as hard as possible. So when you do practice the maxes, you have more force. You are able to produce more force at the the tendon. Now you just have to coordinate that over to the skill of maxing. So just get bigger. Get big everywhere. Get jacked. Build the support muscles. to build the primary movers. Think like a bodybuilder in those regards. So then how do we get strong? Well, then just do heavy singles. Okay? And that's the other argument I will make to people all day long. All day long. Heavy singles, max lifts will develop your strength faster than doubles, triples, fives, anything else. But you got to have the muscle to do it. So once you have the muscle there, you can come do heavy singles. And when you practice actually hitting heavy lifts above 95% of your max, this is where we get the carryover. Okay? This is where you develop the skill of maxing. This is where you get the neural drive. You get the technique, the coordination, not by doing reps, but by actually maxing out. And they don't even have to be the same lift. Like your max with different bars or a max on a floor press. It's still a skill transfer to the classic lift. Okay? So then max out, right? Start maxing out. You'll get brutally strong. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.