So, how would I set up maybe a full body program for intermediates? Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and tell us a little bit about this today. But if you guys will please click like down below, greatly appreciate it. If you're not following or subscribe, please do so. You know, I had someone ask me this in one of my lives and I'm like, uh, let me let me sit down and just kind of think about it. So, I'm sitting here right now drinking my coffee. Um, and I'm like, I would probably do about five exercises, right? I would recommend. So again, assuming you're just you're shooting for a really good physique, um trying to do some older school type full body, I'd probably just do five exercises and then leave room for an isolation of some point, right? Whatever your weak link is, you could probably finish up at the end if you have time. You'll probably finish up at the end if you have time, but I would probably use something like like double progression. Um I would probably do obviously a squat. I would do a deadlift. Although I might only have them do one set of deadlifts, right? Three sets of squat, set of deadlift, uh bench press or a weighted dip, right? I'm going to lean towards obviously the bench press, but a bench press or a weighted dip for the third. Fourth exercise, a weighted pull-up or weighted chin. Now, if you're not strong enough to do them weighted, but if you're an intermediate, you should you're not a novice, you should be able to do pull-ups. And if you can't, you're too fat. So, um, a pullup or a chin up and then a pullover, right? You'd be a plate pullover, dumbbell pullover, barbell pullover, whatever kind of hits what you want. Um, I would probably run these with something like double progression. So, something like a 5 to eight for the big movements or 5 to 10, 6 to 10, right? I think six to 10 could work really, really well. Um, and for those who don't understand what a double progression is, and I'll discuss in a minute, maybe maybe if you have room left, um, an isolation movement. Now, as far as as chin-ups versus pull-ups go, we could get in that debate a lot. And people like, where's the curl? Well, the curls would be possibly your your final exercise, but you don't necessarily need to do the same isolation movement at the end every time. You can definitely have times where you skip it. Uh, but the main thing is getting those those five movements in. But again, if guys are not going to do the curls, they feel like they got plenty of lats, the chin works really really good there. People are like, "Where's the overhead press?" If you if you have limited time, you don't have time for an overhead press in something like this. Um, although again, you could add it as a weak point movement or you could add an upright row or another shoulder movement if you feel your delts are your weakest point. But back over to a double progression. What do we mean with that? So, let's say you're doing a 5 to 8 or 6 to 10. Um, that means when you take those three sets or you take the one set, right? You take the one set. Uh, I would start with a way you can get about your your three sets of five with and you build it up. You build it up over time. You just add add reps anytime you can. And when you can get to eight reps, uh, you add weight and restart the process, get down to a weight you get about five or six reps with. Or if you do six to 10, you could literally do the same thing. You could do it with five, five to 10 also. Uh, again, people are like, "Well, you got to run that on squats and deadlifts." Yeah, if you need to. Again, I'm saying you could you could work with both, but I think a five to eight works really really well, though, especially for the big movements. Obviously, things like pullovers, you may you may want to go much higher rep. Okay. So, when you get there, then you you add weight and you restart the process. It's again old school type training. All right. Old school type training. You could alternatively do a widowmaker squat instead of the multiple sets. Okay? You could absolutely do the widowmaker squat and I think that's completely viable also. But again, keeping in mind, it's only going to be one set three times a week if you do it that way. But guys did that and it worked, right? Guys did that and it worked really, really well. Um, it's even something I've considered re-implementing myself at some point. Um, and a person could also do those uh an alternative. They could absolutely do the widowmaker and then do a a pullover, the old school breathing squat and pullover. So they do their widowmaker, then a set of pullovers to failure. Extremely viable, right? Extremely viable. That could also be done. Although that will interfere with your other movements for the day. Uh but again, if we're going to look at really old school type full body intermediates can do those are options. All right. Something like the pullover though, it's going to need to be obviously higher reps. you're not going to be doing uh you're not going to be doing pullovers, you know, that the same way I just described there, but um that that is something that does work really really well to do the Widowmaker, right? Do an allout squat set like that. And again, that does really really work. And I think it works again extremely well if you do it with a pullover setup. Um, so definitely definitely an option that people have on the table. Uh, and it's something I thought about doing. In fact, I'm I'm sitting here recording getting ready before a morning workout. I'm literally literally thinking about doing that myself and just going all out. Uh, taking a set to allout failure like that and uh, pushing it to that bleeding edge is is again I don't think it's a bad approach either. Uh so again, breathing squats, widowmaker squat, followed by your pullover right there. That will save a lot of time if people are strained for time. All right? Then you can do your dead deadlift set, then your benching or your your dips, and then your your pull-ups or chin-ups. Okay? The options you have, and then you don't have to worry about necessarily the pullovers at the end. Now, it is going to leave you a little more fatigued by the time you get to the bench, but that's okay, right? That's okay. Um, again, it's a setup that works extremely extremely well, though. Again, especially if you do those pullovers to failure, right? Do that pullover to failure. Uh, again, a lot of work density can produce phenomenal results, right? Help get you in shape. Um, as far as is if you have time because you've already done like five exercises on a setup like this. If you have time left, um, and I feel like you can get away with that more if you do the Widowmaker because you're not doing multiple sets of squats. For those who don't understand the Widowmaker, you take something like it could be lower than your 10 rep. It could be your eight rep max and you just do rest, pause reps all the way till it's limited. You may even want to take it to failure, right? But not a big deal. You only doing one set. you only do in one set, so it's okay. Um, but then doing that pullover after really helps open everything up as far as your rib cage, your breathing, all of that. So, again, um, this is definitely an option that people have on the table. Uh and then as far as the the last movement, if you have a weak point, you want to isolate your biceps, your calves, your triceps, uh whatever, pick one isolation movement, do three sets to failure and you can call it a day. So basically those five exercises and if you have room of, you know, one isolation movement. Now, people are like, "This workout's going to take a while." Yeah. Yeah. Especially with all the big movements in there, it is going to be a little bit fatiguing. It's going to be fatiguing, but you're only training three days a week on a full body and you have 48 hours between every workout. There is going to be a serious commitment. If intermediates actually want to break through and get to the advanced, this is the sort of stuff they have to do and think about, right? This is the sort of stuff they have to do. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.