Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And today I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about the real problem with fake natties online. Uh, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. All right, this is one of those where I will point out that it really doesn't in a lot of ways affect you. Like at the end of the day, um I will tell people it does not affect you personally if someone else is natural or not. And on some level I I would say look, quit worrying about it. Um you know, in terms of just everyone obsessed over if someone's natural or not. Um in certain ways it doesn't matter. However, I will say there is still great harm in people being fake natties. Okay? And I think we need to understand the difference, right? We need to understand the difference. It's one thing for someone to just, you know, not say anything, right? No problem. That's fine. It's another thing for people to actively promote and market their natty status. Um the the big obvious one is obviously the selling of products. It's a scam. Okay, it's absolutely a scam. But I think there's a deeper thing that needs to be said is the fact that people being fake natties will I've seen it discourage people from lifting. Um because the problem is so many people out there have set a standard, right? They've set a standard through heavy amounts of Photoshop, plenty of peeds, all the stuff that people do online instead of how they really look or how that would look if they never used anything, right? They've never used Tren. All right. I mean, let's be fair. A lot of these guys, their physiques, if they only used a low dose of testosterone and nothing else, they wouldn't look anything like they look. And I'm talking even some of the smaller dudes, right? They wouldn't look like they they look on that. They just wouldn't. Um, again, Photoshop, all this other stuff. The problem is it creates this standard and this expectation of, hey, I did this natural. You know, I did this naturally and they and they'll market it and sell it. Um, and again, I have no trouble with people enhancing themselves. I don't have a problem with it. I mean, it's your body, your business. Do whatever you want, right? I believe in freedom. It's your body. You're free to do what you want, dude. Um, it's like cosmetic surgery or anything else. But here's the problem. The issue is when you put stuff up and I saw something on this that really spoke volumes couple different times. I remember when people asked me years ago, they said, "Well, what about someone with average genetics? You know, what what could they achieve drug-free?" Like average genetics, normal people. And I remember I put up um Dr. Eric Helps. I'm like, "Well, this is a perfect example, right? This guy has competed in IPF, so he's had to do a lot of lot of drug testing for that. I know people are going to say, "But he's not lifetime natty. He did a cycle and admitted it long time before all that." I'm aware of that, but it was only a single cycle of a of a oral. Okay, we're aware of this. Everyone knows this. It was in, you know, back in the day he documented it on bodybuilding.com. But realistically, his he's obtainable natural. Okay, so let's set aside the fact that he did admittedly do one like six week cycle in his history. Um had a natural pro card, had over a decade of hard work. Um he competed in powerlifting also and stuff. Uh drug tested IPF. Um all this stuff, right? All right. I had a PhD pretty much in body. He did his PhD in pre-contest bodybuilders and nutrition. He studied them. So, I mean, he technically had a PhD in bodybuilding nutrition for all purposes because that's what he did his dissertation and stuff on. Um, and I said, you know, that I think that's a reasonable lifetime. If someone was pursuing physique or bodybuilding goals and they had average guy genetics, a normal guy, and they put in 10, 15 years of really hard work, that's an obtainable goal. I put that up a decade ago, what, eight, eight, nine, 10 years ago, and said, "This is reasonable, right?" You know, the replies I got, there were people who were like, "Wow, he looks terrible. He's tiny. He doesn't even look like he doesn't lift." I had several guys write, "Wow, I'm discouraged from even working out." I actually had some people write stuff like, "I feel like giving up lifting." They're like, "If that's the best I can expect to be at, if I put in 10 years of work, I'm discouraged from even working Okay, let that sink in. This is a guy who had won national level natural bodybuilding shows. This is a guy who had a pro card and had had been drug tested numerous times in a couple different sports regularly. Okay. People were like, I I don't even want to lift. Like this is discouraging. I saw the same thing. I saw like Ben Carpenter put up a guy. He did his responses. He goes, "But this is a great natural physique and normal lighting." This guy put up this thing said, "Man, I've been working out five days a week for 17 years." But the guy just had no tan, normal lighting, just kind of relaxed, shirtless, did a little bit of stuff. And there were people whose responses were what did he do? Did I mean did he did he not go to the gym? Like talk about wasting 17 years of your life. The guy looked good. The guy was fit. He was in shape. He looked like a guy who worked out, you know, he was in shape. But because of internet standards, when you take someone who is actually natural and not a genetic freak, he's like, "Yeah, I've been training five days a week for seven 17 years. I've been working out." Puts his results up and I thought the guy was in shape. I think most people, the average person outside of the fitness world would have look at that guy and be like, "Yeah, he's in shape." Most women would look at that guy and say, "Yeah, he got a nice body. I like that. Right? They like, "Hey, he looks good." Right? But because of the fake natties, we're now in a position to where fake natties and so much lying about drugs and all these crazy standards and Photoshop and AI that if someone comes and trains for 17 years and puts in the work and then you just see them in normal lighting, no Photoshop, no fake tan, okay? not peaked for the picture. People are like, "Wow, they don't even look like they lift." But they clearly do. This is the standard. This is why the fake natty thing is a problem. And again, people will see this and go, "Wow, if that's that's what 17 years of work gives you, I feel like this is a waste of time." Okay? Instead of us focusing on feeling good, being strong, being fit, being healthy, looking good to normal people, having an attractive body, people are then discouraged because of this the goofball crazy standards of fake natties and the fake natty bodybuilding and all of this. It literally now discourages people from working out when they see what actual real results are. It's very sad state of affairs and this is the real problem with it. This is why it's a problem. This is the harm that it does.