How have I gotten leaner in the last year? Um, hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and doubt a little bit about this today. Uh, but a quick reminder if you guys will click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it. Um, and I've got a lot of commentary on this lately. Um, people have noted, yeah, you've gotten significantly leaner. I've had people who've come through uh some of my stuff who's who've mentioned that they're like, wow, you used to be kind of I thought you were kind of a tubby powerlifter. What happened? Um, and I'm not saying I'm bodybuilder ripped or contest lean, but I also used to be over a 300 pound fat guy. I've also, you know, been a fluffier powerlifter in the past, and I'm I'm have reasonably athletic body fat, and I'm still chipping away at it. Like, I'm not actually done. So, let me be clear on that. Um, use a lot of strategies, but but quite frankly, um, I've had to lose huge amounts of weight twice in my life. Um, there's a lot of things I learned from it. And ironically enough, lately with this last bit, everyone's like, "Man, you're getting kind of you're getting leaner again, were you doing more cardio, GPP?" Uh, no. I'm not doing any cardio at the moment. Yeah. I took up running last year for a while. I did a bunch of five mile runs barefoot, um, up to five miles, did tons of them, blogged all of it, and then I had a phase after that where I did a long bit of GPP. And yet, I quit doing all that. I'm leaner now. And I've really I only lift with with moderate to low volume. Um my training itself is fairly low. I don't do a lot of training as I'm getting leaner. Uh and so then the question becomes, you know, what are you doing? And it's like, no, I'm use I'm not using any fat burning drugs. There's no growth hormone cleanse, GLP1s. It's just diet. That's it. Um and we have to understand that diet is king. And I put up pictures of all my food, but a couple things I've always found really helpful for losing fat is always going to be high protein with fasting, right? Really high protein and fasting, but I've taken that up a notch. So, when I quit doing all the cardio uh while getting leaner, it's because I didn't want to waste recovery resources on it. My training is really hard. I mean, you guys are watching me do stuff like up to 12 rep sets of 405 on a squat. Um, I do, you know, 12, 15 reps with a 45 pound plate on pull-ups. This is chin-ups here, but I do pull-ups a lot of times. Weighted dips with 45 plus pounds for sets of 20. You know, as a guy who weighs over 200 lb, like these these are normal workout. Like, these are everyday workouts. These are my normal. I train like this every time I'm in the gym pretty much or in the garage. Um, and I'm 49 years old. I don't have a lot of recovery after that. So, all that I've done to get leaner lately is shift my training towards body composition instead of powerlifting. Um, in other words, it's not saying I don't squat, bench, and deadlift. I still squat, bench, and deadlift. I just don't go crazy heavy. I just chase rep PRs. Like, I'm trying to get to 20 reps with 225 on clean, you know, wide grip, strict benching. I'm I'm at 18 now. you know, setting goals like, hey, let's get to, you know, 20 reps with a 45 pound plate on weighted dips, which I'm past. Um, you know, let's see how high. Let's just learn to just rep 405 on a squat as many reps as I can. And I'm up to 12. I've done 12 a few times now. Um, I've hit like eight reps a few times on 500 deadlift. So, it's it's all rep work, but it's only I only do one real work set on my big movements. you know, curls and stuff can get more, but it's one set up to three times a week. Um, so but the training is hard in terms of recovery, especially a lot of it to failure, some of it rest, pause, I don't have a lot of recovery left. So, I've realized if I just focus on gaining muscle, all I focus on is a gaining muscle. And again, there's going to be strength carryover. you're you take your five rep max to a 12 or a 15 rep max on squats. I promise you your your powerlifting total is going to improve. Okay? So, I just try to build muscle. That's it. Focusing on building muscle, higher reps so that I can handle the tonnage without beating my body into the ground. Because quite frankly, four and five rep sets with what I squat and bench, see where we're going, they start to beat you up. can't do them all the time. So, it's just reps and outside of that, it's just diet, diet, diet, diet. Um, I guess I've been doing a lower carb approach. Uh, I keep my healthy fats high. That's come up too because I do put up pictures. People are like, "Well, where are all the healthy fats?" It's like, well, avocados. I eat one or two avocados every single day. Walnuts. I cook my eggs usually in little avocado oil. Um, I take tons of extra strength fish oil. So, I take up to six of those a day. So, that's four grams of EPA DHA. It's one of the few supplements I use. Um, that's pretty much my only supplements right now. I extra shrimp fish oil, whey protein. Um, I buy omega-3 freerange eggs, all my eggs. So, I eat like three of those a day. Um, but I do a lot of steak, a lot of chicken thighs, and then piles and piles and piles of vegetables, and then dairy. I kind of alternate around a little between full fat and fat-free dairy. Um, depends on what I'm doing. Uh, depends on what I want to eat that week. But, uh, yeah, I mean, that's that's pretty much what I eat. That's what we eat. Uh, so again, I try to get about two pounds of vegetables, but tons and tons of healthy fats. Yes, there's saturated fat in there. Most of it's coming from whole foods dairy, which is not problematic from a health perspective, so I don't worry about that. I do eat a fair amount of steak um and beef roast, but um it's a focus is on protein and I get over 300 grams of protein every day. I have phases where I do 400 plus a little bit, but I I get it. I shoot for at least 300 grams of protein. Everything else is healthy fats and then piles of vegetables and I just fast. I don't even track calories anymore. Okay? I just know that if I eat x amount of meat and dairy, I'm gonna get at least 300 grams of protein. I don't track calories. I don't track any of that anymore. I just have I limit myself to um you know, a six to eight hour window. A lot of times I cut it to six, but if I'm still hungry, I'll just eat some meat later in the evening, just like 4 ounces of meat and some peppers or something with it just to get fiber. Um, but my diet is protein, healthy fats, piles of vegetables in a six to eight hour feed window. I don't, like I said, I don't even track anymore yet. Here we are uh getting leaner. I I don't feel that it's necessary for me. Kind of know my body at this point. Um, and I'm full all the time. So, by fasting and then hammering the protein, the protein and the vegetables, uh, I don't really get hungry. I get hungry right around breakfast. That's usually when I eat, you know, 10:00 a.m. 11:00 a.m. depends on on when I when the hunger really hits me. Um, but that's been my strategy. It's just diet. And again, I don't track I don't even fully track my macros. Yeah, it's lower carb. Probably maybe 50 grams. Depends on how much dairy I eat that day. That determines how much carbs is in my diet. Mutopia, fair life milk, Greek yogurt. That's pretty much my carbs. There's a few in the vegetables. Um, but again, just fasting with really high protein, all whole foods, tons of healthy fat. It's been my strategy. No tracking, just eat super super clean and fast in the mornings. All my training is fasted. I don't do any training with food in my system. It's just black coffee. Um, I have one to two big cups in the morning and then we're done. And that's my whole strategy. All right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.