I don't know anyone personally who regrets ever going on testosterone. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Uh but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciated. If you aren't following or subscribe, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment under the video uh just to say hello or to give your thoughts on the video or questions, I would greatly appreciate that. So thank you so much. All right. So, you know, this is a real conversation we as a society are having to have today more and more. Um, again, with the popularity of TRT, uh, the popularity of, uh, self- application outside of TRT, all these things with testosterone as well as people bringing it to the forefront as actually a real health deal and quality of life deal rather than being seen as quote unquote cheating in sports. Because keep in mind, we had a previous generation where because of politics, because of the Cold War, because of the Olympics, we had an enormous media campaign uh demonizing testosterone and anything that could be a peed, like literally just demonizing it. Uh by mind you, without sufficient medical evidence or anything to to enforce this and keeping in mind there, the current experts, this is what the leading research is saying. It's like they've really said, and I know people get upset when you say this, they're like, "Uh, we can't actually prove moderate amounts of even anabolics or testosterone shorten lifespan." Like, we we think they might, but when we closely examine all the data we can possibly find, spanning generations, previous athletes, uh, research, lab work, u, we can't actually find evidence. we don't have proof that it actually lowers uh or reduces lifespan. It goes in fact if we went purely off the only data we have which isn't conclusive and this is really upset people when scientists relates like what do you want us to do change the data? They're like technically the only correlation we have shows a slightly longer lifespan you know and they're saying that but said the problem is we can't do multivariant analysis on that. We know that there's other lifestyle factors that are contributing. But if if we only go off the correlational data, the only evidence we have is that moderate anabolic use is technically correlated with a slightly longer lifespan than the general population. Wow. That's what they have. Just just an FYI. And and again, keeping in mind, they're fully aware there are risks. They're fully aware that there's definitely other lifestyle factors because people who are doing this are obviously athletic and eat healthy. So, they're going to be better off. And what they're saying is that that is probably enough to offset the other risk. So, they're not saying that anabolics cause it. It's just correlation versus causation. Right? People have to understand that topic by the way. Correlation is not causation. But if we go off the only data we have looking at the lifespan of known versus the general population known users, it is technically with the only study that's really looked at it. It was correlated with a longer lifespan. That is that is what the correlational data showed. Okay. Again pointing out correlation is not causation. But it also kind of creates a situation for people who want to demonize all of this. Well, it's a bit of a problem, isn't it? All right, but back over to the other point. This is the data we have and then TRT and stuff is coming to the forefront more and more. Um, here's ultimately we need to discuss the quality of life in I just don't know anyone who has gone on testosterone. And I'm not saying there aren't people out there who I've heard of online. I've never personally had a conversation with anyone. And let's keep in mind, I've had conversations with hundreds of people who were either self uh administering testosterone or who were on TRT from their doctor. Many of those ladders are not lifters or athletes, by the way. They're doing it purely for the the the health the quality of life and health benefits, right? Which is perfectly reasonable. Like if we go off all the long-term data we have, technically your quality of life and health improves on TRT for middle-aged and older men. Like that's not even debatable. That's that's hard data. Their health outcomes improve. So again, I mean, you can argue people can argue the risk all they want, but I'm like, sorry, we have studies on 200,000 people that say their health improves. What do you have? See the problem? You don't have anything. You got speculation. You have individual case studies compared to the larger demographic data that says, "Yeah, lower 30% lower stroke and heart attack rate." Straight up. That's a massive health improvement. Okay? I don't care what other health factors you throw in at that point. You're losing you are losing that argument the moment you have over a 100,000 people and the people on TRT versus those who don't go on it have a 30% lower stroke and heart attack rate. Your argument is finished. You have nothing you have nothing to counter that unless you show a 10 times increase in cancer or something. There there is no debate. You can't you can't beat that data because those are the number one killers. That is the biggest killer. Number one killer in our population just went down 30%. Right? So, let's get over to the quality of life. I don't know anyone who regrets it. I don't. Everyone's like, "Uh, I'm more focused. I make more money at work. My sex drive is better. My sex performance is better. My fitness is better. I have less fat, less depression. And that's kind of what it comes down to. We're in a world to where low testosterone has become the norm. Yes, obesity is a big driver, but we know environmental toxins, microplastics are now the other number two leading uh potential cause. We can't get away from this stuff. Our testosterone levels are being destroyed as a planet, not just as a society with the obesity, but then again, we're less obese when we're taking testosterone. It recompositions us. So, it's like we have that to deal with, but then we have the microplastics and other stuff, environmental toxins that are driving levels down potentially, right? This is a real topic. Um and and again it is a quality of life conversation that needs to be had because it is about quality of life. Having high testosterone levels absolutely improves our mindset. And no it doesn't oh toxic masculine. No it's not any of that. We're talking just mood calmness confidence focus. It's way higher. When men have high testosterone levels, high above average, high end of the normal range, or even they start getting outside of the physiological range, we generally see better focus, better confidence, better mood, lower depression. All right? This is a gamecher. This is a gamecher. And if we as a society, we have to have these conversations because it's a because if we don't, we're just gonna have these conversations behind closed doors and people are just going to do what they're going to do. A lot of us are saying, "Hey, we need to have these conversations here in public.