Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about fasting. Um something I've always been a fan of at least for for long periods of time. Uh but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciate it. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, appreciate it so much. And I mean perfect example of what we're talking about right there. That set of bench press doing rep work with 315. uh did rep work with 500 deadlift, box jumps, weighted pull-ups, squats, all sorts of stuff right in that workout. Then I went and took a 30 minute run. Okay. I went and ran 30 minutes afterwards. Uh then put in an hour on my bike and then had breakfast. Okay. Um you know, my thing is everyone has a problem. Like you'll see people who are like, "Oh, you can't do that. You can't do these things fasted. You can't train fasted. that it's going to interfere with performance, it's going to interfere with muscle growth. Um, you know, to which I would say to people, what where's your evidence of this? In fact, I just saw a study that came out uh not long ago. I saw Menow Hanselman link it where it showed exactly what I and a lot of people who've been training fasted for years have said doesn't impede performance at all. Okay? You still have glycogen stores from the night before. All right? And and I don't think people grasp that. It's like you're not going to burn as much glycogen as you think you are. Okay? You're not going to burn as much glycogen as you think you are. And in fact, I think people forget you're literally burning fat in between sets. It's like, okay, yes, you're burning glycogen for your lifting. Oh, you do five sets of hard squats. Okay, hey, fine. No problem. You're burning through, you know, 10 grams of carbohydrates doing that. That's not much glycogen, guys. And I think people forget that as soon as you're done with a higher intensity activity, your body can go right back to to digging into body fat, other things. It really isn't a big deal. And I've made muscle gains. I've made strength gains. I've made progress uh while training completely fasted. You know, you guys have seen me build up to the best bench presses you've seen me hit uh in, you know, on camera while training fasted. Okay? Training fasted. And and we're not even talking, hey, I go eat immediately afterwards either. Um, and I know lots of people with similar stuff. Like I I do less working out now in terms of lifting, but I had periods of time where I was training lifting five or six days a week. I wasn't doing real cardio while doing that. Now I'm more cardio focused. I lift three days a week. But I mean, keep in mind when I say, "Oh, I'm more cardio focused." I still do rep work with 315 on the bench. I still do rep work with 500 on the deadlift. I'm not coming in not lifting anything decent, you know, and I'm I'm about to turn 49. Um, you know, coming up here in a few months, so it's not like I'm I'm, you know, playing around, but even then, you know, I used to come in and do twohour workouts 5 days a week, lots of volume, completely fasted. You know, sometimes do light cardio after. These days, I personally like um you guys are watching me regularly, you know, get in do do an hour and a half full body workout with squats, bench, deadlifts, jumps, pull-ups, you know, all that stuff, right? It's all in there and go take a, you know, a 30 minute run afterwards and then go get on a bike and do list for an hour and then eat or a non-training day, you know, I get out and run five, five and a half miles on just black coffee and there's no problem. I have no trouble with recovery, no problem with performance, you know, and people forget this. And it's not like I go eat immediately afterwards, you know. So, so for me, let's say, um, you know, I do all that. We're not eating till noon. I could be lifting weights at 6:00 in the morning. I could be doing a five mile run at 6:00 a.m. and then do other stuff later and then eat my breakfast at noon. Like, in fact, yesterday before doing this recording, it's what literally what I did. I had a 6 a.m. workout. Squat, bench, deadlift, pull-ups, jumps, overhead pressing. Uh, did a 30 minute run and I didn't eat breakfast till 12:30. I did it like an hour on my bike, just slow list cardio after because I figure, well, now we burned through some glycogen and stuff. Let's get in just do some list to get into some body fat stores. Your body adapts to it really well. This is this is why outside of true endurance events, I don't buy into this pre-workout, pre-workout nutrition. It's I've never had a problem with it. I've literally built up to 600 plus pound deadlifts, 500 plus pound squats, 365 bench, all on camera training completely fasted. But look at that research uh that they looked up where people say, "Well, that's just your anecdote." Except that it's been documented. It's been studied in the lab. Uh so if you even look at some of that stuff, I saw minnow linking and I don't have it handy. You guys can go Google. I don't have it handy to link to you. Just an FYI. I'd have to Google it just like you guys would. Literally showed no muscle growth difference between a a group consuming calories first, carbs first, versus a group who just trained fasted. Muscle growth is identical in the same programming. There's no loss of muscle growth at all from fasted training that they can experts can determine. Okay. And then people say, well, I need it. Well, if you adapt, you don't. Um, and so people say, well, why would I mean, for one, I feel like for me, it was a very, very helpful fat loss tool. when I lost a bunch of weight before. So, I lost 150 lbs when I was younger as a runner. Then I got into lifting. Then I got really sick while I was sick and pretty much most semi- veterridden. I gained 100 pounds and I had to get back in shape. I used a lot of intermittent fasting, a lot of fasted cardio uh to lose that 100 pounds. It was a big big part of what I did. And eventually I got back into fed training and then I eventually got back into it and realized I didn't need food to train. Okay, I had a lot of luck with that. Um, but I realized eventually my performance didn't reduce at all. Like once I got used to training fasted, I saw no reduction. So, one, it's been helpful for controlling appetite, controlling calories. I believe there's benefits to nutrient partitioning. I know some actual scientists and researchers who actually do believe that, by the way, right? Who I've talked to, uh, actually had conversations with who believe that. Um, so there is that, but then the other thing I find my workouts are really good fasted. I don't get nausea. So my lower body stuff can get super intense sometimes. I've had cases where I vomited or get extreme nausea. Um, if I eat before I train, and I don't get that if I train fasted. So for me personally, it's a net positive, meaning the data doesn't show a negative. I don't believe preworkout or pre-workout nutrition, barring extreme endurance events really matters. I get it if you're running the marathon or doing an ultra or triathlon, but for a five mile run, I have no trouble running five miles fasted at all. Zero, okay? And I'm over 200 lb. But I find that for me, I don't get nausea. I don't get sick. I don't puke in the middle of a workout. Okay. And that can be a problem. I found that can be a problem for me sometimes. And then we don't deal with it at all. Also, my blood sugar stays way more stable when training. It's for me personally. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.