So, a few people have asked me, why am I taking a multi and creatin again these days? And I think that's a great question given my stance on supplements. Uh, so, hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would answer this for you guys. Please drop me a like down below. Uh, please subscribe or follow if you aren't already. And I would love to hear your thoughts on this of whether you take either of these or not, whether you think they're a good idea, you think they're a bad idea. Uh, let me know down below in the comments. So honestly for these it's not about gains. In the case of both of these it is purely a longevity and a health consideration. Now I'm going to briefly discuss uh the creatin then I'll go to the multi. So on creatin it's one of those supplements where I've always been like sometimes I take it sometimes I don't. Uh it's one of those where I have always said I'm a non-responder. There were early studies even a decade ago or more 20 years ago that noted about a third of people in the studies it didn't do anything at all. Like in terms of the performance, the muscle growth like a third of test subjects literally creatin did nothing. They gained no water weight. They gained no muscle, no strength, nothing. And only twothirds of people seem to do it. So they were called nonresponders. And that's a pretty significant group. Um, I always thought I was one of those because I used I tried the loading dose from a few different brands where you do the whole 20 grams a day. All these people like I gained weight. I didn't gain a single pound ever when I did that. Not once. 20 grams for a whole day. Weight the exact same as it was at the start of the week. Not even a pound. I think in one of the cases I even was down like half a pound. Uh, so I'm like, look, I'm a non-responder. However, more and more data has come out over the years showing benefits towards cognition, Alzheimer's, things like that. And I look at it this way. Creatin is fairly cheap. And I've seen plenty of longevity experts point out, look, it may it may be useful here. And a lot of them take it themselves. And by longevity experts, I mean researchers with biology, advanced biology or biochemistry PhDs who specialize in in human longevity research. Um, you know, so I'm going to cover the same thing with the multivitamin. All right. Uh, so what does this mean in this case? The cognition thing. And here's here's me being vulnerable. People like that when you're vulnerable. My grandfather was my mentor. He was around a lot. My dad was working on the road a lot during certain points and and my my adolescence, a late childhood. uh we had moved over to Houston of the country and and you know over to the city into the suburbs and my grandpa had just retired. He was my mentor. He taught me a lot of things. Taught me good stuff about being a man. Taught me a lot of skills, a lot of values. Um he was a very good man, very well respected in the community, in the neighborhood. Uh international traveler. U had been on the the Navy shooting team, was a sportsman. So, a businessman, uh, good man. I watched him deteriorate with Alzheimer's and I had to watch it because when they put him in the home, he wouldn't talk to my mom or his sisters. And so, I was the first family member to go visit him. Um, and I had to watch him deteriorate from Alzheimer's and the dementia. That scares the hell out of me, you know, because I know that I probably have that same gene. So for me, when I see something like creatin that may have potential to stave off Alzheimer's and dementia in addition to possibly helping build a tiny amount of muscle. Do you see where I'm going with this? That's of interest to me, you know, and it's relatively cheap. It's very available. Like you can get it with nothing in it. You don't have to have all these fillers. You can just buy creatine monohydrate powder. It's one of the cheapest supplements you can get. Okay, it's got promising data on memory, cognition, uh dementia, Alzheimer's. I watched, you know, one of my ancestors deteriorate from that. So, to me, it's like, okay, that's a little bit of a possible insurance policy. So, you know, I'm willing to use it off and on. I'm currently using it at five grams a day. Uh because I look at that and say, all right, this is potentially worthwhile. And if it helps me gain a tiny amount of muscle along the way also, hey, great, even better. But I'm looking at really that that cognition and memory and and uh dementia. Like that's a big deal to me, you know, for me personally uh based on my life experience, my genetics and stuff. So I think about stuff like that. Uh so so that's why on that one. Now, as far as multivitamins go, I've always had mixed views on multivitamins. I've always said, look, there's a potential for overdose of of metals. Um, there's li there's the best experts in the world argue as to whether they're necessary or they help. They argue whether they're an insurance policy. You know, the leading experts, PhDs, have argued about this. And I've always said if they don't know, there's a big debate in the community whether they're helpful, harmful, or just flat useless. Okay? as time has gone on, you know, I mean, it's been what, 10 years, 12 years, 13 years since I've said some of that in videos. Well, science has evolved more. Research has evolved. More data is collected. And here's what we're seeing. I've seen stuff where they showed that in elderly people, even who had fairly good diets, I've seen some studies that showed uh taking a multivitamin, a quality one, reduced oxidative stress. It's like, okay, I mean oxidative stress, something we're all worried about, improved antioxidant status, right? So, and reduce oxidative stress, possibly reduce cancer rates a little bit. Well, that's significant. That's meaningful. And then the other thing that gets my attention, I've seen multiple researchers in longevity who, let's let's look at it this way. When you have people who this is what they do, right? longevity is their field of study and they've said there are several supplements that they personally take. Now, I'm I've always messed with fish oil, extra strength fish oils off and on. That's always on the list. Creatin's always on the list, right? All right. So, we're already there. And then, you know, I've seen multiple of them say they personally take a multivitamin, a quality multivitamin, and they give it to their families. All right? and they're not necessarily pimping individual brands or making money or kickbacks. When you have the leading researchers who their field of study is longevity and they're like just looking at the overall data, I just personally feel it's a good idea for me and my family. Okay? This is not necessarily about what they can prove. Absolutely. Going off the data they have available, they're like, I take one and I give it to my family. See where I'm going with this? These people are probably, let's just be realistic, someone who's got a PhD in an advanced biology of some type who their field of research is longevity, who feels that it probably helps enough with longevity that they take on themselves. Are we going to venture and say the risk versus reward analysis that is probably safe, probably beneficial? These people are willing to gamble on it with their own lives and with their own families. That's kind of the Pepsi challenge if you guys are old enough to remember the Pepsi challenge. Okay. So, for me, I look at that and go maybe maybe it would be uh you know a good idea if I do the same thing. So, I've started doing so. So, I take a multi even though I'm probably not deficient in anything. My diet is really good. I track stuff. Most of my stuff I'm way way way above the RDA on my vitamins and minerals on most of them. But they're just saying, "Hey, it's a good potential insurance policy." And you know what? Fairly inexpensive one, so I do it.