Low carbohydrate dieting has not impeded my performance. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop a comment down below, um, I'd appreciate it. You This is one of these cases where I've I'd like to love high carb diets. I love to historically to use the examples of glycogen training fuel, you know, the insulin response and so on. But I have historically tended to do really well on low carb diets. Um, you know, which is ironic because I always try to be evidence-based with that, right? I always try to be evidence-based and I've put out quite a few videos on that over the years. Um, and and I feel like from a logical perspective, you know, that information is reasonable. The problem is we deal with things like individual genetics and what actual research tends to show. Um, and and I think this is the problem. Uh, because we've seen quite a few studies that have simply found that in terms of training performance recovery, you only need about 30 grams of carbohydrate a day per hour of lifting. Okay? And it might have been 15 grams now that I think about it. I think it was 15 grams. Um, and what we generally see all these arguments made towards performance are really towards endurance, right? They're really towards endurance. And I think this is where we run into problems and translating this over to lifters. Yeah, if you're doing running and everything, you're going to benefit from carbohydrate. Now, have certain studies in the keto research community, you know, actual uh nutrition researchers have found, hey, you know, being fat adapted and then eating a bunch of fat works really well in endurance sports. Well, it does, but they still don't run well when they drop the carbs too low when they go to run marathons, right? So even in that case, the fat adapted athlete still needs the carbohydrate to thrive in the actual endurance sport in the in the competitive [snorts] uh aspects of it. So this is this is what we have to contend with. Um it's what we have to contend with. And I found it interesting, you know, that I have been doing lower carbs again for a while. I've done it historically. I lost like 80 pounds previously doing low carbs in my my old weight loss journey. Um, and I tended to thrive on it fine even when I've been, you know, sometimes my not my biggest, but bigger sizes. I was at my biggest when I was doing vertical type dieting. Um, but what I found is I tend to be pretty strong, pretty big. I do just fine on low carbs. And these days, here's the thing. All right, I don't do huge amounts of training volume. Now, I do a lot of reps, but since I've been doing lower carbs here, you guys have watched me literally push-up rep PRs on the big exercises. We're talking dips, bench press, squats, pull-ups, and just getting stronger and stronger at rep work. You know, I've taken stuff like my 10 rep maxes and turned them into 18 or 20 rep maxes. Like, this this is what we've seen. This is what I've I've done with it, you know. um this this is what I've done with it. And so the point I'm noting is is my old position with the carbohydrates why does it conflict with my personal experience so much? And I think the reality is because it's it's mostly bro science meaning we're extrapolating right we are extrapolating things from studies on other stuff on endurance sports. Okay, we're extrapolating studies on endurance sports and the reality is muscle protein synthesis itself when protein is sufficient doesn't seem to require carbohydrate. This has been noted like even even post-workout protein shakes seem to be able to maximize the insulinogenic response um the protein synthesis from lifting. And if we're not training multiple times a day, glycogen replenishment is a non-issue because that's the other thing that's been noted too in studies. Once people are adapted to lower carb diets with higher fat, they're fat adapted. And again, this is research. Uh Dr. Jeff Volic and some of these people um they found that muscle glycogen stores don't drop off. Your muscle glycogen stays just fine. Like that's a big myth that if you're doing lower carbs, you're not going to have muscle glycogen. Well, that's that's not really supported by scientific evidence, is it? It is for the first few weeks. Once you're used to it, you have normal full glycogen stores. Your body will replenish glycogen off protein, the limited amount of carbohydrates you consume because you're still going to have 30, 40, 50 grams of carbs even on a really low carb diet just from trace sources. dairy, your vegetables, nuts, it's going to be traces in there, but you're burning less carbohydrate because you're fat adapted. And the amount you burn in a workout session is only about 15 grams an hour. So, if you're training an hour every day, which is a lot. If you're training hard, that's that's a lot. You're only burning like 15 grams of carbohydrate. And if you're not doing two a day's replenishment doesn't matter because it seems to restore within 24 hours anyways just off of protein glycerol backing from fat and and even the amount of trace amount of carbs you're getting. So this is the interesting thing you know so when we talk in terms of anabolic response could people could argue well large amounts of saturated fat uh might cause some insulin resistance. Yeah true but what if you're eating large amounts of moffas and pofas in there? Well, those improve insulin sensitivity. Other words, your avocados and your um you know, your walnuts and and so on and so forth, right? Your fatty fish, this stuff is all enhancing insulin sensitivity. And this is something I've pointed out previously, like this is a complete replacement for carbohydrate terms of anabolic response because you have a higher insulin sensitivity. So the protein and stuff you consume gives a robust insulin response. Gives a robust insulin response. So then we come over to the question of why do we look leaner on lower carbs? Because I clearly do. People are like, "Oh, because it makes you drop water due to the the muscle glycogen." But that's not the case, is it? What's it really do? Changes your eldestone. You urinate out more sodium. You hold less water. Also, what's going on with the gut? Less carbohydrate inside your intestine, you're gonna hold less water in the gut also, right? Because that attracts it in there because the muscle glycogen isn't lower. So, it's not loss of muscle glycogen, it's loss of the carbohydrate in the gut holding water, lower gut volume, too due to it not swelling up in there from the water. Okay. and then reduced water under the skin due to shifts in aldoststerone. So I think that's been the interesting thing for me is I've not seen a decline in performance. I've recompositioned just fine on this approach. Keeping in mind though I'm not doing the, you know, the bacon and egg necessarily version and butter. I eat a lot of healthy fats. Yes, I eat some steak. Yes, I eat omega-3 eggs. My diet's really high in in healthy fats, though. Probably a big factor here. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.