Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about the idea of getting stronger at the same body weight to just continually recmp and improve how you look. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribe, uh please do so. And if you'd be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that so much. Thank you. So let's get into it. Um and where I'm going to go with this is a couple things that people need to remember. Number one, evidence doesn't really show anywhere that gaining body weight definitely not gaining body fat is ab is not required to maximize muscle growth. In other words, outside of a context of someone being so absurdly lean that they can't really recomposition anymore, then then in that case it's maybe true. But most of you guys out there, and I'm certainly not one of those guys, we're not walking around with shredded, deep abs and veins running through our abs. You can't see our separation in our lower back, right? Can't see deep separation all the way up the back of the hamstring, all the way to the glute. You're not there, right? Most of us are not in that situation. So accordingly, uh we have enough body fat that at maintenance will gain muscle just fine. Okay? So we need to be clear on that. So I want to understand that then we need to understand the concept of progressive overload itself uh being the driver the primary driver of hypertrophy improved mechanical tension right improved mechanical tension and I'm not talking about by gaining fat leverages and we have to understand that difference. So when when I say this, people are like, "Oh, but if I just bulk, if I just bulk, then I'll get better leverages and better mechanical tension because you said progressive overload." But no, it's got to be progressive overload at the same leverage, same moment arm, same body fat, right? We've got to be getting stronger. We've got to be training hard, training to failure, close to failure. It doesn't have to be to failure. Just needs to be close enough to really get a good training response. But we have to have that progressive overload present if we really want to have consistent muscle growth if we want to have that consistently go up. And that's that's the point I'm making there. But let's get over to that idea. Okay. If we're not gaining body fat, then we don't have to worry about that. People will say, "Well, how do I know if the improvement in strength is due to fat leverages?" Like you've said, you and Paul Carter and Minnow and all these other people. You guys have all said this stuff. um how do we know? And it's like, well, if you're not gaining body fat and the the scale isn't going up or if it's going up absurdly slow, like you're gaining a way less than a pound a month. Okay, that's an indication you're probably not gaining significant body fat. the scale staying the same or definitely the scale is going down, you know, definitely then you're seeing that and so we have we have to understand it uh in that context of knowing it. But yes, we we need to see progressive overload. It can be in your one rep maxes, your five rep maxes, your 10 rep maxes, your work sets, right? What you want your 3x10s to turn into 3x 12s. Of course, that might be the time to to add some weight. As barring isolation movements, I'm going to say on a lot of your movements, especially your big compounds, you probably don't want to go over about 10 reps. Not saying there are not exceptions. Not saying you can't do some Widowmaker squats and stuff like that. Fine. But that's different, isn't it? That's one allout set, right? And that's its own beast. But, you know, let's be realistic. What if what if like your your five to 10 rep sets? Okay, you should be trying to gain gain reps in there. Then gain reps, gain reps, gain reps, add weight as appropriate. So that is what we're usually shooting for. We need to see an improvement in performance using similar leverages, similar ranges of motion, okay? All that stuff, similar form, similar levels of cheating. So again, maybe your touch and go or bouncing pull-ups or chin-ups might not count as much as your ones where you come to a hang for a moment, right? Your pause benching is probably going to, you know, be a little more consistent than any sort of bounce, but generally speaking, yeah, we should be seeing progressive overload. And if you do that, then you know you're gaining muscle. And we need to be clear, right? We need to be very, very clear on that. We know that we're gaining muscle if we're seeing this happen, especially in multiple exercises, right? So, what do we mean there? What if you're seeing it in your squat and your dips, right? What if you're seeing it in your pull-ups and your deadlift and your overhead press? You're seeing a little bit of upward movement. Like, when you start seeing it in more than one big exercise, that's indicative. If it's a fairly new movement, okay, fine. But what if you're rotating movements? People are like, "Well, I'm doing rotating overhead and and incline in different situations or dumbbells and barbells." Um, well, that's fine. Also, nothing wrong with rotating those movement patterns. If anything, that can help a little bit with overuse, especially on your your volume work, right? No problem. Are you seeing a general upward trend? Like, let's say, uh, just throwing it out there, you do a barbell overhead press one day, a dumbbell standing the other, and then maybe a barbell incline on the other day. All right, you're doing those things u and you're doing them all on a separate day of the week. Well, that's fine. You should still be looking for a general upward trend. Should be looking for that upward trend. And if you're seeing it, then we know that we're gaining muscle. We know that we're gaining muscle in that situation. And that's what we should be shooting for. We should be seeing progressive overload, gaining reps or adding weight to the barbell or dumbbell over time. That should be the goal. That should always be pushed. And if you're doing that, you're gaining muscle. So, let's come back over to the other point. People say, "Well, well, what if I'm not gaining weight? Are you shredded to the bone?" Well, no. Then you're probably recompositioning. If you're seeing multiple big exercises get stronger for reps or weight over time, you are gaining muscle. Well, if you're gaining muscle at the same body weight and you're recompositioning, and that's fine. We have plenty of study after study even an advanced lifter shows that this is the case. So again I would say to most guys unless you're really really lean gaining weight may not be necessary. You could recomposition the same weight and it doesn't matter that it's going slower. So you're not getting fat leverages. So you're only getting the muscle leverages. That's fine. The research shows us that again we gain muscle just fine there. And the same thing for cutting. How many studies have been found out there that when fat loss or weight loss is really slow, but training is dialed in, people still gain muscle all the time? So, we should be pursuing that. We should either generally, unless we're super lean, and we need to lean bulk, you're going to be better. Your physique is always going to improve if you either maintain or you lose weight while seeing progressive overload and just getting stronger. What I mean by stronger is how I described it. You're gaining reps. You're adding weight to the bar without a change in leverage in some manner. Right? That is what we're talking about. If you were doing these things, your physique is going to get better because you're going to be gaining muscle and losing fat at the same time. Okay? And that should be the goal. We're talking about gaining actual muscle. We're not talking about uh improved glycogen storage. We're not talking about any of these factors. We're talking about solid, hard, lean muscle growth. And that is what we are trying to do with that.