You don't need to train more, you need to train harder. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And today thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this day. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. All right, let's get over to this topic. Um, look, we're seeing more and more of this. For a long time, when I was growing up, we all knew this was the way to train. All the serious bodybuilders did this. They all realized coming out of the Dorian Yates era, things like DC training, all this stuff was out, tons of people got crazy, jacked on relatively moderate amounts of volume. Not saying ultra low. No one was doing the stupid hit stuff with one set. They weren't doing it right. But people realize, look, if you needed more activity, just do more conditioning work. Go condition, go run, do cardio. Weightlifting was not cardio, right? mechanical tension, getting stronger, and then filling in the gaps with small exercises was even how most really good bodybuilders were training, right? All the guys who had really good physiques, unless they were just blasting insane amounts of drugs, we all knew they all trained with moderate amounts. Like the guys we all knew who even had the best bodybuilder type physiques. I have a strength background. A lot of them only worked out three or four days a week and they just did cardio and stuff between a lot of their workouts were an hour long and they got great results. We had Martin Burkham come out with this stuff um and got people in great shape. Oh, we even saw Nippard recently on the tubes admit he was only doing six sets of body part and gained muscle is a very advanced lifter with large numbers of years. Large number of years who came from this whole volume approach and six day a week lifting did a deficit and gained muscle on six sets a week. Okay. And I think this is what people forget. We This was proven a long time ago. This is not new. This stuff goes back and forth in circles. The evidence-based community shifts in a pendulum all the time on this. They've been doing this for years and years and years. Okay? It's only been a recent trend again where any of them are promoting this ultra high volume stuff and it never worked. Most of your even your serious bodybuilders, serious strength athletes, everybody did less than 20 sets a week. Okay. All the best have always done that. Very few exceptions. And the only examples they had a different was stuff like Arnold during his contest prep. He didn't train with enormous amounts of volume other than when he was getting ready for bodybuilding shows and while upping his dose of drugs. That's it. Um and historically we've seen even best pro bodybuilders 15 16 sets a week tops. Okay. Then you get into natural guys the same sort of stuff. We've always seen this. People did just got really strong. Even even the natural guys, and I saw this with my own generation, all the most jack guys who weren't on gear, and everyone did way less gear back then than they do today. Um, they were just all really strong. They happened to do curls. So, so really, you would think of the way most really effective bodybuilders trained who weren't blasting tons of gear when I was younger, and this is all proven. This is all understood. We all knew this. We saw it all the time. It was normal. They were really strong. They looked like what you would think of now as power building training strength programs, but then they do curls and stuff, right? Like, well, you know, I got to kick my arms. You But seriously, you would almost look at it and think they were running by today's standards powerlifting programs uh with some isolation work thrown in. Well, we got to have curls. You can't skip the arms, you know. But otherwise, that's what it looked like. dudes training three, four days a week was pretty normal. It's pretty normal. Yet, everyone keeps pushing this. The solution is more volume. When has that ever worked? When has that ever worked? There's not even research behind this. Let's step back and take away the real world and all these these people with phenomenal physiques historically doing, you know, I don't know, 10, 15 sets tops who just trained really really hard. And I've seen dudes who did less than 10. And I when I say that, I mean I've known guys when I was younger doing eight or nine sets of muscle group every week who had physiques that were amazingly good. They would be they would be like most of you guys today would like, "Wow, that dude's a static AF, bro. Wow." Right? Dudes would be doing eight or nine sets. That's it. Training three days a week and just doing cardio. Okay. But they trained hard. They trained hard. And I'm not saying training itself is hard. It's not. But I mean, yeah, do do chin-ups to failure. They do a couple sets of curls to failure. There' be strict stuff to failure. Strict curls, some preacher curls, whatever, you know. They do some some incline, some laterals, and they're done with his shoulders. Um, you know, but that's that's how a lot of these dudes train, like their whole leg workout. Three sets of pause squats, three sets of leg presses, they're done. That's their whole leg day. But they would push progression. They got really strong and used progressive overload. All right, progressive overload. And anytime you saw anybody trying to do the huge amounts of volume, everyone pointed out, you're just overtraining, dude. And that's how they saw it. And that but it worked. It worked. People trained harder though. They goof off today. It's all machines. Um, and I remember again the same thing. I watched this with with DC training was really big then. And even Dante back then was getting guys super big. Now granted, he pushed gear, but it was it was really that sort of idea. He's he told them he goes, "Look, if you can deadlift 500 lb for 20 reps or you can bench press 300 for 20 reps, you're going to be a monster. Period. Doesn't matter how much you train. If your sets look like that, you're going to be massive. And he was right. He's absolutely right. But everyone's lost sight of this. They just think the solution is to just do more, right? And it doesn't work. You need to even do Ducet will say this. Look, you just need to train harder. Just train harder. do some sets to failure, load more weight on the bar over time. Okay, this has worked historically extremely well. And it did work in all the studies until Showfeld and these other people came out with this crazy high volume. And when you look at their data and you really look at it closely, the conclusions don't even match the data. And it's been torn apart. Plenty of researchers have torn it apart. You had lots of research showing anything over about 10 sets a week showed reduced muscle growth compared to 10. There were studies showing that justif years ago that you had this strange shift. But everyone wants to do it. They think the solution is to just do more. No guys, this isn't cardio, right? Go do cardio, do conditioning if you want to do more. I mean, I do GPP all the time. I run. But your your lifting needs to be hard and needs to be intense. And you need to be focusing on progressive overload if you want to get big guys. And unless you want to keep just adding more and more and more drugs, you're not going to have a choice. If you want to stay drug-free or you want to use reasonably conservative amounts of stuff, you're going to have to train like that. And the people who are demonstrating otherwise, they're just using lots and lots of drugs. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.