If you gain muscle, you will get stronger. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not following and subscribe, please do so. And if you will be so kind as to drop a comment down below, I would appreciate that so much. Thank you. All right, let's get over to the topic. And I know this is something I do discuss a lot, but we have to understand this relationship because if whether your goal is to get bigger, whether your goal is to get stronger, people have to understand that yes, neural drive and technique matter for strength. But at the end of the day, there is an absolute direct pretty much linear correlation between strength and muscle fiber growth. Um, and and it is unavoidable. And what I mean is no, getting a bigger bicep is not automatically going to make your bench press go up. Um, what we mean is force production. And this is going to matter for your gym progress, too. So, when we study it in the lab, it is pretty much been determined that let's say we lock your arm into a machine or we lock your hips and everything down to a machine and we isolate a muscle, right? So, let's say you do a machine curl isolated. you do a leg extension isolated, right? There is no way to cheat. There is no way to change anything. And they test that muscle through a full range of motion. We find pretty consistently um with lifters that whatever muscle growth they experience, like if they scan it with an MRI and they can see that the the muscle fibers themselves, the muscle tissue has grown, there is a direct increase in the amount of weight they can do when locked into a machine, right? especially on something like say a 10 rep max, right? So, let's say we we take a weight like that. Your 10 rep max on that locked in leg extension in the machine when you're strapped down. The same thing on that that preacher curl or whatever that machine curl when the researchers strap them down and they cannot cheat or move and they can only move the elbow. If their bicep got 10% larger, their 10 rep max will go up about 10%. That's what I'm saying. Okay. in isolation. So when a muscle is forced into a situation where there is no skill, there is no way to cheat, there's no leverages. Okay, obviously your individual levers matter because this is also based on the assumption you didn't have bone surgery and change your arm or leg length in between. You know, um you can't change your levers. They're inherent for your structure, right? So what we find is that when it's locked in and that muscle is isolated, it's going to give an increase in strength at the joint level, at the tendon level. So that that that super strict locked in isolation where you can't move anything but that joint, it's going to be in proportion, right? If you gained about 5% more muscle, your strength's going to go up about 5%. If you gain 12% more muscle in that muscle, it's going to go up about 12%. There's a direct relationship between force production and it's particularly the myofibrillar uh growth especially your fast twitch fibers. All right, that cross-sectional area determines the force. So, and actually when you look at it, muscle fibers only give 100% or zero. So anytime you recruit any muscle fiber, that muscle fiber doesn't give partial uh contraction. It either turns on or it turns off. It either gives 100% of everything it can do or it gives zero. There's no in between. And what we find, and this is what we know, a muscle fibers cross-sectional area will determine exactly how much force it produces. Okay? For the fiber type. So if we take whatever exact type of five twitch fiber, we know from person to person that fiber will produce an exact identical amount of force based upon how big its cross-sectional area is, how how thick it is. We'll determine its exact amount. Okay? Because we're all humans. We all have the same basic different muscle fiber types. Okay? So what does this tell us? That strength has to go up when you gain muscle. Okay? So, this tells us a couple things. This tells us some stuff for people who are trying to gain muscle, and this tells us some stuff for people who are trying to gain strength. Now, the obvious one for people who are trying to get bigger. Well, your strength is going to go up. Now, where that gets tricky is guys are like, "Well, when I gain a bunch of fat, man, my strength goes up faster on the bench press and the squat." Yeah, because the fat helps the leverages. Um, so it's not necessarily what we're talking about, right? because you can use squish on those movements a little bit. But what you're really going to find, especially uh movements where you can't do that, especially a machine, especially an isolation movement. Okay? If you've gotten bigger, they're going to go up. But yeah, your your deadlift and your squat and your bench and stuff should go up. But if you gained a bunch of weight, obviously, you know, the fat's helping with some of it. But if your weight has stayed fairly constant, you're doing really slow bulk or recomping, you can get a real good idea of how much how much muscle you've gained based on your training. What did you get stronger? And when I say get stronger, I don't mean necessarily you have to test your one rep max. I'm talking about look, did the weight you've been doing eight reps with go up to 10, 11, or 12? Okay, that's a strength increase with the same form, the same technique, same range of motion. Well, that's pretty indicative. Again, keeping in mind some some movements. So, body fat can help. So, if you gained a bunch of fat, okay, fair enough. There's going to be some leverage on some of them. But if you didn't, you can get a real good idea of how much muscle you probably gained. If you're gaining muscle, you're going to get stronger because the muscles will produce more force. Now, does that mean an exercise you haven't practiced the technique on a big multi- joint and you haven't done it, then you come over, oh, I got weaker since the last time I did it. No, that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about a movement you're training. So, the neural drive and skill are already there, especially we look at rep work. Okay? Little less skilled to doing a 10 rep set than trying to do an allout max technique-wise. Um, so you're going to see that and if you're not progressing, it's a really good sign that maybe you're not gaining muscle. And that doesn't mean you force progression by cheating. I'm saying look, did you get stronger or not? you know if you cheat are cheating more or cutting range of motion. Just look at the exercise and see if it's gone up. All right, you'll know if you're gaining muscle. The same thing with the guys who are trying to get stronger. So, now that you know this, um, obviously you have the skill on the list you care about. Obviously, we have coordination, but you're going to have to get bigger, right? And if you can identify the weakest link in a an exercise, then you can build that muscle up, too. So, if you determine on your bench, you look at it, man, my triceps seem to be the weakest muscle in my bench press, and you go do a bunch of hypertrophy work for your triceps, your bench should go up. Okay? If your pecs seem to be limiting your bench press for again, guys, chasing strength and you do some extra different hypertrophy work for your pecs on incline, dumbbells, dips, whatever, flies, stuff that made your chest grow. If your chest grows, your bench will probably gonna go up a little bit as long as you've maintained the skill and the technique on the exercise. Why? Because muscle size equals force production. And if you know that muscle is your weakest link in an exercise, that's where you're going to see the most dividends to the the the movement going up and getting stronger. Okay? Make sense, guys? So, we have to understand these things. All right, guys? But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.