If you feel a muscle being worked on a given exercise really intensely, it's probably a really good exercise for you. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and I thought I would chat with you guys uh and gals a little bit about this today. So, a quick reminder though, please click like down below. Be greatly appreciated. Follow me or subscribe if you haven't yet and drop me a comment down below. Thank you so much. All right. Some of this would seem almost like common sense, but we do live in a world where there's going to be a tons of people who are going to give you form corrections. And I'm not saying don't listen to form corrections from really experienced coaches or really experienced lifters on say a competitive lift of some type. Probably a really good idea. Okay? Probably a really good idea. Uh the same thing maybe if you have a really experienced coach who's showing you a personal tweak for an exercise, you should probably pay attention. But we have a lot of of um people who they give needless form advice or they tell you a certain exercise isn't good for a certain muscle. We have too many influencers who give ratings of tears for different exercises and oftentimes their own personal bias is there or their own personal philosophy is there. Um and we have to factor that in. For example, if a person is absurdly biased towards lengthened positions or shortened positions and their general philosophy, their exercise preferences and what they tell you to do is going to be biased towards that and they're going to be reluctant to prescribe things that are on the other end of that spectrum. So, factor that in for a moment. So, there's a big that used to be the shortened position was a thing, meaning the contracted position. Um, now what's become a much larger thing is a lengthen position and so many evidence people have gone towards that as if other exercises that had more focus in the middle or that were very biased towards the shortened position haven't produced tons and tons of muscle over the decades. Again, absolutely ludicrous. And I'm not saying I don't like a lot of lengthened position exercises. In fact, I really focus a lot on these weighted pull-ups right here on the lengthen position. And I don't even try to swing up over or do an unnatural movement for the shorten. I just take my lats as far as they go, but I focus on the stretch at the bottom, you know. So, I'll even say there are movements where we do that. But that that lets me segue right into the topic. Why do I do that? Because I feel it in my lats a lot. My lats cramp up when I do that. So, if I take a set to failure doing what you just saw me do right there, my lats will cramp sometimes and I need two or three minutes before I can even train them again. I try to put my arms down, they'll spasm sometimes. Okay, so I get this intense intense contraction. My mind muscle connection when I do that is insane. That's why I choose to do it that way. and I have a pretty decent back, you know, to show for it all things considered. So, uh, this is this is what we're talking about. Um, so when people will will look at a form or they'll look at an exercise and someone else will tell them this is a good exercise, that's not and I mean, perfect examples, um, which you have to think about is you as the individual. If you guys recall like when I've done stuff with my client Matias and his vlogs, right? I've coached Matias gosh five years something in that range. Every time I take incline curls, he's like, "Coach, I need the incline curls back. I just they just hit different for me." And I put them back in because he's just like, I I almost feel like my biceps don't grow if I don't have the incline curls. And he's like, I just I really really connect with that exercise. like he's like just the the the burn I get in my biceps. He's like I don't get with anything else. He's like I like straight bar curls and other stuff too, but that those incline curls, you know? He's like that's that's I just feel it different. It hits different. Okay. So, we put it in. Same thing. He says when I he does preacher curls, even though preacher curls are generally agreed upon to be an amazing bicep exercise, there's some evidence-based people who feel like they might even be the best exercise for biceps just about ever due to that LinkedIn position, right? I know of at least one out there who feels that way. Okay, so that's a perfect example. There's a definitely a a influencer I've seen out there. They're not going to say who they are necessarily. Who's like they just seem to they're the per almost the perfect bicep exercise. Yet I got a client who's been training 10 plus years. I've been coaching five years who's like when I do them I just don't feel my biceps. It's like it just it feels like nothing but a forearm exercise no matter how I do it. No matter what if I go dumbbells, barbell, easy bar, whatever I try to do with it. He goes, I just don't get that contraction. is with that incline curl that I really feel. Okay, you see where we're going with that? So for that person, for him, so if you're Bethias and that's how an incline curl feels, you should probably keep doing an incline curl no matter what anybody else thinks about the exercise. Okay? I've had someone who tells me, "I don't feel a dumbbell lateral as well in my side delt." He goes, "But man, when I do them on a cable, it just hits different for me. It just really really connects." He's like, "I feel that side delt burn." So, what what would we any of us with common sense say to that? Does it matter that I think the dumbbell is just as good and for there's no reason to think a cable is better? Is that relevant? When that person tells me, "I can feel the difference. This exercise, I really, really feel that muscle." So, what would common sense tell you? Well, they should probably keep doing that exercise for that muscle. If they're not getting injured doing it and they really connect with that movement, then keep doing it. It's one thing if it's dangerous or it's hurting you, but it's another if you do that. So, so or if you use a slightly different form on a movement and other people are like, "Yeah, no, that's that's not the best form." But you're like, "But I really feel my traps. I really feel my I really feel my quad, my hamstring, whatever it is. My glutes." Now, the glutes can be deceiving when people do the booty bands that they're not actually feeling their glutes. That's actually their hip adductor. But that's that's again a different situation to where we know biomechanically it's not doing anything. But we're talking just major exercises. So, you know, if you have one that, you know, some three influencers gave it a C tier and you're like, "But man, I just really feel my lats light the hell up on that. I don't know why it's a C tier. Should I drop the exercise?" No, of course not. Because for you personally, for your structure, for your nervous system, that exercise is really getting the job done. And it doesn't matter what anyone else thinks about it. I'll I'll say that as a coach. It doesn't matter what anybody else thinks about that movement. If it burns where you need it to burn and you really connect with that exercise, then it is a good exercise for you personally. Okay? And and at that point, I would say you probably shouldn't let anyone convince you that it's not. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.