If progressive overload is present, your volume is probably enough for muscle growth. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following, uh, please do so. And if you would be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I'd greatly appreciate that. Now, when I say this, there's going to be a lot of nuance to this statement. So, I made that statement, but I do need to clarify some points. Um, and it's also a problem because it's I do get hypotheticals from people when they'll say stuff like, "Okay, but if I do just one allout set to failure per week and I'm progressively overloading on it, can't I just do that consistently and just make really good muscle growth?" And the problem with it is, you guys see where I'm about to go? I get that a lot. That's a common question. Number one, is it a new movement? If it's a new movement, then no. Um, so that's something that needs to be discussed with this progressive. That's why we say consistent progressive overload. Yeah. Everyone's lift goes up for the first two weeks. If you haven't been doing the lift, it's a new lift or one that's drained. Of course, it will. That's probably not indicative of muscle growth. That's neural adaptation. All right. Now, that aside, um, you know, here's here's going to be the problem with that that question. If if right that question is literally like, "Hey coach, if I won the lottery, would I be a millionaire?" Well, yeah. What's the probability of you winning a lottery and becoming a millionaire, though? See where we're going? In fact, I'm going to say this is going to be zero. It's going to be 0% chance. you're it's not going to happen. U and and the reason I say that, sure, hypothetically, yes, hypothetically, one set per week on a muscle group, whatever your bench press, it's called a bench for your chest. Yeah, sure. If it keeps increasing for three years straight, you will be gaining muscle every week. It's not going to do it, though. And that's the problem. People bring up these hypotheticals with the if. I'm like, sure, but your if is impossible. If I had a rocket packs on my legs, could I jump to the moon? Well, yeah, sure. Hypothetically, this is where we're at with the hypothetical. It's never going to happen. So, and people say, "Oh, so that's that's the problem with this idea. They have this idea, well, if I just keep adding weight, then it's going well, no, that's it's it's you're going to stop growing because it's just insufficient volume. And if the volume is just is that insufficient, then of course you're not going to keep gaining muscle. And if you're not gaining muscle, then it's not going to progressively overload beyond the neural adaptations. Okay? And if you've been doing a lift for a few weeks, those neural adaptations are are going to stop, right? They're going to stop. So now we're over to are we gaining muscle? And and yeah, one set a week on the bench is not enough to make your chest grow for any significant period of time. It's going to stall out really really quick. Could a rank novice, someone who's completely new to the gym, get away with this? Yeah, they could probably do it for six months. Sure. And they'll make gains. They'd make a lot more gains if they did five sets, though. They would make a lot more gains if they did five sets for that six months. significantly visually measurably more. Um, so let's get over over to that point. When we come over to volumes with that, you got to remind guys of that. If your volume is enough to progressively overload, and it is progressively overloading, you're you're probably gaining muscle. And it could literally be on something as small as three sets a week. I'm not telling you to do three sets a week, but it could happen. But let's come over to five or six. Okay, let's come down to those numbers. This is why I tell people, yeah, you can absolutely make good gains on five or six sets a week. Okay, I have clients who do it. If progressive overload is present and we're up into that sort of set range, you'll make pretty good gains. What people will argue is, well, is it going to be maximum gains? No, it might not be. Might not be. But if you're able to recover from it all the time, if we're never de loing, we're never getting overuse, and it's just consistent progress month after month after month after month, year after year, um yeah, of course, you're going to get pretty good gains out of that because what's the thing we hear with people all the time? They're like, "Oh man, I'm doing all this, but I stalled." Well, and if you know you're training hard and you're eating well, and you're not in a calorie deficit, you know, you're getting the protein in the sleep and you're stalled, completely stalled, you might be doing too much. And it's one thing if they're not training hard, a lot of times dudes are simply not training hard enough, but may they may be doing too much volume and they're not been recovering. So, we see a lot of that, too, right? endless volume is not is not always the answer either. You know, we do need progressive overload to be present and and I think that's the point that we have to look at of if you're looking for just consistent steady muscle growth over prolonged periods of time. We're not talking eight weeks, right? We're talking six months, a year, two years, three years, five years, like prolonged muscle growth month after month, year after year. Yeah. As long as you were even even if you're doing whatever five or six sets a week, if you are seeing consistent progress on the lifts over that time, even if it's very very very small progress, you're gaining muscle. But we gain muscle slowly anyways. also but so this does have to be accounted for in the equation right and I'm not saying there can't be times where we want to do some higher volume training or certain stuff with weak points but without any progression present you may not be gaining muscle but if there is any progressive overload present probably are that's the same thing we do a lot of the volume sometimes we'll throw volume and stuff but we might only get some of that volume really contributing to the growth people may just be doing it as an insurance policy and I don't think that's a problem with a smaller muscle. As long as you're not experiencing overuse, sure, right? Your biceps or your calves or whatever it happens to be, you know, as long as it's not interfering with your overload on the big movements. As long as you're not getting tendon pain, probably no harm, no foul is an insurance policy. So, you can have a muscle like that you do that with and be fine, right? Something that might be lagging, but you still have to have progression somewhere in there. and that progress. And so we come over to that point. If you are able to consistently progress on any amount of volume, yes, you you're almost certainly gaining muscle, but it can't be short-term. It can't be due to a novel response. I did a totally new exercise. No, that doesn't count because that's neural adaptation, right? But if it's a movement you've been doing for months and you're able to just slowly chip away at progress, your volumes are are sufficient. And your volumes on the otheris is working the same muscles are probably contributing to that growth that's allowing you to progress. But your overall volume is is absolutely absolutely sufficient if you are consistently progressing, right? All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.