If you cannot bench 315, just get a bigger chest. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today. Uh, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Uh, look, I'm someone who's talked quite a bit in the past about accessory work on this. The bench press was always my weakest lift by far. Um, I'm just not built for it with my longer arms. I've had really good deadlifts and squats. But you guys did see me finally get my bench up to 365 with a two second pause flat back. Uh, you know, which I did a couple years back. And as someone who who's always had to fight for the bench press, right? And I did that, you know, in my late 40s there. My advice in general, and here's what you're going to find. Anybody with a really big chest will have a big bench. Now, does that mean it's always going to be the most efficient, going to be the safest, easiest on their their shoulders, everything else? No. But it will get you there. Uh and and this is an evidence-based uh idea. And that's one of the things I've noticed. I've seen guys out there who a lot of people are like, I don't know, they don't look like they're good bench that much, but they have really massive pecs, right? And you always see that. Like this is something we've seen repeatedly. Then not that long ago, I I saw it come through like Minnow's Facebook page, Minnow Handsmen. They did a big study and when they did all the study of the variables and measurements and Dexis scans, they found that your max bench, the number one factor, and we say a max bench, we mean a raw bench. This gets thrown out so much because of equipped uh lifting in the past where honestly, yeah, with with multiply shirts, if you just get crazy strong triceps and lats, you'll have a really really good bench because of the nature of the shirt. But that's a whole different topic. And I'm not saying those things don't carry over to the raw bench. They do, just less in the chest. So that's where the idea came from. But what the study found was pectoral size. Pectoral size was the number one variable. Now did levers matter? Yes. Did triceps matter? Yeah. All those things mattered. But when they look at it, they found that by far the largest correlation and factor was how big your pectorals measured, you know, when they scan them scaled very very well to your max bench. And it and it was noticed that it was again the most important variable. Okay, we see this repeatedly too. And if you guys remember the bench press was considered by all the old school guys before all the drugs got where they were. They always had good chest. They all benched wide. Uh and they generally just felt it built built a great chest and they had good chest off the bench press. It was considered the number one chest exercise itself historically. Now, what do I mean by just build a bigger chest? Um, I'm not saying just a bench press, right? I'm not saying just a bench press. I think bench is a phenomenal chest and tricep exercise, right? Phenomenal one. Not really opinion at this point. Not really opinion. Pretty well documented. It's understood. But yeah, if you want to get your bench up, work your chest more. Could you do other secondary work to help bring your chest up? Of course, weighted I think weighted dips. I'm a big fan. I think weighted dips are fantastic for chest and triceps, right? I think you're fantastic. Uh could a person do incline work? Sure. And because you know delts are involved in the incline work, it's going to focus on the delts a little more. Absolutely. You know, particularly what you'll see what you'll see is people who stick right at that transition point. For those who don't know, watch your bench press. When you do a really heavy bench or you do a set to failure, close to failure. The last rep you do, you're going to see a different bar path. When you do a max bench, it's going to be a different bar path, right? You're not going to be able to bench in a straight line. When you get above 90% of your max on the bar or you do a set where you grind the last rep a little bit, you're not going to have a straight bar path. You can have a straight bar path for 10 reps on a 12 rep set all day long. You have a straight bar path with 85% of your max for a rep or two. Yeah, absolutely. But when you see that transition point where the bar shifts towards the face, if that's where you miss your bench, dude, incline work will will fix it. Like incline work will increase your max very effectively at that point. You increase your your incline by 10 15%. Your max is going to go up because you're going to fix that sticking point where you're weakest because of the muscles kind of involved at the incline. If that sticking point right when you hit there, the upper portion of the chest and the delts kind of have a little bit of priority in the movement pattern. Okay? But also understand if you just get a bigger chest, you're going to slingshot off the chest faster. So you're going to blow through sticking points anyways, right? If you can power off the chest quicker and with less fatigue, which again, PEC is the primary mover, you're in a good place. uh you know do do I think that tricep work is important for keeping a low injury risk on the bench and that's that's another point. So, you know, again, if we're going to talk about benching really heavy safely, notice I said big packs will give you a big bench. You give massive pecs, you grip that bar out wide, real wide, and you have really big packs, you're going to have a big bench. You can use dips, incline work, dumbbells, all sorts of stuff to build that chest up, and it will carry over. Okay. uh triceps for the the raw lifter when you step away from the equipped world where dudes who bench 400 end up benching 700 in a shirt, right? Who are 400 raw? Yeah, triceps massive deal for a raw bencher. Probably not. They're they're just not as big of a limiting factor. They matter, don't get me wrong, they absolutely matter. Of course they do. They are a primary mover. I think where the real beauty of it shines is keeping your shoulders safer. Okay? Why? Strong triceps will prevent your your interior delts from taking over near the lockout. So what happens is your body will compensate. If the triceps can't lock it, the bar will drift further towards your face right at the very end of the lockout. Right? You'll still get the lift because your your deltoids will use compensatory strength in that position, but it's harder on your shoulders. Okay. Strong triceps. You know, I'm doing pullovers here. Extensions, close grip work, right? Closed grip bench press. Well, even dips, too. Weighted dips. Um, strong triceps will help keep that bar in that better path near the lockout. It's easier on your shoulders. you are less likely to injure your shoulders benching heavy if you have strong triceps. And I think that becomes even more important for people who want to move big numbers with a wider grip because you're going to be more prone to some potential stuff with the shoulder, but it will help keep [snorts] that keep that a lot safer. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.