Ball King is dead. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Let's get over to the point. Um, and when I say bulking is dead, I'm not talking about gaining weight. Very, very, very slow weight gain absolutely is is very helpful for gaining muscle. Um, and it becomes necessary when you get to a certain level of leanness, right? But people need to remember lean gains are absolutely possible. Been repeatedly shown in the lab over and over and over and over. Um, and I think where this gets confusing is because of competitive bodybuilding. In other words, if competitive bodybuilding was not on the scene, a lot of these ideas about bulking and cutting wouldn't even exist. Okay? If no one was getting contest lean, which is an unsustainable level of body fat, you can't stay at 6% body fat. Let me be clear. You cannot stay there for prolonged periods of time. Your quality of life, your health, your hormones, everything will absolutely absolutely suffer for that. Okay? It is a problem and it cannot realistically be done. So because of that, there's always this idea of well now we got to gain fat and gain weight. But if you're 10% 11% 12% body fat, you don't have to gain any significant body fat to to gain plenty of muscle to just make lean gains. Okay? And this is not my opinion. This is what's been found repeatedly in studies and this is what's been found repeatedly by a lot of coaches here in the real world. More and more coaches you're seeing out there like, "Yeah, this this really is the case." Um, I have plenty of people who make lean gains. I make lean gains. I mean, even me, guys, I'm 49, right? And this year, uh, you guys have watched me trim down leaner, but still get a little stronger and get PRs on some of my lifts, which again tells you that even if you're losing body fat, if you're not real lean, you can you can make gains. And I think we we have to understand this fact. Okay, we have to understand this fact. But you know we need to be clear on the fact that large calorie surpluses are not uh even helpful for gaining muscle. And I think the reason we get the confusion is because we see a lot of this bulking and then people say but you always say and everyone says progressive overload is really the key to muscle growth. We progressively overload a lot of lifts faster. If we're gaining weight really quick the lifts go up quicker so we must be gaining more muscle. But that's not what's been found in the lab. And I think again if we understand how body fat affects leverages, okay, all especially certain movements, the bench press and the squat particularly are massively impacted by body fat. In other words, if you lose fat and you keep all your muscle and neural drive, your squat and your bench will tend to go down. Okay? you lose 20 pounds of body fat, even if you preserve all your muscle and you keep lifting heavy, both of those lifts are going to generally go down. You actually have to get stronger for those lifts to stay the same because of the leverages. So, so when you understand that, it's like, oh, so wait, if we're gaining fat, we're gaining fat leverages, right? If you put on 10 pounds of extra body fat, your leverages improve on those movements. And people say, "But isn't that progressive overload?" Well, only at the barbell end, not at the muscle fiber end. Okay? Because it creates squish. It creates leverage advantage. And what that means is your muscles do not have to work as hard to lift the same weight. And if they work the same amount of hard, you can lift more weight. So your lifts will go up without your muscles themselves getting any stronger. So yes, if you're gaining a bunch of body fat, you do that. You know, I always get people who say, "Well, it's okay because it'll help me get stronger quicker. I'll just gain a bunch of fat, bulk up, and then I'll cut down and keep the strength." Except you won't because you use the fat for a leverage advantage. So, it's not even a case of muscle memory. You're like, "Well, the muscle memory." No, no, because you're not going to have the fat memory, right? You don't have the squish and the leverage the fat gate was giving you. So no, the strength will not stay the same once you lose the fat. So I would suggest to a lot of guys in that case it makes sense to just bulk leaner and gain the real strength you would have gained from the muscle growth and the neural drive of the training. But again, people have that idea. It's created confusion. And so therefore, they believe falsely that the fat gain is causing more progressive overload. Um and and again it is at the barbell and performance level but not intramuscularly and it's it is about the progressive overload as far as the muscles themselves being subjected to more tension or more repetitions with the same tension because that also creates additional mechanical tension at the muscle fiber and that creates a little confusion for people but that also keeps the myth pervasive. I've had to deal with that a lot with people, you know, who message me or they'll do on live streams and they'll argue about it and they're like, "But I get stronger faster when I gain a bunch a bunch of weight. So, you're wrong." And I'm like, "No, no, you really aren't. You're gaining a leverage and it's not going to stay." And be and it's still not going to give you more muscle growth. And that's where the confusion is. They're thinking, "Okay, but it's subjecting the muscle to more work even if I lose the fat, so I'm gaining more muscle." But you're not. Okay? Now, the same thing when we look at this, we have to understand when we're losing body fat, if we're losing it slowly, we can gain muscle. And the more fat we have, the easier it is. And so, what I would kind of suggest to people is there's no reason for us to get significantly fat. If we really look at the sum total evidence, we look at what we know, what we observe out in the real world with with athletes and lifters, what we observe in the lab, fat gain is simply not necessary for 95% of people to maximize your muscle growth and muscle strength. Again, the exception being if you're trying to chase that leverage advantage in a heavier weight class, uh the fat makes sense, but it's not because your muscles are stronger. The lift is just easier due to the squish. All right? Particularly something like the squat where your belly is squishing off the thighs at the bottom. Well, that's the hardest part of the movement. You're creating external leverage. Okay? So, understand this. So, we should generally be seeking to gain muscle. As long as everything is slow, we should always be making some progress potentially uh you know year round, right? Because we can make we can make gains when we're if we're very very slowly lean bulking if we're at a high enough body fat to recmp. We can actually recmp just as fast as we bulk successfully. If you're like 15 plus percent body fat, it is this is not even a problem, right? You could stay at the same body weight and be just fine. Okay. And the same thing with someone who's particularly overweight, they can slowly cut and keep gaining muscle. They can probably gain muscle at a similar rate to what they could have lean bulking. And then the guys who are really lean can come in and just lean bulk. It's not necessary to gain body fat to gain muscle at all. And all it ends up doing is adding more time that you have to spend cutting. All right, make sense? All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.