all these influencers who talk about the warrior mindset uh when they're going to the gym. Hey everybody, it's Jason Law here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. U if you would though, please give me a like down below. If you aren't following me or subscribed, please do so and drop me a comment down under the video, I would greatly appreciate it. Um to to me, some of this is is kind of ridiculous. Um to me, it's funny as someone who uh has trained quite a few high level strength athletes. Um, even I strength coach a lot of fighters, competitive fighters. U I've been lifting heavy in powerlifting, coaching, training over 25 years. Um, judged powerlifting meets, been in powerlifting meets. I mean, you guys are watching me lift. I'm 48 years old here, moving some respectable weights. I train calm. Um, I advocate training calm, right? competition is different, but generally speaking, and I get it, there's a certain aggression you need for things like speed work, and I talk about that sometimes for the dynamic effort work, but generally speaking, most of your training uh needs to be fairly calm, zen-like state, focused. Um and and the reason for it, this is how we get strong and stay injuryfree. Also affects your recovery, right? Absolutely affects your recovery. Um, so that's that's its own separate topic, too. So, yeah, I listen to music and things, but I also don't listen to the most aggressive angry music I can find. Don't take preworkouts. I don't believe in eating a handful of oral anabolics before you train either, guys. Uh, you know, any of this nonsense. Like, guys, it's just training, you know, and these guys, they talk about, "I'm going to war with the weights. War your mindset." And it's like, dude, you're you're training in a calm, safe environment. There's nobody shooting at you. You're not getting ready for war, right? Even for for my fighters, we're lifting to get stronger and more explosive. This is not their fighting training. There's nothing there's nothing in the gym related to to to being the warrior, right? They go do that in the ring. They do that in their their fighting practice. This is lifting weights. We are lifting weights to get stronger, faster, more explosive, more jacked, right? This is this is why we're lifting. Okay? And even when you're moving bone crushing weights, I'm going to make the argument of you should probably be calm. You should be focused. Why? You don't get hurt. You maintain proper form. Your head is in a good place. Calm, collect. Like if you want a warrior mindset, how about a monk, right? Think of like a monk. There you go. Warrior monk. Focused, calm, collect zen. Be in the moment. be in the moment. Complete and absolute focus. But if any here thinking of war, aggression, I'm I'm just uh angry and and and screaming and slapping yourself. This is this is childish nonsense. First of all, it doesn't even make you stronger. Um I don't know why guys think this. Like really, I'm not stronger because I screamed or took anything else. Guys, you get you know how you get strong? You get strong by lifting heavy weights. Okay? You want to learn how to get neural drive up? Do one rep max lifts. Do dynamic effort work explosively. This is how you increase your force production to the to the maximum limit of which your muscles will perform. Now you increase the muscles potential by doing hypertrophy work and getting those muscle fibers thicker. Okay. But this idea of adrenaline with it um this this is not true for people who train, right? People have this fight orflight response and adrenaline and these different stories of because of different instances where when someone's in a life and death situation, they're stronger than normal. And yes, that's true for untrained people. Okay? You know what's been found? People who routinely lift very very heavy weights, weightlifters, powerlters, all these people, you know what's been found in the lab for 20 plus years don't have this response anymore. Why? Because we can turn it on calmly. Okay? That only applies to untrained people and they're not stronger than the lifter. So people have some ludicrous ideas. No, they get as strong as they would if they did power training for a year without gaining significant muscle. Like you train their nervous system to produce maximum force uh you know neural drive, neuromuscular efficiency. Okay, this happens even if you're calm. So it's it's a matter of training your body and your nervous system to fire all those motor units. But we do that already. That that should be handled in your training. And here's what I'm going to say. Once you reach that state and you have a highly trained nervous system, that force production is on demand. Okay, let me be clear. Once you have trained long enough to have those attributes, that same fight orflight adrenaline response that people get in emergencies, you have on demand. You have it as soon as you touch the barbell. You don't have to be angry. You don't have to have that adrenaline response. You can just come in and perform. It's about focus, about mental focus. It's about concentration. So, so to me, this this is ridiculous. This is nothing but a matter of people getting hurt. This is where people do silly stuff like, oh, try to use bad form to grind through reps I can't do. Just start doing all these force reps. all this crazy stuff where you just get hurt. Okay, you don't even get a training response from any of that. The your upper threshold muscle fibers are done at the end of a set. Doing other silly stuff, trying to lift once they will no longer fire will not recruit the fast switch fibers anymore till they've had 30 seconds or 45 seconds or whatever to rest. All you are doing is beating your body up and risking injury. It doesn't do anything. That's even what the data shows. Okay. Once once you've reached muscle failure, that's it. There is no, oh, if I go to a lighter weight, I can get to those fibers again. No, they don't turn back on. That's why you have to use a lighter weight. It's why the person has help you with force reps. You literally can't get to those fibers anymore. They take a break. So, all people are doing with all this, the being super angry, I'm not saying you can't be in your zone, but be focused. And that high degree of psychological arousal not only helps get you hurt, it interferes with recovery because all that adrenal response All that effect on your nervous system slows down recovery. Slow down recovery, you can't train again as soon. Well, that's not good. We need to be recovering so that we can get in and do it again. This is it should be routine. And I'm not telling you not to train hard. I'm saying train hard, but be focused, not about destroying your body. It's about coming in and doing the appropriate training to get results. And this whole idea, I'm a warrior. Like, no, you're not, dude. You're lifting weights. You don't be a warrior. Go join the army. Right? You want to be a warrior. Go compete in a fighting sport. Get on the mat. Roll. Get in a ring. Okay? Get in and train fighting. Then that's a warrior mentality. This is just you moving weights. Okay? You're not a soldier. You're not a warrior. You're not a fighter. We're lifting weights, guys. And it's not even that big of a deal, man. It's just a thing. I'm saying this as an old man who deadlifts 600 lb. Look, guys, just come in to lift the weights. It's silly. It's immature. It's childish. And again, this is nonsense marketing by overgrown boys trying to appeal to other boys. Grown man, just get in and lift. Hey, if you're a grown, mature, self-actualized man who is serious about his goals, get in and lift. You don't need all this this silly bravado, the silly banter. We're just lifting weights, guys. It's not a big deal. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.