 Isolating a muscle does not cause more muscle growth. Hey, everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click a like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Now, I'm doing curls right there at the start of the video. So when I make that statement, it's important to note, I am not saying to never isolate a muscle. We'd be clear on that. That's not what the statement means. Statement means there's no evidence that isolating a muscle causes more muscle growth, right? Because otherwise people wouldn't be massive who do just big compounds and they are. Big compounds are always the basis for bodybuilding and they have been for decades and the guys who use machines are not necessarily any bigger. And I think the point I'm making here is to take something I say often and kind of frame it differently to put it into perspective. If isolating muscles doesn't cause more muscle growth, and that means not isolating them will probably cause more growth to other places in the body. Also, one of the reasons that I do say, you probably don't need to focus on isolating anything that's not your weakest link, right? Because if you're doing lots of big compounds, everything is gonna grow. Are you gonna be balanced and proportionate? Not necessarily. If you have the genetics to be you will be, right? If you have the genetics to be really balanced and proportionate, you will be without isolating anything. Still doesn't mean you're gonna be a high level bodybuilder, but that's not what we're talking about. No one who follows fitness is a high level bodybuilder. So we need to keep that in mind. Those arguments are completely irrelevant. They're not enough professional bodybuilders in the entire planet to support any fitness influencer who puts out information. If every single pro bodybuilder subscribed to their channel, they're not gonna make very much money if that's their whole audience. So we shouldn't be catering to them. So just stop. So that being said, there's no evidence that isolating does anything, okay? Other than take other muscles out. This has been studied ad nauseam. And here's the other thing. You've seen really jacked people. I mean, I'll name someone who used to joke about that a lot. All right, you guys know the Boogs, Eric Boog and Hagen. You know, is anyone gonna claim he's not jacked or doesn't have great arms? Okay, is anyone gonna claim he doesn't know what he's doing in the real world? I don't think that's a fair criticism. Remember when I, you guys, I'm saying, look, there's no point in trying to isolate a muscle down strictly. He's like, if you want big biceps, do weighted chin ups and do some big, big barbell curls. He says, you even do some cheek curls, you'll be fine, they'll grow. Did he have any trouble growing those muscles doing that? No, what did he say? A concentration curl is a waste of time. He's like, you're gonna gain less muscle from a concentration curl. That's the point we're making. When people try to get down to the fine minutia of saying, okay, I do have a weak body part. It could use a little bit of extra, extra direct work. And there's nothing wrong with that, right? That is a reasonable thought process and a reasonable strategy. Look, your weakest muscle group probably needs a smaller exercise. It does need something that focuses on it directly. It probably does. If it's truly your weakest, if you're just like, oh, I want bigger arms, but your back is tiny and your chest is tiny, well, you need to grow everything. Now, if you're like me and your biceps are legitimately lagging due to some genetics, injuries, things like that, okay, it makes a little more sense, right? That's what we're talking about. Sure, everyone's probably got a weak leg, but trying to go from, well, a barbell curl or a dumbbell curl, it doesn't isolate it enough. Really, how is it a Chris's that? Because people haven't built amazing massive biceps with those exercises. There are people who build massive biceps off nothing but weighted chin-ups and pull-ups. Are they the norm? They're the exception. They're probably not the average person. So we don't necessarily want to use those, right? Most guys to build really massive arms are probably gonna need to do some curls. If they actually care about massive arms, they might just be nice and proportionate without them. Plenty of guys out there just do calisthenics and have pretty, pretty great upper bodies when they get lean. But the point is that he made is you're not doing yourself any favors and you're probably gonna get more growth from the slightly bigger exercise, the little more loading potential, it's easier than to progress on and they work other stuff. So think about that with a barbell curl. We say, yeah, that's obviously a great bicep exercise. We're locked into that supine position and as long as your forearms aren't a problem, they're not getting inflamed or cramping. It's great, right? It puts a tremendous tension on the biceps. You can build great biceps off just that exercise easily. But it works some other muscles. It's actually a nice big, it's almost a compound movement. I don't even think of a standing barbell curl. It's not really an isolation movement because it's gonna work different muscles in the shoulders and stuff, your low back. It's technically a good big movement, really. But that's kind of the point. And so then when people say, well, I need this machine to isolate the chest, really because your chest isn't failing with a dumbbell or a barbell? No, really, I want you to think about it. Done correctly, flat incline or decline barbell or dumbbell press. Are you really telling me that those are not gonna hammer your chest into the ground? I like weighted dips a lot. But let's just talk about these others. Let's just talk about barbells and dumbbells. Do you really think you're putting more tension on the, well, no, but we're isolating it more. But there's no evidence that causes more growth. That's been studied ad nauseam. Not only that, but some of the greatest chest historically were built off nothing but free weights also. They didn't even use chest machines. Arnold didn't do any of that. Steve Reeves didn't do any of that. Reg Park didn't do any of those. Those guys had great back specs then. You know, relative to their proportions. They didn't do any of that. Wasn't necessary. Okay. And I'm not saying machines don't work. All I'm saying is the efforts to isolate muscles probably isn't doing anything special. Yes, the argument that tension is tension holds true, but all you're doing is removing additional tension. And to even try to isolate a muscle like then doesn't make a lot of sense from a training economy unless it's lagging a little bit. Like if it's your weak link, okay. But otherwise it's probably not even a good use of your training resources unless you just have limitless time. But even then the point I would make, if you say you do a nice single joint exercise, do you really need to try to isolate it insanely strict? That's never been necessary. We know that even on lateral raises, guys who cheat on lateral raises still build massive delts all the time. All right guys, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.