It's going to take you 10 years to get the body you want. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Uh so let's get over in into the conversation. Um I've always said that the 10ear mark is something u magical in terms of results. Um and I'm not the only one who has said this. I've known other coaches who've said things. And so to put this into context, you guys remember I talked about this a number of times. Wendler uh Jim Wler was sitting around chatting with some uh strength coaches, right? Like a bunch of CrossFit coaches and they had said, "You know what? What would be the real key to getting strong?" And they all kind of agreed squat heavy once a week for 10 years and you'll get strong. Okay? And that sounds crazy to people like, "Oh, I want to do it faster." But it's like, well, you really don't do it faster. And they made a point, and I'm going to go somewhere with this, both in terms of things like muscle density, quality, uh, you know, all these different things, the knowledge that we accumulate. What they had said in that conversation, and this will apply over to just your body in general, um, they had said, look, because there's going to be progressive overload if you're squatting heavy once a week, right? And they didn't say you couldn't squat more than once a week. They didn't say you couldn't do some other stuff, but the point was if you squat really heavy once a week, for 10 years straight, number one, you were going to have significant progressive overload. Hey, the squat's going to build most of the muscle in your body. Most of the muscle mass in your body, notice I didn't say it builds your arms. I said most of the muscle mass in your body is scientifically true, provable statement. The majority of the muscle fibers in your body will grow from from squats. The majority meaning more than half, right? Absolute fact, well documented in the lab. They're all going to grow from squats. Your bone density is going to go up from squats. If you're progressively overloading and you're not really missing a week, you're doing it every week for 10 years, you're going to gain muscle. You're going to gain strength. we're going to get better all the time. Okay. But what else is happening with that? Um, a couple of things. Number two, consistency. Okay. And that 10year mark, man, it's a big deal in terms of consistency. I've seen it dozens and dozens and dozens of times in my life. That 10-year mark is really something special there. But it's that consistency. You are training to be consistent over and over and over. You keep showing up. And if you do that for 10 years straight, you're going to keep chipping away, chipping away, chipping away at those goals, right? You're going to gain more muscle. You're going to gain more muscle quality. You're going to gain more neural drive. That's all going to contribute to better body composition, a better physique, all those things. Okay. What else? What about the lessons learned? It takes a while. And I've said this again, it and the reason I've said this is people who don't have 10 years of lifting experience shouldn't be personal trainers. They shouldn't be giving advice. They shouldn't be teaching others. Why? I I made a video on that the other day, too. Okay? Why? They have not accumulated enough knowledge and experience to know what they are doing. Lots of guys out there, I've been lifting three years. I know. I watched your videos. Yeah. Trust me, you don't have the experience under the barbell. You don't have the experience in the weight room, okay? To understand all the different elements of fatigue management and programming and where you get beat up and where you stall and why and how your different lifestyle variables affect it and how different adjustments in your technique affect things downstream. Lessons learned. a decade of experience, you're going to accumulate a lot of knowledge. And if you're accumulating knowledge, you're going to get better. In other words, um if you didn't hire a highlevel coach from day one, you're on your own. You're only going to pick up bits and pieces of what you learn from others in your experience. So, that's the other point there with that 10 years. If you have less than 10 years of experience, in order to have really good programming, you're going to have to have hired someone from day one. And that's what I would say to anyone else. If you're if that's a kind of a big deal in that, isn't it? If your goal is to get really good, the best results possible, you should have a highlevel coach. And it shouldn't be, oh, I can do the basics. I can do a basic program. No, you're still going to be further behind. Get a great coach starting your very first week in the gym for years. Now people say, "Well, that's expensive. That's timeconuming." Exactly. And not everyone can afford it. And I agree. Not everybody can. Majority might not be able to. But the majority also need to accept that they will not get the best results because of this. Like anything else in life, I can't afford a really good car. Well, there's going to be a problems with that for certain things that you do. You see what I'm saying? I can't afford Well, money changes a lot of things in life. That is a simple reality. And everyone gets that in every other aspect of life. Yeah, having money helps you in a whole lot of ways. That's one of them. Good coaching, great food, you know, supply, it matters. All right. Uh but back over to the the knowledge that you gain through that decade, that's going to make a difference. And and here's the other thing too. A lot of times people are are noting certain things they want to see in their body and a lot of it is about muscle maturity and accumulation of things, right? Myofibrillar growth, dense muscle, bone density. Okay? Things change when you go and it's Yeah. you make up most of your gains in your first few years, but one of the things that you'll notice the people who show up and they train hard for a decade, there's a completely different look. And I'm not necessarily saying they photograph. Well, in person, you can tell there's a certain muscle density, a certain thickness difference. There is a difference. They have planes and things of muscles that kind of pop out, stand out. They're always going to look thicker, denser in person versus someone who might look to be about the same size, even next to them. You're going to be able to tell. And it's kind of that muscle maturity situation. And it takes about 10 years to reach that point, right? It takes about 10 years. But you can tell you can tell when you get in the weight room or the gym or you get around people who are fit and lifters who's put in the time and there's no real shortcuts. Drugs can kind of be a shortcut, but they're not going to be the shortcut that you always think. Yeah, they'll help you grow faster. All right, but that's not what we're talking about always. Um, and that comes at a price. So again, what we're looking at is just the difference that accumulates from that consistently showing up. And and like I said, around that 10year mark, you really can see it. I've known people who I've known who they eight, nine years and then I see them cross that 10 year mark and like all of a sudden, wow, like I've just my everything's paying off really at this point. And I've seen it many times. So that's what I mean. It's probably going to take you 10 years to have the body that you really want and set out to get at the beginning. And that's okay. The time is going to pass anyways. So, get in and do the work. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.