The sooner you chart training, the better. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I appreciate it so much. Um, so over to the point, and I'm going to mean this kind of in a couple different ways. And and and we need to understand that yeah, you really are better off the sooner you start u training. But I also don't want that to deter older people because a lot of times older people are like, well, I'm thinking about starting lifting. and I'm like start today don't wait till next week in that case that that is also another way to interpret it but I think something that people forget um when we get to these ideas of hey what is my my natural potential which is which is an absurd question because you don't know what it is but it's going to be much higher if you started training when you were 12 versus 25. So so let's let's just be clear on that. Let's be clear on that. Someone who starts training in their 20s is never going to reach their genetic potential. You're not going to reach your drug-free potential. Just just be honest about it. Why? Because in order to have to reach your full drug-free potential, you probably need 25 pretty serious years of training or more while you're still at your optimal hormone production, okay? If not 30 years. Well, how are you going to get 25 to 30 years of training at your optimal hormone production if you don't start till you're 25? By your mid early to mid-4s, your testosterone, your growth hormone is going to start reducing. Your gains are going to be harder to get. Not going to be zero. They're going to be lower. So, we have to understand this. We have to understand this. Okay? And we need to be clear on that. If you take two identical twins and one of them starts working out when he's 12, 13, 14 and the other starts at 25, the other will never catch him. He is not going to catch him. It's another reason I always tell people when they say, "Well, I I want to look at this guy so I can know what's what's possible natural." Well, what age did he start training? Oh crap. What's possible natural for someone with above average genetics who started lifting when they were 13 is going to require steroids for someone else. Like that's it. You're going to have to do some cycles to catch them. This is not even up for debate. Okay, let me state that again. By the time that person is 30 or 35, they will have reached a point that if you started training at 25, you will never ever ever ever ever reach without drugs, particularly if they have above average genetics for gaining muscle and they started that young. That's it. That is unobtainable. So that's another problem with this idea. This is also why when I see some guy who gets really jacked, who doesn't start till he's 20, 21 years old and then they claim natty, it's like, dude, just shut up. Nobody believe you. We know better. Just stop. However, you see a guy with pretty good insertions like, "Yeah, I mean, I started lifting when I was 13 for sports and then played sports all through high school." Then they're 28, 30 years old. You know what I mean? It's it's believable when they actually are quite impressive. When you're like, man, they're they're very impressive for for for a natty. But that's an actual explanation. Like that act that makes sense because they already have 15 16 years of really hard training. Possibly. You can do a lot, Larry. Let's be clear. You can do a lot in 15 years. Okay? Anybody? Anybody not understand that you can get pretty damn good gains with 15 years of training with no drugs of hard training? Yeah, absolutely. So, it's relevant in this context. So, yes, you are always better to start training sooner. So, that's a that's something to think about. Uh and and even when you get people who are older, it's like, okay, yeah, you're older. You're not going to get even remotely closer to you're 40 years old. You're like, "Man, I'm out of shape. I should really start training." Yeah, you better do it now. That's the point. You're 50. You realize you're getting really out of shape. If you're not feeling your You better do it now. You are better off if you start today instead of waiting and putting it off till next week. Okay. Same thing for all of you out there who are like, "Well, you know, I drained. I'm think I get people who come in to watch the videos, I'm thinking about lifting. Well, why did you quit? You're you're thinking about getting back. Well, quit thinking about it. Like, if you watch this video, you know you need to stop thinking about getting back to the gym and you need to get back in today. You're listening to this on your lunch break or at work while you're goofing off on your drive home. You better go swing in to join. go ahead and join the gym on your way home. That would be my advice because it gets more and more difficult the longer you wait. Not only in terms of potential, right? Which is again people who started training in their 20s need to just stop asking questions about natural potential. Just stop. It's too late for that. And I'm not being mean. I'm just telling you, you're not gonna compete, unless you're a freak, and you'll know real quick if you're a freak. You're not gonna compete with the guy who started deadlifting when he was 13 or started squatting for sports for uh baseball or football when he was 13. You're not going to compete with him. So, yeah, it's always better to start sooner. And it's the same for those of you, you know, if you want to give your your kids a better head start, you're a parent and they start inquiring about lifting, you're they're going to be better getting them started as soon as they say, "Hey, I want to I want to try this." Understand they're going to be better off for it. You within reason. Obviously, we don't want your, you know, the small child under a barbell without an enormous amount of them literally wanting to do it on their own. Right? No encouragement so that you know they're motivated and with enormous amounts of supervision. Okay? So, I'm not I'm not telling you to convince your your six-year-old to start deadlifting who is has no desire to do so. It's not what we're saying. But what I am saying is, yeah, the sooner the better. So, even the same as parents or grandparents, the second those kiddos see what you're doing and they want to get interested in training, the sooner you get them started because they they want to try it, the better their long-term and adult results are going to be every single [snorts] time. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.