It is biologically impossible to gain too much muscle uh naturally and by naturally I mean without using any sort of anabolic drugs. Um hey everybody it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click uh like down below be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below. I would appreciate that so much. Thank you. And let's get over to the topic. Um, you know, you get people who get worried about different different uh health effects or getting slower in sports or anything else because they gained too much muscle. And and I think what people are forgetting is you were purely talking about heavily enhanced lifters and athletes. This this doesn't actually happen to people not on drugs. This doesn't even happen to people on a replacement dose. So, someone who's on say actual legitimate TRT, this still doesn't happen. Like, if if you're getting too big, it's because you're too fat, okay? It's because you gained too much fat. Has nothing to do with the muscle. Um, and and I'll get into that a little further in a minute. People say, "But this person had this problem or or whatever." And it's like, "Yeah, because they used tons of drugs that had nothing to do with lifting weights and eating protein." I mean, yeah, that was involved, but you know, the the three grams of steroids plus all the insulin they were shooting were probably the culprits. Just saying. All right, I digress. Back over to the point. So, when we get to this topic, it people will say those things, but then when you look at the the research and the data, it's it's not true. It's not supported. What we generally find is that the more muscle you have, it reduces cancer rates. Every pound of muscle in your body is protective against cancer. So, so that's I mean straight up this is documented. It's known fairly open-ended, right? Fact best things you can do for some of that is if you eat as many fruits and vegetables as you can tolerate, right? Eat as many fruits and vegetables as you can tolerate and you gain as much muscle as you possibly can, your odds of getting cancer, especially things like diabetes drop. absurdly low. Ridiculously absurdly low. Not impossible because I mean people win the lottery. People get struck by lightning, but you know, the odds are extreme to the absolute extreme in your favor. Um, same thing diabetes. It's not going to happen. Anytime you see someone with muscle who got diabetic is because they ate really bad and got really fat. You still see that sometimes or they used huge amounts of insulin for bodybuilding purposes. Okay, which is is actually a thing for the unaware. That's the reason the guys got so big in that next generation, right? You started to see in the 90s they started getting a lot bigger. That's why. So, uh I digress. Let's set that aside. But as you can imagine, that's probably not the healthiest thing in the world. Okay? Probably not the healthiest thing in the world. But the lifting weights is fine. The same thing u cardiovascular health. We know strength training does more than cardio for it. You should do both. But it but it absolutely contributes. And people say what about left ventricular hypertroy? What about this or that? It's like none of that's coming. The health issues are not coming from the lifting weights and gaining muscle. Okay. Again, we don't have evidence that this is causing issues when drugs are not in the mix. Does that make sense? Hopeful hopefully people are understanding that they are confusing an anabolic steroid issue with muscle. There's been no data ever that supported the idea that gaining muscle in any amount itself purely from lifting weights in the normal hormone range and eating protein causes any risk of cardiovascular disease. the net impact is positive. So even if you see some minor stuff with that they call athletes heart the other athletic components of it and the muscle gain components of it offset it. Um same thing people will say well doesn't the muscle make the heart pump harder? Uh no no not for just normal activity. Yeah, if you're getting up doing cardio, it will, sure, but you're gonna burn a hell of a lot more calorie, man. You're lose fat easier. Uh, but again, are you talking not a muscle you gain from lifting? You talking about from using anabolics? Two different things here. Not exactly the same thing. So, over to that other point, no, muscles actually help with that. So gaining muscle tissue doesn't put an extra strain on your heart, all the capillary beds and everything through there and your muscles working around them actually facilitate better blood flow. Okay? Your heart doesn't do all of the pumping, right? A lot of your blood vessels, your capillaries, all these other things, they're responsible for it. That all the vascule in those muscles grows in proportion with them. So So again, this is nonsense. It's not based on reality. Um, and the other thing is we could talk about longevity. People say, "Well, weighing too much when you're older." Okay, how much muscle do you really think you're going to retain when you're 80? Unless you're still using drugs to help keep it up. I mean, if you're using a replacement dose to keep your testosterone where it was at age 16, you're using some growth hormone to keep your your HGH levels where they were when you were 16, okay, sure, maybe. But without all that, you're not keeping all that muscle. You're going to be lucky to keep the bit you can. And all the available research and data shows us that yes, if you get as big as you possibly can, gain every last drop of muscle that you can when younger, and you just do your best to hold on to it, at 60, at 70, at 80 years old, you're going to have less hip fractures, which that's lethal, by the way. When you're over 60, um, a a broken hip is pretty much a death sentence. Surviving that is like winning the lottery. Being alive five years after fracturing a hip is like, again, you want a little small lottery there. You don't want that to happen. So, lifting weights helps with that. Sarcopenia, loss of muscle is one of the biggest killers with age. Okay? So, you want to retain as much of it as you can. And no, you're probably not going to be super jacked at 75 without drugs, no matter how big you got. But if you can keep as much of it as possible, your cancer is going to go down. Diabetes goes down. Cardiovascular disease goes down. Bone fractures go down. Okay? Metabolism stays higher. Need for a walker goes away. All this stuff, right? So this idea that there's a detriment to to gaining muscle itself is insane. It's not based on reality and any kind ideas that people have about it are entirely derived from the anabolic world. They're nothing to do with actual lifting weights and even that has been overblown until people get to the excessive excessive realm. Right? So we have to understand that too and that's a whole another topic of most of those those health concerns and deaths the amount of stuff that people are abusing would blow your mind. Okay, these aren't people who are doing three shots a week and calling it quits. Okay, maybe five a day and I'm not exaggerating. 10 a day but I digress. Separate topic. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.