It's hard to sell the basics because the basics aren't sexy. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below. Be greatly appreciated. If you are not uh subscribed or following, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, be greatly appreciated. All right, let's get over into this. Um, you know, a lot of this started when it came to marketing and we've seen it just explode, absolutely explode on the internet with the rise of the fitness influencer, all the fat diets, different things with training, you know, and and here's here's what I'm going to say with this. People have almost rejected the most basic things that we know that work in the pursuit of the new shiny, right? And the reality is by normal people's standard, let's not get into competitive bodybuilding with a huge amount of drugs. Even look at the the bronze era bodybuilders, okay? Or to some extent the golden era, silver era. By normal standards, the average guy out there would be thrilled, absolutely amazingly thrilled to look like those guys. Okay, we need to be clear on that. Some of them were natural and then even the later years weightless drugs. It literally the only thing that has changed in bodybuilding has been the types, the combinations and the quantities of substances they use. That's it. That even that's it. That's the only thing that's changed. But, you know, we look at the the the training, then we look at diets, you know, but everyone's trying to sell a new machine. They're trying to sell a new type of program. And I get it. I mean, I push conjugate stuff for powerlifters and athletes, and I do all that with the bands and the chains when it comes to that, but realistically, do we need any of that to get jacked? Okay. Do we need all this speed, strength, and compensatory acceleration with bands and all the other stuff that we do for that just to build a really jacked physique or an impressive body for men or women? Do we need any of that? Is that necessary? No. May not even be that helpful in the grand scheme of things. We could argue about neural drive, but realistically it's come over. We don't need all the different types of machines that they've sold. And I'm not saying some machines can't be useful. I think a couple machines are useful. Have a problem with it. But here's the thing. A lot of the things that people are selling is to sell equipment. And a lot of this came from guys like um what's his name? The guy who kind of Arthur Jones with all his his machines. He pushed he was a salesman guys. A lot of that stuff that he pushed and then might men or later push doesn't actually work. Some small parts of it do. But realistically, he was a equipment salesman. And if everyone's using barbells and dumbbells, that's not good. He needs to sell these machines. He needs to sell ideas and philosophy to go with it. But realistically, did any of those guys struggle to get great physiques doing weighted pull-ups and chin-ups and dips and bench presses and overhead press and and and squats and deadlifts and Romanian deadlifts or split squats and even doing calf raise like you guys saw me do. Look at my calves. Come on. That's how I do calf raises. I just do them in the squat rack. It's not a big deal, guys. No good calves doing it. Do we need any of that stuff? I mean really, and I'm not saying not to use isolation, but say you got dumbbells. Same thing, right? You're telling me, you guys telling me you can't fully develop your shoulders with some dumbbells, side raises, front raises, rear delt raises. You can work all three heads of the shoulders. Even if you want spectacular delts, beautiful, perfect delts. No problem with just dumbbells. There's nothing stopping you from doing it. And they work just fine. everyone. Well, we might get this angle a little better with this. But again, this is people trying to sell you a certain science that's not even always evidence-based. Keep that in mind. When a lot of this complexity is sold, these are philosophies based upon data. There are not actual studies anywhere showing that people who use a specific type of cable or machine versus a dumbbell for their lateral raise grow bigger delts. Like this has never been studied or measured to my knowledge. Like no one's ever taken 50 test subjects into each group and broken them up and average their muscle growth with DEXA scans and MRIs to see whose delts grew the most. Like so when people say evidence-based or science-based, it doesn't mean they actually measured any of it. Like God forbid, they collect some data, some ideas based upon some measurements and say, "Hey, we have a set of philosophies and we think the evidence will will go in this direction." They haven't actually sat down oftentimes and measured it with hypertrophy studies always. And a lot of the hypertrophy studies that get done, they're flawed. It's been pointed out. There's a lot of flaws in those methodologies and the ones that are done. Okay, people sell complexity. You don't need a great deal of complexity with your training. Not saying good programming, fatigue management doesn't matter. This is what I do for a living. I coach people. People get great results. But do we need all of the complexity with it? No. People are trying to sell. Influencers are pushing complexity. Oh yeah, you just have to hit this angle or whatever on this curl. And it's like, you don't have proof of that, by the way. You're just making it up. Well, I feel it better. You feel it better. Maybe someone else doesn't. Okay, that's half the time literally all they're selling. They personally feel a little more, but this other guy doesn't. So, what's that worth? It's their personal what they feel. Okay, come on, guys. No one has struggled to build muscle doing all this stuff correctly. Same thing in nutrition. Everyone comes with these newest fat diets. Really? Is everyone ever struggle to gain muscle just eating clean and eating lots of protein with whole foods? Okay. Really? Is this is this really a problem? All right. Go back and look at those previous errors. Did any bodybuilder ever struggle to build large amounts of lean muscle? You know, eating chicken and rice and vegetables. Oh, did plenty of bodybuilders just get shredded to the bone eating chicken, brown rice, vegetables, chicken, brown rice, broccoli dice, and doing lots of less cardio? No. Well, no. We have this theory that if we we do all this hit cardio, do this and then we calorie we carb cycle. Really? You think any of that's necessary? You sure that's even optimal? Come on. Do you really think you need you don't think all that highintensity cardio interferes with your lifting? And then if your lifting is compromised, it's hard to keep muscle. just do less cardio. Well, we're just trying to save time. Are you? But this works. It's time effective. It's proven. People keep their muscle. Um, again, really, you want to add carbs. You want to add complex. You want this carnivore diet. There's no need for it. People say, "Well, I tried and it worked." Yeah, but the other worked already. There's no magic to the to carb cycling. Carnivore is crazy. And so, again, people are going to get upset that I call these little things out. Look, if you want to do something and you enjoy it and you get a response, I'm not telling you not to do it. But what I'm telling you is people are selling nonsense. They're selling complexity that doesn't need to exist. And then they want to sell equipment. They want to sell supplements. They then they want to sell let's sell occlusion bands for blood flow restriction training. We need to sell you 17 supplements to do this. It's all marketing, guys. It's not about your results. And the problem is it's hard to sell the basics. So they don't. Even though the basics have worked for generations, they're not sexy and they're not flashy and they're not new.