It's hard to sell the basics because the basics aren't sexy. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not following or subscribe, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that so much. So, thank you if you do that. Let's get over to the topic though. Um, it's topic I discussed quite a few times over the years. I think the first video I made kind of discussing this exact thing uh got ridiculous numbers of views like 12 years ago. But this is the problem we run into and that's the thing. It has gotten worse since then, right? Here's the problem. Influencers, people online, they will not sell you the basics. Um because how can they keep selling you new programming? How can they keep selling you new ideas and new stuff once people focus on the basics? Because it's over for them. And and I think people need to understand unless you are literally trying to become a professional bodybuilder, some of the nuance and complexity that people come up with is completely and absolutely irrelevant. And in some cases, it's irrelevant even then. You know, guys will stand there and be like, "Oh, we need this new." And I've created a whole chart of the best based upon the angles and all this stuff, the best lat and back exercises. and they've taken 15 different exercises and they're ranking them. And ironically, here's here's what's the funny part. The best tier almost never includes the exercises that have built the single most impressive backs in bodybuilding. So, let that sink in for a moment. Okay? How often do you see these crazy tears and you look at it and go, "Where's all the weighted pull-ups? Where's the barbell rows?" Oh, man. Because Every single guy who's placed a first or second in the Mr. Olympia for I don't know 50 years almost has been a massive advocate of either one or both of those. Step back and go back and look at all these guys, these amazing bodybuilders who were known for their back development. Okay, by the way, the deadlift usually makes that list, too. Go down the road. No, I'm serious. How many guys who who were known for their phenomenal backs? Ronnie Coleman, Arnold Schwarzenegger, Franco Columbo, we're all insanely strong at deadlifts and push a deadlift. Okay? And I'm not a bodybuilder, by the way, guys. I'm a strength athlete. I'm a powerlifter. You guys have seen me pull like 635 in my late 40s. You guys have seen me squat up to 600 on a camber bar. Even as I'm closing in on 50, I still hit a 500 squat earlier this year with, you know, nothing on but a belt and a pair of shorts, right? No sleeves. So, again, my background is powerlifting, not even bodybuilding, but at least I know the history of bodybuilding. and you go back and look deadlifts. But if you go over to everyone else, every single guy down the row who was known for his phenomenal back development, they were either an enormous advocate of heavy barbell ropes or they were an advocate for getting really good at heavy weighted pull-ups. Just go down the row and start looking at their routines. These are the routines that built those backs. Okay, these are the the exercises. So, you take those three. If you get good at those three, you're pretty much not going to get a significantly better back than that. Am I saying dumbbell rows aren't good? Am I saying some cable rows aren't good? No. I do dumbbell rows every now and then for phases. Um, but I do them pretty heavy sometimes. I usually do up to 135 pounds on a dumbbell. I do pullovers. I'm big on pullovers. You'll see some in here. But, but realistically, even my own back. Um, and a lot of guys are like, "Well, you got a really good back. You're not even a bodybuilder." But that's what I build it on. Deadlifts, barbell rows, weighted pull-ups. Okay, these are the basics. And they've worked. They worked all the way for the best in the world. They've worked from the rank novices best in the world. You go look at the stuff these guys push. Well, we're going to we're going to have a a one-armed cable pull down. And they're going to sell you this nonsense because that's easy to sell people little twists and oh if we do this you'll get the most uh you know the bio hack you'll get the most of whatever the length and position and then half the time the guy doesn't have really a back. I mean I'm just going to be fair like I'm going to be honest. If a dude is over here pushing this stuff as some great knowledge and I'm walking around as a powerlifter, not even a shredded powerlifter at this, you know, in here, a 48-year-old powerlter, his back isn't close to mine. We got a problem because they're promoting they have some vast knowledge of it. But you'll see these tiered lists and it's like, why aren't your tiered list based upon what has been the most successful, the basics that worked for everyone? And and it's almost like, are you guys really mean to tell me that had uh Dorian Yates and Ronnie Coleman and Arnold Schwarzenegger all just abandoned the barbell row that you guys placed third down the row? Oh, it's not even that good of a backlift. Okay. Are you going to tell me they would have had an even better back had they replaced it with your one- arm cable movement or what whatever nonsense they've come up with? We really going to make this claim? I don't think so. So, we see this stuff though and everything is about adding this extra twist or pull. What's wrong with the basics? Okay. Show me anyone who has been really successful at this who cannot build a big chest if you perform the lift correctly. A bench press, barbell bench, barbell incline, weighted dips. Like if I had someone who said, "I am my my pecs are completely lagging." That's the three lifts I would throw on be like, "Oh, you probably need three exercises." That's what I would go with. Why? You're going to work everything extremely thoroughly and you have to learn to perform them correctly. Okay? They have all these millions of delta exercises. Really, your front and rear delts get work pretty well on a lot of stuff. But if you want to add some stuff, a front raise, rear delt raise. How about a lateral? Telling me a normal lateral doesn't work the side delt at 100% efficiency. And they'll say, "Well, no, this it's like no, no, no, no. It's the muscle that fails unless you really perverse the form and really get the form wrong. I don't care if you're using a dumbbell, a cable, a plate, even any remotely decently close to correct lateral raise, the side delt is going to fail. It is going to be the head that reaches muscle failure. If that is a head that reaches muscle failure, you're not stimulating much extra growth. Okay? Same thing triceps. You're telling me various extensions and press does not work. Okay. What about a pullover also? Right. Long head. This is old school stuff. Guys built big triceps doing very bench press, dips, overhead press, pullovers 60 years ago. I mean, let's go back. There were guys, go look at guys like Bill Pearl and some of these guys with those monstrous triceps. This is the stuff they did and it worked. Here's the problem. you can't sell this because it's already known and all you would be able to do is well here's just a correct form on it. Here's some programming. Here's a progression. But then they're like, oh no, no, we got to have 37 exercises. Really, if you can't stimulate every single last possible muscle fiber in an area with with three movements, you really have no clue what you're doing. Really, it should take two, but there can be some muscles in some situations where up to three. But if you have not reached every last possible muscle fiber with three exercises, especially if you've done like three sets, there's no other muscle fibers left. What are you talking about? They throw crazy routines at people, crazy nonsense. Because they need to sell it. They need to sell it because they're like, "Oh, we won't have any new content. We'll be like blah. We'll make the same stuff a lot." Yeah, but all my people get results. All my followers get results. My clients get results. We're using the same exercises that people became champions using. World record level powerlifters, Mr. Olympia contenders. In fact, Mr. Universe contenders before the Mr. Olympia existed. The basics work. And the people who are pimping a lot of other stuff, who don't understand this, they're just salesmen. They're not coaches.