It's hard to sell the basics because they aren't sexy. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But if you guys would please click like down below. I would greatly appreciate it. Uh if you are not following or subscribed, please do so now. Click that button and drop me a comment down under the video. I would appreciate that also. Thank you so much. All right. We see so much nonsense out there today. absolutely ridiculous amounts of nonsense by newer influencers, coaches who are trying to make a name for themselves, discussing crazy stuff like, "Oh, lengthen position partials. Let's take a cable and line up muscle fibers on a one arm exercise on the other side of a joint, which means basically physics, you can't actually do that." But they don't seem to care about that when they make these statements. And I'm not saying for really advanced lifters some extra stuff doesn't have its place. Like you guys will see me doing speed work with bands or change, you know, reverse hyper stuff like that. I'm also a very advanced lifter, 48 years old, you know, who squats 500 plus, deadlifts 600, so on and so forth, at almost 50 years old. you know, my needs might be a little different. But for the overwhelming majority of you, if I were to take someone and I wasn't going to put them on something like conjugate and I have someone just goes, "Hey, coach, I just want to get real jacked. I just want to get as jacked as I possibly can." Do you know how simple a lot of what we would do is what would our training look like? I don't know. You could probably do bench press and weighted dips or bench press and incline bench, right? What what do we need for chest? A couple of basic movements. You won't need single arm machine flies, you won't need any of that to build a big chest. In fact, I I will go so far as to say that if we're not even chasing the upper chest development specifically, uh is a is a situation that you want. You just want a big chest. bench press and weighted dips will build your entire chest top to bottom. Pretty pretty balanced. Same thing. You want you want bigger triceps. All right, those dips dips go a long way. How about some some nice extensions? Some good laying extensions. Just get stronger though. Basic progressive overload. Want a big back? Weighted pull-ups or weighted chin-ups. Throw some rows in. Notice I didn't say anything about cables. Didn't say anything about machines. Look guys, rows with barbells and dumbbells plus some type of weighted pull-up or weighted chin-up. Absolute king, especially once we start doing any deadlifts and stuff. You want your biceps to grow with it. Well, you know, chin-ups, curls, chin-ups and curls. Of course, I'm doing a power curl here. This is not necessarily a bodybuilder curl. It's a power curl. Um, again, strength strength movement, but it will build your biceps. But I mean I mean realistically does anyone think a bicep is that complicated? Get real strong at a barbell curl. Get real strong at chin-ups. If you need a little more, maybe a dumbbell, you know, an incline curl with a dumbbell, alternating dumbbell curl. Basics. But you probably don't need more than a couple exercises. Just like we said for chest, you know, you know, flat bench, incline or flat bench and a dip. Man, this is not complicated, guys. And just get real strong with them. Not saying you can't change movements up. It's good to change movements. Good. Change grips, bars, angles, you know, to prevent some overuse. Not a bad idea. Not a bad idea. From time to time, you know, maybe you get tired of barbell curl, want to go to dumbbells for a while. Maybe you get feeling a little bit of tendon inflammation. Hey, perfectly fine. That's not complicated. What about your shoulders? Well, you're doing rowing and pressing. You're pretty well covered. Okay. Uh you need a little more shoulder. I don't know. Maybe um you could do a front raise. I like front raises, but how about an incline bench or an overhead press? There you go. And then you need something for the side and the rear delts. You could do a rear delt raise. You do some laterals or an upright row. You do an incline dumbbell row. I like those. Get on an incline bench and do a dumbbell row. Man, combine that with your pull-ups and a chin-up or or with your chin-ups and a barbell row. Man, now we got something. You're hitting every angle possible. You just hit every angle possible for that whole shoulder. Uh what what about legs? How about some squats and deadlifts? I don't know. Those are powerlifting movements. Shut up. Almost every top bodybuilder, 50% of the Mr. Olympia pushed squats and deadlifts like crazy. At least half of them have. Don't give me that nonsense has always been part of bodybuilding. Some squats, some some deadlifts, you know, you want some machine work. I'm big on machine work. I think a leg press or a belt squat or a hack squat machine is great for quads. Yeah, you man, do a back squat and then do a machine squat. All right. You will build some thick quads, especially if you do go deep on them and you do full range of motion. Heck yeah. Right. So, like watch these belt squats I do here. That's exactly what we're talking about. do some back squats and do a belt squat or a leg press with this this range of motion. Go nice and deep. Okay, you'll see see my leg legs when I turn around and walk walk over. Of course, I'm also a 500 lb squatter. Um, all right. The posterior chain, they'll deadlift, do some good mornings or Hey, you want something else? A glute ham raise or even a hamstring curl. I mean, a hamstring curl machine's good. I I like the hamstring curl machine. you're pretty well covered. But none of this is sexy, is it? But think about that for a minute. I mean, just break down what I just told you. Let's say you're going to a normal gym, right? And let's just say go down the road. Well, what would be a great workout? Um, flat bench, incline bench, dips there. Now, we covered the shoulder part. So, what do you need to make sure the shoulders get finished off? You could do an incline dumbbell row like that, or you could do a rear delt raise or a lateral. Right? You're good for most of you guys. Base building covered your whole shoulder girdle, your pecs. You already got part of your triceps. So then throw a good extension. You do a rope press down. I like I like press downs. Uh they're a good basic movement, but otherwise a laying extension. We do it with an easy bar. You can do it with dumbbells. Basic movements about your back. Pull-ups and rows. Done. If you need more bicep, do chin-ups instead of pull-ups is why I do it. Biceps lie behind a big back biceps not the best. All right. Do a chin up and a barbell curl. Bicep. We just covered the whole upper body. We just hit every single muscle in the upper body with at least two different exercises, didn't we? Combination of big movements and some isolation work. All right. Legs, squats, deadlifts, leg press. Uh, good morning. Done. You just get real strong. Get real strong. Anywhere from five to five to 12 rep range with those movements. You'll be thick. Eat chicken, rice, and vegetables or steak rice and vegetables. Potatoes count as a vegetable, by the way. Done. Eat clean. Eat plenty of of quality carbs and protein. Don't eat junk food. Build some nice lean muscle. See how easy that is? Do you see how easy that was? Basics work, but they're not sexy. And so influencers won't sell them to you. That's the problem.