Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Uh workout went phenomenally well other than I was weaker on the close grip bench than I had hoped. Everything else really, really good. We got deadlift PR. Um but we started off with the high bar squats again. I got 11 reps. That's what I got last time. We got to 10 last week. I got 11 on my birthday. That first rep was really high. Um, that happens to me a lot with these and then I get deeper as I go. But that's okay because it's the accumulation of the volume of the of the work anyways that I'll live with that. And again, whenever I I film them from the sides, we're usually shocked at how much difference it looks. So, I don't worry about it. Um, but the quad and lower body development I'm getting from this is going to be really good. So, I feel like um at this point I can probably squat over 500 again realistically, but I'm not worried about it. I'm just going to kind of focus on body composition. I'm trying to recomposition myself. And I think we can tell looking that is happening. Right. I'm looking leaner. We're getting stronger at a lot of lifts. Um, and my shoulders are feeling really good. So, I think one of the things I wanted to do, I'm like, let's try one other thing. I already know my lockouts are weakest on my wide grip bench. I'm like, I wonder where my closed grip is because I hit all those tricep PRs. So, I wanted to see if I could rep 315 um with a true close grip. And this is true close grip, guys. Notice I'm my index finger is at the smooth. Okay, there is no visible neural like I'm close grip. And but that's where I hit when I was strongest at my close grip at, you know, 30 lbs heavier body weight. I hit 365. So, it was an interesting test. And it tells me cuz I went in a little closer last time and only got four reps. This was hard. And yeah, I felt my chest, but my triceps were just absolutely screaming. So, this is what this tells me. Even if I want my wider grip bench to go up, um, I want to mess with some close grip for a while. Okay, one, I want to see what this does also for my shoulder health. The high bar squats work wonders. I've still part of me thinks that if I can just get everything really good, I'll be able to overhead press again one day. Okay, I'm still holding out for that hope. So, and I never had problems even overhead pressing 225 all the time when I was a closed grip bencher back in the day, right? Did it on camera numerous times, a dozen or more times. But let's talk about the deadlift, then we'll go back and talk about that. Nine reps. Nine reps. I didn't think I was going to get the ninth rep. I got the eighth and I'm like, man, let's see if we can get it. I don't know if I can get it. And I just pulled and we got it. I didn't think I was going to get it. No, guys. Seriously, I didn't think I was going to get the rep, but I just pulled it. And the funny thing is it felt like a max, but looking at it, it moved pretty quick. All right. Um, quad strength is back today. So, we did the belt squats. I managed to get 11 reps again with this weight. And again, I'm using the same stance we do for the high bar, like in terms of of the position and toe angle because I just get so much quad activation. And I feel like with this, again, this is helping bring my deadlift up. My quads and my grip are what determine my deadlift. Well, the grip's holding really well, and I feel like the hanging leg raises and stuff are helping. Um, I think they're helping a lot. But I feel like with the other stuff, so I'm I'm going to talk about the other lifts now, uh, while you guys just watch me do the reverse hypers and the belt squat. I feel like if I maybe just do close grip for for a while, I've taken out anything that causes even the most remote stress on my shoulders other than that wide grip bench, which feels fine to me, but as we've all been told numerous times, it will cause those issues. So, I just want to chill with it for a bit, and I'm going to push the closed grip. Now, 315 for one is is just not is too heavy. It's too heavy. I'm not going to make substantial muscle growth there. So, I'm going to take the weight down and build up. I'm thinking maybe 275 and then work it up when I can get to, you know, 10 or more reps there. I think we're in a good place, right? Because I'm doing most of my work up around, you know, 8 to 12. Really, most of this stuff is if you're really watching these big lifts. I mean, yeah, we're seeing me do 500 lb deadlifts, but I'm getting eight, nine reps now. I got eight. I got eight and I got nine. Um, so we're kind of in that range. Same thing. The high bar squats, I'm hitting 10, 11 reps every workout now. So, just progressively overload these these big lifts with with heavy weight. So, I feel like the closed grip, if I practice the close grip, it'll come back really fast. I do think that's a big part of it, too. I've gotten so dialed in to where I'm hitting fives and stuff with that crazy wide grip. When I go to the other extreme, my body's not used to it, but I feel like the dips will carry over to it. So, I'm just going to I'm going to progressively overload the two and see what happens. Just like I've started progressing on the dips again. I want to see what happens if we take the weight down and just progress on the rep work on the closed grip. See if the closed grip goes ahead and it comes back up. See if we can get it back up to that 365. Because a lot of people are like, "Dude, you got 365 plus flat bench now with the wide grip." because I've been doing fives with with 315 paused, you know. So, my thoughts here, um, I want to mess with that also and see if my shoulder improves and even if even if I decide to go back to the wide grip, it'll come back fast because I I'll also have improved the lockout strength because a closed grip will improve that. But, it's interesting to me that my triceps were were struggling there. It tells me all those smaller exercises didn't do anything. Getting really crazy strong at extensions, right? because I got up to 135 pounds for 12. That's PRs. Yet, my close grip didn't isn't stronger. And I felt the triceps so much. So, this tells me it's it's just the big movements that are going to bring it back up. Uh pull-ups. I got three plus a single um with 90 last time. I'm like, let's take the take the weight back down and let's work on rep work. So, I got nine and then I did two rest pause reps. Like on these, I like these because I've hit failure. I hit failure on ninth. I couldn't I couldn't come up for a 10th, but that couple of seconds letting go, regripping it gave me a couple more reps. Um, the dips for going deep because I' i've gotten remembered to 10 before with partials, but going as deep as possible, I started building this back up and going all the way down as low as my range of motion allows, which is down to here below parallel. I managed to get nine today. So, this is PR because we got we got like 12 or whatever with 55. I went up to or 70. I went up whatever it was, 11 reps. We did 90 last time and got eight. I managed to get nine reps today, but it was a grinder. Like the ninth rep, I was fighting it. Like look at that. I couldn't even lock it and then I went down and I failed. Like form broke trying to lock it. But it's a PR. It is definitely a PR. So really happy with it. And then also I'm like I'm I've messed with the preacher curls for a week. I'm like let's just let's go back to the straight bar now. Um because again, much as I even like that easy bar on there, I tend to agree with some other people. Man, the straight bar is really hard to to beat for biceps. It's really hard to beat. And I'm only doing the one set. I could argue that it curls don't do a lot for me anyways. Maybe the pull-ups cuz my arms were at my biggest and I wasn't curling at all, but one set, just one set to failure and try to progressively overload isn't going to be a bad thing. And we're not going to overtrain the biceps with that. I think we can see while I'm doing the curls there, we can see the improvements in the body composition. Abs starting to come out. You know, not ripped or anything, but we're definitely leaner. All right, we're definitely leaner and we're stronger. So, still sitting at the same body weight, so I'll take the win. And then I did one set of laterals to failure to make sure my delts side delts got some work. Granted, pull-ups, pull-ups and and dips do a lot for the whole upper body, but just the side delts just to make sure because I'm not able to overhead press yet. Want to do something for them. So, one set of laterals to failure. Um, other than I had hoped I was going to get at least a double with that close grip. I'm ecstatic with everything else in the workout. We got, you know, some PRs and stuff. So, super happy. Great workout. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.