Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here once again. It is time for an old school bodybuilding workout. And if you guys would please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'd be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that so much. So, let's get over to the training. All right, we started off with working on these uh breathing squats. So, again, taking right about my 10 rep max um at least challenging 10 reps and then trying to rest, pause, and get more reps. I'm cutting it in a deficit, doing two to three hours of cardio a day. I am just not finding the steam to get a whole lot of extra reps. But I'm doing one of these sets three times a week, so I'm probably getting a decent growth stimulus to help hold on to some some quad size and some leg size. Um, so I'll take it. And again, I will admit my quad and hamstring volume is the lowest of anything I do. U so doing these big movements at this point, I'm just trying to maintain leg size. I'm not pushing gains here. I could I've thought about throwing some uh some belt squats and other stuff back in for that. I've really considered it and I might do it uh you know towards the end of the week, but at this point it is going to be focusing on the upper body u more and more because of again the look that I need to have right because my lower body tends to uh outshadow it. But again, keep in mind you guys have watched me squat 500 even at 48 uh you know so on and so forth. So afterwards, I did a set of a reverse hypers. And I like to do these after squatting these days. Again, I try to get a good 25 rep set in. Number one, obviously can help give me a little bit of posterior chain behind the squats, you know, the glutes and hamstrings and low back, but also because of the restoration. Like I do need to keep that low back healthy. Um, it's very, very important. And I think what needs to be said with this, I didn't I didn't whoosh today. I'm still at 211. We'll see what happens tomorrow. I'm gonna stay on top of keeping the diet tight. U and I need to keep working down. But like I've said already, um I've realized not only at 211, I'm nowhere near as lean as I need to be. So I already know that 200 is probably not going to be lean enough. Let's just be realistic. And the thing that I've had to think about, you know, the more I look at this and I look at age and everything else, I need to be under 200 lb, right? I really and truly need to be under 200 lbs. And 200 lb needs to be my absolute upper limit of my body weight. Um there's just no purpose in me weighing more than that. There's no benefit really. It's only just carrying at that point extra body fat, extra body weight that I don't need. Um to to be athletic, to have a great physique, to even keep an elite total for my class in powerlifting. I can do all that under 200 lbs. There's there's no reason for me to be above 200. Like even here at 211, you know, I'm decently big. And if I just get leaner, I'm going to look way way way way bigger, right? I mean, so look at my my muscle now. I'm at 211. What happens at 190? What if I have this same amount of muscle at 190? All right, I'll look way bigger. Look way bigger. So, let's just stay on top of that. I'm just going to keep cutting. Keep cutting. Let's get leaner, get tighter. Um, it only serves to benefit me in terms of outreach, my physique, my health. So, the dips really good. I'm super happy with dips. Like I said, I feel like dips are going to be critical to my chest and triceps right now. Um, I'm taking the pullovers out. And lo and behold, I have no inflammation in my arms or tendons anywhere today after pulling them out. So, this is a case of saying, as much as I love pullovers, I think they're such a fantastic exercise. It seems like any way I do them, they're inflaming tendons in my arms. They're inflaming my arms and I have to focus on my arms. Realistically speaking, uh my arms in general are still my weakest link aesthetically. So, as I get leaner, I really need to double down on the arm training. And I can't have tendons in my arms hurting, right? Can't have them hurting. Uh so, again, we did that and then we did pull-ups. So, I went ahead and went with a wider grip today. I've been rotating the grip around a little bit. I'm like, you know what? I'm just going to do them wide. And it doesn't matter that I can't get my chin to the bar wide. The lat development is great. Uh I have a great back. Uh these have done worked wonders for me. So I' I've rotated the grips a little. I mostly do this. And then I'm like, um so let me take these down and let's do the highest pull I can. So let me go to a dead hang every rep and just go a bit bit light and see how high and try to force myself as high as I can. And we're pretty much there. But with this grip, I can't do it. So people like, "Oh, take weight off." I couldn't even do it with a reverse band. I can't lap pull down the weight down that far. But it doesn't matter because it's the full range of motion of the lat. So, I'm just going to do it. Keep doing what I know works for my back. It's worked for a long time. But the main thing, those dead hang reps. That's what we do for the shoulder health. Just like I'm going really deep on the dips, I'm going to do the dead hangs on all that. And let's continue to um, you know, improve shoulder health as we go. The other thing's interesting to me, I always feel still a lot of a lot of bicep on pull-ups. By the way, anytime I try to go as high as I possibly can, whether it's to the bar, over the bar, whatever, it feels like a more bicep dominant. So, I actually felt a lot of isome brachialis kind of funny. Um, even though, you know, really is lat uh when doing these today, but overall, still always I get a great lat pump, a great lat burn as long as I get that stretch at the bottom. Uh, so again, keep doing it. All right, so I decided to do skull crushes. I'm going to call them laying extensions because it doesn't like the name skull crusher in my monetization when I put it on Facebook. So, I went really light here and then I added a little bit of weight. So, I decided to super set them with my incline curls. And that's the thing, you know, skull crushers can inflame tendons like when done to the face. They work phenomenally well and those are small enough plates that it's like, okay, you can see everything working. I need to go over to the smaller plates like that in general, right? If I can get them to fit in between the thing, right? Because we can't really see what's happening when I use those bigger plates, can we? It creates a problem. But with those, we kind of see definitely see the muscle working. Um, but I did like 17 or 18 or something there. Then I went up in weight. I'm like, yeah, it's just too light. So then I'm just going to count it as three sets of 12 with a heavier weight uh in the notes. So I did that and then I did super sets with my incline curls. Same thing. I'm like, incline curls, let's just do twelves. Um, instead of trying to push all this weight, let's just pump the arms. I mean, stuff in the 12 plus rep range, fine. As long as it's to fatigue, very close to failure or two failure. Um, perfectly fine. I don't think I need to have to push eight or nine reps on any of the the arm stuff on the isolation. There's no point, right? We're getting heavy enough on all the rowing, uh, the pull-ups, the dips, the benching. Uh, it's not necessary. Let's just pump them. And I mean, you're still going to do hard sets. the challenging sets still work. So, but I did drop the weight and I managed to get like 12 rep sets and these are pretty much to failure. I get to the last rep each time and it just sticks, right? So, did all the curls to failure. Obviously, the skull crusher is not quite because I don't want to drop it on my face. Um, so same thing here. I did kind of that same form, but I went up a little bit of weight and you can't see it as well because of the plates in the way, unfortunately. The downside to those bigger plates. Um, but I also have to have to be able to fit it inside the rack. I'll check later and see if I can add more plates um of the other and see if they'll fit so we can still see what's going on. Right. It may still fit between those J hooks. U so I can try to find out. We'll see. I'll try it next time because yeah, just visually it looks way better. We can see what's happening. And it's like I don't if I can fit the other plates and make it fit, then uh let's do that. so we can actually see what's happening during the lift, right? Because those bigger plates, those 25 pounders are kind of blocking the view. Um, so I'll try to work on that, but so did three sets of each of those. And kind of what I'm keeping with my theme of zone, you know, only three sets of stuff is fine. Like part of me almost wanted to go, man, I could just do dips after benching and skip those extension on the bench days. Uh, which may be a possibility, right? It's worth thinking about mainly because I feel like I I could stand to build more pec along with the tricep too. You know, when I look at certain of the golden era guys, a lot of them have really good pecs. But I mean, I'm doing the deep dips. I'm doing the bench. We may not need to do more. Considering I'm doing those dips three days a week and then benching twice most of the time, depending on how I do the fiveday setup, um that should be enough chest volume. I don't know why I'm even thinking that way, right? But part of me thought about doing that. But again, I did twelves on all the all the uh extensions, the skull crushers to the face. Although on these, now that I'm looking, I'm not getting as deep as I did with the lighter weights. So maybe what I think I need to do, I need to step over, maybe put a couple of tens on each side next time, and then make sure that I'm getting getting that little bit of extra range of motion. Right. Bring it all the way down closer to the face. So again, another thing that's useful with a smaller place where we can see what's happening. Um, and even if it ends up being a little bit more reps, that's okay, right? Are we really worried if we end up hitting 14 or 15 and it's challenging sets on something like that where when the really heavy weight tends to beat your tendons up? Uh, no. I think it's fine. And again, we still build muscle with 15s, right? Keeping in mind, anyone's like, "Well, what about the heavier weight?" But we have diffus benching, guys. We have all that in there, right? and that's plenty. So, I I do want to adjust that a little bit to make sure I'm getting the most out of the exercise if I'm going to bother to do a skull crusher like that. I do want to get the most out of the exercise. Um, so, uh, same thing, the incline curls. So, I didn't do any bands for the arms today afterwards like I did yesterday, and that worked fine yesterday because I did me incline curls, but I had still had that um, little bit of inflammation that those pullovers were giving. And yes, it was giving it even in the bicep and then the radial brachiialis. And that's part of the problem. So then I decided to just do some dumbbell laterals uh to make sure we get a little bit of side delt in here. Uh and some of this I may end up doing more rear delts too. Part of me is kind of like I'm doing the pull-ups and then I'm doing rows. I don't know if I need to really always isolate rear delts as much. Whereas in because lateral raises do hit the rear delts too. But I'll work back and forth between them a little bit. uh work back and forth. And I may work the plates back in too and do some of these with plates also. But just making sure we get a little bit of delt work. Not a bad thing, right? Just aesthetically speaking. Um even though I I I question how much I get out of delt isolation, they don't ever seem to make my delts grow, no matter how much they burn. And even when I was doing three or four different adult exercises every week, you know, it's questionable, but it's not a bad thing. Just throw in some extra delts to make sure we're doing it. Make sure I'm getting a good pump in them. And at least I feel the muscle on these. That is the thing with laterals that I will say they do light my delts up. They absolutely burn on all of these. And people argue about what muscles are being used. Every exercise I do, by the way, everyone says it's just your traps, whether it's a pull-up, whether it's a row, whether and I'm just like, guys, my lats grow pretty good. Um, I don't feel my traps on any of this stuff, to be honest. I can't even tell they're working. I don't feel my traps on on any exercise I do, but shrugs. All right. And then we finished up with calf raises. Uh what I've been doing, I did my three sets of calf raises. I got my my I managed to get twelves today again. So that's good. I was getting I got like 11 on Monday, but then we managed to squeeze out 12. Then I got 12 again. Obviously that tighter belt and like I've said, I like using that tighter belt now that I can physically get it on because it is the metric for what's going on over my waist size. how much fat or skin spills over it, how tight it is, what notch, tells me a lot about what's going on with the waistline. So, it's it's a good tool for me to use that lets me know exactly where everything's going with that. So, I kind of like that. But, I think when we get to the point to where when this belt no longer has any any of like that little bit spilling over the top, it is tight. Soon as that's gone, again, be a really really good sign. or even better yet, when I can go to the next notch in it, that'll be when. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.