 Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here, and it's time for another full body workout with a quick reminder. If you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it. I wanted to just go a lot heavier on the squats. I went ahead and went 475. I wanted to see how many reps I could get. I got four. I was a little unhappy with the depth on the first rep, but the next three I was. First one, I didn't hit parallel. The other three based upon my normal side footage on high bar, this would break parallel. So happy with that. I was almost hoping when I got the second rep, I'm like, can I get five? No, I did the fourth rep, and I'm like, I don't think I have a fifth rep. I don't think I've got it. If I do, it's going to be super ugly. I'm like, and it was a little cold still out lately. This is the last cold day for the week. I just have been crazy sensitive to temperature. I don't enjoy being cold. And it's not even that cold. It's just been strange lately. It's something I've noticed. But I'm like, I need to get in. I want to do some real training. So I just did some shoulder work. And I had said the other day, I wanted to start adding a little more shoulder work back in. I want to do my basics and make sure I do a little bit of biceps. I want to start adding more shoulders in because as I drop a little bit of boof and body fat again, I'm still feeling a little boofy, but it'll come off. So I feel like a little more shoulder wouldn't hurt, you know, to go with everything, even though my focus is strength, I still want to look a little better. So again, lose body fat, bring up the biceps, shoulders a little. So I'm like, let's just do some shoulder work. Plus if the squat, that is enough for me to grow on. And I don't think people over the grass that I've never needed a lot of lower body volume to blow my legs, I think lose way up. Never had to. So when I looked at it, I'm like, yeah, what's the biggest muscle in the upper body? Well, it's going to be the delts. And I feel like some of these shoulder exercises work a lot of other muscles. Like front raises for me, I feel a massive amount of pec activation. All right, so I did three sets of the plate lateral. So I just like how they feel. I did them just a momentary failure. So with the body just kind of stuck at the bottom on each set. And then I did two sets of front raises. And I kind of didn't even count reps. I just did them till they burned. So again, did five sets for my shoulders. Now keeping in mind, you have really good squat bench deadlift, weighted dips, you know, last week. So again, I've got plenty of growth stimulus there. So I'm like, yeah, let's just come in and make sure that my upper body grows, right? It gets a little bit of growth to go with the squats. And so I wanted to just do some shoulder work. Right. So, so three sets of that, then two sets of the front raises, just basically to momentary muscle failure, nothing crazy. But five sets, that's that's more volume than I normally do for a muscle. But I'm like, yeah, I mean, the shoulders could probably use it at this point, because I can only do so much for biceps and biceps are only going to get so much. I'm like, yeah, I do feel like a little bit of extra shoulder will help with my bench. It's kind of kind of stagnant at the moment. You know, now granted, I'm on lower carbs. I'm going to be losing some body fat, but it feels kind of stagnant. So some extra shoulder wouldn't hurt because I don't even feel my triceps now. I always felt like triceps were weakling, but I've got my triceps really strong on dips, on extensions, other stuff like my triceps. Are stronger than when I was benching 365 with a with a pause. My triceps feel stronger than when I close grip 365 just when I look at other lifts. So it really is just, you know, chest and shoulders, get that bench back up, you know. So because I don't I've noticed lately, I don't even feel my triceps on my bench. That's been the interesting point for me. They burn like hell when I hit 18, 19 reps of 225. But when I do rep work with 315, it's interesting. Like my triceps don't even feel like they're being used. So, you know, worth, worth noting. So some extra dealt wouldn't be a bad thing. You know, just for overall look. So yeah, just did some delts and again, biggest muscle in the upper body. You're still going to be splash over my whole body will probably grow some of this. So again, we don't need as much as we think we do. We don't always need as much as we think we do, but I'm going to just for the rest of it. I'll just repeat the squat set. Like I said, the first rep. My first rep is always like that on rep work on the squats. Right. It's interesting. I don't really get red lighted. It meets people like your squad high and it's like it's kind of funny. In one of my little clips I shared to a group, the actual head judge who passed my last state record on the squat. When I was doing the really high rip stuff, he's like, Jason, come on. I know that you know how to squat deeper. Why aren't you squatting to death for that 12 rep set? Like he called me in the hilarious, like in one of the actual lifting groups as I uploaded the real there. Like when I did that 12 reps, someone that split my shorts or whatever, he called me on it because he has passed a state record for me. As a head judge in a competition. So he's like, I know that you know how to squat to death. So it's just kind of funny. But for muscle building, this works. Works just fine. And I was the next three were definitely there. Again, it's the size of my quads, the way it looks from the front because I filmed it from the side and stuff comparisons and all boxes. But yeah, the first one definitely high, but happy with the set of squats. So again, I almost feel like man, I can grow off of that. Right. I can literally grow off of that. And I don't know that I've hit 475 for four every one camera because keep in mind I wasn't doing this sort of work. When I was hitting those really crazy heavy. Camber bar squats and I was like 30 pounds heavier years ago. Right. But I'm sitting the 600 and stuff on that. So with just normal straight bar, I don't think I've ever hit. I think I'm in territory. I've never done on camera, you know, like these, these last few sets of rep work with 455 or 65 or 75. I'm barely sure I've not not hit this because even when I was doing Bulgarian, I remember I was only hitting at most 485 for a single even on that. So yeah, it's just coming along, you know, so I feel like as long as I continue to squat heavy, my strength overall is good. I can just kind of body build a lot of the upper body, still do some heavy benching and just just roll with it. But you know, a lot of this training, it's short, it's brief, it's enjoyable. Most of my workouts are like 30, 40 minutes, you know, these whole bodies even, even with those five exercises. So I think I'm going to start adding some shoulder work at the end of those because it's pretty easy to come in and do one really hard set of five compounds. It's not what's not easy, but it's quick. It just, it doesn't take that long. It's not that much training time. I actually literally come post stuff online in between. But yeah, happy with the squats. Like I feel like my squats strength, especially at this kind of body weight is doing pretty good. I'm happy with it. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys next time. Thank you.