Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here with another full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Uh so over to the training. Finally, the weather is agreeable. Um we're good. Got in, did a full body workout. I didn't do deadlifts today. Um I feel like on my main workouts, I really do want to just focus on my five big lifts. And then if I want to do some high rep pullovers or something for triceps after, I will um continue to lean out and just push high rep PRs on all these movements because I know it will carry over. Um high bar squats, a lot of times people don't like my depth. Don't care. Doesn't matter because when I go over to a lower bar or I work on sinking it off the rep work, I still get it in competition every single time. Every single time. um because the knee angle ends up being the same and I quite frankly don't care. In this case, it's just about the workload. It's about building the quads and I go to just down to whatever feels like a nice good depth. Um I may work on sinking it deeper and deeper though. Now that I'm past 20 reps with the 315 because I I don't feel like adding more weight. I feel like 315 is super comfortable to work with. The 405 for sets of 10 to 12, my god, is it fatiguing. Now, this is fatiguing cardiovascularly, but it ju it's still not the same thing. And the beauty of it is um based upon these numbers. I keep I focus on sinking these a little deeper. I come in and spend a few weeks building up a max. I have a feeling my max would be uh you know, pretty pretty dang high. Uh bench press worked in the bench. Again, PR with this setup, right? I got 19 before with belt and a wrist wraps, but I've been trying to work on this. And this shows how much the dips carry over. Finally, with this pretty much flat back approach, no belt, no wrist wraps, mostly pauses, some of them good pauses, 19 reps. It was hard. My chest and triceps were burning. That's one of the things I've realized when I do this these really high reps. Obviously, we're going to feel delts and backs. What I notice with these is that my tricep burn is absolutely crazy. Absolutely crazy. So, that's been the one thing with some of this where I go, do I really need an extension if I'm doing the dips and the pullovers because I feel like my triceps uh feel everything I do lately, right? We know my biceps need the most work. My triceps are pretty strong. Um I mean, like with with laying extensions before when I was doing them, I got up to 20 reps with uh 110 pounds. So, it's a 45 pound plate on each side of the easy bar. I got the 20. I mean, I could throw them back in in place of the pullovers and do that. It's It's possibly viable and I might. So, that's always going to be that last exercise. Now, normally I'd be wanting to do a um a deadlift after this, but I and I'll work those back in. I'm going to try to do the same approach, right? See see if I can get 20 reps with 405 would be a goal. Crazy goal, but maybe. maybe uh pull-ups. I went lighter and with 25. Keeping the same same idea here. I want to work on getting close to 20 rep sets on everything. All right. Works really well in terms of the recovery. We're still going to build lots of muscle and it still builds strength and muscle. And that's the main thing. Um trying to to balance that fatigue with the muscle growth while I'm gonna going to trim down more on these low carbs. And and I find it enjoyable. And I think a lot of it is I've spent so much time doing a lot of heavy work to the point where I go, you know what, let's just get really strong at reps. It's always been the staple of my training, right? Higher rep work. Even when I was doing um a lot of the the training maxes at a high frequency all the time, I was still doing 10 plus rep back offs. A lot of it was even 20s, right? uh the Camber bar squat, I would do like 20 reps of 300 after hitting 600 605, which is going to be the interesting thing. I I don't know how that's going to stack up doing only this rep work of, you know, where am I really when I'm hitting 20 plus reps of 315 on a high bar. I know my quads are still jacked. I see them. I mean, I don't have the short shorts on right now. That's okay. I used to always train in long shorts and I think people forgot that. I got into the phase for a few years of doing the short shorts on camera, but my highest viewed training videos back in the day, they used to get 10 12,000 views per training vlog. And I just had on a t-shirt and long shorts that covered went all the way past the knee. You know, not a big deal. The problem is I'm I'm outside and when it gets hot that's not viable. It's just it's so much extra laundry because I drenched those shirts. But I don't need to. I'm jacked enough right now that we're fine without that. But all the other stuff went great. Uh dips. I I only got 18 with the 45 because that benching took a lot out. So I got to build that back up. Uh pullovers. I'm like, let's just grab a single plate and just rep the hell out of it. I got to 41. Burn like hell, right? Burn like hell. Because that's the other thing, too, man. 90 pounds really hammers me. But it's also I I worry, am I losing a little bit of the stretch doing it, whereas with a lighter weight, I feel like I can just drop in a little deeper. Notice my hips rise up sometimes because I'm stretched as far as I can go. And uh it might be a little bit better of an approach. Or in the other approach we may do is work those those extensions back in at some point. Um you know, which would let me double down on the arm work. I feel like the biceps really need the work, but I don't think it'll be a problem, you know. I don't think it would be a problem. Bigger triceps never going to hurt even though I feel like my triceps are way way way stronger than my biceps. And I can tell by the weights that I use uh on top of that. So, I feel like the the curls will probably get me what I want on top of just these basic movements. And I can have days where I don't throw anything at the end. Some days a squat bench, deadlift, weighted dip, weighted pull-up, especially if they're higher reps to failure weighted might be enough. Might be enough. Um all right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.