Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and once again it is time for a max effort bench press day. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciated. If you aren't following or subscribe, please do so and drop me a comment down under the video just to say hi or to give me your thoughts. Um, thank you so much. I would appreciate that. So I decided to go with medium grip bench today. I went with really close grip last time. I know this doesn't look as medium with that first set, but when I got further in, what I consider medium is trying to put my hand evenly between the smooth and the ring, right? Because for me, the closed grip, I'm all the way up against the smooth. So, just kind of what I'm trying to do is where it looks about even there. That's medium grip. Whereas, I consider more of just a normal bench would be right at pinkies on the ring. So, there's minor differences, but for me, it's a big difference in strength, everything else. Um, I tend to be fairly weak at medium grip. It's It's always been a bit of a weak link for me. Um that 315 though went up really easy. I'm like, "Oh yeah, I think I can make a 20 lb jump today." Of course, keep in mind, guys, I'm bringing the bench back up. Um and again with some of this closer stuff. All my heavier bench recently was really wide. And as you guys know, I went back over to closer grip uh to get my shoulder health back on point. And it's it's actually working pretty pretty well. So I got 335 here. Notice I'm fairly flat back. We're flat healed. Pause right there. You can see where I'm sticking in that middle. I had to grind through it, but then we finally got it. Um, it would pass and comp, but that was definitely a grinder. It was definitely slow. Definitely a grinder. Ideally, I don't want to see that. And again, I'm just going to keep beating my triceps and my pecs. I'm a very delt dominant bencher. Um, and I think it's from all the really wide grip I've done. And I've noticed my front delts are way bigger than my rear delts at this point. I've kind of looked and analyzed uh with photos and different angles. It's very obvious. So, I'm going to just hammer down on my my upper back and rear delts at this point. I'm just going to work them, work them, work them. And in the meantime, all my bench training is going to be just focused on pecs and triceps. So, I decided to do a floor press today because of looking at that, I'm like felt like could have used a little more chest there, but I don't know that that's really the case. I feel like my dips are building my chest fine. Uh, but I decided to do some floor press as as a a secondary exercise before my dips, which is my main chest hypertrophy. Uh, realistically looking at this, it felt good and everything. And I did them obviously real strict. We have the legs straight. So, I did 3x6. Um, in retrospect, I probably could have just done closed grip bench here. Uh, realistically, I may do that. I may do that this next week afterwards. This was a lot of chest work though because I did this and then three sets of dips after a max. It felt like a lot. Like my chest was exhausted. I was really struggling uh by the time I got to dips because of that. Now, with the dips, I'm going to be clear. Um I've decided I'm kind of ego lifting on dips. I got up to where I did 90 for three sets of 10, but I'm barely breaking parallel, you know, and then I decided let's grab 120, right? Sorry, 110. So, I grabbed 110 pounds. I put a pair of 55s on a set of 90. The first rep doesn't even count because I my first rep is always bad on dips. And I think the best way to alleviate that is to just focus on getting deep all the time. Notice I didn't get depth. And then I did three more reps afterwards. This was ego lifting. I'm like, you know, maybe those later reps, they did get deeper, but I'm like, look, this is just ego lifting. This is dumb. I'm going to get hurt. Let's just stop stop doing this. Let's drop all the way down to the 55. And I did a couple sets kind of to failure here of eight. Um, I just pulled the other set out. I didn't even need I didn't like the way it looked, but I did it. And then I did the second set. So, what am I doing different? Notice how deep I'm getting. I'm like, "Look, I'm doing these dips for chest hypertrophy. Stop treating them like an ego lift, Jason. Let's go as deep as I can. It's great for my shoulders. It's great for the chest. Let's just go as deep as my range of motion will allow me." And then I hit failure there. So, you saw I couldn't get deeper because I failed. Um, and that felt really, really good. My pecs got stretched. They got lit up. It felt great. Um, then I did chins and I was like, I did sixes with a 45 last time, so I'm like, let's grab a 55. I only got four reps on all three sets. Probably a little heavy. And I'm okay with that for today. I do feel like I should probably drop back down to the 45 and just build those up. I might even drop to a 25 and try to do tens. Uh because I think that would put me right about there. Right. We lost two reps by putting 10 lbs on. So if I take 20 pounds off, I'll gain four, you know. So I might do that. Try to just get tens on the chins and just get quality work um this next time. I don't think that would be a bad thing. I think that's workable, right? I think that's workable. I feel like a lot of my upper body stuff I need that. Some of the lower stuff I can go a little heavier because my lower body develops well and um you know, not as worried, but I feel like some of this upper body stuff I don't want to have too many low reps. You know, I don't want to have too many low reps. So, I almost feel like next time let's just just close grip and try to get, you know, eight to eight to 10 rep sets. Then we'll do those dips and try to get super deep, right? Try to get super deep. So, I did the same thing here. It's like I get tired of putting that easy bar up in here. So, I'm like, let's just try to use a straight bar. It can be a little awkward because of the I do a really close grip. So, I'm like, let's just do extensions. Let's focus on range of motion. So, I didn't go as heavy. I just went with 105 instead of trying to do the 115. But, I feel like I can get a little more range of motion. Yeah, it's also harder to balance that bar, but that's okay. I'll get used to it. I might have to bring the grip out a hair. Um, but again, just did my laying extensions. Did sets of 12. I didn't get 12 on the final set. So again, what are we doing here? Let's just focus on getting this good ranges of motion on this stuff, right? Get the good range of motion, build the chest, build the triceps. So that's kind of where I feel like I think for all my supplemental work, I liked the floor press this week, but I feel like maybe just a closed grip there. Of course, I've only been doing one exercise for chest after the maxis, but I feel like I could use a little more. Um, so I do feel like maybe on max effort day, I could do a closed grip, then I'll do dips. I think dynamic day, we'll just do dips in these extensions. um should be should be plenty workable. And just just continue to work on these of getting those ranges of motion. Just build muscle, build muscle, build muscle, right? Unlike some of the pulling stuff like the the lat work, I already have speed and max work, right, for squat, bench, and deadlift. So really, you know, it can make a little sense to try to go a little heavier on some of the back and bicep exercises because they're not getting heavy work like the other muscles are. So, it can make a little more sense. But some of this I'm like, I don't want the reps to get too low here. I don't want the reps to get too low on some of this upper body stuff. I do need to be chasing uh muscle growth, right? So, probably closer to, you know, 8 to 12 on everything. Uh would be a little more wise, but the sixes still felt really good on the on the floor press. I was happy with that, right? I was happy with that. So, these though went well. Like 12 12 that I got like 10 or something on this last set. It's like my triceps were done between those those dips and then getting to these extensions. My triceps were done. I feel like I probably did a little bit too much restoration work for them this weekend. I probably need to not do as much. I'm doing walking. I don't need the extra work. I'm going to walk every day and I probably need to scale some of the restoration back and just again focus on these four days of really quality training. Just get big. And then I did my cheek curls, right? And I like cheek curls and I'm going to keep doing them. I felt like I was getting good results with the cheek curls a couple years back. I quit doing them to try to do more and more strict stuff. I like cheat curls. They feel good. My biceps light up from them. Uh, and they're a great supplemental lift to chins. And if I just get real strong at chins and cheek curls, I think my biceps will keep growing. But I really want to double down. You know, I feel like the triceps and the rear delts and upper back do really need the most at this point. Um, I don't even feel like my biceps are lagging anymore, you know, quite frankly. is that yes, I have a big torso, but more than anything, it's just it's triceps and rear delts and stuff. So, just keep doing this stuff for biceps. Give my biceps six sets twice a week. We're good. It's all nice, good, heavy work. Um, but yeah, so I got 10 10 and I got like 12 on this on the third set. So, I kind of get into my groove on these. And all I'm going to say, people who don't like my cheek curls, go watch all these different Mr. Olympias and all these pro bodybuilders. Their curls be sloppy as hell. But I like cheek curls. But notice I'm calling it a cheek curl. We're not we're not calling it anything else. We're not calling it a barbell curl. Like I'm just going to label it. We're going to call it a cheek curl. And you know what? It lights my biceps up. They get a hell of a pump. They get a hell of a burn, right? They're getting worked. Uh they get a heck of an eccentric overload from this, right? And it has great carryover to the chin because it's a nice big compound movement. And I'm not counting as an isolation. Let's not call it isolation. It does work shoulders, it does work all that stuff and that's okay. So then the one thing we do isolate then at the end outside the triceps, u rear delts. So I'm like, let's get rear delt work in. And I'm going to do all my back stuff, too. Obviously, I'm going to do rows on my lower days. But I do feel like at this point, my rear delts, as far as my shoulder go, really need some muscle work. And that will carry over to the side delts anyways. My front delts are getting lots of work from all of it anyways. I'm doing so much pressing. Um, so I think for now because my shoulders are probably my strongest muscle in my bench. I've analyzed it. I've looked at everything. I know that I'm been a very uh deltinant bencher. I need to bring up all the other musculature and I feel like my shoulder health will be better. Having had that inflammation and other stuff. Let's just build the entire rear delt and upper back up. Let's give the shoulder girdle a better stable platform for better health. And that's what we need to. Muscle balance matters a lot. Uh so pretty happy with today's workout. Everything went pretty good. I'm happy with it. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.