Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. Uh, no PRs on the top sets today. Um, hit my uh the same ones I hit on Monday, but man, those were kind of drifting into some better territory. So, I'm just happy to replicate them. Uh, now on the squats, I always get a little flack on that. They're like, "Oh, that first that first rep is always high." Um, but it's always funny because then when I film from the side, they look way deeper. Even if I say box squat to a box from the front, um, I already know I'm good on depth here. Keeping in mind, I'm going to get deeper depth in terms of knee activation doing this than I do, you know, my low bar. So, really not a big deal. Like, I've squatted to this depth um, in comps and got state records before. Uh, so again, in the USPA. So, again, I think people forget my front views are a little different. Now, I felt my low back start cramping a little right there. They felt a little crampy. I'm like, I hope I can deadlift today. And it started cramping after the deadlifts. Not going to lie. I didn't want to do some of my other stuff, but I did them anyways. Uh but I did kind of stop at the end. Like it didn't it wasn't too bad, but I did notice a little bit of twingi like in the um the side. So So I sometimes get some crampiness in the erectors, but it's not like in the middle by the spine. It's over over near the oblique side. Um but I did feel it a little bit and then I felt it again after deadlifts. Um, so again, it's it's just kind of keeping an eye on that. Lets me know I need to definitely keep up the reverse hypers. So, I will do them tomorrow during tomorrow's GPP work. Um, the benching felt really good. Like these four reps felt good, but I can really tell like I don't feel like my chest is a huge problem here. I know it needs to grow, but I'm kind of like I want to do incline instead of instead of dips for a moment. I've been doing a lot of dips. Um, and I feel like the incline will also carry over. it carries over to my bench when I do those top sets. Um, but I noticed on the incline my strength, it feels like it's down just a hair when I did them today. So, I'll get over to that in a minute. Um, so I definitely need to push inclines, especially if I want to continue to develop my shoulders and everything, right? If I need to get the delts up, incline will help. Um, deadlifts, I got six here. I debated when I went for the the sixth, I'm like, uh, let me think if I'm going to try to go for a seventh. And I pulled it. I'm like, let me just hold it at the top. I don't know that I've got a seventh rep today. I said Monday I felt like I did. Here it was one of those where I'm like 5050. Like I wasn't sure beyond a shadow of a doubt I could get seven. That might have been zero reps in reserve. Seven would have been grindy as hell. So I'm like h let's just stop. Let's just chill. We're getting six. We're in a good place. All right. So incline. Um trying to do these nice control. Just did 225. And it's like yeah I got five and then I only got six reps on the second one. So, I'm like, "Yeah, I definitely need to get the incline up." I think my best ever at a heavier body weight on here, I got 225 for 10 pause reps, like really good pauses, kind of like that rep. So, I I do feel like I want to build back to that. I feel like that will help my benching in general. It will help my benching in general, but I feel like um when I look at where the bar slows on those last reps, right, the last rep or two on the benching, like I can feel the bar slowing and it's not really right off the chest. It is a little more in the middle in that transition. So, I know the incline is going to carry over. And note that my incline, even though I've hit some some pretty good bench numbers, my bench is up a little since uh I did my cut, right? uh not at my best ever obviously uh even on the channel, but it's it's gone up a little bit, but I can tell um where it's sticking at. And then notice that my incline is down a little. So, what does this tell us? That my overall bench strength is up. It's It's going up, but those weak links, right, I've got to work on that. All right, I flipped the bar back over. I like the fat bar chins, but I can tell that I'm losing some reps. So, um I just did the normal here. Uh, this did a just outside shoulder width grip. Try to do most of them from from a hang. My full range of motion, right? So, again, people need to note, watch when I go into a hang, that is my range of motion right there. That's a dead hang. Um, so again, I'm just going to do these. I'm going to continue to do stuff like the hanging leg raises, uh, the the throws and everything on the GBP day and just over time get to where I really can overhead press again. And I want to keep doing lighter kettle bell overhead presses. So, I feel like for me, dynamic type movements are what gave me the ability to even get to this range of motion after those old impingements, right? Pullovers and stuff. Dead hangs and stretching hasn't done anything, but movements that we where we pull into dynamic type stuff have helped. So, I want to do some I always do pull-ups. I'm like, I want to do chins for a bit. My biceps need it. And I'm keeping the volumes more moderate here on everything. Notice two sets of incline. So, we do one set of squat bench deadlifts. So that's two incline, two two weighted chins. I did two set sets of extensions. Um curls, I only did one set coming up. All right, on these, this is really good. So my best ever for two sets was 15. I haven't done these in a couple weeks. I'm like, let's work them back in. Since I'm not doing dips, I do want to do some extensions. So with this weight, again, putting a full plate on each side of the easy bar. Um I've got 16 one time. I've got 15 for two before, but I got 15 then 16 today. So it's like, okay, let's push this. Um, let's make sure triceps stay big and strong. Let's keep the triceps growing because even if my biceps um are not the best due to various stuff, injuries and other stuff from the past. Um, I tore my bicep over 20 years ago. For those who are unaware, my left one and then it got infected. The doctor cut a chunk out. So, it's it's made it difficult, but um I I feel like I can continue to get the arms a little bigger, but I can always hit the triceps harder, right? Triceps don't have any problems. So, and they're only going to help my bench because at this point I want the bench to go up. Obviously, my squat and deadlift, but really as I continue to get leaner, I would like to have that that heavier bench. I'd like to get my bench eventually to where I can bench double body weight as I trim down over time. You know, I feel like that's a good thing to aim for. Like a good legit pause bench. I don't mean a bouncing. I'm talking a a meat legal double body weight bench is I think worth reaching for over time. Um, but I feel like for me the incline and stuff is going to give me the best carryover some of the overhead. And again, I'm working on overhead again, getting that range of motion restored. Um, but with this stuff, yeah, I'm happy the triceps are getting stronger. So, at least the idea. So, look, if I take something like this and we continue to improve, at least I know my my lockouts are not going to be missed on the bench. And let's think about shoulder health. Remember what I always say, triceps and shoulder health, right? If I want to keep those shoulders healthy as I work on that range of motion, strong triceps um help keep your shoulders safer on the bench. I've broken down why in detail in the past. So, I did my two sets of that and we we PR that even having not done it for a couple weeks again. I PR it. So, again, triceps have gotten stronger probably from the dips. Um curls, I just went with 70 lbs. I did one set pretty much to failure. I think I got like 14. Um just trying to do a strict barbell curl. Um, after doing the chins, I only did one set because look, like if I'm doing chins three times a week, that's six total sets for biceps of really heavy and then with progression on it potentially. Um, one set of curls coming in, that's more than enough. All right, keeping in mind all the other stuff I do pulls on the biceps a lot. So again, I just want a little bit a little bit of curls. It's try to keep the biceps growing, but again, shoulders are going to be a big priority for me right now, which again, my GBP days, uh, is a fair amount of shoulder stuff in there. So, after that, to do some ladders, I've been using the plates, but I don't have plates of different size. I don't have 35s. I don't have stuff like that. So, I'm like, I feel like I needed to increase the weight. I got like 16 reps with those 25 pound plates. So, I'm like, I loaded these dumbbells up to just 33, right? And I managed to get 11 reps on both sets. So again, doing some laterals. So I feel like for me, as long as I'm doing some of that overhead type throws and maybe some kettle bells while I work on being able to do a barbell again. Um, decent amount of shoulder work, but I want the laterals in here. So I'm going to try to progress on those and bring those laterals uh up. And again, six sets a week though of direct work. Again, it's a fair amount. We're good, right? Keeping in mind there's so much splashover. All these numbers I'm throwing out don't include the squat bench and deadlift. We're not even counting all the the GBP work which makes you grow. So, we just need a context for that. Um but but yeah, so again, a little bit of progression here. We've gone up in weight. Obviously lost some reps, but this is the the reps I was doing with the 25s at the start, you know, week or so ago, couple weeks back, whatever. So, again, let's progress. Um on these, I noticed my back. So, I did my one set of of neck harness stuff and then afterwards like my back was just like, yeah, my back is done. So, you guys know how you feel like you've done these workouts and then your low back feels a little crampy from squatting or deadlifting. It's like this is your body's sign it's time to just end it. So, I just did some brand press downs and got out of there. Like one set of band press downs after I didn't do a second set of these cuz my back is cramped up a little bit and it's like, okay, um my body telling me, "All right, Jason, chill. We've done enough. Let's go chill. Let's relax." So, I did the band press downs. Uh pretty happy overall with today's workout. Uh, everything's strong. Felt like the inclines were weaker than I'd like, but I'll work on it. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.