Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, I did have my first cheat meal of the year uh this weekend. So, I feel a little goofy from it. I was kind of hoping, man, since I did eat some uh some pie and stuff um that I I might actually get stronger from it, but no. No, we didn't hit any PRs. But, man, the squats felt good, though. So, I I did put one warm-up rep. People like, "Do your warm-up." Yeah, I do singles to ramp up to the top sets on the big lifts. Like, I'll do several singles um and just kind of ramp up. But, we got 11 reps again for 405. I got to around rep five and I'm like, man, I'm going to try to get 12, right? That was in my my head. I'm like, but try try to get depth. Try not to short stroke them. Get quality reps. And I'm like, push through. We're going to get 12 today. And I had it in my head I was going to get 12. Man, the 11th rep was hard. I knew when I got to rep 11 and I had to grind it. I'm like, "Dude, if I do a 12th rep, I'm gonna get stapled." So, um, it was just the fatigue accumulated. And also, today I chose not to do the the belt squats. I don't think that I need them here. I feel like it's just been the extra recovery and I can still work them in every now and then. I don't think they're bad to work in. U, you know, but but realistically, the squatting itself gives me the most benefit. The squats and dead the deadlifts are going to put the most overall muscle on me. obviously not necessarily my belts and biceps and things like that, you know, that's why we do other stuff for that, but the squats and deadlifts, like this is my real work. It's my real work. Also, today, um, keeping with what I started doing last week, I'm like, let me close grip for just a little bit. Um, I want to see if the really wide grip benching, which I'm obviously stronger at right now, um, you know, has been a factor there. And here show this goes to show the difference. It's like I've been able to get fives or 315 with the ultra wide grip, but this true close grip. Um, so for those who who don't understand, I'm 16 inches apart. My index fingers are right by the smooths on the bar, which is 16 in. Normally, they're on the rings. So, normally double this width. And, you know, so here 275 for five was pretty hard. I'm still having to relearn the form. Um, but I mean for context, I've done back off before like multiple sets of five with 275 back when I was close gripping 360 to 365 few years back when I was focusing all on close grip. So, I don't I know it looks weak relative to the rep strength, but keep in mind I tend to be kind of bad at rep work on the closed grip and it's just because of the really long range of motion. Uh, so I'm not horribly disappointed with the 275 or five. I'm not looking at it going, "Oh, that's horrific." But I'd like to build it up. So, I think for me, a good goal, just like we've been setting these other goals, like the 405 for 10 on the high bar squat. Um, I I want to get the 275 for 10 on the close grip, right? And I feel like for me, I'll have a monstrous close grip again if I can get it there. So, I'm just going to build it with the rep work. And then I'm going to do the little bit of band work because that really blows my clos grip up. So I did do some today. But dips are going to be kind of a primary behind that. Um because that closed grip I could tell my triceps that lateral head of my tricep was just like ah we're we're we're not strong enough to do any more than this. Um deadlifts though 500 for eight again. So I've hit that twice and I got 500 for nine uh today. That was all I had. So I wonder if some of that is is the draining a little bit. uh may maybe not the best leverages from having eaten uh you know that little bit of junk. So I'm going to need a couple days for the for the boost to kind of come down from it, the bloating because I've been doing lower carbs. Um but I think I'm going yeah I'm going to keep pushing the lower carbs. I'm going to keep leaning out while focusing on these primary lifts. And that's one reason I have the volumes uh you know as low as I do too because I can progress. I can recover from these volumes and still push really really really hard set so that I can hopefully recomposition uh while while getting leaner and it's been working other than I feel like I'm a little goofy today. People have noticed I do look significantly leaner. I think we'll see it towards the end of the week when I do the the early morning fasted ab work. We'll see it all kind of kind of come back out. Uh but then I do my reverse hypers. I do 50 plus reps here. I lose count. I just know that I get at least 50 50 something, you know, whether it's 51 or 58 or 60, I don't know, but it's it's somewhere in that range usually. So, I just mark it as 50 plus. Um, and I've just got it as loaded as much as I can get on with those thicker plates because I don't want to load a bunch of the small plates. I could put more weight on. Um, but it's just a pain in the butt to load and unload all those calibrated plates because I need them for other stuff. Uh, pull-ups. Uh we prred this so I got 10 and then I got two um rest pause reps. So the 55 four for 12 total. Happy with it. Um I do feel like I noticed today I was struggling a little with the range of motion. Notice it's the same thing on the dip. So I think it's I think one gaining a little water from from eating the junk and carbs on on Saturday afternoon was a factor. Um plus maybe some d-training because I didn't train since Wednesday because I was feeling under the weather and took Friday off. So, I think a little bit of range of motion there, but my shoulders feel good and everything. I'm just noticing that everything was a little harder. Uh, the dips, it was a little harder to reach to reach depth. So, the numbers were good, though. But again, um, just something to watch. Just noticing I feel like I I lose a little little more range of motion from draining. So, hopefully it's good and I'll I'll push them back to where I need them u come middle of the week for Wednesday. Uh, but dips were good, though. I al I got nine reps. Again, I I would have liked these deeper cuz last time I feel like I got to a deeper depth on camera, but this was as low as just my body would let me take it today. But again, I think it's it's that coming back from the weekend, the shift in water that does really weird stuff to us. And lifters will will tell you the same thing. A lot of lifters are like, "Yeah, he's right." Um that little bit of shift in fluid retention can do some weird stuff because I noticed towards the end I was able to get a hair deeper. But happy with it. And then curls, I kind of lost count of the reps. just took it to failure. Kind of rest paused it, you know, the last few rests and I got like 14 or something like that roughly. I don't know, 13, 14, 15. But I just did them really strict, full range of motion up to the face. Um, and I'm just going to work these up one all out set to failure, right? Not overtrain the arms, but we're still going to train them directly. Um, I like the straight bar curl. I did the preacher curl for a week. Um, but ultimately I feel like the really strict barbell curl probably does the most for me. Um, because it locks me into that supine position and I do all the pull-ups and stuff, you know. So, I also wonder if my my chin-ups would be really strong right now by comparison. I've almost thought about testing it to see because I've hit all these pull-up PRs, but I'm doing all overhand grip. Um, and I have to be no way I'm I'm actually stronger at pull-ups than chin-ups. It's hard to believe. So, I've thought about testing it, but I'm just I like those narrow grip pull-ups right now. So, I'm doing them. Same thing, lateral raises to just one set to failure. You know, something in it was over 12 reps because I kind of lose count with these on this. Just trying to keep them pretty strict. Take them to failure. And then I did one set of band press downs because they really helped my lock out on my close grip before when I when I had it at 365. I noticed that. So, I did just my one set of those at the end. Even though the dips and the closed grip work itself is probably doing everything I thought it wouldn't hurt, but even then I just want to be careful of of overtraining anything or keeping the intensities I'm going at. Um, which has been working pretty well, so I may or may not do them every workout. Uh, but overall, I'm pretty happy with today's training. The big lifts were good. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.