Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it is time for a full body workout. Uh we started the day off with back squats. Now that I'm working on the shoulder health and the upper back, I really want to focus on kind of getting used to bringing that grip way in. This is a really close grip for me. And it's almost a high bar, but I used to be really strong with this grip. Um but notice I'm able to get into that position again. So, this tells me I'm doing some stuff right with the shoulders, which means we're not going to do overhead stuff. I do want to do a little incline. Not going to lie, I didn't do incline today. Um, but I do want to work on doing some incline. Um, but I ended up doing with this because I also with the squatting, um, I mean, yeah, I'm I able to get up into the 400s again, but I feel like it's not as deep as I would like. And it would pass in a powerlifting meet, but I really do want to focus on just getting depth over and over and over. Uh, and I do feel like I need to sled work again. I do feel like my legs need the sled. So, I went ahead and did sled work because I'm doing fairly low volumes of squatting. I do need it from a hypertrophy perspective. But, so I just did 375. And I do feel like now that I'm doing this closer grip, I don't know that I need to use a squat bar. I'm going to I'm going to probably work the power bar in next time. I want to work up to where I start getting some deep singles with 405 plus like this. But, I wanted to just come in and really focus today on some quality singles. They're still heavy enough to give a training response, but I wanted to really focus on on depth, you know. I mean, I did a pretty easy 415, you know, the other day on Monday, but I'm like, let's work this up. And I want to get up to where I start hitting more and more uh singles for a little more volume. So, I felt like doing four of them with this today after after the first little last warm-up one. Um, felt pretty good. And they felt good, right? They felt nice and good. We're getting pretty good depth on these and and so again, I just want to get used to setting up and getting into that bar position, but that's actually progress. And I feel like it's all the band pull- aarts I'm doing. So, I'm doing reverse band pull- aarts, and I'm like I said, I'm going to take out all the overhead type work. Pull-ups going to come out. I can just do rows and I can do curls to make sure my biceps get worked. Uh I do feel like incline though will benefit with my shoulder health because of the stretch it puts on my chest. I do feel like I need a little more chest flexibility. So, I'm going to probably work some incline. Plus, it really carries over to my bench. Um, and I decided today messing with grip on the bench. I like that really wide grip I've been doing. Um, so I felt like I went inside the rings today, which you guys will see. And it just felt still weaker. Um, and it doesn't feel any better on my shoulders, but I am g getting back into the the habit of instead of completely flat back, digging in, using a little leg drive, a little bit of arch. So, here's the thing. Completely flat back, no wrist wraps. I hit 350 with that really wide grip couple months ago. Pretty at the same body weight I'm at now. Really, I'm like maybe a pound lighter, if that. Uh, so I know I'm good there. So, I'm like, let's work back on getting drill tight again, right? A little bit of arch. Start wrist wrapping up again and keep hammering that. And let's see if we can bring that up. But I feel like doing some incline work will help me with that too with that wide grip bench. Right, since I can't overhead press yet, but this this heavy set was with was only a double 315. It was inside the rings. It was not the wide grip, right? It was not the wide grip at all. Uh, so again, it's obviously weaker. So even with a little bit of an arch, even digging in a little leg drive, I mean, I'm able to get triples with that wide grip flat back. So it tells us that that really I'm quite a bit stronger with that. Even though this looks really good from a stacking perspective, I just have more strength with that other. So I wonder if I start doing a little bit of this leg drive and stuff I'm doing now, I think we'll be good there. And I can bridge the gap with a little bit of incline work. Um, and I don't think I need to do the incline every workout, by the way. You know, again, that can be a lot because I'm doing three heavy sets of bench all three workouts. I don't know that I need to incline all the time, but I do feel like I need to do at least one really hard incline session every week because the incline absolutely will carry over, you know, to that wide grip bench definitely through my through my weak point. So, I'm going to I want to work some incline in. I almost did it today, but I felt like the workout was draining on a little long for me. Um, so I'm like, let's just skip it and do some band work. So I think any days uh where I don't do incline, I'll do at least one set of high rep band press downs. But this back off work felt pretty good. So I went a little wider on this. So instead of doing that really close grip, I did more kind of a medium. I got a couple fingers outside the the rings and that felt really good. So, I feel like maybe I'm going to come in uh on Friday and do all my work, including the heavy set, but with a little bit of arch. That's going to be even more shoulder protective. Use a little leg drive. I want to see what happens when I go real wide and and do my 315 stuff like with that same grip I hit the 350 on, but not completely flat back. And I want to start building that up. I want to build my bench way up while I'm doing all this stuff. So, I've been messing with different stuff with it, but I want to keep that shoulder health on point. So, I feel like incline work and just going ahead and power benching again, but with that wide grip. So, a little bit of arch. Like, I got an arch here. It's not a lot. We're using a little bit of leg drive, too, though. Notice it, right? Have a little leg drive, a little bit of arch. Not crazy. Still going to brute strength through it. Um, all right. And but I'm going to focus on basically squat, bench, deadlift, rows, rows. And then I'm going to make sure I do barbell curls because quite frankly I need the arm. And you guys heard me discuss it last time, especially if I'm not going to do pull-ups. Um, I'll just do curls. And I feel like curls are the only only isolation I really am going to bother with. Just some barbell curls. We're going to focus on these four big movements. I'll work in some incline every now and then. I want to be able to overhead press again. I'll eventually do pull-ups again one day, but I need my shoulder health to be completely on point. So, I'm going to avoid the overhead stuff. So, we're not going to overhead press. We're not going to do pull-ups. I'm going to hammer the band pull aparts. I'm going to keep doing a little bit of supine grip dead hangs. And I'm doing a lot of supine grip band pull aparts because I feel like those pull- aparts are helping to open all that up and strengthen those weak areas because I have some some postural muscles. I have I have problems with my posture up top. So, I feel like focusing on rows again instead of uh pull-ups will help with that. Doing that band work for the upper back, doing the the hangs and stuff like that for mobility. uh will be continue to work on it. You know, now with the curls, because I do think that there's some long head of the bicep involved with some of that inflammation, I'm going to keep my arms pinned to the side. Even though we could argue, well, we get more complete bicep if we come all the way up and get that rotation of the shoulder. Now, we can argue that and that is biomechanically true. Also, probably not great for my shoulder health. And I notice I don't feel anything in my shoulders when I just keep the elbows pinned down. And it's not my preferred way to curl. But if I'm going to pay attention to my shoulder health, I need to avoid that. Same thing I thought about I could do some tricep extensions and layer them behind that. No, I don't think that's wise given the shoulder. I need all that inflammation gone and I need my ability to open up that subocchromial process so that I can overhead press again. And we can push the hell out of benching and rows. You guys can see the lower back there. Everything's all out. Every I had some people say, "Oh, you're hiding everything with a belt." And I'm not. I do my curls and stuff without it. But see what I mean on the curls? So, it's like I'm focusing on the full longest range of motion I can get while trying to keep my elbows pinned as close as I can to my side. So, I'm trying to minimize any movement of the upper arm. You know, there's always going to be a little. It's impossible to knock something a hair, but I'm really trying and just trying to just squeeze the hell out of that bicep. And I got 12. So, I mean, last time I got like tens with this weight. I'm like, "Oh man, this is so weak." But we got three sets of 12 today. So, that tells me I need to bump the weight. I'm just going to use some some uh double progression, I think, on this strict strict strict barbell curls. That way, it's super strict, right? And that way my biceps do get some work. But I feel like all the pressing, I'm doing enough pressing volume. I don't need to spend a lot of time thinking of triceps. I don't if I'm going to press that much. Especially you start repping more and more 315 on a bench, your triceps are going to grow. All the lat work helps. But some band work doesn't hurt. So I did a set uh to failure of like since I didn't do incline today, we just did three sets of bench just to make sure my triceps do get enough stimulus, you know. Um, I did a set of high rep band press downs to failure, which you guys will see coming up. But the curls, these felt really good. Um, and even though I feel weak as hell with this super strict curl, it's probably really good for my biceps and but we're already progressively overloading it, right? I was able to get tens last time. I got I think got 11 on the last set, but I had to like rest pause it and I got three sets of 12 here, right? Three sets of 12. But I noticed when I was done with these later, I come over and I'm coming back to the camera and notice my right bicep was looking all big and by after the bad breast downs. I'm like, what? I'm getting a little bit of arm pump. Probably some glycogen storage from having not done any curls for a while for weeks and weeks now. Doing some sets of curls. My biceps are kind of like, oh, we got to replenish some glycogen or something. Let's get this flowing. And then I did some press downs. Um, all right. did some press downs just to make sure those triceps can finish. I'm going to try not to do these too much on the off days. I worry that I've overtrained my triceps with that. Um, just do them on lifting days like this. So, on any days I don't incline, I can do a set of band press downs just to finish those triceps off, get a good pump in them, get some blood flow to them. Uh, and then I finish up a sled. So, I sprinted the sled. This is a shorter sled because I added weight. I don't normally do I've never sprint this much with it, but I'm like, let me add a little more weight. We can just shorten the distance. I haven't done any sled work in over a week, but I'm like, let's start doing some again. I feel like my legs need it. This is probably more important for my my squat than my box work is, so I'm like, let's get in, do a set of sled sprints. Let's go back and do these every day if weather permits. Um, I cut them out for over a week, but I just feel like I need them. If I had to pick between these and the box jumps, I think these give me more carryover to my squatting. Uh, but pretty happy overall with the workout. Uh, definitely obsessed with the bench. I like the wider grip more. So, we're just going to we're going to bench wide. I feel like it's fine with my shoulders. Uh, and I'm going to work in some more incline again maybe on Friday. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.