Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and once again it is time for a lower body day. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciate it. If you are not subscribed or following please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below I would appreciate that. Uh so we whoosh today. We've been I have my carbs reduced fat and added tons of cardio to start cutting. Um and in spite of obviously the carb increase in the initial water I'm now down five pounds at 217. We're going to keep cutting, keep getting leaner. So, for the leg day, kind of doing what I knew I was going to need to do. I need to be very careful of total overtraining. Let's just focus on the movements that are going to keep the muscle on me. Obviously, I'm going to spend a lot of time on curls and stuff still on the upper day. So, those those muscles do need to get worked a lot. But, as far as my big movements, I need to look at what's my my most effective movements to just hold on to muscle because I'm going to cut relatively quickly at this point. I've been slowly adding cardio now. I've been working the calories down a little more. So, we're seeing the scale drift down, but I need to make sure I retain muscle. So, that means I can't afford to really overtrain, especially with all the less cardio. So, me for me, it's going to be obviously squats and deadlifts. So, I decided to do three sets of squats today. And I kind of just kind of pyramided it up. I'm not saying there's anything magical to that. It's just what I chose to do today. Let me be clear. It's not a magic method. I'm not saying, "Hey, this is what you need. you do sets across just fine. I just wanted to kind of get some rep work. I'm like, I want to go up a little heavy. I want to see where my top set strength is while I'm cutting. Let's get a good metric for retaining muscle. So, I did eight reps. So, these are just nice deep. You guys saw the depth on the 315. This is the same depth right here, right? We're doing literally the exact same things. Uh it's just a side view. I always look so much deeper. And I showed that on the box before, right? Because people didn't understand. my side view looks way deeper even on the same height box. So, I've demonstrated that in the past, but I'm like, so let's let's do that. Eight reps felt relatively challenging. Obviously, a couple reps left. So, I'm like, let's let's go up. Did 365. Um, I did six and it felt fairly challenging. It's like, man, the six rep was was slow. It slowed down a little. Like, but I know I can do reps. I bet I'm like, I bet I can do still do three reps of 405 even in spite of this cut, you know, which is obviously not my best, but we're going for depth. So these needed to be, you know, full depth below parallel 405 reps. So I'm like, so true reps, not anything that's going to half rep. Obviously, I mean, if I I was skirt them a little high. I've done like seven with this earlier, not that long ago, a couple months back, but I'm like, let's just try to make sure that we get depth. Uh, and I managed to get four. So I was happy with that. I'm like, okay, so we're in a good place with this. We managed to get four reps with this in spite of the fatigue. Because keep in mind guys, I'm dropping a couple pounds a week at this point um of scale weight while keeping carbs and salts high from just all the cardio and you know and a slightly reduced calories. So it I feel like it's all fat. So I want to make sure that you know we are retaining muscle. So again did deadlifts. I've actually had this people say, "Yeah, dude. This is technically complete lower body workout when I've done three sets of squats, set of deadlifts, and three sets of calf raises, but I still want to do a little more stuff." Uh, and I agree that is that is enough to actually cause some stimulus, definitely. Um, this is challenging enough that there is some some hypertrophy stimulus. Now, obviously, deadlifts have been tough for me on my cut, and they always are. So, this was hard. So, 500 for three, I'm not going to lie, it was hard. Was it a three rep max? No. Could I have gotten a fourth rep? Probably. I also don't want to grind any squats or deadlifts too much while I'm cutting. It's like get just enough stimulus to keep what we have. Now, the calf raises kind of position. I messed last week with the the belt squat machine for these. I'm like, that's okay, but let's just I don't mind some axial fatigue, guys. We can just do a lot of standing exercises when the volumes are more moderate. It's fine. Um, this is lighter anyways because I'm on the plate. I can do like 500 pounds on this if I don't use a plate. If I use a smaller plate, I can do 405. This tall plate, 315 is hard. I got like six and then seven and seven or something like that. It It's It's really hard. And I have big calves, but legs are looking on point. I think we can tell. Definitely starting to get leaner. My waist has gotten smaller. Noticing the low back fat is a little lower when I've looked at it and checked. So, it's all coming in. Um it's going to take time. So, I don't have an exact number. I'm just going to ballpark it. Let's just ballpark it and say probably around 200 pounds, but if not, we'll base it on how my abs and waistline look. If I have any love handle, I have any visible, you know, fat on the lower back. It doesn't have to be shredded, but you know what? You guys know what I mean. Anything looking like any sort of roll or fold there, probably still need to keep cutting. I need to have nice full visible six-pack, you know, all the way through full separation. That's the goal. Okay, that's the goal. And that's not going to be a target number. It's just going to be when we have that look, we're probably lean enough. Could I make lean gains from there or recmp? Probably. So, for the for the calf raises though, these I ended up with six to seven reps of 315 on this plate. Like I said, with this long range of motion, that deep stretch, it very much limits the weight I can use, and that's okay. It works great. So then to finish up, I decided just because I want more forearms. I do want to make sure my forearms, my arms in general need more work. I'm going to do a lot of arm work in spite of all this during the cut. U just like I did way more biceps than anything else yesterday. And I don't think that's a bad idea all things considered given my training history and undertraining them. Um so the same thing today. It's like let's I decided to just superers set behind the back wrist curls for my forearms even though it's a lower day. I know with my reverse hypers, you know. So what did that give me for stuff? I feel like that's four sets, man. The deadlifts for me, I think they still almost count as a quad movement, you know. Whether you want to count them or not, it's up to you. So three to four sets for quads. Um hamstrings, we definitely deadlifts count 100%. Reverse hypers count. So, we got definitely four sets for hamstrings, glutes. All of it works glutes. All of these work glutes. So, it kind of gives us a count. Low back technically got four good sets between the deadlifts, reverse hypers, and then we did some forearms there, right? So, overall, happy with it. Um, happy with today's workout. I felt like the numbers were reasonable. The squat was at least where I wanted it. I was a little worried though, guys. I'm cutting kind of hard. And I'm like, what's going to happen to my poor? I know I did 500 when fully fed up back in January, but I'm also going a hair deeper trying to get deep or cutting. So, I feel like that's still acceptable. It's at an acceptable level, but it's a metric of strength and muscle retention. Really, it's going to be a metric of muscle retention some of these some of these movements of performance. Uh, but again, uh, want to make sure the arms in general, I feel like even though I've done stuff in flex forum on camera, they look pretty big. um more forearm to go with the extra bicep and tricep I need. Not a bad idea. So I feel like again for me obviously need more delt, but if my arms and delts improve as I as I get leaner, that'll pretty much balance everything out I need. You know, even though I'm a strength athlete, I do want to work on physique more and more. Um just doing a little forearm pose and kind of see where everything's at. But yeah, so this pretty much I think will finish it up here. Is there Oh no, there's more sets. I'm looking at the thing ahead. So, it's going to be another set of of wrist curls and that. So, the wrist curls, we got eight reps. I've done up to 10 on those and then it'll falter on the third one. Cutting the eight reps felt hard. I just felt like the ninth rep wasn't there. Even that first set, the ninth rep, I went to squeeze and it just stuck. Um, so with that weight, we're at 3 by eight. Um, the reverse hypers, I'm trying to go super super strict, so I get about 12 with this weight. You guys know why we do reverse hypers. I've discussed it at nauseium. Um, I'll do more reels and shorts on it here later. Um, I'm obviously a massive advocate for this lift. Uh, but yeah, pretty happy with today's workout. Um, I've done over two hours of fasted cardio before I recorded this. I'm going to get this recorded, get it uploaded, get it, uh, get it going. So, again, hope it's been informative. I love you guys and gals, and I'll talk to you next time.