Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it is time for a full body workout. And uh really happy with today's workout. Sticking with pretty much what I said I was going to do. Um I went ahead and I'm just doing my squats kind of high bar. Uh because again, now that my shoulder health is getting better and building the upper back, I feel like I can get really tight up top and I actually really like it. It feels good. Feels good and light. Feels comfortable on my back. kind of feel like this is going to be best for my shoulder health moving forward. Um, so again, just kind of ramped up and I'm trying to only do weights that I can sink really deep here. So, the idea, you know, I went like 315. I went uh 365, 405, 415. Now, I'm going to build this back up to 500. It's going to take me just a little bit. Um, but again, um, now that I'm really working on the shoulder stuff and realizing just take out anything that irritates it, uh, continue to work the upper back. I've been doing the band pull aparts. Um, doing nothing overhead. No pull-ups, nothing else. Um, I've been doing a little bit of reverse grip supine dead hangs. That's like once a day. Uh, come and just do one. I might add a little more. Everything is feeling really good. So, my goal is to be able to overhead press again. So, I want to be clear. That is a really, really important goal for me. I want to strict press 225 again. I can't lock the empty bar just yet. So, again, but I'm repping 315 on the bench. So again, keeping that shoulder health on point and I'm really happy with today's workout. Uh the workout was was good. Like I'm happy everything felt really good. Uh so and I didn't even incline. I thought about inclining. I did like one warm-up set 135 and it just felt kind of funny in the shoulder. I'm like, you know, do I really need to incline right now? Let's just do some bands um for the triceps and just push the bench back up. Right. So, so again, we'll get over to the bench in a minute, but the 405 felt good. So, I went 415. It felt good. I'm just going to work up mostly on singles on this right now. And again, I'm also doing sled sprints. So, we're going to get leg stimulus. So, my legs are going to grow from all of that. But I think people forget, uh, I was doing every day just squatting every day. I took a year and a half off from squatting and I built back up to where I was squatting 485 every day for just a single and doing no other leg work. Um, so it it does work really well for me. I can come in and just do singles, but then I'm doing deadlifts and I'm doing the sled work, so my legs will uh continue to grow and come back off muscle memory. Uh, so not that worried about it. But yeah, so this is good, but the benching is pretty much uh real good. So I'm like I kind of kept with what I've been doing. You know, I had said I like the wider grip. I messed with a couple grips. I hit a 350 wide grip pretty much flat back, but I'm like, let's work on actually really pushing my bench up. You know, right now, even though I'm running a recmp, sitting here at 209, I'll start cutting again eventually. I'm just kind of recmp here, work on performance, work on my running, just stay super fit, keep working on fitness, and then slowly eventually I'll work down under 200. But, um, this felt good. So, I'm using a little bit of an arch here. I'm like, let's belt and wrist wrap. Let's use just use a little bit of leg drive. This felt good, right? It wasn't really grindy. Little slow on the third rep, but it was really clean. Um, felt good. I'm like, "So, let's go ahead and do 275." And I haven't I've been doing fives with this. 275 and the best I've done was like six, right? Uh, it's back off work. Well, I got seven today with this setup. I'm like, man, I'm just going to quit there. I'm like, why continue to beat another set? We hit a really good triple. I benched three days this week. We got plenty of chest stimulus. I came in and PR this. Okay. So, we want to we need to be clear. Not lifetime, but in terms of this training phase coming back up, I got seven reps and they're all pause, right? These are all clean pauses, all from a dead stop and I got seven. Okay, so that's solid. So, we're progressively overloading that. And I think that's going to be the name of the game, just progressive overload on these movements. try to get stronger on the squats on the singles. The deadlift I want to take this up. These triples are hard, but eventually if I can get a fourth or a fifth again with again stiff bar, uh you know, totally different be stiff bar with calibrated plates, but we've been getting triples every time with this and I feel a ton of stimulus, right? I've been happy with these. Um, I would argue to a lot of people, come in and do one heavy three to five rep set of deadlifts three times a week. And I I think the gross stimulus to that is massive. Don't let anybody tell you otherwise. People with their nonsense stimulus to fatigue, just stop. Deadlifts and squats are amazing. All right, for the rows, I've been doing these with a little bit of of cheat, but I'm like, let's start going strict because I can't progressively overload it if I can't judge the strictness. So, I'm like, let's just do 225. see how many reps we can get. As strict as I can make it. Now, because it's more than my body weight, we can only be so strict as long as we bend over correctly. So, I wanted to minimize body travel. So, reset each rep. I got seven, seven, then I got eight. All right. I can progressively overload that from there. Okay. So, that'll be a case of maybe if I can get three sets of eight consistently, we'll start microloading it up, right? at five pounds at a time and just build these up because this is again going to build the upper back back up. The lat my lats are already on point. So again, I want to use the rows because rows carry over to the big three for me so much. They have such a tremendous carryover for me. Plus, again, looking at the shoulder health, I don't want to do overhead stuff at all uh till I get the shoulders completely uninflamed. I want to be clear, my shoulders don't hurt. I just have no range of motion. and I've assessed it really close. So again, all this supplemental work like let's just be strict. I want to be stricter and stricter and stricter. There's no reason for me to cheat on anything. That's not how we stay in the long game. You know, that's not how we survive the long game. We progressively overload with good form and we don't get overuse. And I think avoiding overuse a big deal. All right. So the curls, I'm like I've decided I was going to do the curls as strict as possible. I'm not doing any shoulder uh movement. I'm keeping them with my arms pinned to my side. Okay? It's just not normally how I curl, but I'm like, let's just do this super strict full range of motion, controlled, and keep the arms pinned by my sides and just bring it up till my forearm touches my bicep and just call it quits. I'm going to do this for just a little bit. And that way I'm not dealing with any potential shoulder issues even from that rotation which in theory works along head of the bicep. I don't think that we need it. Just do curls and just progressively overload them from here with as strict as possible because again if we're going to judge progression let's just be strict. But I got three sets of 12 last time. So I added five pounds. I'm like let's go to 70. I just started doing these by the way. I managed to get 10 with 65. Then I got 12 my third workout doing them, but I managed to get 12 on all of them except the third set. I tried to get 13 and I couldn't bring it all the way up. So that's true failure. So these others were zero reps in reserve, right? People are like, "Oh, you still moved good until they see me failed." They're like, "Oh." So the final set I got 12. And I'm like, "I bet I can get a 13." And I couldn't finish the rep. I got halfway up and it just stopped. I couldn't finish it. while being strict. Keep in mind, we're trying not to cheat. So again, I'm just going to do these curls super strict. And I'm just going to progressively overload them. Like I'm gonna row strict, progressively overloaded the benching, progressively overloaded. So these are movements we can't cheat on. Squats, I'll just mess with singles for now, but I might work with some rep work. I might start going up to 405 or whatever and seeing if we can mrap it. And I might do that approach also because I know that carries over to my max. But right there, I failed that rep. could not bring it up. But again, when you're doing super strict, failure looks different. When you're forcing yourself to be strict and then I just did three sets of band press downs to failure, I lost reps every time. So, why the band press downs? Um, because I want to make sure the tricep strength locks. And I know this is not the best tricep builder, but benching builds triceps, especially when you're heavy and you're progressing. But I know that for me, I was living on these press downs. When I closed grips 365 a few years ago at a heavier body weight, man, these really carried over. But I feel like I can overtrain these if I'm not careful. So, I need to be careful to not do these all the time on off days. Um, but I feel like just coming in finishing off with just some of the band press downs is great for my tendons. It will keep my elbows healthy and I'm also hoping it will help me with that ability to lock that bicep. That makes sense because of that elbow lockout. Again, just to make sure that we get strong at our ability to do that. I feel like that will help uh with the bicep health and it'll also help me with the lockout on the deadlift. So again, the idea here just getting the pump work, keeping the tendons healthy, just making sure there's a little bit of lockout strength because as long as I can lock it on the bench, I'm good. But the benching, the pause benching. So doing that and then the rows for the upper back will build my bench and just pause pause bench and just push bench three times a week. Just progress on it. My pecs and triceps and shoulders will grow from that just fine. All right. So we did these and then I did a set set of sleds sled sprint. So I push it quickly and then I sprinted on the way back. I put I upped the weight a little bit. I put a pair of 45s on. So I went 80 last time. So it's an 80. I don't remember what the sled weighs, but I'm also on nylon feet on the asphalt. But I'm like, I can progressively overload the sled sprint too a little bit, right? And we'll use that. We'll build conditioning. We'll use it to build legs. And then obviously I run and then I do the slow list on the bike. So I have three different cardio modalities. I run 5ks three times a week. I do the list on the bike every day. And then I can do the sled sprint for my really high intensity, you know, at the end of my lifting sessions because that's going to have a hypertrophic response. So, it all carries over and that's the idea. But really happy with today's workout. Everything felt good. The whole workout felt really good. Everything moves smooth. Um, the strength was good. Nothing hurts. Everything feels good. PRD some stuff. We're progressively overloading stuff at this body weight. So, happy with it. Good way to end the week. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.