Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. I'm really happy with today. Quite a few uh rep PRs. Quite a few rep PRs. uh so much for the the idea that man I was a little worried when I went on low carbs and healthy fats in replace of all my carbs, you know, that um I would drop water and I would start looking leaner, but I was scared that my strength would decline. Um that has not been the case. Um bunch of people hate on my squat form. Still point out that I broke state records and you guys have seen me squat up to 600 pounds before and I don't get hurt squatting. So, that's all I have to say about uh your ideas on that. Let's see your squats. All right, but we did 425 for five on the high bar squat. Um I feel like that's going to keep improving. I'm going to work on sinking it deeper and deeper more as I go. Um sometimes it's it's an issue of my my knee angles and stuff there, but that's okay because I get bigger legs and get stronger from high bar and it carries over to my low bar. All right, benching. Um, I felt today I was a little disappointed because I got the five reps of 315 on Monday. If a sub 220 body weight, that's a PR. Finally got there and it's been kind of stuck since then. And I know I've got to adjust what I'm doing. The dips are not carrying over the way that I would like. Really, I just need to do benching and to hammer my triceps because I can tell that I just need to keep getting my triceps stronger because any way it breaks down, I'm very tricep dominant. even with a really wide grip bench like that when I get fatigued or it gets really heavy. Um, just something I've always noticed. And when I say wide, I mean I'm I'm all the way index finger on the rings. Um, so instead of doing dips, I'm like, let's just do more back down work on the bench. Uh, last time I did 275, it was some point like a week ago. I I got eight reps, which was like great, man. We haven't hit that in a while either. Well, I got nine today. So, again, in a good place. So, I have a feeling if today's workout kind of hit all on all cylinders the way that I think and then I have the weekend with, you know, 72 hours before I bench again, we're going to see what happens on Monday. And if I hit that 315 for five again, I know I'm on the right track because this kind of what I did, you know, the Friday before was something like this and then I came in stronger, but then I rotated the dips in. Uh, but I was happy with that set. Felt really good. felt a ton of pec and tricep. All right. And I felt a lot of tricep. My rep work on on benching. I get tricep doms even if I don't do tricep work. I noticed that. So for the deadlift, same thing. Um I decided to just go instead of 500. I did five with that uh last workout. Put a 515 on. Pulled up a relatively easy triple. Um grip is holding well. So on the third rep, I just kind of held it at the top. Um yes, obviously I had more in the tank. A lot of people are going to look at why you had two more reps. Probably I just wanted a good quality work set. I'm not trying to bury myself on deadlifts, but I'm going to start doing and I do occasional really all out sets, which you guys do notice, but I also noticed my deadlift was floundering for just a short bit. I had to get recovery dialed in. All right, so the belt squats, um, I went with the five plates last time, which is 225, and I got 11 reps. So, it's like I got stronger on this in in one workout. So, I'm like, I need to go heavier because I want to be down in a lower reps. I don't want to be going past 10. So, I ended up stacking six plates on. Now, I'm questioning I could have maybe got a hair deeper looking at these. I mean, they're deep. I'm definitely going hamstrings to calves, but I'm almost wondering, could I could I have squeezed out an inch deeper? Maybe. Um, but I got eight reps with that. So, happy with it. again. Felt my quads, felt my glutes, everything really lit up. Then I went over to my pull-ups. Um, these went really well. Now that I've gone back over to pull-ups here, and I'm not trying to worry about overtraining my biceps. I want my biceps to to recover like so that I can actually lock my elbow because notice that's part of my problem with the lockout. That's those are dead hangs. Notice a lot of those reps I'm going to a dead hang. Okay. So, and I feel like that's part of my overhead issue is that. But I got seven reps. So, I threw that one up as a short and a reel everywhere because I'm like, "Oh, man." Because I got six last time. That's I just PR that. But then when I did the next set, I'm like, "Wow, these feel really easy. What What's going on here? Let me just crank through this." And a lot of people don't always like my ranges of motion. I don't care. I get phenomenal back development. I get a great arm pump. So, and nobody cares. But it is that pull at the bottom. That stretch is what really builds your lats. That stretch is what builds your lats. I got nine reps and I'm like, I bet I can do another one. Let me rest. Pause it. Got one more and it was a little cleaner than the previous reps. Um, so again, 10 reps on that. Very happy. Uh, tricep extensions. I decided to work these back in. Um, I've got up to like 18 reps on this, which was a PR last time I did it. I pushed it even harder. I got 20 reps here. Like I was shocked. I just kept going. I kept going. Um and I didn't think I'd get the 20, but I'm but I managed to grind it out. And I think that's the thing with a lot of these movements. If I just put everything into the set, I'm going to do more and more of this. Notice I'm keeping the volumes a hair lower. Um and it's just but I'm training everything three days a week. It's like I don't need a bunch of sets. Let's just get in and get quality sets. But what happens if if I don't leave anything because I'm not trying to do multiple sets of a lot of these movements? Can I just push them as hard as possible? What's going to happen? Like how far can I take these sets? And I'm actually kind of noticing that it's that tendency to hold back when we have multiple sets. But in this case, you know, I managed to get 20 because I'm like, I'm only going to do one set. I've noticed that I used to do two or three sets of these and I mean, for a while I was at 10 to 12 reps. Stuck it there. But then when I started just doing single sets, when I worked these in, I'm getting stronger and stronger and stronger. I mean, I've never hit 20 reps with that weight before. We just did it. That was a PR. Um, so then same thing I went to my hammer curls. I kind of took this and said, you know what? If we're only going to do one set, I wonder how far I can go with this weight. Cuz I got like 12 last time. I got around 18. I just kept going, right? would go to the bottom, take a breath, keep going, take a breath, do a rep. You know, say it wasn't true rest, pause. I wasn't resting several seconds, but I'm like, I wonder if I can just grind these out. I mean, after those pull-ups, you know, obviously the bicep and the forearm and everything is going to be fatigue, but I'm like, I'm just going to just push it as far as it will go and see how many reps I can get. And so, again, right here, I mean, I'm struggling with it. It's It's getting hard. All right. Definitely working. and that I didn't have any more at that point. But I I think that's a good approach. I probably should add some weight to it though. Even so, my my laying extensions, I may need to start just microloing those. I have the little fractional brakes. So, I decided to do lateral raises. And I kind of took the same approach. I normally have been doing two sets of these with the plates, but I'm I'm trying to do these as strict as possible. And I'm up to about 12 12 to 14 now when I go really strict and try to do zero body movement. and the takeies up as high as my shoulders allow. Um, same thing here. I got close to 20 reps. I just took that exact same approach of let me just go for one allout set without cheating, without my form breaking, but just trying to do controlled reps until I just literally can't. So again, we this was then muscle failure. Muscle failure of course occurs when you can't do any more reps, right? And so I just kept doing that, even pausing at the bottom, taking a breath, seeing if I can get another rep, take a breath, try to just get one more rep. And again, kind of what I did. And then there I did one and I couldn't do it. It failed. So that's muscle failure. Just grinding through. And then when I get to a rep that I just cannot complete the rep, we're done. I did the same thing with front raises. Like, let me go ahead and do some front raises. They're really good for my upper chest, my my shoulders, and everything um for me. So, I I knocked these out again. Same thing. Grabbed a 45. Got around 20 reps and called it a day. But overall, really happy with the workout. I have a feeling the bench is going to go up with what I'm doing here. Um, pull-ups are going up. Everything's good. So, I hope it's been informative. And I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.