Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it so much. All right, on the squats today, um I kind of went with a little bit more of a hybrid. I've been doing pretty much high bar just for my pause work. I went with a slightly felt like a slightly wider stance, a slightly wider grip. I didn't like it as much as what I did last time. All right. It just didn't feel as comfortable as what I did on Friday. I also did this back angle, but I mean, I took it. I took the double uh nice nice pause work, but I'll probably go back to what I was doing uh like Wednesday and Friday in terms of it. It just felt a little bit better. Um benching pretty good. I'm happy with it today. The 315 for for four felt pretty good. Um I'm really comfortable with doing a top set on this and occasional doing the back off work with a 225. I got 18 on it last week again. So, I want to eventually get that to 20. But I feel like just dips dips work great right now as far as what I'm doing. Um, the only thing I'm unhappy with today was the overhead pressing and I'll talk about that when we get to it. I might need to make some adjustments there. I'm probably being a little too aggressive with it. I noticed that my shoulder hurts a little bit while I was doing it. Um, couldn't lock it out. So, I'm going to make I'll discuss that when I get to it. Um, so again, I need to make sure as I'm rebuilding that and working on the shoulder health, I'm careful. So that's going to be the one real complaint from today. Uh, deadlifting overall felt good. One problem though, it's getting cold out there. And I know people are like, "Why are you uncovered?" Because I'm okay. My hands don't like it. My body is perfectly fine with the cold, right? I like cold, but on I did notice though on the deadlift today uh with that cold bar. My hands were cold, the bar was cold. I'm like, really? How is it that I'm not freezing out here, but my dang hands as soon as I grip the bar, it's like it just I wanted to stop at a triple. My hands felt cold. So, I want to keep working the grip work and stuff. And one of the things I did here, I like doing the reverse hypers and I feel like they were help. They got me back to where I got those sets of six with the the 500 on the deadlift. But the problem is if I'm doing them on the off days on the GBP, they just they feel like they create a lot of fatigue. So, I'm like, let's just do one really high rep back offset after deadlifts, you know. So, I I did do a set today um just to have something in to go with the deadlifts and then the GPP days I can do stuff that doesn't interfere. Now, I will state on the um the GPP days, one of the mistakes I feel like I'm making all the all the really high rep kettle bell stuff. While it feels good, it feels like it fatigues my overhead. And then I noticed when I did the overhead on Friday, it felt a little funny in the shoulder. And I noticed today and I don't normally get shoulder pain. So, as I've been rehabbing that stuff over over time, I don't get shoulder pain. I just don't have the range of motion. So, I've been slowly working on that. Now, today after overhead pressing, my right shoulder hurts a little bit. And only when I go into certain positions, it's like, okay, so this is a warning sign. I'm being a little too aggressive. I need to back the weight back down. I probably need to go back to a slightly wider grip where I get a better lockout and reduce the weight again. and slowly build it up, right? I'm just going to have to be patient and check my ego on it. Again, uh check my ego. Uh but as far as the other stuff goes, as I've said previously, I'm going to just keep training my arms the way I've been training my legs because again, I've noticed that my arms have struggled to get caught up. I did tons of bodybuilding work for a long time here. It doesn't really help. I'm like, I'm going to go back to when I know my arms were at their biggest and that's when I trained them a lot. like my legs. We just progressively overload big movements that we know hit them. Why? Dips, dips, and then chin-ups and pull-ups for the biceps. My triceps have always been historically biggest when I did this. And the thing to keep in mind, when I've done dips and progressed on these, I can take two, three weeks off from doing tricep extensions and then hit a PR on the extensions, which means the dips, the tips increase my extensions. So, let's just not overtrain arms. Let's just treat arms like I do all the other body parts to quit trying to treat them as special for me and I can just do that with my shoulders, right? I'll just go on the delts. Um, but I I feel like this is a better approach and I know historically it's worked a little better. Uh, I'm just going to quit coming in and just doing all this isolation. Let's just really let just dips chins and pressing and stuff. Um, grow my arms just progressively overload those movements and see where it lands. But overall, dips dips felt pretty good today. Um, I get a heck of a chest and and tricep burn when I do them. I'm a big fan, right? Love the dips. Uh, chins, the same thing. Uh, I got sevens. Now, on this second set, I got six and then I did a rest pause to get a seven. So, I'm like, I'm going to get the the seventh. So, the other thing I did note when my biceps were at their biggest, people noticed. I did do a little bit more close grip, neutral grip, and some close grip chins. So, I'm like, let's mess with the closer grip shins for just a bit. Let's just get strong at them. And it doesn't matter that people don't like my range of motion because that is my full lock out. That's where my my elbows lock. But notice my scapula come apart. But it's like, so if we go into the full range, we're good. So, everyone notice all the issues I have on the range of motion is what is that lockout position. But it's only going to improve by working it. So, and we know that stretching and stretching and stretching doesn't help me, but dynamic stuff has. Like some of the dynamics have got me to where I can even do pull-ups and chin-ups again a couple years back, right? So, so I know that this is what we need to do. We just need to do loaded movements. So, again, I just do weighted chins and I will overhead press and do the overhead pressing that I am capable of doing. Right. So, uh I I did a rest pause there. Now, here's where we ran into a little bit of minor issues, right? We ready for it? I went over to last time I not only increased the weight, I went back to that real close grip. Um, so I feel like with that I can't I can't lock. It's less of a lockout that I had, right? 95 I was able to get twelves and all that stuff, but now that I've gone over to this, all it's doing I feel like it's just beating my shoulders up. And I know it's only 115. People like, "Dude, we've seen you do like 10 plus reps, 135, you know, before. You I've done 225 strict press when I was strong and overhead, but I'm going to have to be just keep checking my ego, right?" We got to check the ego. Got to check the ego because I'm got some shoulder pain today from it. All right. So, it didn't I didn't feel it on the laterals, by the way. So, these plate laterals feel great. So, on these, I picked up a rep. I've been I think I got like 22 or twice last time. I got like 23 today. These feel really good in my shoulders. So, I'm going to keep doing laterals of plates. So, I'm just going to double down, do some shoulder work here. Um, but the overhead press again, I'm going to have to reduce the weight back a little bit and just keep slowly building it up, but I have to be able to use weights and grips to where I can get really close to a lockout. today it just wasn't. So again, I'm watching the footage carefully and assessing that going, "Okay, check the ego." Even though I looking at it going, even 115 is stupidly light. That's just that's silly for me. Um, even that on that movement until I rebuild all of that, it's just too heavy. Check the ego. Check the ego. Ego free. So let's let's focus on doing that correctly and not getting hurt. Uh but laterals, these felt good. And then I finished up with one set of neck extensions. So I got 20 reps with a 45 uh Friday on the neck extension. So I went ahead and went up to the 55 lb plate. Think I got 13. I counted 13 reps. So going like a bit heavier. Um lost some reps, but it's still a good number of rep counts. So I'm I'm happy with it. So I'm glad I used the 55 today. So, I'm going to do that little bit of neck work and everything because I feel like the neck strength and the posture there will help with the overhead also. That can be a factor in your overhead mobility. And I'm just going to have to again continue slowly rebuild that overhead work. But overall, you know, happy happy with most of the workout. Um, especially all the pressing type stuff as far as chest. You know, the dips and the benching were all good today. Um, all right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.