Hey everybody, it's Jason Law here once again. It is time for an upper body day, but if you guys will please give me a like down below, I would greatly appreciate it. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you would be so kind as a drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that also. Thank you so much. So, um, keeping with what I said I'm going to do, even with the power building, we're going to do a lot more like six to eight. I'm gonna take even my big three to harder, longer range of motion variations. Um, now some people will see me do this with the the McDonald bar. They're like, "It's not really lower than your bar." It is. I've checked it. I've measured it. Yes, I want to work on getting it deeper, but that is literally my stretch. So, notice when I paused there, and I've checked it, and it's actually about one and a half to two inches deeper than when I touch my chest. I've actually kind of checked it before and looked at stuff. So, and it does barely appears like it from there, but it really is. So, notice that I mean 225 for eight was fairly hard there. You guys see me do sets of six paws with 275 with a normal bar. It's definitely more challenging. Um, and even when I benched 365, I could only do about 3 by 10 to 11 reps with that bar, by the way, with 225. So, again, I know kind of where my strength is based on it. So, the other thing I decided to do here, because these workouts are going to be crazy long, I'm doing a fair amount of volume. I want to get 12 sets per muscle group in pretty much on largely every muscle. Although the arms aren't really the biceps because I really unless I count pull-ups in rows as half sets or count pull-ups as a set. Uh but I am going really hard taking all the curls to failure and I did incline curls. Um I want everything to be a deep deep stretch. So yes, it's going to be harder. Yes, I can normally do more reps than that on pull-ups. with a wide grip pull up. Um, I only go as high as my lats will let me when my scapula pinch and it doesn't matter because that blows my back up. And I always laugh. So many people hate on my back training. I get more hate for my back training than anything else. And I always laugh because look at my lats. It's like, guys, come on. Just stop. Maybe the stuff I do for my lats works. Uh, but what I'm trying to do on this, uh, I'm wanting everything because I need to focus on hypertrophy. cutting by using hours of cardio every day while still keeping calories pretty high. 100% clean diet, by the way. There's there's literally no junk, no refined sugar, like no added fats, almost no saturated fat because it's chicken breast and then healthy fats, avocados, you know, walnuts, all that. Um, a lot of healthy starchy carbs. So, what I'm doing is adding two plus hours of less cardio every day to start continuing to trim down. But I need to focus on gaining muscle. Like I can't even worry about, oh, let's try to squat 500 lb. Let's try to do a 590 deadlift. It's I can't do any of that right now. Let's bench 340. Not even trying to do that. I need to retain muscle and it means I need to be focused on hypertrophy. And that means that I need to be looking at forcing any muscle growth I can. So, because some of these movements I haven't always worked the really crazy ranges of motion, the really deep lengthened mo motions, and we know that that is actually a large part of hypertrophy. I'm like Michael, let's just work that. And it carries over, right? Have I trained exclusively deficit deadlifts before and just walked over and bogged a massive deadlift? You bet. So, I mean, I can do the same thing. It's going to be stuff like McDonald bar, buffalo bar, benching. I want the long ranges of motion. Okay. Uh my squatting is is high bar, like narrower stance, pause squats, as to grass, so on. Did do deficit deadlifts for reps of a two and a half inch deficit. I may take it to three and a half this week. I'm going to see if I can stack the plates up. Um, so chasing those longer ranges of motion on the stretch position. So the pull-ups, again, people always you're not going I'm going all the way up for the lat. Um, and I think people are missing the point. It's not about a pull-up, it's about the lat. And I only care about the lat. But I am going from a dead hang on most reps. Why? I want the deep stretch. So the same thing with the dips. I've been working on getting deeper and deeper. And today it got even deeper. So instead of trying to push, let me get barely break parallel or an inch above with two plates 90 lbs for sets of 10, which I was doing, I am trying to get that crazy deep stretch. But again, we don't ego lift with it, right? And I can only handle about eight reps with a 45 when I go that deep, but it feels good. So here's the idea. All this stuff is going to continue to put all my shoulders and everything into these stretch positions. I think it's going to help. So there's my back again. Um, so again, dips, I'm doing them as deep as possible. And I realize the same thing. If I really want to get a stretch on a row, I can't be just gripping it raw and then trying to go strict. I need to get the deep stretch. And for me, that means using a little bit of cheat so that I am forced into a deep stretch on the eccentric. So, it has to go down hard. I get a better stretch if I do it that way. And I do a lot of types of rows. So, yes, this is a little more of what you see bodybuilders doing, although not nearly as crazy a cheating as you see everyone from Dorian Donnie to Arnold doing. So, it's laugh. People see me doing a little cheat and they'll say that and I'm like, "But I've got a big back." And I'm not cheating like any of those guys who had amazing backs. It's still way, way, way less. Uh, but the whole point standing on a plate and then me going ahead and strapping because I'm going to have plenty of grip training. I'm doing pull-ups. I'm doing six sets of deadlifts without straps a week. Um, I'm going to start doing my hanging leg raises, multiple sets on the lower days. So, grip is not an issue. It's going to keep growing. And if I need to, I'll throw in some extra forearm work. and I very well might. Um, so the idea there, I am getting a deeper stretch. I get up on that plate, that two and a half inch plate gives me more wiggle room and I am allowing because I'm using just a little leg drive on the eentric, it stretches the hell out of my lats and traps at the bottom. Um, and it worked. I felt everything. Like I felt my lats and my traps tremendously on this. So again, a little bit of overload there. All the other stuff, there's a lot of pause stuff. This is a slightly more a little more body English exercise for me because I do a lot of strict seal rows too. So people who are like, "Oh, it's too heavy." Guys, you've seen my seal rows off the floor completely unstrict. I do sets of eight to 10 with 225. Actually, I think I've done 235 for eight. Come on. So, it's not really that much. Um, but again, lights my back up and that's what I care about. Do I feel the stretch in the lats and the traps? And I do. So, that's what I want for that stimulus. So again, for me, rows, it's a little harder sometimes to get into a lengthen position whenever we're all dogging it because we tend to hold back that stretch and any cheat sheet that would let us get into a deeper stretch when we're not holding straps. And it works great. I build a big back, but I'm like, what if I wanted to make sure that whole middle and upper back getting as much thickness as possible? In that case, I can do that and use a little bit of cheat. Uh, and I've done it this way before, too. Um, and it works well for me. So the main thing I'm just looking at everything going, can we stimulate as much muscle as possible? Right? So trying to get everything I can into stretch positions. Not so much necessarily the delts because I don't have good movements for that. I got to think about that further. It's equipment limitations, but definitely everything else. So um the benching, the pull-ups, the dead hang on the pull-ups every rep so that we get as much uh lat stretch and scapular protraction as possible at the bottom. Uh, so then the row is the same thing. I'm for by doing what I'm doing. Notice that it pulls my arms completely straight. Pulls the scapula apart. So I'm forced to pull from that stretched position. Forced to pull from it. Um, and again, I get a it got a hell of a burn actually. All right. Uh, the extensions. I've had some people when I started doing really deep leaving reps in reserve. Watch the last rep. Each time on the last rep when I pause it, I have to cheat to lock it. If you have to cheat and break your form down, your form has to change to complete a rep. That's not reps in reserve. You've reached muscle failure. So, if you watch these, watch the final reperence around rep nine each time because I did eight last time. So, I'm trying to pause some of these um and trying to get the deepest stretch possible, which means some of the reps are going to be more pause. But on some of these, watch the bar slows down and I'm doing a little more pullover to get the elbows forward so that I can lock it because my triceps are not strong enough. Um, so just noting that for a few people who tried to say that, it's like, uh, no guys, my form is is degrading at the end. Uh, but I got an extra rep that time and and it it burns, too. So, the thing I'm trying to do there, I'm trying to get as deep of a pullover effect as I can to get as much stretch as I can on that long head. Um, incline curls, the same thing. Some of these I'm pausing at the bottom. So, instead of trying to go a little heavier because I've gotten a little heavier. It's like I only went with the 33s uh because the 28's too light. So, I kept kept that added those little two and a halfs to each side of each of those dumbbells. Um, and focused on trying to stretch it as hard as I could at the bottom, stretching the the bicep. That's why I like incline curls. I feel that stretch and then on most of them, I got to the bottom after rep eight and it just sticks. So, what I mean by muscle failure on that, I mean, I go into the stretch position and it doesn't move without me trying to cheat. And and we don't need to cheat. Like, muscle failure doesn't mean you start cheating when you can't get a weight out of the bottom. It means it just stuck. So, I mean, we could we could say the same thing on these pullovers. Like, if I wanted to take them to failure, and I might do some of that later that might shut people up. Just literally just fail. But then I've got to pick it back up. That's over 100 pounds. I got to pick it back up and set it back in the hooks. and the failure doesn't necessarily help. I mean, I could maybe on the last set, right? Maybe the last set we could try that um each time and then because I'm not going to have to pick it back up then and then there'll be no doubt as to how many reps I can do. Um just making a note. I'm saying that to make a note for myself. Might be worth doing next time. Um I feel like I'm starting to look a hair leaner even though the scale's not gone up. When I add a bunch of cardio, I gain weight immediately. So, it went up and now it's gone back down to where I was. But we may be making some progress here. Um, that always happens. I have to deal with whooshes and and water shifting around. So, anytime I up my cardio, I gain weight. I used to notice that when I was really fat and took up running to get down under 300. There are times when my weight was at a certain point because I'd start weighing in and I'd add a little more running one week and I would gain three or four pounds even though I've been in a deficit for six months straight. Um, and that happens to me when I bump cardio. It's just again shifts in water and then eventually it whooshes down. I've done stuff like that before to where I gained a pound over a month while doing a lot of cardio in a deficit and then I lose seven pounds in three days finally, you know, after a month of nothing. Um, which really means I lost seven pounds that month. All right. So again with the extensions trying to get the deepest stretch I can doing a lot of the reps paused to facilitate that uh as much as possible. So again forcing that stretch and also I'm hoping some of this all this stuff will help with my overall shoulder mobility and health more and more. And it feels like it is feels like my shoulders are feeling looser and looser a little bit because I have so much tightness in there. Um, so again, we'll see if all this works because really this works more than stretching. People say stuff like stretch. I'm like, stretching's never done anything for me. And every study that looks at it finds full range of motion weightlifting at least competes with any form of stretching for increasing flexibility. So again, let's start taking everything to deep deep movement. Same thing with squatting. I'm squatting aigrass on everything uh the machine and the paw squats. So the incline curls with so I got about nine reps on all the extensions. We got right at eight reps and failed on all the curls. I'm pretty consistent set to set. People are always like, "I lose reps." I'm like, "I don't." Like, I literally get to the bottom and just stick on the curls. I can't do another rep. And then I super set a tricep between and come back and I fail at rep nine every time. Um, so it's always funny to me. I get so many people that they do that and I'm like, "I don't know, guys. Maybe you're cheating more on the first set." Um, all right. Upright rows. And so what I'm trying to do on these, I'm not going crazy heavy. I'm taking these to my longest range of motion, which that's as high as I can I can go. So I'm using a lighter weight, but again, you guys have seen me take it to the lower chest only before with 135, but but 95 lbs. If I go as high as I can, even though it's not super high, I can't reach my chin with that. Not possible for me. And it burns like hell. I feel my whole shoulder roller light up. Uh so I'm happy with the effect. Um, and I'm failing it after rep eight. So, I'm getting eight reps. It gets harder on the eighth rep. And I'm trying to really force the high range of motion. And I know some people are like, "You're not that high." I'm like, I'm really trying to force it as hard as I can. Uh, but it's like, how much lighter do we really want to go for my size? I mean, I could take a little weight off and see if I can hold them and squeeze. And I might mess with that a little, but I almost am worried I'm going to be losing tension trying to get that. I could, though. I'll think about it. that I would like to get more range of motion, but I just feel like I I literally can't. So, maybe if I go down another 10, 20 pounds, maybe. And I'll see if I can get higher and just keep working on it. Uh, but again, I feel my whole shoulder girdle on this. And then I finish up with just rear delts. I was thinking the laterals. I'm like, no, the rear delt fly, even on the incline bench, still works the side delt really effectively. The side delt got hit on the upright row. And this makes sure my rear delts uh get hit really hard. Yes, I know I'm doing rows and I'm doing pull-ups, but it's like let's I feel like my rear delts are definitely the smallest head of the three for me and I feel like it really holds me back. I mean, I need more tricep and more rear delt more than anything at this point. But, so let's just train everything balanced though, but then we'll put a little priority to those areas, you know. Uh, so even though we got a lot of shoulder work and rear delt, let's come in and just isolate it to the end on this. I went up in weights. only got like seven or eight reps on these and that's okay because I had the weight already loaded. I'm like I bet I can get enough reps. As long as it's at least six, we're okay. Um, so again, felt it. Felt really good. Super happy with today's workout. Feel like I stimulated a lot. I did over an hour of cardio on a vlog after, but you guys saw that I ate breakfast, so I'm putting this up next. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.