Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a GPP day. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um decided to do a little more than I normally do because um I want to work more and more on body composition. I didn't run today. I ran two times this week. Um I feel like two up to three times a week is enough just to maintain my general fitness at the moment. I'm not concerned with improving the running. So, I'll bump the running back up when I want it to get better. Uh, but I feel like in the meantime, if I do more conditioning work, more general preparedness, uh, more sled work, that will carry over into better run times, better squatting, and everything because that's kind of how I built it. Like, people were surprised how easily I took up running, right? Um, I didn't run for 20 years. I took it back up and got to to a pretty good level pretty fast. Uh, so the conditioning helps. So, what I want to do is get more and more of the GBP in because right now I'm really wanting my body composition to continue to improve. I want to gain muscle while losing fat, get my performance up. So, I'm focusing really hard on progressive overload on my basic lifts, right? The lifts that I really care about them the most are the squat, bench, deadlift, weighted pull-up. Um, obviously things like dips and rows do matter to me that just to a lesser degree. Uh, but those have gone up also when I do do them. So, I'm wanting to to push all this up and I wanted to get um again my forearm strength up, shoulders. I'm really trying to hammer my shoulders really hard. I feel like my delts need the most work, which you know, we've discussed that in the vlogs. I don't need to cover all of that in the conditioning vlogs, but um again, taking three days a week up to three days a week, weather permitting, to get out and do this stuff, uh will carry over to my lifting. And the main thing is is the improvements in body composition. And this is something you guys will notice how in shape most of the CrossFitters and other people are. It's because of this sort of stuff. Like this is the stuff they do combined with good diet. I do all of this fasted. So I do feel like at this point for me um keeping the fasting a little more uh dialed in will probably help me trim body fat while gaining some muscle here. So it needs to be what I do at the moment. Just keep working on body composition. And I always laugh. People are like, "If you do this much training, you eat clean. Why aren't you ripped?" Because I eat a lot of calories. I don't I don't starve myself down. So, that's the thing. Dudes who are getting really ripped. It's usually fat coating drugs. Yes, I hit my back with the ball there. That's what's going on. In this case, I don't ever eat really low calories. Um, but I lost quite a bit of body fat while eating really high calories. I think people forget when they see me floating about 210 now. I used to be up in the 240s a few years back when I was at my strongest. um you know and even then I was like 225 uh earlier this year I drifted up to that and then I did a cut um but I kept the calories pretty high so it's just fasted work. So again the same thing here I feel like if I can bring the conditioning up um I might cut some of the healthy fats out of the diet and just focus on carbohydrate. All right, I'm really leaning in that direction. Although I don't want all my avocados to go bad. It's a few dollars. It's not the end of the world. Um, so that might be what I do for just a bit and just just carb carb carb. I've been protein overfeeding for a little bit and I feel like it's helped, but um I do feel like just focusing on carbohydrate and general physical preparedness might be um a good way to just continue to recomposition. I want to see if the scale will slowly start drifting down again while I do that. U because again, I can probably lose fat quicker than I gained muscle even recompositioning at this point. Um, so again, it's just it's what I want to do. It's what I want to do. And I'm aware I look a little squishier on the GBP days. I'm always tighter on the lifting days, it feels like. Um, just the nature of it. It's just the way my fluid balance goes around for some reason. Um, also though, I've drank a lot of coffee and stuff by the time we get to this. But, um, overall looking pretty thick on these on these throws. I always laugh at the one clown. This one guy keeps coming through telling me, "You have a weak core. you need to work on your core and lose the belt on the the weight of carries. It's like he doesn't understand. I I have a really strong core. I do core work everything else. Um people are such clowns, right? Um I do the belt though because I feel like it gives me better core bracing while I do the stuff, better neural drive. You know, I take it off for things I don't need it for. Um, you know, a lot of the the band work, the arm work, the isolation type movements, I I don't bother obviously, but a lot of these big movements, yeah, I absolutely do, you know, and it makes sense, right? It makes sense. I did like nine sets of these. This is most of these throws. And the reason I feel a lot of shoulder in them, and I feel like it's helping with um like it feels like this is a good shoulder mobility exercise for me, right? Because it's ballistic and it throws it into those positions. And I think people forget for me I've said stretching doesn't work. I've tried and I've always said this anytime I've done months and months of stretching at any point in my life. It has never done anything at all. I've never seen any positive outcomes in 25 years from any type of stretching. Zero. Nothing. It pretty much is a waste of time. Um like and even for me like I did a bunch of stuff that even people with degrees in physical therapy sent me and I saw they had credentials and everything. They would give me advice. I've had a few fans who did that. It's all completely useless. Complete waste of time, but I feel like stuff like that seems to help. So, anything that's puts force into it, it has to be forced like it has to be under a load. Like just stretching uh never improves anything. I even found the dead hangs don't even really help. Feels like anything static in nature never ever ever improves my flexibility or mobility at any point in my life. So stuff like that feels like it helps. Like even remember the pullovers allowed me to start doing pull-ups again. It got me to where I could do pull-ups. So I feel the same thing now just doing the dead hang pull-ups. Feel like maybe the hanging leg raises because they pull me a little bit into that. But those throws, right, that stuff helps. Um this is the most sled sprints I've done. I normally do one to two. I did three today. All right. So, again, because because I didn't run, I'm like, let's really push this up. Let's take up um these workloads on the GBP days, right? So, again, we're we're getting a nice good metabolic turnover. We're going to improve metabolic stress here. Um this will take up my even my resting calorie burn later, but it also has a hypertrophic effect. So again, I've told people for a long time, man, you a lot of people could get jacks just doing GPP if as long as you're doing a few basic big exercises. Um, but again, this is the reason so many CrossFitters and other people look good. This is what they do combined with diet, right? All the conditioning stuff like that, the general physical preparedness, again, stuff that is capable of stimulating growth, right? Normal lighter cardio and even some hit cardio doesn't always cause muscle growth. Okay, those things do. So, we're combining hypertrophy with conditioning. That's a good way to to enhance body composition. Um, so again, I feel like it's if I keep hammering on the the fasting, maybe take the fasted fasting out longer in the morning, it'll probably help. Um, same way all these guys on the sugar diet are doing this stuff. But, I mean, the thing is, I don't think you should be doing the sugar. You just do normal carbs. So, I think for me for a bit, um, I may just do my omega-3 eggs as my only real fat source. So, I'm leaning in that direction today and see how it feels. Main thing is I want to make sure I recover. Like, I don't want to be always a concern is is being deficient in polyunsaturated fats. But, if I eat a couple omega-3 eggs every day, right? And for people who don't know what that is, go look it up. I I'll get that and people say, "I don't know what that is." Well, Google it. It's not not difficult. Um because again, we're getting some some good quality poffas in there. Um I only I did three sets of the reverse cypers. You guys notice I threw another 55 on there. So I did three sets of 25. Um I feel like these work really well on my GBP days because it's not taking time out of my workout so I can really hammer the real heavier work and I can do because there these are higher rep. Um I feel like they work really well on my GBP days. Plus, it's almost an active recovery and they don't interfere with my deadlifts. So, notice that I did those the other day and then I came in and my deadlifts are scaling upward. Okay? So, they don't interfere with deadlifting the next day for me. So, even if I do these up to three days a week and then I pull the next day, uh deadlifts are holding strong. Like my Friday workout was really good. So, the GPP on the off days seems like it's feeding my squat and deadlift quite well. So now we need bench to do the same thing. But the bench, I mean, I'm pushing the bench pretty hard as it is. So I feel like probably the only thing that's going to improve it from there is going to be just dips. So maybe this coming workout I'll work in dips. And I won't do all the shoulder isolation. I'll just maybe do laterals. So I'm I'm leaning in that direction of just doing my extra big compounds some days and just doing the laterals. But I feel like laterals need to stay in and I need stuff that hits shoulders a little on the GPP days, which is what I did. I'm like, I grabbed a kettle bell because I want to see if my range of motion is doing a little bit better. And so, again, I don't have full range of motion on overhead, but it's like I feel like stuff like uh dumbbells, one arm, and then maybe I wanted to try my kettle bells. I have a a decent set of kettle bells. Problem is, my next jump is really big. So, I need to get the reps real high on this before I go to that that heavier kettle bell. But I feel like I could get to a point where I I do my heaviest one because I go certain 25 to 40 and I got that one for kettle bell swings sometime back. I have a bunch of small ones. Um so again, I managed to get about I think 15 reps for each arm. Just alternated them. Took about 30 seconds between sets. U they were burning like hell. But the thing is at least I'm getting an overhead movement in. And even if it's just really high reps like this, um it's still getting the movement pattern in. And then of course I'm doing all that shoulder work. Eventually though, as I've said, if I can get to where I could overhead press or even if I can get to where I can behind the neck press again, that range of motion restored, I won't feel the need to isolate my delts at all either. Okay? I feel like I could literally just do for upper body outside obviously my squat and deadlift, I would probably just do bench dips, overhead pressing, rows, pull-ups, and just call it, right? And occasional some band work. um then I could take the laterals out. But right now I feel like I'm need because I can't lock out and do true overhead work or behind the neck which gets those side delts even better. I need the laterals and other stuff. And then some of the days if you guys have seen I do three different angles. Um so again I feel like my shoulders do need to come up a lot at this point. Particularly if I get leaner I get leaner tighter waist gets smaller. Um that'll be what I need because when your waist gets smaller your arms always look bigger anyways. Everybody forgets that dudes go on a cut and people think they gained an inch on their arms when their arms are actually a half inch smaller. I've seen it so many times. So, pretty happy with the conditioning today though. It all felt good. Got my heart rate way up. Um especially the sled work. The sled work was was was brutal. After doing the other stuff, um I don't want to say brutal. I that's just silly. We're we're we're talking nonsense. Training isn't hard. I was definitely breathing hard. I needed a moment at the end of each of those sled pushes because that's really higher intensity stuff. Not like my running, right? My running is is a little more medium intensity. I did all this and then finish up with a set of hanging leg raises. I'm doing my toe to bars. Of course, I put the fat bar over there. So, I don't want to try to grip that for leg raises. So, I gripped that uh multi-grip in the center. But, I squeeze out. I got 12. And I stopped at one set. I did two sets the other day. First time in a while. I had such bad abdoms, I didn't want to squat or deadlift the next day. So, I did one set of 12, felt really good, and I called it. So, I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.