 unless I come over and flex them. They'll always look as big as I'd like. But, you know, legs have continued to stay there. Still have quads, still have strength. Deadlifts went up, even though I'm using this old Rogue Bar, which is a power bar. It's a very stiff bar. Harder to pull. I got four reps today with this. So I feel like doing the high-frequency deadlifting and all the grip training and hammer curls and everything is paying off because this went really, really well. My grip didn't feel slippery at all. Fourth rep, I held it at the top, right? Nice little good hold, set it down under control, and my grip held perfect. So I'm going to keep doing all that. We're going to double down on all that. We're going to make it happen. I don't know why my toilet keeps doing that only when I'm recording vlogs lately. I have no idea. It goes hours at a time without doing it. I wanted my desk bathroom. Close grip bench, still a little tough. Fast off the chest, difficult at the lockout. I know how to fix that. So I feel like what's funny is that I don't feel triceps on any of this close grip stuff, even though we could argue they're tricep exercises. Man, I feel a ton of chest, right? But once we get through that sticking point, we're good. Obviously, I'm doing it fairly flat back, taking a nice long pause. But I need to build that up to where I'm doing three to five with that. So again, I decided I was going to do dips. You guys will see. And then I did a couple of sets of the high rep band press downs at the end. All right, pull-ups, same thing here. Trying to pause at the bottom. Occasionally, I'll get a touch and go, but I'm trying to go down and pause. And it's funny, like people, this is always with guys who they want to pause bench, and I tell them pause. We're like, I did pause, and they're just bouncing it off their chest. It's funny how this works. In our mind, we're counting pauses and stuff. So I want to get better at that, because again, the pause squats, although they were off a little, I got them good last time. They were all good to the no belts. I felt a little unstable. But it's funny because, again, same thing with the pull-ups. I feel like I'm dropping into a dead hang for a full second at the bottom on every rep. A couple of the reps, I'm clearly not. A lot of them I am. Some of them even swinging at that hang. All right? But on all the benching, I do good, right? Because I'm counting a really long time on the pauses. People are like, man, those are good half-second pauses. Yeah. So when you count two seconds in your head, you get a full second, or half a second to a full second every time. That's how it works. So people are funny with that. They're just, it's always funny when people start filming themselves. They're like, I swear to God I was pausing. They'll do eight touch and go reps on a bench. And they're like, but I paused on every rep. I felt it. Okay? It's almost comical. Like when you start filming yourself, and I do mean that to a lot of guys out there. They'll trash talk. And I'm like, bros, go film yourself. Just go film yourself. And you're going to feel so silly with this stuff. Dude, you're like, dude, my butt's staying on the bench. I'm pausing. They're doing a touch and go, and their ass comes two inches off the bench. And when they film themselves, they're like, what? How? How? It's not possible. Right? Once you film yourself. Dumbbell rows, we're doing good here. We're at 10, which is we've built up to. Grip felt a little slippery on those, like right there on about the 10th rep. Felt like I was kind of running out of steam, especially on that left side, my weaker hand. The dips, I only got eight reps going all the way down. I tried to pause on all of these, but again, some of them are touch and go. Like I'm trying to go into my full range of motion and pause. I haven't done dips for a few weeks. It's been a bit, but I want to work them back in mainly because I'm like, look, I need the tricep. And I really feel dips in my triceps. Even this chest dominant version, as some people would call it, hammers my triceps. So I need them to get stronger. And I need the chest work, quite frankly. You know, I feel like for me, incline and dips carry over to my bench really well. But I mean, the fact that my best wide grip is 350 last year, that's a really fight with 315 on a closed grip. Man, that's not good because I've hit 365 on that. So I need to double down on the tricep work, but chest will still help. It's still going to be a chest exercise. But you guys will see, we're going to add in the band work. Because the band work, I was doing excessive amounts of the band press downs when I hit a 365 closed grip. Hammer curls, we picked up a rep though. We got 11, got 11. Happy with that. Happy with that. So again, main thing, keeping the diet dialed in. I do know kind of partially what's making me feel a little goofy, but I don't want to throw it away. I feel like it's the milk. And I've noticed, I think it's helped now that I've cut down to just one shake after my big workouts. But until I go through it, I refuse to throw away, you know, $5 a container, Brutopia. So I need to go through it and then I'll completely back it out. But again, carbs are very, very low. Diet is definitely, you know, full keto. I've added in a lot more salts though because I need them for this training. But again, yeah, very low carb, but with piles and piles of vegetables. I've had people who see my face, who are you doing carnivore? I'm like, do you guys not see the piles of vegetables? I get like 40, 50 grams of fiber a day. It's not carnivore. But I do go hard in the meat and eggs. Super hard in the red meat and eggs. Like red meat's a massive staple for me right now. But two sets of the band press downs to failure. The first one I got like 10, 15 more reps than the second one. Took them to failure. They'll help with all that. But again, I've got to get leaner. I need the arms and the delts to come up. But yeah, happy with the deadlifts particularly. But so we still got a little bit of PR-ing in here today, even though the pressing kind of stayed stagnant. Some of the stuff is slowly working back up. I was a little scared of deadlifts because the beltless pause squats or the high bar squats, my lower back felt a little funny. Not like painful, but it just felt a little pumped. I'm not going to lie. I felt a pump in it. And I'm like, man, I hope these deadlifts go well. And they did. They went great. They went great. But overall, happy with today's workout. I want to get stronger at all the close grip stuff. I've also started incorporating a little bit of body weight dead hangs. Because again, I want to be able to do overhead pressing again. It's one of the reasons I'm doing the close grip bench. Try to take out every variable and make everything to where we can get that overhead press back. Because I want to be able to overhead press again all the time. Like I might even have just straight up overhead press days instead of those pull days once I can overhead press. Right? I've got it. I want to be able to rebuild it. I want to get back to like a 225 strip press. It would be an amazing goal for me at this point. Like get up to 50 years old and just straight strip press two plates aside. It's something I would love to do. But I've got to get the range of motion back. But overall, really good workout. Happy with it. So I hope it's been informative. And I'll talk to you guys and gals next time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.