Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Thank you. Um, so here's what we're doing. Still starting the workouts obviously with the big three. Uh, I didn't do back down work on the squats and the reason is this set felt really good. I'm like, you know what? Let's see if I can push a top set. I'm getting a lot of leg volume with all the sled work and weighted carries and all this other stuff that I'm doing. Um I feel like this that's adequate hypertrophy stimulus. So I mean if I come in and do do even, you know, on my three workouts a really hard top set of squats and these were deep. Um I was happy with the depth on these today. Like I know from my side views like this looks like oh he's just below parallel except if I go video this from the side knowing what it looks like from the front when I do that it's going to be pretty deep like it it'll be two three inches possibly below. So I'm happy with it. U so I got six reps with 405 right six reps with 405 there today. U the bench we didn't PR anything but it all felt good. Um, and one of the things I did, I'm noticing a slight little tinge of overuse, especially maybe in the left delt, left pec a little bit, especially since I added in all the shoulder work. I've add up the volume of the the throws, right? Those tosses with the med ball. I'm doing a lot of GP on my off days. So, I'm kind of looked at and said, look, let's get just enough volume to push progress on my big lifts and then I'll come in and just work those weak points. Like, so I said, I want to do a bunch of delt isolation and I'm just going to do band work for my arms, right? Keep the tendons healthy. I want to just really double down on delt work and then we'll do bands to keep some bump in the arms and because I just did a phase of a lot of extra arm work. Um, but again, I know that as I get leaner, what I could see from certain angles and I'm out in the sun after the medball throws, my delts do need to come up. Even though again, we're not super concerned with aesthetics. I know that as I get leaner, I can already tell the delts uh could be a weak point visually. So, I'm just going to hammer the delts really, really hard. Like, we're going to double down on it. So, I'm going to go ahead and that's going to be the one thing I really actually isolate for a bit. But, for this stuff, this went good. I got four reps with 315. Now, my best ever so far has been 18 with 225. I've only done it once. I got like 16, then I got 17, then I got like 18 on another workout. I got 17 again today with the 225. It was hard. Like my chest was on fire. And like I've said already, I feel like there's a little bit of almost like a little bit of mild chest overuse starting. A little bit of um like there's been some a little cramping and stuff through there. So, so my left delt and left pec have been cramping a little bit. Um so again, I got to have to watch that. So I'm like, let's take the dips out for the day. And but again, that benching is good. I mean, considering I've only hit the 17 one time so far and then I've hit 18 one time, I'll take that 17 and it felt really good. It was solid. Um, but the thing is my my pecs were on fire. Like by like rep 12, my chest was burning. I'm like I I there's no way I'm getting 15, you know? So, let alone to get the 17. Uh, I managed to get it, but I barely racked it. I don't know if you guys could tell, but that was a fight. Um, I knew that I didn't have an 18th rep. Deadlifts, on the other hand, are good. So, I've only, it's been over a week since I did it. I pulled 500 for six one time recently. I finally got up to six. I've done five like once, once or twice. Um, I got six over a week ago. I managed to get six again today. So, that felt really good. Also, notice I went to the fat bar on the pull-up. So, I've said the same thing. I almost wanted to do rows today, but I'm like, man, I just feel like it's going to be a little bit much. Um, so I want to start doing all my pulling other than the top deadlift set with fat bar. So, I'm going to do any rowing probably with the axle. I want to do my pull-ups with that fat bar. Again, the main thing is I want to double down on forearm and grip work more and more and more. I want to make sure that it's solid. Um, so here I'm using my I actually got my same reps and stuff on the pull-ups I normally get. Um, so I got my 14 and as you guys know, I don't really care what anyone thinks about how I do my pull-ups. They build my back. It works amazingly well and quite frankly don't care. So, uh, happy with this. My lats actually felt lit up. Felt challenging on the grip. Uh, so again, felt really good. But for two sets of 14 with these with just a 10 pound plate. Um, and I'd like kind of like where I can get that up to maybe 20-ish or something. So again, I just kind of high rep all the back work. You guys know that I've been doing that. I've been doing 15s with 225 on the the rows. And then so then I'm like, let me just do two sets of all my shoulder stuff. So I got a rep PR on these. So I do the plate laterals. I got I got 13 on both sets. I got 12 last time. Um, so we do two sets of plate plate lateral raises. two sets of front raises, two sets of rear delts on the incline bench, and then I'm using the neck harness for two sets, and then we just do pump work for the arms. Now, I might get to a point where I work some real weight back in arms, but I was at a point where with all the dips and rows added with what I was doing with the pull-ups and everything, it's like this is a this is a fair amount of big compounds. But again, I'm also noticing I'm having to watch that total recovery. So again, what I'm doing on all of that, let's just push uh two really good sets of pull-ups and bench, one really all out set of squat and deadlift like that. Um, you know, close to failure on those those big movements. Like I'm trying to go to zero reps in reserve for the most part. Not to true failure, but we want to be to where that next rep would either be really grindy or a miss if I tried one more rep. Um, but this stuff felt all good. So, I want to just double down and hammer my shoulders. And if any of these volume bros and and whatever, right, my old muscle memory will kick in here and all this extra volume because if I do this three times a week, that's a fair amount of delt hitting all the angles, hitting higher reps, hitting quality sets. So, there's a fair amount of pump volume there. But delts are one of those muscles that, you know, can respond to that. That's the thing I I will say like my arms don't really seem to respond to the higher volumes and all the isolation. They don't really grow from it. And we noted that pull-ups and dips and pressing gave me the biggest arms I've ever had while I've been making content years ago. And since I started doing all the arm work and had arm days, my arms are not even as big as they were back then. So, I am kind of looking at it going, I like the band work just to get blood flow and to help with the tendons, but I feel like at this point just pushing progression on the bigger lifts will hopefully get me back to the arms that I had, you know, around 2015, 2016, right? Because I'm overall I'm technically stronger on benching. I'm stronger on the bench than I was then. Uh, but I also feel like my chest is is in a better place. So, I think that's what I'm going to do is kind of like I said, I feel like a lot of times the arm stuff doesn't do much. And I do want to have work dips and stuff back in on some days. So, I also think if I'm going to have days where I work the dips and the rows back in, I can't handle all of those shoulder exercises. Just the laterals will be fine. But that makes sense because the front and rear delts will be getting a lot of work. But I felt like today since I kind of chilled on the extra big lifts and just did four big lifts, um, I could get away with hitting all three ankles. So, the main thing I'm looking at is making sure that those shoulders get a lot of work because again, as I continue to recmp or if I do any sort of cut again and trim another step down like I did not long ago, uh, I'll be in a good spot. Actually, funny. I had someone say, "What happened? You were cutting and you reversed." I'm like, "I haven't regained any weight." I don't know what you're talking about. It's not like I'm up. I cut down and then I've pretty much stayed here um and recomped and worked on performance, but the performance is coming along. I'm getting stronger on all the lifts, staying at that same weight, right? Everything's going back up. So, to me, that is definitely sign of some recomposition happening because otherwise the strength wouldn't be going up on all my rep work. you know, it wouldn't be going up unless I was gaining some muscle and I'm staying at the same weights. So, you know, I'll take the win. But yeah, I feel like for me right now, I just kind of want to stay around there and then eventually I will work on trimming down a little leaner again. But I'm pushing all my work capacity back up. I'm running and then doing lots of GP on the off days. So, I feel like the GPP can handle any other um just hypertrophy that I need and because it's a lot of work. It's a lot of work. So, again, I just want to focus on pushing progress on those those forward lifts and just try to progress as much as possible. But, you know, with the added caveat that I do want to um you know, do some shoulder work and other stuff in there. But, yeah. So, so I feel like I need the little bit of band stuff here. Now, that being said, I may not need all of that if I work those other big lifts back in, right? If I work the dips and rows back in, I may skip all that stuff and just focus on just doing lateral raises after those those six big movements. Um, to again make sure the shoulders are getting worked and l side lateral or lateral raises are going to give the most benefit because it hits the side head the most. Uh but yeah, so we we finished up with uh two sets of band press downs uh and two sets of banded curls. I superseted them together um just to get some blood flow to the arms to keep the tendons healthy and to finish them off because you guys know how I feel about band work for tendons. And we'll see next session if I feel up to it, I'll I'll work in uh the rows and the dips again, right? We'll work those in possibly. But, uh, overall really happy with today's workout. The squats were good, the deadlifts were good, the bench was, even though the bench didn't PR anything compared to recent. It was right at the same edge of where I've been, and they were really, really hard quality set. So, we should be getting a growth adaptation from it. Uh, but overall, good workout. Happy with it. The shoulders were all lit up at the end. So, glad to be finished with the real lifting for the week. Tomorrow will be hopefully, if the weather permits, another GBP session. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next