Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here once again. It is time for a old school bodybuilding workout. Quick reminder though, if you guys will please click like down below, it' be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it so much. Um, I started off with benching today and I decided to just close grip today. I used to only close grip, used to be stronger at it. Um, came in, messed with it before deadlifting first and I kind of got a laugh. I'm like, man, I'm weaker on this than I am with my wider grip, that's for sure, right now. Um, so I ended up doing five reps with 255. Keep in mind I was just doing multiple sets of six with 20 pounds heavier than that. And then uh I was doing eights, actually eight plus for all my work sets with 245. So again, while cutting. So yeah, definitely a little weaker on closed grip. And I actually had a a friend and a guy know said, "Have you tried it thought thought about doing close grip again? You used to be stronger." I'm like, "Yeah, I've been thinking about it." Um, so I did it today and quite frankly wasn't happy with it. I think I'm just going to go back to the pinkies just inside the rings. I feel plenty of chest on it, right? And I feel like as far as the other stuff goes, my dips and other things will cover my triceps. And again, I mean, I like the closed grip, but I just think at this juncture going back to that wider perfect forearm alignment at the bottom probably the way to go. But I thought for oneoff it's fine. I mean, I'm benching more than once a week, so to come in and just rotate it through once, still get a good training response, perfectly fine. Um, so again, just to kind of assess, but yeah, I think I definitely wanted to test it and see. Um, I think I'm going to stick with what I've been doing. I'm going to stick with what I've been doing. We are going to talk about the pullovers though in this one. I think I'm going to pull the pullovers out um because I I really don't need them. Um, I'll talk about that more as we get further into it. Uh, but again, as far as the closed grip versus a little bit wider. I think that pinkies just inside the rings are right at the rings, I feel like I get the best chest activation, and I don't necessarily need my bench to grow the triceps. Um, I feel like dips are going to do the best job of that. And then I'll just work in some some lighter extensions to make sure I finish them off. But again, keep in mind, we're doing full body four to five days a week. Uh, one good exercise per muscle is spine. So, for deadlifts, I decided to to do a little lighter. I decided to just do a really good high rep set. Yes, I'm doing that with squats and deadlifts, doing just one really good set. Um, and I feel like it's enough volume. It's enough volume to definitely maintain my legs uh while we do this deep cut. Um, I thought I was going to whoosh today, but I ended up being 211 again. Uh, we'll see about tomorrow. Might might whoosh tomorrow. Um, but again, got all my cardio done. I've done all my fasted cardio. Uh, I did an hour outside walking on Facebook, then did an hour on my bike on YouTube. Um, so I'm recording this now while my breakfast is cooking in the um the Instant Pot. So again, the deadlift set felt really, really good. Felt like a good stimulus. It's at 425 for eight. And you know, instead of doing what, you know, five or six or 455, um, nice, good, good set, right? Felt good, good stimulus. I did two sets of barbell rows after. Um, and at that point I noticed just my back was kind of feeling fatigued. It's kind of like, you know, that's enough. That's enough for today. We did those reverse hypers yesterday after a Widowmaker squat. Um, and again, because I'm training all of it every day, my back is getting worked every day. Um, I don't want to go super hard on the volume, just enough to say, look, everything, this is enough. Technically, the whole back got worked with deadlifts and rows. So, that's still three sets for lats, as far as I'm concerned. Keep in mind, we did full range of motion dead hang pull-ups for three sets yesterday. We'll probably do those again tomorrow. Um, we don't need to go overboard with this full body, especially in a deficit, guys. I'm in like a thousand calorie deficit a day from all the cardio. We've got to be careful with the total volumes, especially because we're can training everything up to five days a week. So, even three sets of some of the stuff that's 15. All right, the pullovers. Um, even though I like these, I'm noticing the same problem again today. I've been having even with the straight arm pullovers, they're just inflaming my arms. Um, and as much as I might like it, look, as far as the shoulder health goes, I feel like the dips going all the way down and the pull-ups are going to handle what I need for the shoulder health. And as much as I might like the pullovers as a great old school exercise, I feel like it's interfering with my arms and bicep training because my bicep stuff, I had to take like a a five minute break after doing the two sets of these before I could curl. And then they were hurting when I did the curls and the curls made it go away. And I'm like, "Okay, so we need to start thinking about uh do I really need the pullovers and do I even need the pullover type effect on um when I do an extension or could I literally just do incline with dumbbell or could I just do a normal skull crusher to keep the weight reasonably light?" Because quite frankly, either one of those would work. Um and and honestly, dips really really work well for my triceps because I remember at different points in my life, my triceps are biggest. I remember looking at some some pictures I had um from a certain time frame and my triceps were looking pretty beefy all things considered a number of years back. Had a good side shot a shirtless one uh next to mine took. I was doing a lot of dips like dips had become almost a primary for me then a weighted dips at the time. So I feel like dips do really well and I could literally just do skull crushers to finish them off with a light weight. Notice when I say skull crushers, I mean do I'm talking 12 plus reps. Come in and just finish them after doing dips or benching. And I feel like that will get what I need. And that will still be pretty much an arm specialization. But the pullovers, as much as I like them, that it's I'm noticing the arms just getting a little bit inflamed. I'm trying to really focus hard on inflammation. I've been really good the last few days since I added the healthy fats back in. I'm going to keep bumping vegetables antioxidant status. I'm going to add my multi back in. Um, even though I don't necessarily need it, let's just make sure we get oxidative stress as low as possible and add extra fish oil in. Everything I can to keep inflammation under control. So, if I need to take that out, we take it out. Okay? And I what we have to remember, I'm in a big calorie deficit, guys. I'm dropping two pounds a week, week after week after week. It's been consistent at this point. Um, and that's while on higher carbs. Like I'm literally down 11 pounds from when I was on lower carbs while eating 400 plus grams of carbs every day. So, we're in a pretty good deficit. Um, I do have to worry about that stuff. I need to keep all that under control. So, if we need to do whatever we need to do, even if it's minor cheap supplements like that, a good quality multi, my extra shrink fish oil, um, it's going to stay on top of all of it. But I need to start looking at what exercises cause it. Just like I noticed the belt squats were causing a little bit of knee minor knee um inflammation in the patellar tendon. The squats don't back squats. So it's like okay let's just take that out push the stuff that we can while we strip down and rip down. But I want to hammer arms. So I'm staying on top of the incline curls. And then I did some bands because I did have that little bit of of inflammation and it's gone now. The bands always remove it. It's beautiful. the bands remove it. And I noticed that yes, that little bit of waist, that lavundo area is feeling a little squishy, but it's smaller in the behind. So, I feel like I'm losing fat. And so, it's making that kind of just a little bit of a, you know, poking out. And I have a feeling that's about to tighten back up now that the scale keeps dropping. And my weight, but my waist is getting smaller. Like, my waist is smaller than a week ago because I can tell from notches in my different belts and stuff. Uh, the waist is getting smaller. So that's about to start just tightening more and more if we keep dropping that weight. But man, the band curls felt really good after that. So I do feel like they need to be kind of a staple a lot of the days just for that extra pump because my arms could use the work and stuff too though. But I want to I really want to push incline curls, right? I just get such a good burn and that stretch. So I think they're going to I'm going to stick with them as the main stay and I work them in a lot. Um, I want to just push them really hard for a bit. And like I said, people say, "You're not going to gain muscle on this cut." Well, it doesn't mean I'm not going to try, right? I'm gonna try to build biceps and triceps and delts on this cut. I'm going to work at it. And if it doesn't happen, it doesn't happen. Calf raises, we did good. Like yesterday, I only got 11s. I got twelves on all the sets today. These felt really good. It's kind of crazy how that worked. I just really was in my groove. I managed to squeeze out 12 reps on all the sets. Um, they felt good, felt a really good calf pump. Like the calves just it's like, man, they just responded to this today. They were strong. Uh, got good reps. Everything felt good. They felt felt a good squeeze. All three sets. They got a pump, right? And then, of course, I do the little bit of those flexes there. Guys, we get a little leaner when I'm on this tighter belt. I couldn't even put this belt on three weeks ago. It would not fit. Now, I've got it on that little bit of rolling over the top. But once we lose a little more weight, when that stops happening, that's kind of be the next little level up. Soon as we're leaning enough that that stops happening with the belt, that's my next sign. So I'm using this as is as a metric for for, you know, fixed waistline size because again, that belt is is a one inch thick in. It's a 13 mm insert, so it's not moving. So it's a good good metric for what's happening with my waistline. So I like using the belts for that. Uh, but again, calves and legs on point. Uh, but overall good workout. I mean, a couple minor things I'm gonna change. I'm definitely going to stick with the bench grip I've been using. Uh, been happy with it. Replace the pullovers with some extensions and then just keep rocking and rolling with it. So, I hope it's been informative and I will talk to you guys and gals next time.