Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for another full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, like I said, I was going to do uh in the vlog yesterday for the GBP. I want to take some of the stress off the low back, let it recover. It's gotten overly fatigued. Uh, I think mostly from all the loaded carries, so I didn't do those yesterday and I skipped squats today. Funny enough, you know, people will say, "Well, what about deadlifts?" deadlifts don't put anywhere near the same amount of stress on my low back. I don't really feel them that much to be to be fair. Um in my lower back, I just don't. Um so again, I just want to let that area heal up. Chill with the squats for just a moment. Um bench pressing, I did a slightly different rep range for the back off work. I got four reps with my 315. Um a lot of times I come in, I do 245, 225, and just take them to M reps. I went a little heavier on the back off. I did 275 and got eight reps. All of these are paws. Although, I think this next time I really kind of like the high rep stuff for all my non top sets. Uh, so I may come back next week, I think on Friday, and keep trying to PR that 225 because that's been improving, but I feel like at this point I need to just hammer shoulders and overhead work. Like I've said, I'm going to push the overhead, push the overhead, push the overhead, and I'm going to do lighter weight with high reps on it. And we'll get to that in a minute. Uh, to get that range of motion back. I feel like if I just don't beat the joint up with it, I will get there. I feel like I'm getting closer and closer. But yeah, this benching it felt good, man. The 275 um eight reps was difficult. Normally I don't get quite that many ever for back off work when I do this weight. So I feel like my my rep work is just getting stronger on the bench. Um, I feel like it's getting stronger and I feel like if I just get my shoulders back, I'll be able to drive out of the bottom uh more effectively because that wide grip for me tends to be sometimes limited by that through my transition point. All right, deadlifts. Um, I didn't have a grip today. So, this tells me I'm going to keep hammering the hammer curls. Um, keep doing because I pulled the weighted carries out and haven't done them in a few days. I feel like my grip just felt weak. Like my grip sucked on that. I mean, I did the reps, but if my grip had been stronger, I could have easily pulled a third rep with that, but I didn't feel like my grip would hold out. Um, so again, I'm going to double down on my hammer curls. I'm going to double down on the, uh, hanging leg raises. I'm going to do more to bars. So, uh, so I decided today, you'll get to it later, let's just do more hammer curls. Let's keep hammering that grip. And I get a lot of grip training out of hammer curls. Um, so I, so after this I'm like, look, let's just go with what I say is great. Squat, bench, deadlift, pull-ups, overhead press. That's that should be our base builders. Um, so I did my weighted pull-ups today. These are I got two sets of 12 uh with 10 lbs. I'm going a little bit a little bit closer on these uh this week. Sometimes I like to take them out a little wider. Sometimes I like to go really really wide. But I feel like here uh I just I want to take them in a little bit closer. I get a little better range of motion. I feel a little more bicep. Uh, but I might take them back out wider since I'm going to do hammer curls. Also, I feel like I get the most lat. Um, so it's always funny if I go off of feel. People say my muscle connection. For me, wide grip pull-ups, even when people are like, "Oh, they're half up." You know, whatever. It's as far as I can actually go, even on a lat pull down in that position. Um, when I do that, my lats cramp. like it's the most intense lat work I've ever had when I do them wider grip, especially with that overhand grip like that, but um I like to rotate the grips around a lot. I like to vary it. It keeps overuse down. Just get good at pull-ups. I bumped the thing. So, I didn't walk it out far enough. I'm hitting those plates. So, for those are curious like why I had the funny reps. Um so, I'm just going to step this up. It's like look, I've had to restart with the empty bar. like I'm going to get this overhead lockout strength on point and I may even continue to do some of the kettle bells on the GPP day. I'm just I feel like if I do really light weights on the overhead work, I'm eventually going to be able to get into those ranges of motion and it's just not hard on the joints. Like I can handle a lot of it. And so in this case, because I need to improve that mobility, I feel like the the pull-ups and just doing overhead work, right? and then doing the dynamic stuff like the toa bars hanging uh doing the throws, the tosses with the with the med ball, stuff like that. It feels like it's trying to open some of this up. So, I'm just going to keep hammering it. And I think with anything else when we're dealing with a a mobility situation, you just have to lift into those ranges of motion. That's the number one thing you can do. Stretching, once you have muscle and you're strong, I personally just find stretching doesn't do anything. Does nothing. So, I did three sets of these. And keep in mind, if I do three sets every workout, I did it with just the bar. Last time I did 15s. I This is still a lightweight. I I get it, guys. It's 65 lbs. We can laugh at this all we want. You guys used to see me strict press 225 all the time. But I'm going to have to rebuild that range of motion. And it's because I have no strength at the top half. So, I notice that, too. Um, like if I put 135 on there, I can't get it above my eyes. And I know that sounds crazy like I remember you used to do like tens and stuff with that all the time. I'm aware. I'm aware of that. And in that case, how the mighty have fallen, but you know what? These actually feel like fairly hard work sets. Like even the sets of 12 here, they're hard. And I feel my delts and my triceps and everything. So I'm just going to accept that's where it is. So I'm just going to double down on shoulder work and I'm going to do band work for triceps and stuff just to keep the volume there. But yeah, shoulders, shoulders, shoulders. And obviously I'm going to do some bicep. Uh but I feel like for me the stuff I'm just going to really hit real volume. Everything else just going to be strength. Do quality work sets, moderate volume. Uh do my GBP, but shoulders I'm going to just keep hammering them and try to hit those ranges of motion. And I'm going to work shoulders from a few angles. I'm going to do the plate laterals because I really feel these feel really easy on my shoulder joints. Um and I get a really good contraction in the the lateral head. All right. So I'm going to do these. I'm going to keep doing the the throws and things. I'm going to do overhead with the barbell, overhead with dumbbells, overhead with kettle bells. I'm just going to do tons and tons of overhead with just lighter weight. I'm just going to build it up, build the muscle, build the range of motion. I don't have to go heavy on it. And because I've got heavy benching right now, right? I mean, I do work sets of 315 every single major workout, my three full body. So, uh, I just build it up. And so what? So, if I what if I have to use 65 pounds? So what if it just slowly build? So what if I'm still struggling with 95 coming up? We just do the work. Put in the work over and over and over and over and over and that's all that we can do. And that's what I'm going to do. So the same thing with the neck work because I've noticed I I get cricks in my neck. My neck gets in intense cricks in it from sleeping and everything. I'm going to just keep doubling down on the neck work. Again, I feel like again the same thing, postural issues with the shoulder. So we have to work the actual range of motion. And then I need to address stuff like, is my neck strong enough? Is it an upper back and a neck situation also contributing possibly? So, let's just build it. And by that same token, I do all this other athletic stuff. What if I do decide, you know what, I do want to get into a fighting sport later. Let's rebuild my neck and keep my neck super strong. Um, and that way we're ready to deal with all that. And it's more athletic. It helps with my deadlift lockouts. So, again, I'm going to do some neck work in here. So, shoulders, neck, traps, delts, neck, everything, all of it. Just work all of it until I can get to where I can do that overhead work because I feel like for me, even things like the triceps, when I'm strong on bench and overhead press, my triceps are at their biggest. I'm going to do the band work, but my triceps are the strongest they've ever been on isolation work, right? So, not a big deal. I've noticed that all this pressing and dips or whatever I'm doing, it keeps my triceps strong. Like I can go a couple weeks at a time without doing any tricep work. Come back and hit PRs on it. And I've noticed that. So my triceps are strong. So my triceps are definitely not really limiting. I feel like my benching or my overhead. So I can just do the really high band work to help with the lockout. That helps with my bench lockout. I know that from my closed grip days. Um so again here, let's do hammer curls. Works biceps, works grip, and it's not supine. I want to watch the supine stuff because that could be contributing to the shoulder thing. Well, hammer curls still work the biceps amazingly well. Um, they're shoulder healthy for anyone who's had any impingement where supine work might be contributing. So, I'm just going to do hammer curls. Now, this was a little light. I got like 16, 17, 18 reps, whatever on these. Um, so I probably need to go a hair heavier, but they felt good. I can add weight next time. It felt good. Uh, worked my grip. So, again, I feel like again my grip needs more work on the deadlift. At least based on today. Last time it felt good. And I've had sets with like six with the 500 where the grip felt crazy strong recently. So, this could be a one-off day. It could just be some overall fatigue, but I'm also like I would rather do the hammer curls then instead of supine curls because I know they improve my grip. And then I finished off at three sets of high rep band press downs to failure. And the the reps got a little lower. I spaced these out. As I finished up, I went over and did a couple little things and came back a couple minutes later between because I was like getting my Insta Pot going. I grabbing a couple things. So I came back and forth just to finish them off and make sure that I didn't lose too much performance on them. They were spaced out, not little one minute breaks. So they were three hard sets. So I did three pretty hard sets of these, trying to again make sure that I really hammered those triceps because I don't want to do these on the GPP days if possible. I feel like I need to avoid them. Why? Uh I don't want them my triceps too fatigued walking into the bench days as I'm going to bench heavy three days a week. So I can do them at the end of these workouts. Um, and again, just push them pretty hard. It'll help whatever I need for the bench lock out because this does carry over and it biomechanically it makes sense why it carries over. Not really a point of contention. Uh, so again, but double down on the on a lot of the grip. Double down on the delts. Delts going to be delts, delts, delts, delts, delts for the most part and lots of overhead work until I get that range of motion restored. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.