All right. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with another bicep workout. Yes, I'm fully aware this is four of these in a row. We're now limiting them to three sets with progressive overload. Um, I'll go ahead and squat tomorrow no matter what. I'm going to probably get in. If it's really cold, I'm just going to do my normal abbreviated workouts where I do my squats, weighted dips, way to pull-ups and pullovers and get out of there. Um, but if it's warm enough, I'll do a full one. And then coming up next week, we'll be back on the normal rotation. I do like this idea of doing the biceps in between. And I think what I'm going to do is keep kind of doing what I'm here. Just focus on the barbell curl. Okay. Does everything we need it to do. I can progressively overload a single movement, which we've seen this week, right? Normally, I can only get about 12 to 13 reps. Um, we've added reps every single day. I started with more volume. Um, I got 20 reps on everything today. I did 20 reps with this. And some people are going to chime in with, well, you know, this is really light where you every time people tell me that, it doesn't work. You all it does is beat my tendons up like anything else or I have to just have to start doing cheat curls. No, in this case, I'm just progressively overloading. And I would point out to people, look, if you take your 10 rep max and turn it into a 20 rep max, or you're doing multiple sets of 20, you're going to grow. Okay, this is common sense. Then if you start getting too high a reps, you go, "Yeah, you know, I can add a little bit of weight and then build that to 20 reps and add a little weight, especially on a smaller movement." Now granted, a barbell curl is technically a bigger movement for the biceps. It's kind of a compound. It does work a lot of the shoulders and and other muscles. Um, so the idea here though is that notice I'm just keeping it real strict. We're just keeping a steady flow. um going through my kind of my full range of motion, but without really trying to extend all the way up. So, I'm not rotating the shoulders a lot to get it to the face, right? And I'm keeping what for me is kind of pinning my arms to the side. Again, my lats and stuff get in the way. Um and obviously that like left elbow that is as far as it goes. We've demonstrated this with weighted hangs. Uh but that being said, uh the pump and the burn in my biceps has been ridiculous on these. they are you just burning like hell at the end of every set. Uh and again, we're seeing progressive overload and that's that's the main thing. I mean, I've now hit 20. Although on the last one, I tried to get 21. I couldn't quite get it all the way up. Well, I guess it looked like on camera we got it. Looks like we got it. But the other thing weird looking leaner, this lighting is definitely uh doing me justice here. Um and that's a problem I've run into a few times, too. I am horrible with lighting, guys. Horrible with lighting. I've had a lot of people say, "If you just use better lighting and did some other stuff, people would think you're more jacked. Everyone else does it." Like, this would be a good example because this lighting makes me look more jacked than I think I really look. Um, but I've had that said in the past a few times by people who know me. They're like, I've had people say, "Look, you are bigger and leaner, more cut than you look on your videos, you know, fix your lighting." But I'm like, "I'm in my garage. There's only so much I can do in there with the normal lighting." Um, and that's okay. Um, so just going to keep focusing on getting leaner, you know, and people who are like, "Well, you need to get leaner." Why am I we can see it chipping away. The lower carb is working really well. It's working really well. And it's not going to be a fast process, but that's uh been the other beauty of it, too. You know, by doing it all slowly, I've gotten stronger. I mean, look at my my lifts on the big movements. I'm hitting for a lot of people would be really heavy weights for 10 reps, 15 reps, 20 reps, you know. So, so realistically, we've done really well there, and I'm happy with that. And I will point that out. We have to remember that the high reps still make you good at maxis. again, you turn your your six rep max into a 10 or a 12 rep max, you're going to get stronger at maxing out. You're building more muscle, more potential. Um, and that's the other thing I'm I'm noticing when I'm doing these a bit more reps are just easier on on the joints. It's different, you know, when you're weak. Different when you're weak, but you know, same thing like with my squats and stuff, you know, have to point that out. We got to point that out. My three and five rep sets would be pretty dang heavy at this point because I do 10 to 12 with 405 on a high bar. Like we need a context for this. Same thing even with flat bench. I'm up to five plus for five rep sets of 315. I would rather just save my joints and just build muscle and it will turn into maxes anyways. Uh but again the idea here uh so again kind of repeating this so that we get long enough video for a proper vlog but uh three sets we got 20 technically we got 21 on the last one. Um so it might be time to add a little bit or I could get the reps a little higher and then you know add some micro plates. Add some microp plates and just do these couple day two or three days a week. I can do my normal full bodies either two or three days a week. I progress just fine even on weeks where I've done them with only two and just keep stripping down the body fat, but I do need my biceps to grow, get leaner, get more biceps. Um, and then I don't think anyone can really hate on on what I'm doing in terms of training or physique, even though I am a strength athlete first and foremost. Uh, all right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.