Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for another full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. A little bit of PRs in here today. Um the deadlift though is still very much lagging. It's dropped down to five and I feel like that's literally everything I have. I don't have a sixth rep in there. Um part of it feels like uh my grip is just kind of fatigued. Um and that's okay. But the squatting went okay. Obviously, there's a warm-up and then I go to uh 405. And I think part of the the the deadlift though because I'm going deeper. Um I am breaching depth on all these squats. It is probably giving me a little more fatigue walking into the deadlift. And plus, I'm also not benching between. A lot of times I would bench between it gives me a longer break. I'm kind of going over just resting a few minutes and going right into the deadlift after the squat. So, probably a little bit of overall fatigue, but still to to be, you know, five reps being really really hard considering eight was pretty much my normal is some loss, but the scale is also going down. Um, I was sitting at like 213 that whole time. I'm back down to like 210 at the moment. So, uh, definitely getting leaner. I can tell I'm leaner just in general. Uh, but the squats, um, this set was really smooth. You know, I didn't feel like an 11th would have been really, really grindy. The 10th was was really heavy. Maybe one rep in reserve, but that's really pushy. And I know people say that with my squats and they don't understand because you guys have watched me fail squats that look like I was going to make right. There have been squats where I came out of the bottom, everything looked good and I just miss it. Um, so for me, I can't grind squats that well. So that last rep there, that was really close to the limit set. Uh, but I'm consistently getting the 10 reps while dropping body weight and body fat. So, I'll take the win cuz we're not long before that. That's going to be double my body weight if I'm still getting it for 10. Um, I don't think anybody can hate on that. All right. Not even for my age, even if I was 25. So, let's come over to the deadlift. Um, the deadlifts are just a bit of a fight right now. And again, overall fatigue. the fatigue, the the diet. And for people who don't know what I'm doing, my calories are high, but I'm heavy. Protein overfeeding while fasting. I have about a six, seven hour feed window um in the afternoon, and I'm eating extremely massive amounts of protein with lower carbohydrate. So, it works well for tightening up, but some of that it's it's a bit of a struggle on the deadlift, but interesting. All my pressing strength is doing good. Now, the benching, again, I'm still stuck at 18. at 18 every time. I feel like I'm getting deeper into getting a continuous set without pausing at the top. Some of them you guys will notice I take more pauses. I'm getting better at getting to like first it was like 10 then 12 then like 15 without even stopping, you know, without a re reassessment at the top, you know, kind of just rebreathing really well. Uh pausing at a lockout and I'm grinding through. Um but the 18 isn't as a rep max. Like I don't have a 19th. You guys hear me on the the the shorts that I do of these. You'll hear me like straining and grunting um on that last rep. But the 18 is good all things considered because my best ever um was on more carbohydrate, little more arch uh belt and wrist wraps when I got 19. So, I mean, I'm consistently now hitting 18 and I feel like the 20 is coming. And I know that doesn't look like it was an 18 rep max. Now that I look at the footage, I'm like, really? Why did that feel so heavy? Um, but dips, we got a PR. Then I bumped the weight up on the pullovers. I got a lifetime PR on the dips, so that should carry over. All right, the pull-ups. I'm not even going to argue about my lockout. I don't I don't care anymore. I'm just going to argue. I don't read people's comments. I don't care. I literally don't read the comments on my YouTube anymore, only on Facebook. Um, if you guys want to talk to me, you can talk to me in live streams. All right. Um, but this went well. We got 13 and we got 11 continuous, then a rest pause. I had to regrip. So, again, this is at least training my grip, which feels like it's a bit of a limit. And then we got two more. So, 13 total. All right. Here's the big one. The dips. Dips. And I don't think we could ever complain about bigger chest or triceps. I don't care whether you're powerlifting or bodybuilding. Bigger pecs and bigger triceps are are 99.9% of the time going to be an asset. But man, I'm up to 20 and they're deep. Notice we're getting deep way below parallel. I'm super happy with that. Like I just got in my groove. I started doing these, you know, and I got 18 the last couple times which were PRs and I'm like, man, I bet I can get to 20 soon. I got in it and I just kept going. I just ke and it just it just worked because I take these to failure. So, I just go till I stick at the bottom. I didn't think I'd get the 20, but I knew I'd get 19. As I started counting in my head, I realized I I got 19, but I went for the 20 and I got it. It was hard and then I stuck at the bottom. Um, that's that's a lifetime PR. Well, that should be carrying over to my bench. Um, curls. I picked up two reps today. So, I got 18, I think, with this. I got last time I got 16 with a little rest pause. I got like 16 continuous here and then I rested a little between the last two reps. I managed to get 18. So there's also my lock out. So people who don't understand what they're seeing on the pull-ups, I'm locking out at the bottom. That's my elbows. Um and and it is what it is. Probably a factor of why it's difficult with my biceps because my bicep my elbows don't lock fully. So I may be that true full deepest stretch length position. I just I simply can't do it. Now, keep in mind that left one is worse. The left one's one that was reattached. I had that bicep repaired over 20 years ago. Now, could be a factor, but it doesn't feel it in the bicep. It feels like it's the elbow locking. I don't know. What do you do? Um pullovers though, I'm like, "Yeah, let's go ahead and do this." I I did 40 reps with a 45 last time. Like, I know I got more than 10 with two plates, but man, are they tough. We got 16 reps though. First rep always feels a little dicey that I'm able to get a little deeper and try to get deeper as we went. Um, but again, working on that mobility, which I need. I need the shoulder and the elbow mobility and stuff or the flexibility. It's just the only way it's going to build is movements like this that stretch it. Going into hangs on the pull-ups, doing this stuff. And we'll just work it up the best that we can. But loaded stretching, but these burn. Um, I got 16 reps. I got 16 reps. I'm pretty happy with that. Like, that's good. I don't know if I got 16 before. I know I was getting like 12 consistently. So, my chest and triceps are clearly stronger then, right? Because I was getting like I think the last time I did 90, I was doing about 12 or so. I could be wrong. Could be wrong, but I know I wasn't getting 16. So, that's probably a PR. Let's see if we can get that to 20. My bench has got to go up if all this stuff goes up. And then I finish up with just a set of band curls. I wanted to get some blood flow to those tendons and the biceps. Get a little more bicep work. Um, and that still helps me into that shorten position, which I do have really well because even though I can't fully lock out, I can do this. Um, but great workout. Happy with it. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.