Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and it's time for another full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, pretty much what I've been doing, I'm going to rotate some of my movements, but I feel like as long as we get a lower body lift, a squat or a deadlift, a push and a pull, and then some type of supplemental work will be good. Um, so on the high bar squats, I got 13 today with 405. Um, I felt kind of shaky doing these, but I managed to just keep going on the reps. Uh, kept going on the reps, although it left my abs cramping up. So, when I tried to bench a little bit, I did notice that. Um, today on the bench, I decided I have not touched anything over 225. I don't think at all this year. I've just been doing the high rep stuff, 225, trying to get to that 20. I haven't quite hit it. I just wanted to see how 315 would feel, you know, because I haven't touched anything heavy and I was a little worried. You know, it's like technically in theory my rep count should have gone up there, but I haven't touched anything heavy. So, yeah, when I unrackcked it, it just it felt kind of funny. U but I got four reps. So, I did that and you know, I got four reps doing my pretty much a flat back uh no leg drive. We got we got four reps. You guys notice though when you watch me do it, this is hilarious, right? When you watch it, notice that the reps are pretty clean. I mean, I felt like, h, this feels kind of weird. I almost need to practice with 315 again if I want that those reps to get really good, right? Because watch when I do the fourth rep, I lock it and then I wait a second, a couple seconds to rerrack it. Why? Because I was debating in my head if I wanted to go ahead and do another rep, but I'm like, I haven't gone heavy on this in a while. Let's not get crazy. Um, but it also tells me really what I'm going to have to do here. If I want the 315 rep counting up, I may have to actually practice it, but I also really want that 225 for 20. So, I I I'm kind of torn between do I want to work one or the other? And what's interesting to note there, um, what's going to be interesting to note, I felt all chest on that. So, I always say that when I do those really high reps, my triceps feel like they're limiting me from getting the 20. My triceps are burning. They're so on fire the last five or six reps, and I feel like my triceps give out. All right. On the endurance end, which also tells me it's mainly just endurance there because but when I did the heavier, my triceps felt crazy strong. Like my triceps didn't even feel like they were a limiting factor. They didn't feel like they were really working. like 315 it just felt like on my chest. Thought that was rather interesting. It was it felt like a pure almost chest isolation. But um it lets me know though that my triceps are are plenty strong because when I when I look at relative tricep strength, things like the dips, what I could do on the extensions, I'm stronger on that stuff than even when I benched 365 pause before. Stronger than when I was doing these sets of five with 315. you know. So, I do I do feel like at this point maybe the triceps limit the ultra high rep work only because it just burns into them so much, but it's definitely not limiting my heavy work. Even the way the bar path moves, um, triceps are plenty good. So, I'm like, do I need any tricep isolation? Probably not. My triceps get hammered on the dips. They get hammered on the pull. Like, my triceps, the long head gets hammered on the pull-ups. So, I'm like, I don't know that I need to do the pullovers at the moment. I would almost just rather do something for my shoulders since I can't overhead press still. Like, let's just do the front raises. I PR the front raises though. Um, and so I'm going to keep hammering the curls, but again, and then on the other days, I'm going to push those reps on the dips. Although, I also am going maybe maybe I should slap the two plates on and try to get PRs with the heavier dips. So, see if we can just get everything stronger. Um, that's also an option, but I really like the high rep stuff. I find it really enjoyable and I feel like I'm gaining muscle with it. So, I'm a little more inclined to just keep pushing those rep PRs. All right. I want to get to that 20 on the on the 225 bench. I really want to get to that 20. And I feel like if I can get it there, then I can come back and start working 315 up and see if we can get six reps, seven reps. I could have got a fifth today. I just kind of stopped on it. Said it just feels it feels a little unusual. I'm not used to moving over 225 again. So, we stopped at the four. Like I said, I mean, I held it at the lockout there for a minute and then reacted. So, I mean, the strength was there. It was definitely there. But uh overall the workout felt good. Everything lit up. Felt like good effective training. Obviously got pull-ups. I'm not trying to do the rest pause. I'm just I'm going to rest pause the curls. Do I really need to be pushing my lats that hard? I have massive lats. Massive lats. I'm not worried about it. I'll save the rest pause stuff for the weak points, the biceps, which will just make my pull-ups stronger anyways. But even then, I'm happy with this. Like for for me to get even still to be getting 10 reps with a 45 pound plate. I'm happy with that. And it was to failure. I didn't really have another rep and it lights my back up. Uh but the other thing is, yeah, pull-ups hit my my long head of my triceps super hard. Hits them super hard. They hurt after those sets. Um so I'm I'm cool with that for now. I'm like, do I need the pullovers all the time? I like pullovers, but I I just feel like the front raises because it does work my shoulders, my upper chest pretty effectively. We'll probably do a little more for that heavier bench, right? It'll do more for the heavier bench because even when I add the tricep work and I get stronger at it, it still doesn't bring that that rep count up on the bench. So, I think what's really happening is my chest is pretty much finished on those higher reps. So then my triceps are having to take over is probably most likely why they burn so bad near the end, right? Because the triceps are now having to do a larger share of the work. So yeah, let's just we'll hammer down on all this stuff. Uh and my triceps get plenty of work. I'm really strong at dips at this point. They get lit up from that. The benching, the high rate benching still hits them. So let's just work the chest and the shoulders a little bit. And of course, we'll keep pushing the curls on the off days because quite frankly, curls are my still my weakest body part where biceps are. But overall, good workout. Happy with it. Keeping with the trend of what I'm doing. I feel a little goofy today, right? And I don't feel like it's just the lighting. I feel a little poofy today. My waistline felt bigger today. Probably with some some stuff I ate. I ate some extra nuts and things yesterday and I felt like it just kind of bloating me. So, we'll we'll take all that out today. We'll skip that and see if that goes down in how we look uh tomorrow. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.