Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here and once again it's time for another bicep workout. Uh but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um so going to keep doing what I've been doing. Um I really like this idea of doing 20 plus reps. We're trying to work up to 20s on everything. Um I think this coming week we're going to do more and more of that. Like I've done a lot of it for upper body, not quite for lower. Um you know, but I hit 315 for 20 on the squat. I want to see if I can pull 405 for 20, right? Do these really high reps and then progressively overload those. Um, I don't know. I just find them easy. I find them enjoyable. Yes, they're taxing, but it's just not as hard, you know, as lifting really heavy, you know, all things considered, trying to rep 500 on a squat compared to doing what you should be able to do with that 315 for 20. 315 for 20 is easier. It really is. and it's easier on your joint to get you in shape and it still builds muscle and strength. So, I definitely am, you know, enjoying a lot of this while I'm slowly chipping away at the body fat. Uh, but as far as the curls go, yeah, I think on most of the off days, um, I'm just going to do my three hard sets of curls. Notice we've gotten stronger just by doing that for a week. So, that kind of raises some questions. I had some people on the Facebook ask, you know, hey, how long can you sustain that? I'm like, for two days? you know, it's not not something you would do for weeks or months. Um, like I did the higher volumes just at first, get used to it since I wasn't doing any other training uh to get acclimated to it, right? And the strength went up every single workout all the way up to this last one. We managed to get 20 there. I managed to get 21. I felt like I failed the last rep, but it's clean enough on camera. uh with the 65 pounds. So, I added the micro plates today and sure enough, I couldn't quite get 20, which makes sense. So, I got something like 19 on the first two, then 18. I just didn't have anything left. Um, but I like that. Just do three hard sets, do them to failure. Some of it, some of it can be a little rest pause, right? Which is kind of what I do near the end, especially the last set. Um, and progressively overload it, you know? So, when I can get to 20 across the board, we add weight again, right? Even if it's fractional plates and with lighter things like this, you can do this, right? And the burn, the bicep burn has been intense on this stuff. So, we'll see how it works out for a bit. But that's the thing. I can keep everything else at the moderate volumes and just specialize a bit in arms. And if I'm smart with all of it, it's not going to be a recovery problem. Fortunately, biceps are such a small muscle. They're the smallest major muscle in your upper body. People don't realize that like everything else is almost twice the size minimum. Delts are like three times the size. Uh, you know, everything else is usually at least double, right? It's the smallest major muscle. So, we're not seeing a whole lot of systemic fatigue. So, you can get away with it as long as we don't overuse the tendons and things. And so, that's kind of the point with with doing the lighter weight. I'm doing sets of 20. Um, the tendon is kept very, very mild. [snorts] So, I'll see what I can do here. And I may do it almost every day, but it's only three sets. So, if it's done three days a week, it's nine. If I end up doing four on all the off states, it's only 12 total sets. But we're keeping that muscle protein synthesis up all the time in the biceps, right? We're keeping it up. And as long as the tendons will hold up, I'm probably good. If I start getting tendon inflammation, then we know to back down. But again, the beauty of when you do the higher rep stuff like this, that doesn't happen. And it still gets you bigger and you still get stronger. And I think people forget that. Look, if your 20 rep maxes go up 10%, your maxes are going to go up 10%. Right? We all get that. So, if you're doing 285 for 20 and you build it up to 315 for 20 and then test your max on that lift or spend a week or two ramping them up, it's probably going to be higher than you think it might be. It's definitely going to be higher. So, that's the idea. Um, so again, progress on this, you know, in microlo, this is where the actual fractional plates come in handy for really small exercises like this. All right. It helps. Now, a lot of people would be like, "Why don't you just go heavier and do cheek curls?" There's no need. All right. No need. Just be easy on the tendons and just build the bicep and it burns like hell. Like I feel a deep burn pump. I feel like my biceps because I'm going so light because I'm having to do 20 trying to do 20 reps. All right. We started with like 15 or 16 here. Uh, by doing that, the biceps seem to feel everything, right? They seem to feel everything, the whole brunt of it. So, that's that's the interesting thing because everything else is getting worked hard on my other stuff. So, not a big deal. So, we'll run it for a while and see how it does. And if I don't enjoy how it turns out, I'll go over to just doing these at the end of my other workouts. But by doing it this way, also, they're fresh. my performance is going to be a little better and we're going to have a really high frequency with it. Um, so again, just gonna do this for a little bit and see how it works out for me. I think it's reasonable. It's easy to do. Get in. I can do it while doing other work. Uh, so I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.