Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness and once again it is time for a full body workout. Uh let's get over into it. We start obviously with squat bench and deadlift. Um now that my shoulders are feeling really good and as I'm working on on just opening up the shoulders and avoiding anything overhead. Um so again I can eventually get that range of motion back. Um I've started doing just high bar squatting uh because I can get into the position pretty well. It's pretty comfortable. And so again, uh just working on on high bar squats. Um and I think what I want to do with some of this, just like I'm building up work sets with 315 again on the bench, uh 500 on the on the deadlift, I'm like I do want to start doing top sets with the 405. I'm back to doing just the singles with it as we're getting used to all the running and stuff. Um and again, I've done stuff I did like 415 the other day, too. So these are not really true maxes. They're just getting some good singles in. I will start working on more volume with 405. Something I've kind of realized and I know as far as progressive overload goes, I don't need to go super heavy on my big three. I can I can just work on volume and building volume with, you know, 405, 315, 500. Um, and I can do that or I can bump the weight. But I also do kind of like that idea of let's just get really good at those weights. Um, and again build top sets. So the benching is doing well that way. And I'll get the squatting back to where I come in to do work sets, I think, with the 405. Um, and I and I think that will be um that'll be fun, something I could work on, too. But I'm just kind of staying near that weight. I I just feel like right now I don't need to come in and necessarily max. I could I did start doing that of ramping up training maxes, but I could also just get used to doing more and more 405. Uh, but at the end of the day, at least we're coming in and squatting. And I'm finding that shoulder position that's comfortable for me because again I want to be able to overhead press. Again, that's a really really high priority for me. And so I'm looking at all of my lifts of what's going to, you know, keep my shoulders healthy and reduce that inflammation. So I've been minimizing anything overhead. And even though I love incline, I'm not even inclining for just a bit. And I want to see if we can get that range of motion um restored, right? We want to get that range of motion restored. So I can do that. Um, so again, even messing a little with the high bar squats, they feel they feel pretty comfortable up there. Um, so again, I just had to kind of find my grip again on them with my current uh range of motion on my shoulders. So, it's in a little closer. So, I like just gripping them there and then squeezing the bar and pulling down a little bit. Uh, but yeah, that actually feels pretty comfortable up on my shoulder area. So, I think I'm just going to mess with that for a bit and uh just keep squatting away. All right, benching. I only did two sets. like all these I'm like I'm hitting um since I'm doing all this stuff three times a week, I'm like some of these movements I can literally do two work sets and just progress on them and if I'm progressing we're good. So it's kind of like I think we're in a good spot. So I only did two sets of bench today and I know it's not a lot. People say well that's six sets a week but that's enough. They're hard sets or challenging sets and that's what I'm finding with a lot of this stuff. The less volume I do the stronger I personally do tend to get sometimes. Like I don't have to just beat volume. Now I did for arms a little bit, but it's a lot of band work and stuff, right? A lot of bands, but my arms need the work. But my big lifts, I don't need huge volumes. I can push progression on the squat, bench, deadlift, and rope. Push progression. Just continue to overload them. And then I can do a little pump for the arms, right? But I'm going to push curls as a as a real lift. So I mean pump for the arms, I just mean the band stuff at the end. But that triple was really good. Nice. Good pauses. happy with it. And because last time, remember I've been doing like up to six with the 275 is back off. I got seven last workout. And so I just stopped. I'm like, I'm not even going to do a third set of benching because if I'm if I'm progressing, does it matter? Like what's the point of doing more? We're seeing progress. Let's chill. And then if I need to, I'll add more. And I'll have days where I come and do three sets like I've been doing. But even this, I got I went up five pounds and I still got seven, right? because I did 270 for seven last time. I did 280. I got seven reps and they're all clean pauses. Um I feel like once I wrist wrap up that really wide grip, I've noticed I get really good wrist stacking. Everything feels locked in tight, right? So I feel like just working this way on the bench style, the bench is going to go up. Those 315s are going to start going up for more and more reps. All right, deadlift. I feel like again the rows are carrying back over. Um I know I need to progress here a little. So I've been doing triples and they felt kind of hard, but my strength is coming back on the deadlifts now that I'm not trying to cut. I'm just kind of staying at this body weight. And I got four reps, right? They felt good. Like I got to the third rep and I'm like, I can totally do a fourth. So we progress a little bit. We did four reps on this. But I feel like a lot of these movements um because I'm not going to probably get much bigger than I am at this point. any progress will help me get thicker. Um, you know, if I can just get more reps even with these three weights, um, we're in a good spot. All right, so rows, I went really strict last time, right? I went super strict and I got managed to get eight on the last set with 225. So, I'm like, let me just try to row as strict as I can. Total pen style strict. Uh, minimize. So, I keep it as strict as I can and hit the chest. All right. So, I went with two because I got eight last time. I'm like, let's do 2:30. Well, I got 10. Then I got 10 again. I'm like, you know, this is good. Let's just chill here. That's good. And I had some an appointment. I had something I had to sort um coming up. And so, I didn't have want to have go set my sled up. I got a lot going on right now. Um I didn't have time to set the sled up. So, I'm like, let me just do an extra set of band work or so at the end to accommodate not doing that. But, I mean, the sled we we added more weight on the sled Friday. So, if the weather permits, I'll try to get out and do sled on Wednesday after. Um, but the rows, like my stricter rows, uh, these were good, right? These were real good. I'm happy with this. So, I'll just keep progressing on this. Um, but since I got a PR there in terms of the stricter row from last time, I'm like, two sets is good. Long as we're progressing, we can get away with six sets a week. So, that would be the worst case if we just do two. All right, the curls. Um, I went up. I got 10. I think I got 11 on at least one of these sets. I lost count, but I've been doing 12. I got 12 last time with this really strict curl, right? And I had someone actually say, "Why are you doing half reps?" I'm not. My forearm is touching the bicep. That's the full range of motion because I'm choosing not to do the the shoulder rotation or shoulder extension. And it's because I want to make sure my shoulders are not inflamed. I want them to heal up so I can overhead press. I'm just doing them just the elbow. I'm trying to only move the elbow joint in terms of loading. In fact, I'm bringing the elbows back just a hair on some of the reps just to kind of keep it uh focused like that. So, again, just a strict strict barbell curl. Trying to not move my torso, trying to lock the elbows and just bring them up and try I'm trying to keep my elbows pinned to my side the best I can. When you have big lats, that is really hard to do. Uh but we got uh solid on these, right? So, I went up five pounds again. uh managed to get 10. I got I got at least 11 on one of them, but I got twelves with the other weights. I'm like, it's time to add weight, right? We add five pounds. We're hitting 12 reps. And I feel like that's a good good approach on something like this. Um you know, you can work with the same weight. And when I can get to that, we just kind of use some double progression. And I think that works fine for an isolation movement like a barbell curl. But I need the curls, right? I'm not doing pull-ups anymore. And quite frankly, my arms need it. So I'm like, let's do that. Um, and then the same thing I do band press downs. All right, because I know band press downs helped me build my clos grip bench to 365 years ago, uh, when I was at a heavier body weight. I know they carry over well for me. And I'm like, as long as as I can get the weight off the chest, uh, this will help me lock it. So, I'm like, let's do the band work just for now. I'm just doing three three sets to failure at the end of these workouts just on the band press downs because again, it'll help that tricep lock out. Even though we could argue the bench may be enough. I don't know that it is when I'm only doing six. So, if I'm doing more sets, it might be. But I think in the interim, um, if I'm not going to add incline or anything for just a moment, the band press downs. Now, as soon as I can start benching and inclining or benching and overhead pressing, I think my triceps will be they'll get plenty from all that. But, in the meantime, I'm like, let's just do some band press down. keep the elbows healthy, get blood flow, keep the tendons, keep the tendons as healthy as we possibly can. So, I'm just doing a little bit of band work, but I'm going pretty hard on the other stuff. Um, so again, like I said, we're pring today on a little less volume. I have a lot of stuff going on. Uh, some a lot of irons in the fire. So, again, I do need to watch the stretch management on this, but I think we're in a really really good place there. The running's going great. Uh, the lifting's really good here. So again, another reason I'm not I'm not cutting. At the moment, I'm just going to stay at the same body weight. See if we can recmp a little, get stronger, improve my run times, and then we'll we'll we'll peel down a little leaner coming up here again after that. Uh but also just to make sure I got enough work in. I'm like, I'm not I don't have time to set up this. Let me just do some band curls, right? Just a little bit more pump for the arms, a little bit to help with the bicep tendons. So, I did just a set of band curls here just to finish the workout. Um happy with them, of course, took them to failure. Uh, so just did some pump work for the arms after my four big barbell movements just using progressive overload. It works. It's simple. It's effective way to train and it get gets you big and strong. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.