Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and once again it is time for a bench press and upper body day. Uh quick reminder though, please click like down below. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you will be so kind as to drop a comment down below, it would be greatly appreciated. Um so did pretty much what I said I want to do with benching. Obviously, we're going to start with bench press every day. U it's always going to be the staple on the upper body and bench press day. We're going to start with bench press. So three sets today. uh instead of going up to heavy 315 top sets, like I said, I want to work down in, you know, that five, six rep range uh for now with perfect reps. So, what I want to do with this, I want to use this as a primary chest builder. So, I want it to be heavy enough that we get carry over to maxis, but I want perfect reps, pause reps. Notice there's a lot of long pauses. There's nothing even close to a touch and go. So, the idea here, I'm taking a grip that is still comfortable for my shoulders. Notice I'm inside the rings completely. So notice there's about a half inch gap between my hand and those rings. Um so the whole idea here I want good wrist stacking and I want to get the deepest stretch possible on my chest. So the idea flatfooted fairly flat back the arch is very very minimal wrist stacking everything pause. So the idea I want here is to have about one rep in reserve. Notice the last rep. We're slower. When I can tell that's going to be the last rep I take a longer pause. I want about a two a good two count pause. So which for me feels like two seconds, pause it longer and then drive it up as hard as I can. So the idea chest hypertrophy while still getting carryover to to our max bench. Now could I always go to other grips? I' I could even take this over to a closed grip if I want. Um I could certainly do that again. I could do that without any problems or change in my programming really. That's the beauty of this. I'm using this grip a little bit for now because it's still shoulder safe inside the rings, but I could always go back to full close grip at any point. Not going to do the really wide grip. It doesn't matter how strong I was on it. It's just not good for my shoulders. Could I do it for a max one day? Sure. Could I work on a big arch? Could I go all the way to, you know, limits of uh meat legal? Sure. But for now, I'm just going to use it. I want to use it as a chest builder. Build my chest. Build my chest. Build my chest with the bench. So, pause. Pause. pause because the pause bench is going to give me the most carryover. It's going to be the easiest on your joints. Okay. Um, so for my pull-up variation today, I went ahead and just did chin. So, I'm like, h, why not? I'm reaching the point I I always go look. My back is my best body part, but I still want to do stuff for the back. So, a lot of times I do the wider grip pull-ups. Uh, but I like to rotate them around. And I feel like sometimes, let's just do chins instead. I like phases of chin-ups. I like phases of pull-ups. the end of the day, my lats are never going to be a weakness at this point. As long as I'm doing a pull-up or a chin-up of some type, and I'm getting a deep stretch, they're going to work. I'm like, ah, this will give us a hair more bicep work. Might as well. All right, why not? Uh, so again, this is one of those where people always ask me, make up your mind on chin-ups or pull-ups. I don't have to. I don't have to. I love both. I think they both bring something a little bit different to the table. I think the pull-up is a little bit better for lats. I think the chin-up is better for biceps. But I'm in a case where my back is doing great. I'm about to start doing volume deadlifts. I feel like my back is just not going to be a problem. So, I'm not that worried about it. So, let's continue to make sure that the the arms continue to grow. And I really want to focus on the the rear delts and stuff, too. The rear to side delt. Um, so for my tricep exercise, I I thought about it and I've been doing those extensions and I've gotten stronger at them. And as much as I love them, I don't know that they give me great bench carryover. Dips should though. So, it's like, let's just do dips for now for a tricep exercise. Let's focus on not ego lifting. Let's go all the way down as far as I can go, which means I can only do the 45 for eight. Right. The last set was done to failure. So, I got 88 and then eight and then failed. So, again, I feel these in my triceps massively. Do they work the long head still? Yes. So, that's kind of a point with the dip. It works all three heads. The point is people go, "Well, it doesn't put the long head in a stretch position." True, but it absolutely activates it better than a bench. So, we are getting that. It's a great tricep exercise. It also happens to work the chest really well. I'm going to count it as my tricep exercise. I'm going to count the bench as my chest exercise. This will be my tricep. I'm doing chin-ups and pull-ups all the time, though, too. So, the long head does get put into a stretch. I've seen people point that out, too. I mean, people do chin, you know, pull-ups and dips and get really good triceps. So, let's just do go with stuff that I know is going to carry over to my bench, but the bench builds triceps, too. So, I'm just want to get stronger at the bench. Um, and I can always do band press downs on some days. I like to do them sometimes between workouts, like I did some yesterday. So, that will also give a little extra tricep work. And I'll probably still do band press downs all throughout the week here and there. So again, it's not like my triceps are still not getting an isolation movement. Um, but I had been doing the dips for a while, right? And I really liked them and I'm like, let me take them back out to do more benching, but I'm like, do I have to take them out to do more benching or can I just count them as a tricep exercise, right? I was doing them for weeks and weeks. U really enjoy them. Feel like they've done a lot for improving my shoulder health when I go all the way down. All right, so for the curl today, um, going with the incline. I've always told you guys, even a couple weeks ago, I really like the incline curl. It hurts like hell. I don't like to always do it because sometimes it leaves my arms so sore I can't stand it later. You see where I'm going? So, really kind of you're going to see my three main stays are always going to be strict bar curls, cheek curls, and then incline curls, right? Feel like they they all bring so much to the table. Uh, but I've decided let's just work with the incline today. This is the heaviest weight I've ever handled for the same weight I used last time. These are It's so hard, but I'm like, man, it just feels good. Like every single rep was hard. Every single rep lit my biceps up. It's like that first rep I almost feel like I can't complete the rep. That's a good spot to be in. Um, but my biceps were really fired up uh from this. But it makes sense. It's stretch position for the biceps. So, I'll probably rotate at different times through those three types of curls, but I did feel like today incline curls make sense. Um, I like them. They work great. I feel them a lot. It'll help bring my biceps up. All right. So, that's what we did. And it let me have the incline bench already set up and ready. Just lower the dumbbells a little bit to do my rear delts. Um, and those are kind of my staples I feel like for rear delts, too. Either laterals or the rear delt raise. But also, my rear delts need need a lot of work, right? They really do. Uh, all the the pull-ups and rows haven't given them everything they need. Uh, rear delt raises, which I do frequently. So, if anyone's like, "Oh, you're changed." No, I I was doing them a lot. I'm a big fan of them actually. I program them a lot. So, I did the laterals for, you know, a couple weeks and then I'm like, let's go over and do the rear delt raises. It will still, they still work the side delts extremely well, right? But I need to bring the rear delts up. I just need that whole upper back area shelf just thicker along with the arms. Um, so let's just do rear delt raises. And again, these were tough. This is a heavy weight for me on these. I could only do eight reps. I was failing on them. I might have got nine on the last set barely or it failed at eight. I can't remember. But I did these to failure. So it's like as soon as it gets to the bottom and I just can't move another rep, we're done. U so again, good good option for me here. And these are all exercises I've been doing. Occasionally I'll get someone on your train, but these are all exercises I've been doing a lot in the last few months. I do rotate through the movements a little. It's okay. And we're just chasing general progressive overload, working the muscles. And then, of course, I finish up with a set of hanging leg raises. And those who are watching the the streams know I'm going to I'm going to be upping my cardio, I think, quite a bit. For now, I think it would be beneficial for me to do so. Um, so again, let's see if with a really high carb, low fat, if it starts trimming a little bit of that fluff out just to do so. And if nothing else, it'll just make me healthier to just do more less cardio because health is wealth. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.