Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it is time for a full body workout. I apologize for the banging. I just realized I think what's been happening. I can hear it back there. During the middle of the day when I'm recording these in the morning, uh they're putting a roof on down the street. There's nothing I can do about it. So, if you guys hear a little bit of tapping in the background, I think uh that's what we've been hearing. So, it may be present a little bit during this. But, we started off with some pause squats. Um, so again, I'm wanting to just build pause squats up because I want to focus on depth and I want to get that. Even though I've been doing rep work with 405, I want to get super deep. So, I feel like doing deep agrass pauses are going to help me do that. I just started ramping them up. Uh, started with 315 a couple workouts ago and just building up. So, I did them with 365 today. Um, also I do want to note I skipped deadlifts today. So, normally I deadlift three days a week. Um, however, I am noting uh due to just some stuff I added some other healthy fats and stuff back into my diet in the last few days. Uh, for some reason my gut feels really, you know, full from some of the the walnuts and things. So, again, I've noticed a mild amount of GI tract distress making me feel uh really full. My stomach kind of hurts. I'm like, you know what? I just don't want to risk a deadlift today with that hurting. As funny as it sounds, u it just doesn't feel right, you know? So, I'm like, I'm just going to take this one day and not deadlift. I deadlift every single workout. I've hit some really good sets in the last week. We pulled really had a really good uh couple of deadlift sessions. I'm like, I can take one day off from deadlifts. Not a big deal. Um, so again, I decided to just push my other stuff a little bit harder. And I also didn't do rows because the other thing I will note, and I think it's the combination of deadlift and rows, my left hamstring starting to hurt a little bit too. So, it's that combination of doing that and then saying, "Oh, my left hamstring, it was I've noticing it when I was running yesterday. Feel like it just needs a slight break, right? I feel like even the rows are hitting that a little too hard." Now, I've thought about working some reverse hypers back in. I may or may not. So, if you hear that tapping right there, that's that's definitely them roofers down the street. And it's pretty far away, but it's really loud. I've got a good mic. Um, but unfortunately, uh, I can't do anything about that, right? So, you guys either don't get a vlog or we do a little banging. So, uh, pause squats went well, the benching went well, right? So, I'm like, so let's just leave the hamstring alone. Let's leave the rowing alone, just do pull-ups, and let's focus on all my benching and bench muscles. Um, so the the top set not really an improvement over over previous ones, but my back off work is getting stronger and stronger. So that's making me feel pretty good here. I'm like, okay, so we're on a good track in terms of workloads. Um, because now we're up, right? I had been doing heavier back off, but I wanted to start doing a little more reps because I need to build muscle a little better. I just feel like my pecs do do better with that. I want to build pecs and then I'll hammer triceps separately. Um, so I started the other day with 225 and I got 12. So I'm like, let me go 235. I got 10. I got two sets of 12 on the back off work and it's pretty much paused. Some of it's some soft touch and go. Um, so again, I'm actually happy with that. It's like, okay, all the rep work is getting stronger. All right, the rep work is getting getting considerably stronger here. So again, I'm just going to push this stuff a little bit. So, I'll probably bump the weight again next time because I don't want to get more than 12 reps on this stuff, but um happy with that. Right. So, the the benching rep strength is going up. That will translate into those top sets improving. Now, my best one I did hit four reps uh the other day on one of the sets, you know, a week ago. So, again, this is in a good spot. I do feel like with the top sets, though, um I do feel my triceps a little fatigue and I'm pushing them hard, so it makes sense. But, uh, we're we're getting into slowly getting stronger on this tricep work. So, I'm happy about that, too. We'll discuss that when we get to it. So, I'm also going to be very careful with the volumes of that stuff. All right. So, I feel like um between the deadlifting and the rowing, a little bit too much volume on some things. So, I can take the rowing out and just do pull-ups. So, that ends what I ended up doing. Also, um, as much as I like rows, pull-ups are going to be my bread and butter. and I feel like I can't do rows every single workout. Again, I grow my best from lower volumes historically. I get stronger and bigger very very quickly. So, that's one reason this sort of full body stuff works well for me. So, today it's that's very much what we did. We did our three sets of bench, three sets of pull-ups and triceps and bands. Did our sled work. All right. So, for pull-ups, I was like, well, since I'm not doing any curls here at the moment, let's do some neutral grip um today. So, I decided to do a neutral grip. Uh, again, just for a little bit of extra bicep involvement, plus they're good on shoulders. Um, pretty happy with these. I did a 25. I got set to nine. Um, some of these I tried to do from I tried to get to the full stretch. I didn't deadhang all the reps. I felt like I was try almost dead hanging, but when I look at it, they really weren't. But at least I got to my full stretch. They felt good. I felt plenty of of arm activation to go with it. Uh, felt lat activation. So again, I feel like again, I don't have to row every workout. I'm still going to have sessions where I row, by the way, right? I'm going to have sessions where I do rows. But as long as I do one or the other, I'm good. But I again, I felt like today my posterior chain in my head, particularly my left hamstring feels borderline overuse, and there's no point in pushing it. You know, we get a lot of workload in here. Um there's no point in risking overuse or overtraining it. So, I'm like, let's just let it heal. We don't have to do that every time. And that's the beauty of even with the full body stuff. If you have something that's feeling a little bit over fatigue, you can kind of pull out the stuff for that day. So, I I do like the idea of doing both rows and pull-ups and working through them. You know, days where I feel like rowing and I want the little bit of extra posterior chain and low back, we can row. And days that I don't, I'll come in and do pull-ups. But I do I do want to do more and more pull-ups again. I like pull-ups much as I like rows. I just feel I get more light out of them. So, again, as long as we do one or the other, that's going to be the beauty of it. All right. As long as we do rows or pull-ups every single workout, get my three sets, we end up with nine sets for lats. We'll deadlift two or three days a week, three most of the weeks like we've been doing. That counts towards lats and back. That's sufficient as long, especially if I focus on progression. And I think that's what I have to keep in mind. Progressive overload matters more than volume. And keep in mind, my frequencies are high with everything three days a week. So, the same thing got applied to these, right? I've been able to do tens, but I managed to get 11 on both sets of this. Now, they were hard, but we've picked up a rep, so I stopped it at two sets. I'm like, I don't need three sets of extensions. Okay, I did three sets last time, then I ended up doing extra set of band press downs later afterwards. I'm like, I don't have to do that. We don't have to push those volumes. Let's push progressive overload because if we're getting stronger, that's what matters. If our rep work, we're picking up a rep on the best sets. We have progression. We're stimulating muscle growth. And I'm I'm pretty much recmping. For those curious, I'm just trying to say it the same body weight, but I'm recommping. I'm only even loosely tracking, but I'm eating super clean, following my diet, everything in a feed window. Um, so I'm not even worried necessarily about bulking or cutting. It's just stay similar. Body weight, let's recmp, gain muscle, lose fat. Um, but progression. So, so this stuff all got got stronger there, you know, in terms of the the uh the extensions, in terms of the benching, it's like that back off work. We're up 10 lbs for the same number of reps, right? We had bumped that 10 pounds and lost two reps, but then I've regained them. So, I'm like afterwards, let's just get a little bit of bands for the arms, right? Make sure we get a little blood flow because I did do grip pull-ups. That still works biceps, but like let's do a set of hammer curls to failure. Let's get some bands in. Let's get blood flow. Let's make sure we work the tendons of the elbows because I think elbow tendons for me when I'm doing all those extensions and things, I do have to watch that. I want to make sure the tendons stay strong. So, the same thing on the bicep tendons, right? This helps with that. Helps with the forearm a little bit. And then I did the press downs for uh the tricep tendons. Since I'm pushing going to push the extensions hard, I do feel like these help keep tendonitis at bay. Keep keeps the elbows healthy and that's going to let me bench specialize a little bit more. And keep in mind, I squat and deadlift most of the days. I'm doing the paw squats, but then I'm using the sled work uh for extra work, for conditioning, and to build the legs. And I feel like it's made my quads pretty full. Some of the angles and stuff when I sit down. Uh the sled works pretty well for me. But notice outside of our top sets and and the paw squats, most of this looks very bodybuilder, right? It's very very, you know, that everything was nine plus reps. And that's okay. Um, again, put muscle on, get strong, build muscle, keep the volume reasonable. So again, for the sled, I'm I'm still using this heavier weight I've added. I usually do a fairly quick push down, and now I just turn around and sprint with it. Again, I feel like it it helps fill my quads out. It improves my conditioning. Uh, so good workout. Happy with it. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.