Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and it's time for another full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, super happy with today's workout. Like super happy. So, what I decided to do today, I've been doing a lot of moving heavy weight. I built up to where uh, you know, squatting a little high on the the high bar, 475 for five. I'm like, I'm going to start doing everything for a bit paused with longer ranges of motion on everything. So, for me, notice that that pause squat, some of those I'm pausing a couple seconds. That is my full depth with a high bar. Okay, that is as deep as I can go. I am letting it compress me and I'm counting two seconds in my head. At the bottom, I do a 1,00 2 100 up. So, I'm dropping to my full depth. And so again, felt good. Got five real clean reps. Um I feel like I can build it from there and I want to build it up from there. Um but it goes to show that strength transfers down low to a to a good extent. So I've tried to say that when I do the high bar, the way I do it, it builds my quads. Like my quads are bigger. I know I've got these shorts on. I can in the in the mirror, they they look they look thicker. So I'm happy with that. Uh very very happy with that. So again, we got the five with a 405 and those are, you know, two count pauses. Um, I'll build it from there, right? Build it from there. Deadlifts. Try to do everything real clean, controlled. The 500 for five feels a little heavy to me right now. And it does feel, you know, my grip, it's like, eh, what are you doing? So, I might need to at some point here do a little grip work, but I almost almost don't care because I'm happy with a 500 for five. And I can always do some grip work. It'll come up. All right. benching. The same thing. I only got three, but here's what I did. Um, flat back, paused, long pauses. Um, trying to chase this doing any touch and go reps is not going to build the chest that I want. I need paused work. No inertia, pause reps, wide grip, flat back, build my chest up. This will get my bench up to where I want it. Um, and I did this last year. I did 350 exactly like this. So, um I'm just going to work those long pause reps and I'm going to do my dips the same way. All right, pull-ups. Same thing. Every rep was a dead hang. I can only get seven reps instead of 10 with a 45, but I'm taking a shoulder width there. So, again, we get the best, you know, best activation. I'm stronger with a closer grip sometimes, but that's a nice good uh medium grip. Some of these notice that we're a couple seconds at the bottom. So, I'm trying to do every rep from a full dead hang. All right. So, notice the pattern here. We're doing a lot of pausing in lengthen positions. Uh so, I'm almost debating if I I just want to do more of this and I might even on go to the incline curls. Bring bring the little incline bench in my living room. do my incline curls on the uh the other days, right? And let's just chase those deep stretches. So, the same thing with dips. Sure, I can get I can get uh 10 reps or eight reps or whatever with 245s, but what happens if I put just one plate on and I pause as deep as I can and pause all the way. My deepest range of motion, pause them at the bottom. Well, I got eight. not necessarily, you know, as strong, but if we think in terms of muscle growth, absolutely. We are taking, you know, fairly respectable weight. I'm over 200 lb. Dropping into my deepest positions and just pausing. Let's grow the chest, build it all up. That will help my benching. Um, and then I decided, let's do pullovers, but instead of my normal, so again, I want to get that range of motion restored to where I can eventually overhead press. Uh, so pullovers and I've done a lot of pullovers. Um, and I wanted to work them in today because I feel like they work my shoulders fine. I mean, I was doing shoulder work the last couple workouts, but long stretched. And here's the idea. Okay. Yeah, I'm taking a weight I can do 40 plus reps with if I just do, you know, whatever continual movement. But these long pauses just wipe me out. And it puts that shoulder into that stretch position. Puts that tricep into that long stretch position. And I'm having to pause there and then bring it up. These hurt like hell. My I I felt my pecs and my lats. Um definitely felt the triceps. So by the last rep, uh my triceps and my lats and my delts were just screaming. Absolutely screaming. and we work the chest from another angle. But it's interesting like I get a great delt workout out of these two. You know, we could argue it could be in theory more rear delt dominant, but do we care? Delta is dealt, right? It's all getting worked. So again, what I want out of this though, the extra mobility and forcing those stretches, right? That's kind of a big deal. I want to be able to force that stretch in those areas under under load dynamically under load. Not just holding a stretch for 30 seconds. Let's get into a few seconds and just rep uh you know under load and in a way that's going to build muscle because there's still a dynamic full range of motion movement. But again, yeah, I'm doing a lot less reps, but if you start looking at how long it took me, it's just as much total tension time because I'm holding that deep stretch. Like even the same thing with the dips here. Yeah, I can do just a hair below parallel, all dynamic, all all pretty much touch and go with an extra plate, right? But what's going to build the most muscle? And we're still strong. And I think we need to remember it's it's it's how much tension are we placing on the muscles? And I need that for my chest to grow, right? Just like that pause benching. I want to push these paused dips a little bit. Get the chest growing and get more power, more power out of the bottom of that bench. Chest, chest, chest. Of course, my triceps and shoulders are going to grow from all these movements, too. I mean, bench dips, pullovers, it's just working all of that. Um, obviously triceps are being hit. We're really hitting the triceps very effectively between the pullover and the dip, right? Full range of motion dip with a stretch pullover. Well, all the all the heads are being worked very efficiently here. Uh, between those two movements. So, again, build the triceps. And then you guys know the off days we focus on arms. Arms are still going to get the most specialization. My biceps because they need it. Uh, yeah. But, uh, super happy with all of this. Um, the deadlift is the only thing that felt I still feel a little weak on the deadlift at the moment, but I feel like it's it's my grip is kind of just acting that way. I could I could stand to do some grip work, but I wonder if if those hang pull-ups will probably help. And actually doing my full body three days a week, no more downtime due to to weather. Feel like the grip and stuff will come up on its own, but I can always add some grip work if I need to. Uh, but yeah, happy with the workout. Really happy with it. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next