Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness and today was another uh full body workout. Um overall pretty happy with the workout other than the overhead pressing. We'll get into that, but again that's going to be that's going to be a longterm fight. U squatting though, I did a top set with 405 and then because I kind of feel like even when I'm working with this, the depth isn't quite where I would like it. I'd like it a little bit better. Although people when I do the side views, everyone's like, "Wow, your squats are way deeper than they look from the front views every time, but that's kind of besides the point. I don't want there to ever be question about it even from the front." Um, but again, good solid triple. Notice that my upper back's feeling a little fatigued, which is why I'm pushing rows harder. Um, I feel like kind of with what I'm doing with the squats here, I need to bring that back up. I haven't been rowing for a long time, and I notice rows carry over to all of that. but also because I'm like I'd like more depth, I decided to do, you know, a couple sets of really deep pause squats. And I'm going to keep working more and more on on doing this because I really want that that depth to be better. You know, I would like to be getting that 405 up to like sets of five again with the sort of depth you see there, right? So, I want to work work on that, but we only get there by squatting. We get there by doing the pause work like that. But, I mean, realistically, that's really where I'd like to be. And I've been there before, not necessarily for fives. I've hit parallel for 5, six, and whatever at 405, you know, on camera than the last couple years. Uh, but but I'd kind of like to be there again. Now, keep in mind, we're doing all the running and cardio now, so there's a balancing act there. So, again, that is something I have to be aware of. Um, but I I want to continue to run. But like right that like that sort of depth really where I need to be with those 405s. It may come to a point, I hate to have to admit it, it may come to a point where I need to start pausing like that with 405, right? And do sets like that. All right, benching today. U did um did 315 for five. I've been doing a lot of band press downs though on my off days. I'm probably going to I probably need to back off on that. I feel like at this point, we know it's probably not causing muscle growth. I feel like my tendons are in good good shape. I need to just focus on the big movements. So, I also feel like I may want to start adding a little incline benching back in. When I look at where I'm I'm weakest and I know that I'm not getting the strength that I want on the overhead press yet, um I may start working some incline in with the overhead again like I was doing for just a short bit. But again, that felt pretty good. I mean, 315 for three, but then I did 275 for for pause reps and the fives were fairly challenging after that. Although some of it again is probably the tricep fatigue. So this weekend I'm gonna completely avoid any band press downs. I did do a set here today, but I think I'm just need to let my my triceps chill. And I have a feeling if I do that for the weekend, I'll come back on Monday and I want to see the difference it makes on the bench. Um probably be pretty good if I just take that chill pill. But it's still that mindset of even though I know I don't need any isolation work, it's that mindset hung up still that I need arm of isolation. So, I ended up doing a little band work for both. Although, realistically, I know that I probably don't need it. I need to just do more heavy pressing. Uh, but again, this is a case of me as a coach versus as a lifter. What I know I need to be doing versus occasionally what I'll do, you know, and I think we're all guilty of this. I'm guilty of it. But overall, the benching was good here. The deadlifting was really good. Deadlifts and rows were on point. They were on fire today. So, happy with all that. Uh, which you'll see coming up next. But I feel like too at this point um just getting strong on the rows again is going to really help my my big three of course and it's going to help the overhead work, but the overhead as we know is going to it's going to be a fight. It's going to be a struggle. Um but I'm going to have to just be consistent and accept that and instead of backing off and saying, "Man, I still can't lock out the way I need to of learning when to ease up, when to back off, but to keep going and and just not give up on it." Because again, you guys saw the old stuff. Like I've I was looking at old footage and and pictures and stuff. Like I have really good lockouts back in the day. But again, it's it's that bicep, right? I I really believe it's the bicep overuse, which again, I've I've discussed that previously. One reason I'm not going to really do curls. We're not going to do any underhand grip stuff. That's what kind of caused all my problems. The deadlift set though felt good. Keeping in mind, I'm doing a stiff bar on that. So that's not a deadlift bar. Um, so then the rows I went up on the weight. Now, granted, there's a little bit of body English, but it doesn't even matter. All right, because realistically, this is nice. Pretty good rows off the floor. Um, I went up 20 pounds, 265. I still managed to get three sets of six. So happy with that, you know. So, I want to I want to keep working on these because I feel really I feel that I get a lot out of it in terms of carryover on the upper back. Of course, I feel a lot of arm on any sort of row, which is ironic. But again, keep in mind my everyone thought my arms were bigger when I didn't do any any arm work. Like, it was all rows and pull-ups. Notice I said pull-ups, not even chin-ups, you know, all pressing. My arms are bigger than after all these couple of years of just religiously doing curls and extensions. And um so there's probably some truth to that. And it has to do with just the large amounts of mechanical tension. And if I were to apply that same logic, it's kind of what I'm doing to my arms that I I apply to other muscles. My legs have never needed anything but heavy work, right? I've never had to do high rep work to build massive strong legs. So why do I always think it's going to work for my arms? Because bodybuilders, I mean, you know, my arms technically were bigger when I wasn't doing all that. All right, overhead pressing. I tried three different grips today and I'm like I did really good with the 115. Last time it was very close to a lock out, right? It was it was all looking good. So I'm like let me just grab the 135. I couldn't lock any rep. Now we know there's still that mobility issue, but it's also a strength issue. And that's the interesting thing. I do not have the strength. So I even tried a false grip in close and I did a slightly wider. That's as high as I can go and I'm really pushing it. Those are my full lockout. So, I'm gonna have to just bite humble pie again, just like I've been doing, and go back down to the 115 because those sets looked a lot cleaner. We were closer to a lockout, even though it was like six reps. Um, I'm going to have to just accept that. Okay, we're going to have to just accept that I'm literally just not strong enough to lock 135 now. And it's it's also a range of motion issue. Okay, I don't like that. But we have to accept it. And that's okay. I'll come in and I'll drop the weight. I'm probably going to do some incline in that slot. Then I'll do some overhead. I need to drop the weight back down to a weight that even though it's embarrassingly weak that I can get really close to a lockout. And let's just work it because something is better than nothing. All right, pull-ups. Today I decided to do the neutral grip just to make sure I do get a little bit of arm and it's easy on the shoulders. So, I'm like, I grabbed a 45. I did I did three sets of five. So, now this is the most workload I've kind of done for lats in a while. When I work out, I've been doing, you know, two sets of some of this, you know, because if I'm doing three sets of rows, I was doing two sets of pull-ups. So, let's just do three sets of each. All that upper back work is only going to help all this situation. So, let's continue to work on that. Work on the hangs there. Get everything strong. And I feel like it will it will help carry over to the the overhead pressing and it'll help with like the squat stability up top and everything. Um, you know, again, as we build the everything back up, but I mean the benching's in a good place, but it's kind of like I don't know if I build more lat, build more shoulder would be good because I feel like triceps are really not not going to make or break my bench at this point. So, we look at how weak I am on that overhead press. We know where and we look at where I stick on my bench. We know that we need more shoulders. And if I just do plenty of pressing, the triceps will get the stimulus. So, I need to I need to just stick that out. But I did do a little bit of band work. I did a set of band hammer curls. So, again, avoiding that supine grip stuff. I almost feel like I do these just for the camera because they just look good. I look kind of jacked when I do them. Let's be honest here, right? It probably is helping the tendons a little bit, but I just like kind of having one where it's like, "Oh, coach looks kind of jacked there." And then I walked back to the camera. Then I did a set of band press downs. But here's the thing with all the even the press downs and all this other stuff. I feel like what if I just start doing more pressing? I do my benching, do some incline overhead. Do that every workout. I don't need any extensions because we're getting the long head too with the pull-ups. I need to just chill with it. I feel like let's just work our big movements, progress on them. The only reason I'm even saying the incline is because I'm not strong enough on the overhead to where I feel like I'm getting this great stimulus. So, it wouldn't be a bad idea and it will carry over, right? It'll carry over. So, but again, did a set of press downs and box jumps. I did five by five. I've been doing triples and built it up, but it just takes forever. Five is still within that number of reps and we're getting explosiveness. And a five by five is good. So, if I just do 5x5 box jump at the end of each workout, we'll get good carryover to our explosiveness. We'll get good carryover to our back squat. And again, I like box jumps and I feel like they do carry over to my squatting. But again, I want to work on doing a little more squatting like I'm doing now on the three days and then do the box work and that will build the squat back up. Like that's enough for me. You guys have watched me do Bulgarian before. I didn't squat for over a year. came back and got it to where I was squatting 485 nice and deep too without you know without a belt at one time just doing the Bulgarian stuff and you know so again if I'm squatting three times a week and doing at least one really good sets and pause work squat squat will do just fine of course keep in mind before I started cutting a little I did AI did a 500 back in January so even I'm doing triples and stuff at 405 it's still there it's going to have to work squatting but again box jumps carry over. Uh they carry over really well, but I need to just continue to get leaner and recmp, right? And just continue to get tighter as we do all this. And eventually I'll be down under 200 lbs doing it. I'm not in a big hurry. Um I'm just going to let it drift down as I recmp. Eventually it will reach a point where the scale will just keep drifting down. Um but I'm really not that worried about it because I feel like I'm getting a hair leaner. Feel like I'm recompositioning with everything. um to just keep pushing performance and let let just the diet and the clean diet and all the fasting um just slowly work it down, right? Slowly work it down because I'm at a point now to where my my satiation is complete. I'm not even hungry in the evenings now. Feel like everything's in a good spot with that. So, we'll see the scale continue to just kind of do its thing, right? Um and the only reason I'm like, let's not do an aggressive cut because I don't want performance to tank. I need my running and I need my lifting to continue to progress. So, we just let it slowly keep chipping away at it. Uh, but happy with today's workout other than the overhead pressing. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.