Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness and today is another bicep day. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Uh so get over into the topic. It's still cold out there. Just don't feel like training. I know I know a few people even over on Facebook, um you know, are kind of like, well, what's up with that? And it's like the reality, yeah, I used to train in the snow. Used to train in the snow in the UK, but I was not climatized to this heat. Um, after doing all that running outside, uh, I used to do like runs outside this last year in over 100 degrees sometimes, dripping sweat, barefoot on the hot asphalt. Um, and I'm noticing I am just not equipped for the cold. I am not equipped for the cold. I usually keep it, you know, probably 75 in my house. Um, I keep everything warm. I'm very, very warm-blooded these days. And I just don't like cold. I don't handle it well. And people can think whatever they want about it, but it also is giving me an opportunity to sit here and really focus on my weak points for a week. And look, if if Friday it feels reasonable, I'll get out and squat and dips and stuff like that. Like I'll go out and do some big movements on Friday, but I did all that stuff Friday. Had a great workout. Um I do feel like if I had to for a week, I could come in and do nothing but biceps. So what I did here today is kind of where I'm going to ease into. I pushed them really hard, a lot of volume, a lot of other stuff. Now, I'm just going to push progression. I don't need more than about three sets. Three really hard sets of curls. And I'm just going to push progressive overload on the barbell curl. It's how we get big on everything. Um, and so it went really, really well. Obviously, I'm looping the last one a bit so we can get a longer uh obviously get a longer video for the vlogs. But a quick reminder, um, I'm not reading anything on YouTube, by the way. Um, and if I do lives there, I think what I'm going to do, just so that again, what I what I'm doing for those who don't understand, I'm I'm giving trolls zero access. I'm allowing free speech. People are free to do what they want. I'm not restricting anybody, but I also don't care to see any of it. Um, I have no desire to, no need. So, it's allowing people to speak, uh, do whatever they want, but I'm just staying out of it. don't care, right? They can talk amongst themselves. And in the meantime, I am getting some of them coming over to Facebook. Hey, you want to come on Facebook and post? I'll probably see it. You know, within reason, if you get too hateful there, though, I will just block you there because I allow political speech on there. Uh, it's not a whole lot of personal insults. Like, if you can keep it tame, that's fine. Like, people just want to call me a bootlicker or something or Trump or whatever, that's fine. I don't care. That's not a big deal. That's your That's a political position that falls under free speech. Um, which again, no no issue with, right? I'm going to allow free speech. I think what I'm going to do if I do any lives, uh, I'm going to set it though to paid only. So, if you want me to see the comment, I'll cover a topic, get in, hit the live, get out. But if you want me to see it, you have to drop a super chat and that's reasonable. If it's that important to you, then you'll do so. But in the meantime, um, you know, post away. Uh, so with the curls, I got like 18 18 and like 19. I did rest pause. I got like 19 on the last one. Uh, these are PR reps with this weight. I know it's only 65, but the point is progressive overload. So I feel like um, you know, with these, my goal is to get to 20s. Remember, like I've done that with dips and other stuff. When I can get to three sets of 20 or more, then I'll add some weight. You know, I want to keep these reps higher, though, because again, the heavier stuff inflames my tendons and everything. So, again, chasing progressive overload, but with weights that are not going to beat me into the ground. And it's worked well. Um, and I'll make a little short with this particular clip, this last one. Um, pretty much my physique is probably the best best it's ever been at this point. And it's improve. It's going to keep improving like the the low carb diet. And I put my meals up so people understand what I eat. Yeah, that's So, you know, again, if people don't think that's how I eat, well, I literally photographing the food right here in my house on my normal plates that you guys have seen me use. Um, so yeah, it's it's a lot of steak. Um, omega-3 eggs, lots of vegetables, avocados. I'm doing I'm doing a fair amount of of full fat Greek yogurt, though. Sometimes I mix walnuts in. So, people are curious, where is the healthy fats? Well, I eat I eat a couple of avocados every single day. That's healthy fats. Um, I do large amounts of extra strength fish oil and then all my eggs are freerange omega-3 eggs. So, my my omega-3 intake is extremely high with all that. Uh, but yeah, I mean, I am dripping chipping away at body fat. I mean, it's been going on for months here. It's not it's not like it's new. It's now we're at a point where it's starting to show and we're going to reach a point where the scale is eventually just going to drop because I can't sustain this weight indefinitely. Even though I'm losing body fat, there's going to be a point where even all the extra water, muscle, and inflammation is going to drop. And that's okay. Um, it will happen. Like this strategy is getting me leaner and leaner even with no cardio. I'm doing zero cardio. So getting down leaner if I continue this dietary approach I don't think is going to be an issue is what if I add some cardio back in once it gets warmer. What if I start taking a walk every day or add my jogging back in? I'll end up getting pretty pretty peeled at that point. Um but I'm just going to strip away. So here that's what we know I need to do, right? I need to get keep getting leaner and I need my biceps bigger. I'm already strong. Keep the strength. Try to progress on it. I mean, I do 12 reps of 405 on a squat. I'm doing sets of 18 with 225 on the bench. I don't even know what my 315 would be now. It probably be up because I'm stronger on dips and high rep work than I was when I was hitting 315 per five. My bench might be way up. I don't know. We'll test it eventually. Uh but overall, um happy with this. But three really hard sets. So the first two were to failure. The third one we did some rest pause to get past failure. Three hard sets. I could do this two or three times a week. Give me all the bicep specialization I need between my main workouts. I'll just leave them alone on the main days and that way I can come in fresh. So then we come to the point of I'm doing curls fresh. I'm taking my primary bicep exercise, pushing progressive overload, doing it completely fresh. Okay, that doesn't grow arms, nothing will. But it's still not going to be crazy high arm after this week, now that I've kind of adapted to it because I have some bicep doms now. Um, we'll we'll bring it down to, you know, the three sets like this done two or three times a week. Pushed really hard and pushed for progression. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.