All right. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Uh, so I did threw the one warm-up in here and then I I go to the the work set. Um, I tore I tore these shorts. This started on rep six and I knew I was ripping the shorts. On rep six, I heard them start to rip. And on every single rep, it almost distracted me. Uh, I almost feel like I might have got a better set if I wasn't distracted by the shorts, but you know, I did one of those abbreviated workouts again and we're pring PR everything but the pull-up, but the pull-up was pretty much at PR last time. U everything went up. The squat do well, I've done the 12 before, but that was a little bit ago. Um, we've so at least matched a PR and considering we've been cutting, we're leaner, lighter. Um, it probably is a PR in terms of strength because I'm gonna have less fat and less boof. So, I'll take the win. Um, definitely take the win. The dips, we we hit a lifetime PR. Pullover lifetime PR. I my reps went up on the dumbbell curls, but I don't know if it's a PR. I may have done that many reps in the past at one point, but we did five work sets, five exercises, five sets, called it a day. But I think what we have to remember honestly, I could have done the squats and the dips and gone home. I could have done those and still gotten bigger. So again, with what I'm doing with the diet right now, I feel like all this is working really well. Uh we're we're chipping away. We're getting leaner. We're getting stronger. You know, at least on these work sets, you know, we're hitting hitting these rep PRs. Well, the dips is more than just a rep PR, right? we rep prs and I prred two times in a row. Um, so again, the beauty of just doing one set and as long as that progression is there, we know we're gaining muscle. Uh, so pull-ups, again, I am running into that fatigue as we get deeper in, but I want to get the pull-ups up. I may switch back to chin-ups eventually, too. I like to rotate between them, but I like the pull-ups. I just I feel so much back. And and to be fair, I feel just as much bicep on a pull-up, you know? I feel these as much as I do a curl. And I've always kind of said that with these, especially with a closer grip like this, it feels like a curl. It just feels like a bicep exercise. But pull-ups in general, um, just my lats like them more than a chin-up. And I'm almost as strong. So, you know, not a big deal. Just good for my overall grip. So, I did 12 and then I had to let go and then regrip it and got two more. I almost wanted to go for a third. I'm like, I still don't know if I have it. Like, I just didn't feel like it was there because it felt like failure already and then I did that couple seconds. Um, the dips, remember the other day we recently finally hit 20 with the 45. So, I went up to the 55. I got 17, then I got 19. Um, so people will say, "Well, what about your your bench? You haven't done it this week at all." I haven't. I haven't deadlifted either. These lifts will build the build it up. Like my squat carries over to my deadlift. I want to remind people I pulled 455 my first time ever deadlifting in my life, but I was already squatting like 405. See what I mean? My squat builds my deadlift. And I love deadlifting. I think deadlifts are great for hypertrophy still, but I don't have to deadlift all the time. I can come in once a week. I could deadlift two or three times a month. My deadlift will probably still go up and I'll get bigger from it. Uh, but the dips went went really well. The pullovers, I don't know how I got to 20. I didn't think I was going to get there. Occasionally, I'll get people who will mention the range of motion like that's my full range of motion, but that's just the benefit. I feel like my shoulders are starting to loosen up because I'm doing the really heavy pullovers. And then especially the last rep or two, I always hold that stretch, right? I'm doing the pull-ups um with that overhand grip. Uh my shoulders feel really good though, too. So, I'm hoping over time all that will start popping and loosening up more. Uh maybe some of that old adhesions that are in the way because really it it feels like I just have stuff in the way. And also because my elbows don't fully lock, it just makes the overhead suck. I'd love to be able to overhead press again, but I feel like this is the only way I'm going to get there. I feel like the pullovers and the overhand grip pull-ups are going to be my best tools for that. I feel like I feel like the the hanging leg has helped too. But again, um I love pullovers because to me I feel these in my triceps ridiculously. I don't I can't say that I feel any exercise in my triceps more than I do a pullover. And it's not just the long head, but the dips are going up. And if these go up, then the bench will go up because my chest and triceps have to be getting bigger. And I have a feeling when we come back here soon, we will eventually get to that 20 rep goal because I wanted to get to to that. I've got stuck my last three times I've got stuck in 18 reps on the really strict 225 pause bench. I feel like that 20 is just around the corner. Then I got to wonder what happens, you know, if I start testing maxes. I mean, I'm hitting 405 time 12 on a high bar squat. Keep in mind that carries over to my low bar really well. Uh the knee angles are pretty similar. Like that depth you see me hitting there is is way below parallel. That same knee angle when I go to a low bar. So it's just building all the musculature. Uh the curls though, I just grab these and just ground them to failure. I got 20 last time. I didn't want to set up the bar like let me just grab the dumbbells. They're already loaded. Um of course I'm past 20 reps with it. But are we really going to argue that we're not gaining muscle from it? It's a set to failure with more reps. You know, we're gaining muscle from it. And uh yeah, but overall happy with the workout. I feel like I did the pretty much the same workout last time, but I hit more reps on four out of the five lifts today. Picked up reps and it was all more than one rep, too. So, the progressive overload is there. Um that's what's been interesting to me. Um And I've talked a lot about diets and higher carbs and benefits, but some people, and there does seem to be a genetic and an ethnic ethnicity basis to that. Some people do really well on higher fat, lower carb. I do seem to be one of them. That doesn't change a lot of my info about carbohydrates and athletes. Just because I'm a little bit of an outlier, you know, doesn't mean that everyone else is. So, we do need to keep that in perspective. But, man, I feel like this is just trucking along. It's trucking along. You guys see my breakfast and sayings and some of my groceries and food up on social media. Uh but yeah, happy with the workout. Like these little brief workouts, they take maybe 45 minutes. Most of that is resting after the squat because I don't really need other stuff. I don't warm up. Those last four sets, I just do them. They're a couple minutes between exercises. You know, I got to get everything changed over, set up. I don't warm up for those. I just come in and do the allout set. People will argue, "Oh, it's not efficient." Well, I'm pring them. Clearly, it is. Clearly, it is. Uh, but happy with the workout. Uh, so I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.