Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. All right, I put up uh my last warm-up uh before I did the 405. I'm doing high bar here again today. That's been the debate is, you know, do I want to mess with low bar or high bar? And I just really like high bar for building muscle. Even if I don't get as deep of a hip angle, I get really good knee angle. So, this shows for me that is my full range of motion on a on it unless I pause for like 3 seconds and try to sync it. Um, so I'm trying to get a little deeper on the high bar stuff because it carries over extremely well to my low bar later. Um, so again, what I'm kind of doing here, I went ahead and tried to get deeper on these today because a lot of people are like, "Every time you do high bar, it's too high from the side view." Okay, fair enough. I feel like my low bar was good um on Friday. So, I did five reps here and I tried to sync these and I felt like the fifth rep I knew was going to be my last rep. I tried to sink it kind of as far as I could, but I'll keep working on this and I feel like the belt squats will carry over again. Um, so on all these movements, I'm only doing one real work set. I even did that on the bench today. And the reason I say that, I get a ton of chest activation on my benching, right? I bench in that way. Um, I'm keeping the volumes fairly low because I'm actually slowly losing body fat right now on the lower carbs. Uh, so recovery is kind of a big deal. I'm not I'm not wanting to overtrain. I'm trying to push intensity over that. Uh, so today I only did one set of the bench press, but then I hammered my triceps. I PRD my triceps again today. Uh, because I feel like if I can just get my triceps and my shoulders a little stronger, we'll be in a good place. Um, mostly the workout was very similar to my last one other than I did cheek curls today. I wasn't happy with them. Um, just the way that they felt because I remember cheat curls felt really really good in the past, but I don't know when I did them today. Um, I said I said in the live I was going to do them. I don't know that they really felt better than me just doing strict curls in terms of bicep activation. And then people are going to complain about the way they look. Uh, but benching, we did pretty good. I got my five reps again today. 315 for five, which we're getting pretty consistently. This set was pretty challenging. And here's the interesting thing. I felt all chest on it today. Um I've been saying my triceps are feel like the limiting factor. They're getting hit super super super hard. Um they've been having doms for days from all the the tricep extension uh PRs. But today I felt only really only my chest on the bench which tells me maybe we're in a good place there. And the reason I say that if my triceps are getting stronger and less of a limit then my chest is going to get worked harder. So again, I've kind of decided I'm just going to do the one set for that today. Went to deadlifts. I wasn't as recovered today on these and I think the hanging leg raises uh definitely created a little ab fatigue and stuff. Um, this didn't feel as good as it did on Friday, right? Friday people were like, "Dude, you probably could have got eight reps." And I probably could have. Today, um, the six rep felt pretty hard. When I went to pull this, I'm like, "Man, I don't I don't think I had eight. I maybe I had a seventh, but I definitely didn't have two reps in the tank. I probably had one more." And I know it looked really easy on camera. People are going to be like, "You're so full of it. You You had like 10 reps." No, I really didn't. Keep in mind what my maxes look like in competition and then watch my mis lifts. They look super fast. All right, I stopped recording for just a moment. They're really, really loud. Plane went overhead and I didn't want to deal with that, so I actually paused it. Uh, so we pred this today. Um, and these I noticed I didn't get quite as deep, but we're definitely below parallel. Definitely below parallel, but um PR this. So I went ahead and put 300 on here. Got 10 reps. Although looking at this, I do want to sink these a hair deeper next time. So, I feel like this is a good working weight. Feel like I I could work here with getting a little more depth. I got more depth with 270, but I got like 13 reps or something. So, I'm like, let's let's go up a little bit. I'm not wanting to go over about 12 reps. Some things that I can avoid it. I mean, obviously stuff like reverse hypers, we don't have a choice. This was 50 plus reps. Um, the only way I'm going to fix that on the reverse hyper might be to take all those big plates off and just load nothing but 45s on, but then I got to load them and I load them every workout. But I did do a set of reverse hypers here. Um, hoping that's not making the deadlift feel a little heavier. Uh, could be some some fatigue from that from the higher reps on it. So, I don't have to do these every workout, but I did want to get these in. But I feel like for me at this point, as long as my grip and back stay good, my deadlifts will go up as long as my squats and quads get stronger. Um, they tend to feed my deadlift anyways, right? All that stuff tends to feed it. But, um, we did the reverse hypers today. Did one set and then everything after that I only did I did one set of everything. Um, you guys will see coming up. We did pull-ups. I did eight pretty good reps and then I did a rest pause and got a ninth rep. So you guys are going to see me do more of this. If I'm gonna do stuff like that, I'm going to go a little bit harder. So I I think even like the belt squats, I feel like that 300 is a good weight to work with. Now I'm going to work on sinking a little deeper. And then if I need to rest, pause, final reps, that's what I'll do because that will feed my squat. And I feel like the ab work will help me keep my core where I need it strong for the squats and deadlifts and then that'll help feed them. Uh but the volumes are still still quite low. Um, funny enough, today the chest probably got the lowest volume, but I feel like I get a little chest activation on the the tricep extensions, the pull-ups, everything else. Uh, pull-ups though felt really good today. Um, one reason I do a little closer is my range of motion is just so much longer. When I go in close, I can get up higher. I can actually get close to the bar. I can't do that with a wider grip and I get more reps. So again, always going to deal with my elbow and shoulder range of motion limitations. So the elbow stands out more here on that because those are, look at the hanging reps. That's a dead hang. That's my full elbow lock. I am swinging with a 55 lb blute. That's that's my lock out, guys. But the back activation is great. The bicep activation is great. Here's the thing, though, of when I got to the cheek curls, they didn't feel any more bicep activation than the pull-ups do. So, that's where I'm kind of like, eh, maybe I just need to stick with the straight curls. All right, the tricep extensions. The first rep I felt like I shortstroked it, then it got better. Notice I get really good from there. This is the first time I've ever grabbed a weight that heavy on these. So, I think that's what it was the first rep because I ended up getting 12 and this is 5 lbs heavier. So, last time was a PR. I've never tried one. I haven't done 130 and I got 12 with it. So, I'm like, let's see if we can get at least 10 today. It's 12 reps with that first rep was definitely short stroke. But this is 135. So this is the equivalent of putting a big boy plate on the barbell, but I I feel like the easy easy bar is just more comfortable for positioning because I like a really close grip. I feel like I get the most out of that. Um, but again, like I've been noting, I've been getting tricep doms like crazy on these. Just doing the one set of these and hitting the PRs giving me tricep doms. All right, for the for the cheek curls, like I said, I'll decide next time, but I went ahead and did cheat curls. I don't even count the reps here because I kind of rest paused it. It was at least 10. Um, so I just grabbed the 135. And so if you guys notice, we just we lean forward so that we don't risk tearing the bicep. And it really we come up to just peak contraction for me. So the elbows are pulled back and then the it's just an eccentric base exercise. So the thing is I'm probably going to hurt tomorrow. It's like this is probably going to give me bicep doms. But I'm questioning is did it really feel any more bicep than when I do strict curls all the way up to my face with a lighter weight? Probably not. So, that being said, um I wanted to mess with these a little bit, but I'm just like I've been doing the strict curls and they just I feel like I'm just getting a little better bicep on them. So, I'll just go back and do the strict curls. All right. Same thing with laterals. I did three sets last time and I'm like I don't need a ton of these. Let's just do one set and rest, pause it, and take it to failure. And that should be enough because I do all this stuff three times a week. So, yeah, I know these volumes are funny, low, but I feel like I'm getting leaner. I'm looking more jacked. So, everything's working. Just going to run with it, right? This So, this is not how I look during the leg raise. The leg raises, you guys notice, people are like, "Wow, you look way way way leaner." But I haven't had coffee or anything yet. All right. So, when we get to the leg raises, it's it's uh completely fasted, no water yet. So, I look a lot a lot leaner. I look bigger, though. I look bigger once I all hydrated up. But, uh so these this is pretty much past failure. So, taking several breaths, trying to just squeeze out one more rep, one more rep, one more rep. Right. So, I'll just take these pretty hard. And that's that's kind of the idea. That's what I'm doing. And then I finish up with one set of neck extensions. Grab 20 reps with the 55. But overall, other other than the curls, the cheek curls not feeling h what I expected from them compared to previously. I'm happy with the workout. So, I think I'll stick to what I've been doing and just stick with the the stricter curls this next workout. And we'll work in something a little different like a cheek curl every now and then just for fun. Uh but I'm just going to progress on the straight curls. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next All right.