Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and once again it's time for a full body workout, but a quick reminder you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it so much. Um, I've got a cold today. I was getting stuff all out of my sinuses last night. A little bit hard to breathe. I felt like it affected my deadlift today. Everything else felt pretty good. Um, but the deadlifts, I could definitely tell uh that fatigue was there. Um, so the squats, uh, obviously that was just me doing a warm-up at 3:15 just to kind of put something in there of that because people like, "You don't do any warm-ups on camera." Um, I don't do a lot of warming up for the squats. So, you just, you know, start with a plate, do do a couple reps all the way up. Um, then once I get to the 405, because this is still, you know, higher reps for me, I don't need a lot to build into it. We just need to get the form dialed in. So, I got 10 reps today. I know I've got 11 a couple times in a row, uh, but the 10 just felt uh, tough. May maybe it's again the breathing. Uh maybe it's the cold, but we we didn't get 11, we got 10 today. But overall, pretty happy with how it felt. And I think the thing to remember with these the squats and the deadlifts, um the muscle growth from all of this when we're doing any sort of significant reps with heavy weight, like I'm happy with these. Like realistically, I know I want to get this 405 up higher. You know, I've got to 11. Sure, I'd like to try to get it to 15 or 20 or something. Uh, but I feel like that's all that I need just for building purposes because right now I want to work on body composition more. And the thing that I notice is uh me going really hard to these these sets to zero reps in reserve or to failure, which a lot of my stuff is failure. Some stuff is rest pause a little bit. U the thing is u trying to go a little lighter helps. And and I know people will say well that's not light because I don't mean go light. I mean, get really strong and then, you know, your lightweight uh becomes other people's. Yeah, that's not lightweight. And that's okay. Uh so the same thing with the benching. I'm like, look, I want to go back and mess with the wide grip. I messed with the closed grip for a week. Unhappy with it. I'm like, let's just go back to the wide grip. I know I've done really well with it. All right, I've done really well with it. It feels good. So, I'm like instead of worrying about saying, well, am I worried it's going to beat my shoulders up? Then you just won't go heavy. I'll every now and then maybe test my 315 M rep, but I feel like doing stuff like the 225 and trying to get PRs with this, I get such an intense burn in my chest and triceps that this works. And I only got 17 today. Again, possibly the cold also possibly do the draining on it because I haven't done it wide in over a week. Um, also no belter wrist wraps, right? So, I want to make this really challenging. I'm going to get to 20 on this. Okay, I'm going to get to 20 on this, but I want a clean 20. I want raw because I did like this. See this form I'm using here? I did 350 earlier this year. Early in the year, I got 350 on a nice solid pause bench, almost flat back like that. That wide grip, two second pause. So, again, it works for me. So, let's just run with it. And then I'm not worried about, oh, is it possibly beating my shoulders up? I don't feel that it is. Um, but if I'm going with a a weight, I can do that many reps. We're fine. Deadlifts, this is where I felt it. I got to six reps and I just ran out of steam. I felt my grip was was tired. And normally, you guys have watched me do like eight or nine reps and hold the last rep at the top. That sixth rep, um, my grip wasn't slipping, but I could tell my grip did not feel as secure as normal. I could tell the fatigue was high and that's that's where that the cold is catching up to me. Like I felt it there. Uh reverse hypers. You guys know why we do the reverse hypers. So so really and I skipped the band press downs and here's why. I had crazy doms from them all day yesterday still in my triceps. And I can tell if I'm going to do the higher rep work on the bench like that, it fries my triceps. Pushing reps on the dips fries my triceps. I feel like they can't handle more than that. That's six really hard sets, especially considering the long head does get worked on the pull-ups, but the high rep benching fries my triceps for some reason. Okay. And then the dips usually give them dom. So, it's like if I'm going to push sets of dips to failure, uh I I just can't recover from all that, especially not doing what I'm doing with my diet at the moment. So, I'm going to slowly just kind of keep chipping away at the body fat here and see if we can make any progress. I'm going to get stronger in all my rep work. And you know, ultimately it's just going to make me a more efficient lifter, right? We're going to be a more efficient lifter. U so again, I'm still a little boofy. I feel like today from the from the weekend festivities because I had that pecan pie. Like normally I've said, "Hey guys, when I've done cheat days on holidays before, I only put on a pound." I put on like 11 pounds. It was crazy. I'm like, "Are we really up 11 pounds? Are we serious?" So, it's going to take a few days, I think, to just kind of work back down. Um, but we'll be fine. And I've noticed it doesn't give me any strength. I'm not any stronger as a result of it. You know, it's a fascinating thing. Um, the reverse hypers, of course, did those and the pull-ups. I got kind of what I did last time, but I didn't want to go for another rest pause. I got my 10 and then I did a rest pause single. Last time I did 10, which was a PR, and then we did two rest pause singles. I felt like today because of the fatigue from the back. I could tell my back and grip were fatigued. This was good enough because we're still at failure. And and it's like, oh no, we're not PRing, but the PRs last time were from that rest pause, you know, even though the RAW said, "No, I've got nine before, but getting 10 in the straight part of the set. We're up in the best I've done." And then try to squeeze out that one more just to finish it off. The dips I realized I didn't like of the the 90 last time. the eight reps, nine reps, whatever we got. I think it was nine. I felt like they weren't deep enough. Looking at the footage, if I'm going to do dips, I really want that benefit of that deep, deep, deep stretch. So, I'm like, let's go to 55 and take it to failure. And now, I'm happy with that stretch. Look at that depth. So, we're going as far down as I can. And this is a light weight because I got 12 reps. I didn't know how many I get. I just did it to failure. I knew it would be over 10. I didn't know if it would be 10, 12, 13, whatever it was going to be. I had no idea. So, we just came in and just did it to failure. Let's get a baseline with how this feels going all the way down, right? All the way down. And then we got here and then it just stuck. Like right there, I just stuck at the bottom. I couldn't come back up. So, we reached failure at 12 reps. Um, chest and triceps lit from it and especially from the bench. All right, the barbell curls. I think I got 14. I just kind of rest paused a couple reps at the end. I think we got 14 with this. And I'm okay with that. I'm okay with just doing these strict doing them to failure, doing a couple rest, pause reps, and just making sure the biceps get some direct work. Um, so again, sticking with the straight bar because, well, quite frankly, uh, my biceps have often been a weak link for me. So, let's just do the straight bar. We know that it hammers the area really good. So, that's why I went back to it last time. I was doing it for quite a while. I feel like I get a ton out of, you know, I like preacher curls and stuff, man. That straight bar really, really hits that supine position. You know, we could argue all day if it really matters or not, but hypothetically it might. And so, we go for it. And then for the laterals, um, I've been using dumbbells, but I really like the way plates feel, and I just feel like I get too many reps with the 25s, but I'm like, let's just do them super strict today. Just take it to failure. Ended up rest pausing. I think I got like 16 because I rest paused at the end, but it felt really good. Uh, belts were were pretty well lit up from the set. Um, so again, took it to failure, then rested a couple seconds and squeezed out one more rep. Uh, but overall, I mean, other than the deadlifts, I'm happy with today's workout, especially considering I got a little bit of a virus. Need to make sure I get a good night's sleep, though. So, I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.