Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, it' be greatly appreciated. Let's get over to another full body workout. I'm excited. I want to do a little more volume on the squatting. I ended up not doing sleds today because I want to start making sure I've got recovery volume for the squats. Now, this first set, um, I did just did 405. I did a triple with it. I'm really only happy with the depth on the second rep. I was kind of shocked when I watched it. Um, second rep is good. Of course, you guys know when I do the filming from the side, everyone's like, "Oh, wow. You squat way deeper than it looks like from the front." Uh, my big quads, so it was still pretty decent. Felt good. I probably had another rep in the tank. Uh, but I'm like, "Okay, let's do that." And I want to build this up, but I'm also like, "Let's do a little pause work." So, to get used to getting that volume up, because keep in mind, we squat three days a week. Um, to get used to that, I'm like, "Let's do some pause squats." So, I kind of want to do a little bit more pause squatting to get used to just that volume again. And I feel like with a little bit of work here, a little bit of work, um, I'll be able to build up to doing say three sets with the 405. And I feel like that would be a really good sweet spot. Just do hard challenging sets, you know, that leave maybe one rep in the tank, maybe one. Oh, with 405 I can build up to three. That's a lot of volume. like again stimulate growth while I'm recompositioning a bit here because yeah, the scale stayed fairly constant, but I do feel like I'm recmping a little at this point. It'll again drift down just from the running and the fasting over time. Not that worried about it. Long as I'm getting leaner, then I can I can push it at any point I want to kind of do a little bit harder of a cut, but again, some good pauses, right, which is 365. Um, and instead of wide grip bench today, I just wanted a break again from the wider grip benching. I have wide grip bench at least two days a week right now. Like let me do a couple sets of closed grip. But I do think moving forward the same thing. I did two sets of the wider grip last time. I really know that that's where where my overall really good strength potential is going to be. Um and I know that I was strongest with the the closed grip at one time, but as I've analyzed, I look at that 350 at this lightest weight. I've never closed grip 350 at the body weight I did here. And I did that all flat back pause with that wide grip. So, I feel like there's where my most strength potential is. So, my goal, um, you know, I'd like to get that wide grip bench back to 365 while under 200 lb because I've already done 350 at under 220. Um, so I think that's kind of a worthy goal. But to do that, I'm going to need a fair amount of benching. But I feel like the key to doing that's going to be the overhead press. All right? Because if I look at where I'm weakest and you look at that weak point, how does that match with say overhead press strength? it does. So, as I rebuild the press, now that I'm slowly getting that range of motion back, which is again another big goal, I want to get back to a 225 strict press. But first, I got to be able to fully lock it, which again been a long thing with that old impingement and overuse. So, again, I'm going to have to just void supine grip stuff, and it seems to be helping. Uh, so I just did two sets of that, but next time I'll definitely come in and do a top set with 315 for reps on the wider grip. Uh, deadlift, I'm just using the straight bar on every this bar on everything, the power bar. I'm not even using this the squat bar, the deadlift bar. Yeah, it's harder to deadlift, but again, we get a good quality triple. Really happy. Good set with 500. Um, felt good. Happy with that. Uh, and then I decided to do my rows afterwards because I'm going to work rows back in. When I look at what's going on with squats, I look at all my my movements. I do feel like I need rowing again. So, I'm going to do rows and pull-ups. Um, as much as I love the pull-up for just lat width and just getting a wide back, just the e the upper back and everything from the uh from the rows, I know how much it does for my big three and even my overhead press. So, I really do need to prioritize it again for now. And I'm not at my strongest. So, people are like, "Oh, no. 245 off these rows off the floor for six isn't bad." I've done 13 reps with 250. So, we're we're not there. we know that we are weaker. And keep in mind, I was deadlifting into the 600s when I did that. So, I know where that carryover is. So, I do want to push these a bit while still doing pull-ups. Um, so I feel like that will handle a lot of the muscles I need. Really, that's kind of all I need. I'm just going to do bunch of band press downs to make sure triceps get work. And that's its own separate topic. Um, but again, six basic movements with a little band work. squat, bench, deadlift, row, press, weighted pull-ups. Uh, so with these today, I've been messing with different grips, and I know I can lock a little better with this wide grip, like I'm closer to a lockout, but I know that it doesn't feel as powerful. So, I just like, well, just feels natural. I just walked in and just grabbed what feels like a natural grip, and it was in much closer. I just walked up like, let me just go to the bar and just see what I can do. just my eyes closed with just feels right. Right. So, I just came over to it just kind of gripping with just feels without really looking at it. What feels good and it was right there. That's real close to where I had my 225 in the past. It just felt comfortable. So, it's like uh and it's stronger now. I still can't lock it and that's a concern. But we can still train it. we can still train it even if I can't lock. And people will notice it's like it's not just go lighter. Going lighter doesn't help. I can't do it with the empty bar. So, you know, it's not the case. I have to just continue to allow that area to heal. But in the meantime, I'm still going to overhead press with the range of motion that I can do. So, again, this was more comfortable. Um, it felt stronger. Even though I do like that wide grip, this closer grip, we just know that's where it was strongest. and it just feels more natural and it feels more powerful. So, I'm just gonna run with it for now, I guess. Right. And I'll keep benching wider grip because I know at this point that's where I feel strongest. So, then for pull-ups, I'm like, let's just do a shoulder width just right. I did neutral grip last time, but I'm like, let's just do this. This is let's take a very similar grip to that overhead press. And notice when I go to a dead hang, it's very similar to where I lock out. So you guys can tell it's not necessarily a strength issue. That is me hanging with my body weight plus a plate. So we just keep working it. But again, I think I need to be careful of even the neutral grip. I think I can do some hammer band curls. That's about it. That'll give me some some bicep stimulus. But I do feel like at this point everything needs to be pronated. Let's make sure that we just continue to take that bicep inflammation out. But notice I'm closer to locking out than I was. We're seeing improvements. So again, it's going to be an issue of that area healing. And again, I feel like a pull-up like that, as much as I even like the neutral grip, probably still going to give me better carryover to the ability to lock because I'm stretching into that position with the same grip that I just did. But I did do a set of hammer curls of bands. Notice I'm avoiding the shoulder uh rotation on these. I'm purely doing the elbow. Why? because I want to make sure that entire area where the bicep inserts that inflammation continues to go down, right? I look pretty jacked when doing these though, but I want that to go down. And if I can't get enough bicep with a little bit of band work in the pull-ups, then we just live with it. We'll just work triceps for bigger arms. But my arms were biggest when I wasn't doing any curls anyways. We all know that historically they were bigger. Uh box jumps though. Um instead of doing 10 sets of three, I'm like, let's do some fives today. So I'm doing a little higher reps than I normally do. A five is about the limit because again trying to get speed strength. You can't do too many reps. We start losing explosiveness. But instead of 10 by three, I'm like, let's do a 5x5. Little more density to it. I can still jump. Still getting good good speed, good power. So again, and it also saves the time because I've only got to do five sets instead of trying to do 10. You know, the the 30 seconds adds up, starts turning into minutes, right? when you just want to get your workout done. So again, uh box jumps and then I did band press downs here at the end. And the idea is um you know the only reason let's let's be realistic. The press will probably improve my bench. I am thinking in terms of one possible tricep development. I am thinking two in terms of locking the bench. I just need to make sure my triceps can lock and the band press downs, that strength curve will help because occasionally that could be a sticking point, but realistically we know my wide grip bench when we look at where the bar slopes, overhead press carries over to that point. And is it any surprise that with me having not been able to overhead press and it still being weak that the point where that front delt activation really matters where my bar tends to slow? Again, not really a surprise, is it? So, I feel like let's just push the wide grip. We get enough speed out of it, it's not going to matter. We'll lock it as long as we get enough speed out of the bottom and through the sticking point. um and just push the overhead press. But I do want to do some band press downs here and there. Um and it'll be the only thing I'm really doing outside of the big lift. And I occasionally do some band curls like I did. And mainly because I just like them in a hammer position. We're not putting that supine position. So again, a little bit of band work, but it's not difficult on recovery. We're not going to overtrain on bands. All right. So some bands are fine, but otherwise it's going to be built around the six movement patterns plus jumping. And then of course I run. I run three days a week. So again, getting our fitness conditioning, our athleticis on, but I feel like if I'm going to do a little more squat volume, I'm going to do this much jumping. I don't necessarily need to push the sled at the moment. Um, I'm running three days a week. I do try to do a 5K at least three times a week. Um, but I did finish up with some band press downs. I lost reps really quick taking these to failure. And yes, I'm changing the grip a little. I used to do them with a hammer type grip. Now I'm doing the palms down. Um, just because it feels a little more stable, right? But again, the idea here, uh, over speed eccentrics helps with the tendons and then it's going to help that lockout strength because of the strength curve. So, just in case I do need that on the bench, I feel like the overhead press and the lat work will get me the power out of the bottom. Of course, obviously, the chest building from doing up to nine sets of bench every week is obviously no slouch. So, we're just talking the secondary stuff. Plus, the same thing when I think of the overhead press up there. Let's make sure the triceps are strong enough at lockout. So again, band work, right, to help with that. And the other thing I'm thinking of that pronated position, as funny as it sounds, I'm looking at carryover. Can we get everything to carry over to that overhead press because I want that overhead press to go up and I know it will feed my bench. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.