Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and today is going to be another bicep workout again. It is 26 degrees in my garage. Uh when I started doing the training here, I'm not dealing with it. And quite frankly, it's it's not even an issue of of cold. It's that I'm just not used to the cold. You know, when I lived in the UK, I trained in that sort of weather all the time. I am, however, now climatized to Texas. You guys have seen me run outside with it over 100 degrees Fahrenheit barefoot on the asphalt. I've trained and done You guys have seen me do work sets of 500 on a deadlift uh and over 100 degrees in my garage. You know, we just have to be realistic. I'm climatized to the heat. Uh and I've noticed as I've gotten older, I do not like the cold. Like I stepped into my garage just to get some stuff this morning. um kind of put the washing machine on just on a small load on hot just to you know again help with keeping pipe safe, you know, and and realistically I didn't want to be in there. I didn't even want to be in there, but it's only going to be this week. Um and in the meantime, it's going to let me do all this bicep stuff. And yeah, I'm going to take the bicep training a little more seriously. Um the lighting doesn't look as good. I feel like I looked way more jacked yesterday uh than I do today on here. It's similar times. Um, it's just the sun's up in a different same lights on. You know, everything is the same. But, um, I guess that sun coming up hard in the backgrounds making the light a little different, but obviously I still look leaner, but I'm going to push the the arm stuff. Um, we got more reps today on the barbell curls. No surprise. Um, and I may not keep these volumes up on these arm days. I may push this down and just push PRs. Uh but again, the one thing I can get away with because all my other training is very very well sorted in terms of recovery even though I'm getting leaner. Uh very sorted in terms of recovery, my biceps are not necessarily going to create a recovery issue and and I think they'll be fine. So I thought let's just run a phase of just really pushing the arms really hard. Um, so again, obviously I've got to get stronger, but again, the point is people will will say, "Well, you need to lift more weight, so you want me to cheat curl? You want me to do cheat reps of five?" Because you can't have both. You know, these are hard sets. I'm getting 14 reps and I'm reaching failure. Like, that's it. U you know, so again, realistically, we're limited by the size. It's not that you go heavier and then you get bigger. It's that you get bigger allows you to go heavier. Hard sets are what create muscle growth. Um, just the simple reality. My my biceps are probably my smallest weakest muscle. A previously torn one. A chunk of one of mine is missing by the way. Uh, the chunk about the size of my thumb was taken out. I got to see it later. Uh, so, you know, we'll do the best we can, but I'm just going to push them hard. And this is the one thing I can specialize in if I really want. I mean, my my big lift, squat, bench, and deadlift are going to keep going up. My dips are going to keep going up. But then I I feel like I can really dedicate some time since those are all dialed in on low volumes. They've all made progress. I can really dial in some biceps for a while, and I don't think it'll hurt. Particularly, if I keep chipping away at the body fat like this, um, should come along. So, I did six sets of the barbells again today. I got 14 reps on all of them. All right. I might have got 15 on one. I start to lose count, but I took them all the way to the limit, right? They're at a temporary failure for me, but we up, we got reps. So, if people are curious how I'm maintaining that, then these sets were all like 10 minutes apart. I worked on other stuff, got other work done, came and just did, you know, a set like every 10 minutes or so. So, it allowed me to recover. That's one of the things if we're going to do something like this, if you're losing reps, the volume's too high per session. Uh but you know in this case because because we are taking such long breaks, we'll probably still get stimulus. Now does that mean this volume is going to equal more growth? Not necessarily, but at least we know it's hopefully not going to be less, you know, unless I just overtrained my biceps. So I did those and then I finished up with some dumbbells. I'm like, okay, uh six sets of that. We got reps. So I did alternating curls today instead of hammer curls and I got 14 plus. I got like 15 on one of the sets. Um, so I did three sets of these, right? Alternating. Again, let's work all the functions of the bicep. The the barbell curl will probably do everything I need, but you know, I do get a little bored of just doing endless amounts of it. So, I'm like, let's finish off with some dumbbells. We did hammer curls yesterday, did these today, and it may come over to where I just just do the barbell at a certain point, but I'm like, it does help with grip, puts me in that hammer position, works all the functions. We could argue my pull-ups though may be enough for all that honestly and I could just push the barbell and it might be fine and I might just start doing that. But I I feel like sometimes I I just get bored of doing just the barbell. So let me be clear with this secondary stuff I'm throwing in. It's not necessary. It's just finishing off the biceps. But if I just push the barbell curls hard enough, they'll probably get everything that I want. Just being consistent with it. All right. I couldn't finish that rep. So that was failure. So, I did three sets of these. I don't need to talk about it that much more. You guys get the idea. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.