 Zaymeme,estyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyestyesty because this is where I've hit my biggest lifts, like those old 600 plus pound stuff, all using that stance. But I don't know, I just felt more comfortable since I've been doing the really narrow stance, toes forward for a while, that feels better. But I just wanted to see how it felt. All right, beltless deadlifts coming up. Like yesterday, I came in, I did one rep, you know, might be disappointing for some people, but today I got three, right? We're deadlifting every day. So what we're doing here, keep in mind, we've gone over to the stiff bar, totally different animal, because I want my grip to come up. And the grip is holding really good now. My grip strength is coming up very, very quickly again. We got three clean reps, held them at the top with no belt. So it felt much, much, much better. So again, I think what we'll do on Monday, we'll go right back to what we were doing. We'll do the beltless high bar. And again, keep working the grip. But yeah, that beltless deadlift today felt a lot better. So it's just going to take me a moment to get used to it. I have a feeling of the deep high bar squats. Again, they'll start feeling real good without a belt once I get used to them for a week. That deadlift went good today. All right, closed grip bench, doing it pretty much flat back with a long pause. I bumped the upright there, by the way. I got to get my setup a little better again for closer grip. But that also tells me something. So if I came down really clear the uprights, we missed it by two inches on the eccentric grip, right? Or more. I bumped it on the way up. And we were slow at the lockout. Every strength coach watching knows what's going on. We got to build that lockout strength on the triceps. That's simply what has to happen. So I'm going to go with what I used to do. But I really built that really big closed grip before I was living on the band press down. So we're going to work those back in in the end. And I was doing excessive amounts of them to where people are just overtraining your triceps. But it worked just for building my bench. So weighted pull ups were kind of where we've been. We're getting eight reps, doing them from a dead hang though. Same thing here, closed grip incline. I almost felt like I could have possibly squeezed out a six rep. But the same thing. Yeah, I know I was doing eight with the wide grip. But I want to just get good pauses. I want to do this closed grip because it's going to carry over to my closed grip bench. We want to keep focusing on getting that shoulder health on point. So everything's going to be closed grip. Everything's going to be geared towards that because I want to be able to overhead press again. Look at that 225 sit on the bar. I want to overhead press that again, like in a standing press. And I got to get the range of motion restored. You know, so again, keep hammering at it. We're going to do everything closed grip. We're going to do all this stretch stuff. I'm going to keep building the upper back and everything. And we're going to get back to being able to do that. It's been eight years since I did that, by the way, previously. All right, dumbbell rows felt good. I'm still kind of limited to 10 reps on these. That's where I built up to over the last, you know, about last week I got up to hasn't really budged from there. But I feel like maybe if I just keep getting stronger at the hammer curls, it will come up. But we're also doing a lot of other pulling first. You know, we're doing the deadlifts. We're doing, we're doing the pull-ups. So I'm going into these a hair fatigue. I'm treating them as a lighter exercise, trying to pick a weight that's about a 10 rep max, right? And I'll do little shorts and reels on this later again as to why I use the technique I use, but it's because I want it to build my upper back more. It's funny, like you do a seal row and nobody complains. Oh yeah, it's an amazing mid and upper back exercise. You do the same bar path with a dumbbell and people freak out. How stupid is that? Oh no, you got to swing it to the hip. Really? Do you swing a seal row to the hip? Well, no, but it's a straight, exactly. If you want the same benefits as the seal row, you need to do it like that. The dip, sorry for the camera angle. I didn't realize the camera was that low. When I set it up, I should have moved it up higher. But we got 10 reps. So the goal with these, I'm trying to go as deep as I can and then pause at the bottom. And I've been getting eight, right? I've been getting eight and now I'm up to 10. And I'm aware we don't fully lock up there at the top because I'm leaned forward to do it as a chest type movement. I want that deep stretch. Kind of makes it hard for me to go into that position when I pause at the bottom. I have to swing forward and I'm not worried about it. I want this to be a deep stretch position movement, not the end of the world because I'm going to do the band press downs to lock the triceps. Right? But there's my legs, by the way. My legs haven't shrunk. Everyone agree with that? There's the veins. Hammer curls. Got a PR. We got a PR on the hammer curls. Got 12 reps today. All right. We were stuck at eight, got up to 10. Then we got 11. We were stuck at 10 for like five workouts. Then I squeezed out 11 the other day. Finally done it a couple of times. Today, I managed to get 12. I got to the rep nine. I'm like, I'm going to get, I know I can get 12 today. Let me, I bet you I can. You know, a lot of times we failed. Last time I hit 11 and just couldn't move it out of the bottom on the 12th, but we got 12. And then we went over to the band press downs and I'm aware I lost reps. My first set of band press downs, I can usually get at least 10 more reps than subsequent sets. Right. But I did five sets of these two temporary momentary muscle failure, just going until it's like we're done. But even then we're getting enough of these that it's accumulating if we're getting really close and if we're just burning and giving up, because it's hard to tell sometimes because I'm losing range of motion. So we're essentially hitting failure before the end of the set. If you notice that we, as it starts really getting difficult, the tricep gets pump, gets fatigue, I can't lock it as much. So we're, we're essentially at failure before in terms of a full range of motion, because again, I just can't get the final bit. But did five sets of these burn like hell, triceps burn like hell. But we know from past experience, I was doing up to 15 to 20 sets of these a week when I close grip benched 365 with a two second pause. Right. You guys remember that? And it was a nice, clean, pretty lockout. It wasn't super slow. Wasn't grindy like this one today. So this builds my, my close grip lockout big time. I just have to do a lot of it and it keeps my tendons healthy. But yeah, five sets of them today. I'm going to keep working with, with this can be the one thing I do a lot of volume on because I know I respond to a lot of volume on it. Historically, it worked well, but happy with the workout. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.