Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Once again, it is time for an upper body day. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, um I would also appreciate that. All right, let's get over to it. Um obviously we're we're doing flat bench. So pretty much what I've been doing, I'm doing flat bench. I'm tr really trying to do it bodybuilder style. Notice I'm not even really trying to pause. I'm trying to not unload at the bottom. So, I'm doing a very, very soft touch and go. So, I'm trying to barely make contact with my skin so that again, we keep the pecs under tension through that hardest part. I'm taking these sets to about zero reps in reserve. Notice the bar slows down on the last rep each time. Um, I'm not doing a crazy wide grip, by the way. It's relatively wide, but I'm right at like pinkies. Pinkie is just a hair outside the rinks, right? Um, so we're not gripping really the super wide that I felt really bothered the shoulders a lot, but I'm also not going really heavy. So then I'm super setting that with uh weighted pull-ups. All right. And on the same thing on the weighted pull-ups, I'm trying to go to a full stretch at the bottom. Try to do most of the reps from what I would call a dead hang. Like I'm not really pausing a long time at the bottom, but I am trying to come to a complete stop so that we get that stretch. Um, and I feel like looking here, guys, chime in. Let me know what you guys think. I feel like I'm recmping. Like I've been doing all this tons and tons of cardio, but I'm also eating a lot of salt and a lot more carbs than I have been. So, the scale hasn't really gone down, but I'm in a a tighter notches on belts. I've noticed since then, like my lifting belt, uh I noticed it's looser. So, if I want it snug at all, I have to go a full notch in. So, I'm at the same body weight, but I'm on a tighter notch on the lifting belt. Um, I feel like I look bigger and leaner now. It could be again muscle fullness from from the other stuff with the diet. Uh, but again, I feel like we're seeing what visible recmp or it's just holding extra muscle in the water. Even though I'm losing body fat, I don't think it's so much recmp, but it could be. Keep in mind, we're doing a lot of novel training stuff. And I felt like my legs looked a lot bigger the other day when I was looking down at them. Like my quads, my calves. And it's not bigger as they looked leaner. just people say, "Well, that can just be fat loss." No, they look thicker. Um, they feel thicker. So, again, uh, on this stuff, trying to go to about zero reps in reserve, so I'm not going to true failure on it, but we're getting real, real close. Uh, but yeah, I feel like my back is thicker and wider. So, what I'm doing here, I'm not worried about biceps. I'm like, look, let's just double down on the back. I really want 12 sets for everything. But, if I just do everything overhand grip, 12 sets a week, so six on each day. Obviously, th this counts as a chest exercise. I don't want to count the bench like this as a true tricep exercise because I never got big big triceps even when I was close gripping all the time. Um, and I do know my triceps need work, but I also don't think we need to to weak point train at this point. I agree with a lot of coaches out there. Just build everything balance and let it land land where it will. These are literally bodybuilding, but coaches I know who do men and women in multiple divisions are like, let your genetics determine even where you compete in bodybuilding. like just maximize every muscle. Do not try to weak point train. So even for physique, I think there's some truth to that. So I'm not even weak point training. I know the triceps and delts need it, but it's like let's just make sure they're balanced work, right? So how do we do that? Well, obviously here we'll just count the bench as chest. So trying to get success, but I am counting I am going to count dips as triceps. So I am counting that towards my 12 sets. I'm not going to count the bench, but technically even the pull-ups will hit the long head. I've even seen Dr. Mike point that out. Like he's like, "Ah, there can be some gross stimulus actually from from your uh horizontal pulling." Sorry, your vertical pulling, right? And tricep long head. But in this case, we know the dips hit the whole tricep. It doesn't put the long head in a stretch position, but it does hit it because of the way it's positioned behind us. Um, so we do those. And then I went over instead of trying to go heavier on these. I did go a little heavier last time and only got sixes. I'm like, let's just try to get the really deep stretch with the 45 and pause that last rep so that we almost can't get it. So definitely trying to and I know I'm right about my limit. I'm like, let's just pause at the bottom with that last rep, which puts me right at eight. So I'm picking weights I can do right about eight on most of this other than the bench that was six. Um, but I could always lighten it up if I wanted to to do that. But I feel like 275 is good. I mean, I'd probably get nine or 10 if I dropped to 245 or something. All right, Rose. I didn't cheat row today. I I did that the last couple times. And that was fun to do, but I also like I don't have to do that. But I can strap up so that it is really just back in this case because I'm doing a lot of other grip stuff technically, all the pull-ups. I'm doing all the hanging leg raises. Um, I'm deadlifting, you know, twice a week. I'm not going to worry about it. So, I'm just going to do that for now. Normally, I'm not big on stretch, but I'm like, it lets me just stretch deeper and not have to feel like grip is giving out. Um, and I can't just do back. And I can always add extra forearm work and grip work. And I may even do that. But I feel like right now, let's just train everything. And I've thought about adding some forearm work. Um, I may do that. I've got to think about it. If I do it though, maybe on the lower day. I don't want to do all this stuff and then do forearm work too much and then go deadlift the next day. So maybe on the lower day. Uh but so the weighted diffs in the row. So I'm only doing 225 here, but I'm keeping them as strict as I possibly can. Bent over right now. Obviously the last rep or two a slight bit, but that's because we're also reaching muscle failure. So So again, I'm also trying to really stretch that last rep. So most of these I'm trying to stretch. So that's the only reason for the straps is I feel like I can stretch a little more. And normally I'm I'm not big on straps or stuff like this, but I think there's a point with heavy barbell rows, like dumbbell rows, I never need them. I go heavy as hell, right? I don't ever need them, but with the barbell just because of the ability of that bar to roll. Um, using them a little bit, I think I can get away with it. But if we'll do lots of bicep work, I think we'll still be good for other grip. But again, like I said, I may throw some forearm work in on top of it just because we can make the case for, you know, are are they not getting any direct work? I'm doing direct calf work and I've got big calves. So maybe I just feel like I've run out of time on the upper body days. It's just you can only do so many exercises, right? Like I did nine exercises today because we we're trying to make sure everything gets that work. So we're going to count dips though towards chest and triceps. And I think that's fair. I'm only going to count the pull-ups and rows towards my back. So that means what I really need to do in that case if I really want 12 sets, I did do six total sets for biceps today. But what are we doing? We're picking off stretch position stuff. You guys are going to notice other than the delts because I don't really have much of equipment that I really feel like I could get a stretch position. I'm trying to focus on stretch movement. So the rows, that's the reason I'm doing a little bit of straps because if it comes down, I can stretch a little deeper at the bottom. And I feel like I fight with that if I have the bar trying to roll a little bit. Um, so again, the only reason I'm doing that, uh, so again, two, six sets for for back here between the the pull-ups and the rows. Keeping again, notice we're trying to get into deep stretches. So then we come over to the tricep work. So I'm doing the laying extensions with that deep stretch. I'm pausing a lot of the reps. Some of them I'm forgetting to. I hit the uprights there. So I'm trying to go as deep as I possibly can. And yes, obviously I lose a little bit of reps. Like I'm really struggling with eight rep. Eight reps are pretty hard. I kind of noticed I had some people go, "Oh, I feel like you're leaving a lot of reps in reserve on those." I'm really not. Not with that stretch because right there I'm pausing. Like that pause hurts and I feel like I'm not going to be able to lock it. So it does feel like zero in reserve. But even if it's not zero, it would be one then because it doesn't feel like I'm going to complete that rep with the pause. So when I know I'm reaching that level of fatigue, that's pretty much uh what I do there. And then of course for our first bicep exercise, going with the incline curl. And as much as part of me wants to go, I could just do the barbell curls. They're a nice big exercise, you know, I really feel like, look, I'm hitting a big compound that works. The biceps as a secondary, two different ones, 12 sets. Let's really just focus on on the stretch positions. And I love the big barbell curl. I think it should be a staple for most people. But I feel like in this case, maybe maybe I do want to do more of just uh the incline curls combined with preacher curls. Um but I think keeping the incline curl really is a good idea no matter what. I feel like for me it burns so hard. I get a lot out of it. We're getting that stretch position. So I ended up doing preacher curls at the end with dumbbells. But I really could make the case for could I come in and just do a barbell curl, right? And then do an incline afterwards. That's also viable and I might do that. Uh, I might very well do that, but I just felt like today I wanted to get do a preacher curl. I just wanted to double down on the stretch work, make sure we're really working the biceps. But part of me also is like, man, the barbell curl is a nice big movement. It wouldn't be bad. Uh, but yeah, for these uh these that that eighth rep is really hard. It's really hard on this. So, again, focusing on the stretch. So, because we're getting the big big movement from the weighted dip and it is a big tricep movement, I'm really trying to double down on the stretch on the extensions to make sure we're really hitting that long head because we're still the lateral head's even going to grow from the benching. But, but I'm not really counting it. But on these, again, trying to double down on the long head work because I know if my tricep long head comes up, say my side and root delts come up. As I get leaner, um, that's really what I need to to improve my overall look, right? Although, I could make the case of if I just get leaner, everything's going to look bigger anyways. Everything's going to look bigger anyways. Like, I don't have the best arm proportions, but I've also realized all things considered at a lower body fat, they're still not going to look bad at all at this point. All right, they're not going to look bad at all if I just get leaner and bring especially the waist gets smaller. That's what really counts there. Uh but again, trying to make sure we focus on that stretch. So, a lot of these I'm trying to stretch it as deep as I can, including if I need to pause very briefly. U pausing some of the reps and particularly trying to the very last rep because I know it's getting difficult there. I'm trying to pause the last rep each time. So right there, notice we pause it and then I try to bring it up, right? And again, it feels like I'm not going to make it. So I feel like I'm almost cheating and pulling the elbows in a little more to make sure I can lock those reps. Uh so again, trying to make it difficult. And then of course with the the incline curls, I'm pretty much taking them to failure. Um on these, I'm just going tilt it sticks at the bottom, which is eight reps, right? And I already know I'm going to fail after right eight. So it's kind of like the ninth is expected. I can feel it's coming to failure. So on the eentric on rep eight, I slow it down just a hair if that makes any sense. So sometimes people will say, "Well, how do you make sure you're consistent with those? You're really consistent. How are you really going to failure?" Um because I I'm kind of picking weights that I know I can do about eight reps. So then what happens on the eighth eighth rep, I slow the eentric down to make sure that it finishes it off and it's just too hard. So then when I get to the bottom, I feel like I can't do a rep. It just sticks. And I know it looks brief. I'm not sitting here struggling with it. But when it gets to the bottom, it's like, "Yep, it's not coming back up. I can't move it." So I try to flex the bicep. Weight doesn't move. It's temporary momentary muscle failure. Um, so then I did the incline. I didn't put the plate down. So the bench was sliding a little bit on some of the reps. So that's okay. We still got as many reps as we can. And this is for me. I can only handle eight reps. But the whole point with the uh the the bench. Why am I using the bench? To keep me from cheating so much, right? It's just to make the exercise a little stricter because I have a habit of of cheating on stuff like this given any opportunity. So, it just forces me to be a little more strict. But I've also again, you would point out a lot of people say, "Well, you can take the side." You really can't. No matter how you do a lateral raise, no matter how much you cheat or anything else, the side delt is still generally going to be the muscle that fails. It's just that what form you use, what how high you go, how much you lean forward or back, whether you cheat, it's going to affect other muscles as far as other stress, but the side delt's still going to take the brunt of it. Uh same thing here, rear delt flies. Obviously, the side delt traps, all that are getting work. The idea here trying to make sure that the uh isolating the rear delt. So, and yes, a lot of people are always like, "Use your traps and a lot of that stuff." Yeah. And it's unavoidable, but we're still picking movements to where the rear delt's going to fail because we're on that 45 degree incline. The rear delt is going to be the muscle that reaches failure. The traps and other stuff are getting work. Robboids are all getting work. Side delts are getting a lot of work even. And the rear delts are getting work on the side delt one. But but it's still going to be we're making sure that the biggest primary mover, the muscle that fails will be the will be the posterior delt with this technique. But yeah, obviously I always have a little bit of trap in myself and it's just my nature. I tend to just use traps on things. Um I just always have. Uh so again, that's why I picked these movements. It forced me to be a little bit stricter just to remove a little of that tendency. And then I finished up with preacher curls. Like I said, I may not do this next week. The dumbbells felt good, but um I feel like they just add so much unnecessary time, right? They add so much unnecessary time to the vlog. It's kind of funny. Like, do we need that much extra time changing hands unilateral? This is like literally over three minutes for three little sets of eight. Uh the other thing I noticed here that's interesting, I can barely squeeze out eight reps with the left hand. The left arm, I have a chunk of my bicep removed. Okay? So, my left arm is a hair smaller. The doctor cut a chunk out after I had an a whole issue after the surgery. Um, gosh, that's been 23 years now. Had a had an issue there. Has it been 23? My god. My god. It has, I guess. Yeah. Was it O2? Was it 04? Might have been 04. I don't know. Maybe 21 years. Who knows? It's been over 20 years. We know that much. I think it was 2004. Um, so technically that site should be weaker, but it never is. But it could also be because I'm doing it first and then we're having some peripheral nervous system fatigue for the right arm. I wasn't able to get the eight reps. I think I got maybe on the first set, but it was like seven and six or something after that for sure. I might have only got seven on the first set with the right arm and I just couldn't do anymore. Right. Um, so on next time on these, if I do them, I might do an easy bar or we just may come in and barbell curl. I'm always so torn on that because I think the barbell curl is such a great exercise. But I also know for me isolating in those stretch positions, you know, given some bicep undertraining in the past, probably isn't a bad idea. But does it really matter? So, as long as I'm doing the incline and I'm rotating through a couple of the different effective movements, it's still our isolation work probably isn't going to matter that much in the grand scheme of things. We can change that stuff up a lot. And lots of people with really big biceps do because at the end of the day, a curl is a curl, right? A curl is a curl. There's no way around that. Like, we already know it's biceps. It doesn't have many functions. Um, all right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I will talk to you guys and gals next time. Obviously, it's going to continue just a little longer after, but I'm out.