Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And once again, it is time for a general physical preparedness day. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. All right, really only did four basic things for conditioning today. Obviously, I ran this morning first. Did a barefoot run. Um came and did this. I did four rounds of the farmers walks. Um it was really funny. I'll probably increase these over time. I just started doing them. I kind of laughed. Someone else chimed in. One guy was like, "The amount of weight you're using is pathetic on these." It's like, "I can do more." And I'm just like, "Well, put up your videos, dude. Let's let's see all your amazing strength on other stuff." It's like, it cracked me up. It's like, guys, this is my my GBP work. It's like I'm not trying to do these for short distances and to maximize it. I'm just building it up. It's grip training. It's it's conditioning. So, again, it's really funny because this is between my sessions, guys. Like, these are not intended to be crazy hard. They're just good, solid, reasonable work. Get the conditioning up, build the grip, build the work capacity, you know, and we will gain some muscle from this. Um, but these do get challenging over the course of several rounds. Um, I personally find that my grip starts to really fatigue like crazy on this, especially with these smoother handles. I don't really This these handles are smooth on this particular brand. Um, I almost feel like maybe wrapping them with some grip tape. Uh, but no, they work fine. I just, uh, throw some liquid grip on and run them. But yeah, four rounds of this is actually pretty dang good. Gets my heart rate up a little bit. I've already run it. Uh, gives me some good grip training, some upper back work, some core work. Um, but yeah, so, um, again, it's just good GP. And I'll probably increase these over time, but right now, this is fairly um, you know, fairly challenging with this weight. I mean, so again, if I wanted to just do a short distance, you know, I would walk it half this distance, set it down, turn around, rewalk back with it, but, you know, I'm just doing a full full turn and continuing with it. So, yeah, there's no real time for the the grip uh to recover. But, yeah, I'm happy with it. Um, and like I said, I'll increase this over time, you know, so yeah, I've got about 90 pounds per hand. Uh, so again, just kind of build this up slowly like everything else. Um, just we just load it progressively over time. This is intended to be a reasonable amount of of uh training volume. So again, this is general physical preparedness. These are not intended to be grueling all out 100% everything I have per walk. Um you know, and again, I'm actually thinking of double downing. I'm really thinking of flipping the pull-up handlebar over to the fat grip one because I have to unbolt it on, flip it. Um, I'm thinking of going back to my axle bar for my rows and just doing really going double down on all the grip stuff in the forearm, you know, um, while I'm doing kind of what I'm doing here. Um, you know, again, especially especially while I want to work on shoulders a little more. But yeah, I just feel like I might I might actually do that, especially with these these walks in and then doing hanging leg raises some of the days. Just really double down on the grip. All right. Um, the med ball tosses. I did five triples on these today. I'm getting more efficient just doing them, turning around, throwing it, keep going. I did drop it and hit my back. It barely graze my back on one of these. You guys will see it. I'll see if you guys will catch it where it happens. Um, but uh, you know, I just ran with it. Just kind of shrugged it off. Not a big deal. But I'm throwing it behind me, so no, it's not going to land on my head. But I didn't move, you know, out of the way quick enough on one of them, and it did clip my back. Um, but we'll we'll see if people even catch which one it is. Uh but yeah, happy with these overall. I feel a lot of my shoulder. So I feel like for these, yeah, it's training full body explosiveness, but it's also uh it's also helping I feel like with the shoulder because it's throwing that into that that position overhead. I'm hoping that it will help um with my shoulder mobility overall, just dynamic stuff in general. So So again, um I want to be able to overhead press again. And so again, in the meantime, I'm also going to shoulder specialize because I feel like my delts have become a weakling because I haven't been doing delts and I can't um overhead press full range of motion. So again, anything to help improve that. So the only thing I'm going to bodybuild is going to be the shoulders. You know, we're going to rely on on dips and bench. Um but I'm also doing band press downs for triceps and some band curls just for tendons, but generally the only thing I'm really going to isolate outside of bands for now is just going to be delts. Um but I feel like that'll help. All right, the sled sprints are going to be an accident here. So, you can't see it from here. Actually, you might be able to see the rock that's actually in the the little crack between the two slabs of pavement. There was a bigiz rock stuck in there and I hit it on the way back and I hit it going full steam. Look at that cat trying to go. It scared the cat with the sound. Um kitty's like, "What are you doing? Oh my god." Um I know the people going the cat. It's out there all the time. So, I hit the thing and it's going to be like kow. Watch the watch the sled flip. and I hit it at full speed and I went over and took the rock out of the way when put in a flower bed, but it was stuck right there in between the two chunks of the pavement. It's like really guys. Uh, but it it it hit me pretty hard, but we recovered and kept going. I did another round of sledge sprints after that and this time there was no rock in the way to hit, but that was a little little uncomfortable. Um, and I thought I saw it up ahead. I'm like, I'm just going to miss it. I'm just my runner's going to miss it. I'm going to be fine. And then right as I got almost on it, the sled shifted a little bit cuz it does that with those nylon feet on there. Sometimes it shifts a little to the side and it did it right at the last moment. I hit that dang rock and I'm like really and man, it flipped the slack completely around. And then we finished up with five sets of reverse hypers. So we did this as GPP and then I'm like let's do the restoration. Let's do the reverse hypers. I'm not going to talk through all of them because it's five sets of 25 reps. Um, so again, you guys know why we do reverse hypers. You know why I do them. Um, big big fan of it for low back prehab and recovery. It's great for glutes, lower back development, hamstrings. So again, doing this at the end of some of the GPP days, I feel like will help with the overall recovery, help with my deadlifts, um, and help the core. I didn't do any core work because I had really serious abdoms yesterday. I want to give them a moment. I'll probably do them on the Saturday one again because then I'll have Sunday off, uh, to recover. So, we're going to keep working ab work and hanging leg raises, too, as we continue to go with with all of this. Um, so again, at this point, just focusing on building work capacity, do building my GBP, getting my lift up, and trying to stay at about the same body weight. See if we can just recmp a little longer. Um, but yeah, so I'm just going to let these play because you guys can see them in the background, but there's no need to keep talking over it. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.