Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Once again, it is time for a bench press today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, I would greatly appreciate it. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you would drop me a comment down under the video uh just to say hello or to give your thoughts, it would be greatly appreciated. Thank you so much. So, let's get over to the training. Um I went with a normal bench today, so this is still fairly close grip. So, something I want to to point out with some of this, I've also messed with the really closed grip. This is still inside the rings. And I think that is what I do need to remember. I pretty much uh with my shoulders realize I need to stay completely inside the rings no matter what. I do need to rotate through grips a little bit. And I think what I want to do, I ended up doing a 335 here. Pretty happy. Like I said kind of in my live stream, I've run conjugate a few months here. Um I feel like I got a lot out of doing it again. I kind of want to do a little bit of power building, literally replicating what I'm doing in conjugate, just do top sets uh for reps on squat, bench, and deadlift in place of the LB and DE. I'm still going to coach a bunch of people on conjugate, by the way. So, for those curious, um I am absolutely enjoying the conjugate coaching. A lot of my clients like it. I will rotate back to conjugate at some point. I think particularly for me, conjugate if I'm going to be in meat prep really does extremely well. Uh, but I think where I want to focus for now, I want to use rep work just to get a little stronger on my squat mentioned deadlift. I need to get thicker. I really am kind of enjoying training for size. I'm enjoying really focusing on the recovery. Um, just eating my nice clean bro diet. I feel like I'm in a good spot to just make some good lean gains. I'll probably hopefully recmp a little. Um, I just want to get thicker. I want to get bigger. Like especially up top, right? I need my shoulders bigger, arms bigger, everything. Uh, so I just want to get real thick. But what I want to note with that, we are in the pursuit of strength. I'm going to squat, bench, and deadlift every single week. We're going to go heavy, right? I'll do I'm going to do them as top sets. I'm not going to do a bunch of rep work, like a bunch of volume. I'm going to do reps. Uh but but we're still going to squat bench and deadlift heavy and my maxes will go up and then next time when I want to uh peak them a little bit I can run conjugate for a bit um and do that and I may rotate back and forth. I may rotate back and forth. It's just part of me is itching to just do some of my classic lifts a little bit. Use them for rep work. get in and just do them and then take the things that I've looked at with my recovery again scaling everything back and saying look I'm running these moderate volumes moderate volumes on all this accessory stuff I feel like it's really helped I feel thicker like I know I'm thicker with stuff clothes measurements stuff like that I'm gaining muscle pretty well so I want to continue that trend so what I did today um I decided to use my boxes so that it's easier to get into the first position this This is what I needed for the dip so I can climb up on the boxes, not trying to do it from the floor. First rep so much cleaner. But here's what I want to do. People are going to notice I'm doing eights and then failing on the ninth rep with 45 lbs. But look how much deeper I'm going. So what I want because I noticed when I quit benching super wide, I started doing the dips. I'm noticing my shoulder health doing better. And I feel like really building my shoulders up will help help. And I skipped the rear delt work today because my shoulders just felt kind of they were at their limits. Um, but some days I'm going to throw in some rear delt work again. Also, I did a chest supported laterals today. Um, so I feel like if I just keep building that upper back, I work on the shoulder health. I avoid overhead pressing and incline and stuff for just a bit. Let's just use dips. Let's use flat bench to build the chest. Um, I'm going to keep doing like different pullovers or pullover type extensions. Um, but focus on the shoulder health. So, I've noticed again pull-ups better, probably better for me than chin-ups. these nice wide grip pull-ups, especially that stretch at the bottom seems to do really well. So, what I'm noticing, my shoulders are feeling really, really good. In fact, they felt good even on that that wide grip bench. So, I want to continue these trends of really stretching and working on the shoulders. And I feel like my side and rear delts need to get a lot bigger. So, I'm going to make them a high priority. Now, the way I'm going to do that is like, okay, so we do a wide grip pull-up today instead of a chin, obviously. I'm going to keep doing the seal rows. I'm going to do a little more leaning forward, more uh chest supported type laterals. I'll start doing in a little more rear delt work, but again, keeping all this stuff nice and wide straight for the back. I want to make sure those rear delts and all that upper back shelf come up. Um, so like I said, I really could have done some rear delts today also, but I decided not to. I might do them do them next workout. Um, so again, I feel like for me the shoulder health issue is not putting myself into the into the compromising positions. uh keeping the benching inside the rings no matter what I do. And I may run some really close grip, too. I may rotate them a little because I I'm still a hair stronger, right? A hair stronger with that pinkies on the rings versus all the way in because I I've done 325 recently with a normal closed grip. So, about 10 pounds stronger at the moment, but I'm going to keep working all the dips and stuff for my triceps. Uh but those those dips felt really good going super deep. And I feel like that's what I need also for the shoulder health. Um, so why am I doing pullovers today instead of the other extensions? I've noticed my left elbow tendon's been bugging me about a week and it really shouldn't on that extension, but I'm like, I don't need to do extensions. I'm doing dips and we can do pullovers to get that long head. Okay, so I can do all this. This is six sets. It still counts as six work sets for triceps today, right? Because deep stretch dips and I felt my pecs and triceps. Like I felt the triceps a ton. They were both just hammered. They were lit up from those dips. I felt an intense chest stretch. I felt an intense tricep stretch. And then pullovers hit my triceps in their own way. I've always said for me, I feel pullovers are gosh, one of the better tricep exercises I've done. They did they work mine really well, right? They work them really well for me personally. Um, so again, I feel like I I do pullovers, all this. And of course, top sets of bench are going to help with it, too, especially if we're not going too wide. So everything inside the rings, no matter what I do, and I'll rotate grips a little through there. I'll mess with some of the closer grips, some of the pinkies right near the rings like I did today. The main thing I need to keep them inside there. And I need to keep building that the triceps up. But I feel like the whole upper back, right, needs to be a priority. In fact, if I want to look thicker, let's be honest, is it really my biceps that are limiting me from looking looking even bigger? I think it's more triceps and then that upper back. So, my rear delts, side delts with a bias towards the rear. It all needs to come up. The pullovers hit some of that too, though. Um, so again, did pullovers for this. So, then I had to think about, you know, what do I want to do for biceps? I would have been contemplating a strict curl or a preacher curl uh today instead of the cheek curls. I did the cheek curls for for a couple weeks, got really got stronger at those, and I feel like my biceps got stronger. So, I'm like, let's just do the old incline curl. Like, I did a lot of stretch stuff today, right? Right. We did those deep stretch pull-ups. We did the dead hang pull-ups. Um I did or the deep stretch dips. Then I did the pullovers. I'm like, let's just continue that theme. Let's do my incline curls because I really feel incline curls. I'm a big fan of them. Some of my clients are like, "You did my favorite lift, man. I feel my biceps more." So I'm like, "Let's see if we're strong on them." You know, cuz So I went up with these these same dumbbells I had loaded the other day. I took them down for the laterals. I'm like, "Let's see if we can do these 38s." I got eight reps. They were hard. Like these were limit sets. I didn't have another rep on these, but I got eights with these. So, you know, was it five pounds heavier per side versus last time when I was did tens, I think, with a little lighter. Um, so biceps are definitely stronger from the last time I did incline curls. So, I feel like those cheek curls helped. Uh, muscle gains probably helped. So, I'll get one of incline curls for a bit. So, yeah, a lot of these muscles though, we're only doing like six direct sets a week. If we do that, that's okay because we have all the compounds. So, I think we have to remember that we're still going to have the squat bench deadlift. They're going to have carryover, right? I'm going have pull-ups in rows. There's definitely some biceps. So, then I want the bicep exercises to really get in and isolate and stretch it. You know, the pull-ups and the zeros hit them to some extent, but they're at most half sets. So, let's get in and do six really, really, really hard sets of direct bicep work. None of this nonsense of trying to do 30 sets like I was doing. Let's just get in and focus on quality quality work. Just get really good at at a number of exercises. Make sure we get at least six sets of direct work pretty much for everything every week. But then we're going to have a lot of splash over from the big compounds, right? Squat, bench, deadlift, then all the other back work. Because I'll do pull-ups and rows. That's going to end up being a lot because I do feel like I need that whole upper back and rear delt and side. All that needs to come up. But again, I feel like for me, like the incline curls, I feel like six sets of these a week, if I push them really hard, don't get girl stimulus. But I've got to just quit overtraining. That's the thing I've noticed why I've been getting stronger on stuff again, I'm just not overtraining. Um feel like my physique improved when I got leaner and lower carbs running five or six days. But it's like, guys, I need to keep the carbs higher. I need to just gain lean muscle, right? And then I can drop the water again. So people are like, if I'm not looking as lean, it really is water weight difference. It was really w, trust me, it really is water. High carbs, high electrolytes. I'm just thick and full. So, you know, I'm definitely not in a calorie surplus for those curious. But, we'll keep doing the fasted walking every day. Um, help with nutrient partitioning. Uh, and I just want to focus on perfectly clean diet, perfect nutrition, focus on recovery, getting great training stimulus on everything, but keeping it moderated so we don't beat ourselves into the ground. All right, that first set, by the way, I didn't put a plate down, so the thing was sliding. So, I'd adjust. But the second and third set, I put a 55 pound plate down in front of this so that it can't slide. So, I'm at a slight forward lean. So, for those curious, it's instead of a normal lateral, it is a slightly lean forward. It's chest supported. This way, we work the rear delt a little more than the front delt so that it makes it a more side and rear delt bias version. Uh, but really happy with today's workout. Everything felt good. I feel good. I feel healthy right now. I feel strong. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.