Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here with another bicep workout. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. Appreciate it. Uh still doing what I've been doing. I'm going to probably do this I don't know most weeks three times a week. Just do three really hard sets. Take them to what feels like failure the first two and then if I need to rest pause the last set we go there. Uh because it felt really hard, really hard on these. And notice that even on the third set, I had to rest pause the last couple like we got to the 20. Uh but what I'm doing here uh on my off days because I can get away with it. It's very very high reps. Notice and again I don't advocate doing any real heavy work in between your main workouts. But we're shooting for 20s here. So I'm taking a weight that I can get to 20 reps with. We're just doing three sets because that's enough. I could argue I could get away with one or two sets and probably still get the desired result, but I figure I'll prioritize my biceps as I continue to lean out on the lower carbs. I mean, the other movements are going to just we're just going to chase progressive overload with the minimum volume arms because biceps are a weak link. Um, I'll do this and we can tell from the strength levels, right? Think about the strength level difference here. I've had to build up to 70 for 20 here. What have you guys seen me do on laying extensions, dude? I do 110 for 20. I might even work them back in, right? My triceps are considerably stronger than my biceps, right? All my tricep exercises are actually pretty strong. I mean, I did 19 reps of 225 on the on the bench yesterday. All strict, mostly pause reps, right? pretty much flat back and my triceps light up on it. Same thing. My weighted dips really good. PR a lot. M was feel I almost feel like I would PR if I did extensions now. But the bicep strength is lower too, you know, unless I do cheek curls. Unless I do cheek curls, you know, we might make a case for that. I can make a case of if I wanted to come in and do cheek curls for this same thing, I totally could. And I might do that at some point, too, because I feel like a cheek curl is a great exercise. I don't know that it's any better for the biceps. All right. I don't know if it's any better for the biceps than these stricter curls, but I might I've thought about actually doing that, too. Seeing if we can get to sets of 20 plus with with a full plate per side on cheat curls. That might be interesting. But uh we got failure there. So we got 20. Then the last one I rest paused to get two more reps. And I was like, "Man, I bet I can get a a 23rd rep." I tried and I failed it. We absolutely failed. But what does this mean? Does this mean we need to increase the weight? I think we do. I'm either going to increase the weight or I'll I'll see if I can mess with some cheat girls. We might even do that, too. Of course, people will hate on it. Man, people will hate on it when you do cheat girls. But does it work? Do cheat curls, build biceps, you know, they build shoulders and stuff, too. Build core. But I I like the strict curls for now. Um I've been doing quite a bit of them. We're progressing on them successfully. Um I've never done 70 for 20 before. You've been about 12 13, but this is what we're up to. 20 and then 22 on the rest. Pause. So, what I'm going to do, I'm going to prioritize the biceps a little bit because if I can add some bicep size as I continue to get leaner, let me take I mean, perfect world. Perfect world. I take two inches off my waist and add an inch to my biceps, everyone will freak out. They would think, "Wow, this is insane. Blah is on a grandma trend, you know." But, uh, won't be. But yeah, we're getting our good workouts in as of yesterday now that the the weather is better. Uh definitely doing that with the weather better. But you know, um part of me has considered doing these as cheat curls. Part of me has thought about that. People won't like it though. I'm just I'm just going to call it now. But when has that ever stopped me from doing anything? And it's not like I care. I don't read the comments. Um unless there a super chat and and I know people don't believe that now. really don't. I've unbanned everyone. No one's banned. There's no censoring. I just don't I don't read it. I don't care. Not on the YouTube, my Facebook. I read everything because that's my main platform. But I at this point, I'm just letting it flow. I'm I'm going to let people who hate me increase my algorithms and make money for me. That's fine. I don't have to be part of it. Let them work for me. Much as I might not have liked Elgen, um you know, he had a good strategy there. He said, "You're all your trolls are my unpaid minions. go make me money. He was right. And I really should have accepted that a long time ago. I would have been so much better off. Uh but yeah, they just don't have access. If they want access, they're going to have to go post on my Facebook wall. But in the meantime, doing the curls. Um these went well. I am considering though the cheat curl thing. I am very much considering it. We'll think about it. All right. It'll catch hate. It'll catch flight. But again, when have I ever heard about that? Uh, but overall, pretty happy with the workout. Um, still continuing to slowly chip away at the body fat. I plugged in a couple of my workout pictures um into chat GPT because when I did that, had it do that picture for me. Um, which I I So, people were not understanding how it did the prompt. I did the same prompt everyone else does, but it does know that I am Jason Blaha. So, it I asked it how did it create the picture. It said it looked back at all my historic public work and that's what it used and then what it knows about me. So, that was interesting. Um, but I plugged some pictures in and it said 13 to 15% with a bias towards 14%. Was its estimate on my body fat. That's interesting. Um, still need to get a little leaner. I still need to get leaner and I will. We are. We've been chipping away at it bit by bit and we can tell. I mean, anyone who's in denial of that at this fact is is insane. Uh, but yeah, happy with the workout. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.