All right. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with another full body workout. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it. You guys can't see the little 5B plates on the side. Maybe you could tell from where the clamps are positioned. I'm not going to worry about it. Um, just a camera angle. I used the full front so people may not be able to see the extra 10 lbs. But we got five reps. I got six reps last time of 455. We did 465 today. Got five reps. Uh, pretty happy with it. It was hard. like it was heavy. Uh I didn't have anything left. The fifth rep was everything I had. This was a true five rep max for me. If you guys will notice, as the bar slows down, we get near the end. But still, I don't think I've ever hit this much weight for five the entire time I've been making video content. I mean, even when I was stronger on some other stuff, uh like the Cambridge bar squat, I never grabbed weights like this for this sort of rep. So, um I'll take the win there. I'm happy with it. I didn't improve on anything else today. I didn't improve on anything else today. But again, I'm going to ease into let's start trimming the extra water off that I picked up in the last couple weeks. We may not increase much. And it doesn't matter because quite frankly, where I'm at on all these lifts right now, I'm in a good place. If I could simply maintain what I did today while getting some leaner, I'll be happy with it. You know, I'll keep pushing biceps. I need my my arms to grow, so I'm going to do the curls on the off days. Uh, but the bench, I'm I'm kind of It's interesting. Uh, my chest just doesn't have any anymore. It's fascinating how I always feel the triceps burn on the high rep stuff, but now that um this is my third, I think third workout of actually grabbing 315 again instead of just doing 18 19 reps of 225, I've only got four reps. And I feel all chest. That's that's the thing. I don't feel any tricep on these. Doesn't even feel like it's a limiting factor. So, chest, chest, chest. So, the dips will help with that. I'm going to push reps really hard on dips. Try to get deep stretch on that and work with the benching a bit. So, I only did five exercises today, too. I didn't I didn't do the front raises or any of that. I don't need them today. Um, I could tell I was a little bit tired, right? I felt a little bit tired today. And that squat, that squat and took a lot out of me, but I'm still happy with all the other work. You know, the pull-ups, I'm right right where I want to be, need to be, you know, I get I can get right at 10 reps on the 45. Um, and I don't need my back to get crazy more developed. I really do need things like the arms, you know, uh, to get the broad of the work. Uh, but as far as tricep work goes with all this, this is plenty of tricep work. I get lit triceps from these these pull-ups. I always notice that. I always my triceps hurt from those. Uh and then when we finish with the dips, we're in a good spot. So, I do feel like dips carry over to my bench a lot. I'm going to push this up, get the pecs bigger, get used to doing 315 again, and I think we'll get back to that fifth rep. Um maybe we'll get to a sixth. We'll see how it goes. But if I if I start dropping body weight and water water weight again a little bit, uh should be good. Yeah, I did pick up some water weight in the last week or two is what it is. Not from eating junk. You guys see what I eat. It's just uh feel like the extra dairy fat really kind of did a number there. And that's okay. I still have a little bit bit of it left. Um I'm doing a lot of the fat-free Mtopia also. I have a little bit of the other left. I don't want it to go bad. I'm just kind of slowly working it in. Replace my thighs this week with with breast. Of course, I'm still going to eat beef every day. Uh, but I did cook six pounds of of chicken breasts like a day and a half ago to go with all of my my shoulder roast and things. Um, so yeah. So hopefully we'll we'll trim trim down a little bit here. Try to maintain this strength. But again, happy with that squat. 465 for five. Considering considering when I first cut down after doing all that running, I was struggling with even like six reps of 315 after that cut and then all the running. Take all that out. Now we're we're up here repping 465. And again, hard set like that fifth rep. You can see my face. If you heard the sounds on the one with the the audio in it uh on the shorts and reels. Yeah, it was tough. Deadlift's kind of the same thing. I feel like I have about five reps right now. And again, once once I get take get a little leaner again, tighten up, which again, this only happened in the last two weeks. So, it's not not significant body fat. It's literally just water. But all that protein overfeeding did tend to dry me out while I was doing it. Uh, so I'm going to return to that. Works really well for me. All right. Works really well. Uh, but strength is good, you know, all things considered. I'm happy with where these numbers are. So, if I just just get leaner, push the curls a little bit, maybe get a little bit of bicep, I feel like I'll be in a good place, you know. And it's not that I don't want progression. It's that if I if I'm going to strip down tighter, we may not get any more progression. We got a lot of progression on a lot of these lifts this year, you know, but there comes a point where it's like your body's going to say, "Yeah, not if you're going to lose any any body weight." So, we'll try to push progression. We'll see what we get. just go hard. Uh train heavy, train hard, get the work done, and then focus on arms a little bit more on the biceps on the off days. But overall, happy with the workout, that squat, just like last time. I mean, we're we're in a good area there, you know? We're in a good area, right? All right, guys. But that's uh really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.