Hey everybody, it's Jason Baja here. Once again, it is time for an upper body day. A quick reminder, if you would please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. Um, so I didn't do the super sets today. And the reason is um I want to really focus on my two main exercises because I'm cutting. I'm dropping two pounds a week easily at this point. Pretty hard into my cut. I need to absolutely maintain performance on a couple of key lifts and that's going to be my big ones, right? For the lower body, it's going to be squat and deadlift. Upper body, it's going to be bench press and it's going to be pull-ups. Those are my bread and butter. I need those to stay strong. So, even doing the super sets, we risk losing performance set to set. So, I took my time with them. Nice long breaks. And then everything else can be can be a little bit more pump work. We can do it a little more bodybuilder-ish, which we did. But these we didn't. So we we did like sixes pretty much on this stuff. Um so for the bench, I'm going in. I brought the grip in just a little bit. I get really good stacking down there. Still doing it very much bodybuilder style, but making sure my shoulders are going to stay healthy. I'm just going to stay inside the rings completely. But with this, I'm pretty much doing it flat back. Very soft touch and go. I'm not pausing at the moment, but I want a big bench. Again, I can practice some pausing. But again, I need to make sure that that my chest is getting worked uh significantly because again, I'm gonna cut down the volume of the big compounds. I don't need that many. And and it's I pretty much said that I really only need my four big compounds. I need to focus in on everything else and making sure my calves and biceps and all this other stuff is work. So, I'm doing, you know, obviously reverse hypers, calves, all that stuff on the lower day to get the rest of my volume. Same thing here. a lot of arm work, a lot of pullovers is what I chose to do. Um, and I and what we did here again, I went with 275 on the bench. I dropped it down to 245 when I was doing ace, but I'm like, let's just go with the 275. It's it's heavy enough. I'm keeping some good tension. Every rep is very controlled. Notice again, I'm doing this very much bodybuilder style. That's with a flat back, soft touch, making sure we're keeping a lot of tension on the pectorals. Pull-ups. I chose chose to do a few different angles trying to find out where I felt like the best camera angle is. Um with the pull-ups, you know, they felt really good just my warm-up. So, I've also decided on the pull-ups um to go with I've gone with a little bit closer grip here lately. I normally do a really wide like let's try to do that. Just focus on a good stretch. Um this always builds my lats. A lot of people don't like my pull-ups and I quite frankly don't care. Look at my lats. my lats get great stimulation and there are a lot of people who promote doing pull-ups very different from me who have way smaller backs than me. Um, and I don't agree with their approaches in terms of if your goal is back development, right? If your goal is back development, the key is to stretch at the bottom and to not swing around. And so that's one of the things when people are like, I try to get all the way up over the bar, but you're also completely unloading the lats. And I and I don't think we need to do that. I'm just trying to build my back. Um, so again, never been necessary. I've built a really big back doing it the way that I do it. You know, different grip widths, and I get an amazing mind muscle connection when I do it this way. My lats absolutely light up. They're on fire at the end of every set. So, I'm going to keep doing what I'm doing. All right. And, uh, it's biomechanically accurate. Whether people agree with that or not, we don't care. Let's get over to um the laying extensions. So, with these, I'm I'm doing what I've been doing. We come down. I'm going to the longest range of motion I can. I'm pausing on most of the reps at the bottom. I'm trying to just focus on that stretch. So, again, here, um here's the things I've had to realize with the training. I really need to just focus on triceps, particularly long head, biceps. I don't even care about working my delts directly right now. I just don't. Um and I think all of us agree who understand this stuff. You're gonna have capped delts generally if you get lean enough no matter what. Okay? I don't think we need to have overdeveloped delts. That's a big problem in current modern bodybuilding. And something I talked about in the stream. I know it's a it's a topic of controversy. I've said this before though. I've said it before. Um for smaller noviceses starting out, a huge amount of delt focus will help their aesthetics. Once we reach a certain level, we're going to have big delts. no matter what you do, just from your pull-ups, your rows, your benching, you're going to have big delts when you reach a certain size. So really, once you just get lean enough, they're going to be nice and rounded. So for me, I I if I'm going to really look at what I care about, arms really do need to be a priority. Even when I look at that real delta area and go, oh, this could come up, but I really realize the long head of the tricep will really still fill in what I want there. That needs to be my focus. that and biceps. I'm just going to keep hammering them. Even through this cut, I'm going to really hammer the triceps, particularly that long head and uh my biceps, you know, and I feel like stuff like the pullovers, like I like I did pullovers later in here, too. And I've said that before. I feel pullovers in my rear delts just as much as I feel a rear delt race or a band pull apart. Okay? It is a definitely a legit rear delt exercise for me. I feel it. Okay. Now, it's obviously a pec and lat and tricep, but if I were to really say for me, where do I feel a true pullover? The triceps, the lats, the rear delts. Big time for me personally. So, I did pullovers here later. But yeah, so doing these extensions with with some pullover effect definitely because I want to work the entire tricep there. So, the bench is going to hit the lateral head. That's going to hit that. I decided to mess with two different types of curls today. Um, because I like to experiment sometimes back and forth. And as much as I love the the straight bar and I tell guys in theory it should hit the biceps harder, but I'm also doing a lot of dumbbell curls. I should be good. Um, sometimes easy bar feels really good. So, I decided to do them back to back for biceps. I'm like, let me take around an eight rep max. Let's do an easy bar with that closed grip and see how my biceps feel. versus doing the straight bar. And I did full range of motion on these. I went all the way to the face on both exercises because that straight bar I have to go a little wider to get it right. And I'm like, which one do I feel more? I'm like, man, I really felt the bicep harder on that easy bar. And I get a hell of a pump doing it. So, you know, realist now, would I possibly get that same effect if I took these in really close to straight bar? Maybe. So, that might be worth experimenting with. I didn't think to do that comparison. It could simply be that I need to go closer on these, but I it's obviously bicep is the the primary mover, but I just notice it feels different. It also looks really good on camera, but it feels different. Like I really get a hell of a bicep burn when I do that easy bar with that closed grip, you know? So, we come over to asking those questions of, you know, should we go with we have a couple different choices that are really similar if we feel one of them. So, I might start doing it every time because I'm going to burn out with dumbbells at the end anyways and that's going to be fully supine. But then again, am I still supine grip when I grab that that easy bar? I'm not on the easy bar part out there. I'm in that center part. I'm not really uh unsupated there. So, just throwing that out there. And then, of course, I I finish up with these. So, I superseted these um obviously I superseted these with the pullover. So at the end it's like let's just chase that really deep pump and stretch. So I just took these pretty well to failure. So I got about 14 and they got dropped down to about 12 or so for my last set. So I ended up doing four sets of these and then I did my plate pullovers. So the plate pullovers, you know, I'm a big fan. I'm always torn between doing those laying extensions versus the pullovers. Laying extension obviously a little more tricep dominant, but when I do the pullovers, I do feel my whole back, right? I feel my back and and I could use the range of motion training. So, I'm pausing on these because that's my full range of motion, but how do we improve range of motion? We just stretch stuff. And I almost feel like this stuff is probably better for my shoulder health than trying to do a bunch of direct shoulder work. Let's do deadhang pull-ups. Let's do a lot of pullover type movements. I want to see if I can still get that shoulder range of motion to return enough so that I could overhead press if I want to. Again, this would be the way to get there. And then I may not worry about direct don't work to be to be honest. Overhead press and tricep work will build my bench on top of the benching if I need to. But this is a really a great upper body exercise. Like a lot of people don't understand with the pullover. They're like what's it work? It works all those muscles and you feel them intensely. Like it's a great exercise because it works all that back area. So a lot of guys are like this is a primary lat exercise for me. Um but I feel lats. I feel rear del. I feel the whole tricep. Yes. Obviously the long head, but I've had lateral tricep cramps before from high rep pullovers. So, is it working it? Well, why is that head cramping? It's obviously getting some stimulus, not as much as some of the other movements, but that long head, that tricep long head gets really hammered. Um, so for me, that whole area that does need to come up gets hit. So, what are we looking at? My rear delts, long head of my tricep. The pullover really hammers my weak areas. The stuff that needs to come up other than biceps, so might as well do it. And again, it does work lats. Goes with the pull-ups. We get that wide vtaper. So, people might ask me, why did you go with the that instead of the rows? Because quite frankly, I just want to make sure I keep my vtaper. Like, I had a thick back from all the heavy rowing years ago. I really did. But when I really started doing the pull-ups the way that I do them, my back went up another tier. And people noticed that. They're like, "You always had a good bag." But it just got wider and wider and wider and wider. Well, I want to keep that wideness. What? So, what happens when we get leaner? What happens if I take another four or five inches off my waistline and we really get the waist smaller from the body fat loss and I have that big wide back, right? I think we're in a good spot there. And so the same thing like a lot of my weak points the the pullover really can represent my weak point training and how much of that is tied in with my weak points. The fact that I do struggle with that overhead movement pattern that I used to be able to do fine. How much of that is because of those weak points? And so if we're stretching that area and working those areas and that that stretch that uh really limits my range of motion is getting hit. Are those weak points part of the reason I have that range of motion issue? Is it partially a muscle imbalance? Is it all previous overuse? Is there a muscle imbalance there? And can hammering that stretch area that helps with that improving that that also works my weak points help fix it? So again, how often times our our range of motion limits or mobility issues are can be caused by muscle imbalance. And we know if we look that really is physique-wise the weakest link in my physique is that rear delt long head in the tricep area. Is that a coincidence that when I do those movements it can hit both at the same time I have still have a limit on the shoulder? I don't know. I mean I'm just thinking out loud and that's one reason I really like pullovers. They used to hurt so bad I couldn't stand them. Now I'm did them more and I want to work them back in all the time. I just feel like they they really will kind of get me to that next tier in my weak links. And obviously biceps, biceps, biceps, you know, that would be more balanced for me at this point. Um, and just continue to diet down. Obviously, people will be like, "But you're not going to gain muscle in this cut." Probably not. But if I'm hitting certain areas, it might be deficient with some novel training response. Maybe. Maybe. I don't know. In the meantime, I have to try to gain muscle. And doubling down on on certain areas like that while I'm cutting will at least prevent them from getting smaller because we have to do everything we can to prevent muscle loss. We have to be thinking stimulating muscle growth protein. We got to have the training in place. So that's the idea. So again, did pullovers all the way through here. Um so three sets of these and I'm stopping at 20 because it burns. I'm pausing longer and longer. Then when I get to that last rep, I pause it a long time so that it is a hard hard rep. Like I can't really do anymore after that. So that's the idea. I pause long enough that I know I'm super fatigued on the last rep. So it's pretty dang close to failure. Like I'm straining on it. And that's kind of intentional. And I know it's going to be around that rep range with this weight. And then the curls I pretty much just burned on. But I tried to control it. Try to be really strict on the uh those supine grip dumbbell curls. But they're also working the other angle. So, if I'm going to do a closer grip easy bar, then I can do the dumbbell curls. And also, because I previously had that bicep tear that got chunk of the muscle got taken out that left side, I feel like just doing some really strict dumbbell curls isn't a bad thing like that, you know, to where again, making sure I'm finishing off with even loading wouldn't be a bad thing. It's not a bad idea. Uh, but pretty happy with today's workout. Uh, I swooshed today. Like I said, I'm at 216 now. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next All right.