Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it is time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. All right, so keeping with my uh my normal, um I focus on squat, bench, and deadlift first. At least one top set. Sometimes we get back off work, sometimes we don't. Um I like to do pull-ups of some type and then supplemental work. Now, I'm putting a little more focus into shoulders at the moment. Now, keeping in mind also, even for some people who are like, "Oh, this isn't a huge amount of volume." Um, we're still getting a good six sets a week uh per muscle group at least with all of this where we are pretty heavy. We have a lot of progressive overload. And then I do GPP up to three days a week. My GPP has an actual hypertrophic benefit. Keep in mind the sled work, the weighted carries, the throws, all that stuff. I've even started doing, you know, high rep kettle bell overhead pressing, you know, one arm once. All right, squats. I got seven reps of 405. I'll take the win. On the benching, though, um I didn't feel like doing back off work today. I'm like, let's work on dips. Uh because I can tell on the bench, uh I know I just jumped right over that squat. And that's that's actually the best squat I've hit in a year, right? That's the best squatting I've done since I cut cut down 15 16 pounds. That also tells me a lot about where my max is. I think people could do the math. All right. I may not increase that. I might just work off these top sets. That's kind of the direction I'm going. Right. So, the the fourth rep was kind of hard on the 315. I feel like my chest I just do not have the chest to get more. Right. So, I'm like, well, what builds my chest? Obviously, bench does, but dips. So, I'm going to double down on dips again. Every time I push dips, my benching seems to always go up. So, I decided I'll do dips after uh deadlifts. I could have got a seventh rep today. Man, this is the deadlifts are really responding, I feel like, to the the GPP days. Um, and scaling the running back just a hair. Right. I've been running a lot more now. I'm only running, you know, a few miles a week. We've cut it way back. And what happened? Right now we're recovering again. The lower body stuff is just climbing. So this six reps is pretty easy. I think for those who sell a little short, I'm like, "Yeah, that was pretty easy." I absolutely had another rep, but I'm like, let's not push it. I'd kind of like to get to to sets of 10 with all those those lifts, right? And that's the thing to build my maxes. I don't have to max out. Like I like max effort work. I can literally bodybuild my way to big maxes like that. I get good carryover from those those top sets. Um, so but six reps and it's like, man, I had a seventh rep and I'm like, let's get over and get this upper body stuff done because we're going to get more lower body tomorrow. You guys already know we we did the most volume on lower body GBP that we've pretty much done on on Saturday. All right, dips. I got 11 on the first set with 45. I'm doing these deep, so this is this is definitely very very tons of chest here. I feel chest and tricep. The last one I thought I was going to get 12 reps, right? Look at me, guys. I get over here. I'm like, I got to 11. Like, I'm gonna get a 12th rep, right? I went to try to get So, I lowered it on the 11th. So, I did an X3 centric and I stuck, right? I got 11 reps. I'm thinking I'm gonna get 12. I stuck in the bottom. I straight up hit failure. I thought I had the rep. So, what does that tell me? It was the same reps as the set before that wasn't failure, but then I hit failure when I tried to get an additional one. That tells me it's I was there. Happy with that. So then I'm like, I'll do chins today. Um I'll do some chins today instead of the pull-ups. I did the first one on the other bar I went over and I'm like, you know, I got that fat bar there. I bet I could do chins on it. All right, so I got only eight reps with this. I feel like I noticed after the deadlifting, chins are hard, but I'm also going all the way up. And yes, for me, guys, notice those are dropping into hangs. Um that is something that we have to note. People know that's my range of motion. Um, I've demonstrated it like there you see hang reps. Um, when people will argue about it, I've I've gone over before and I've hung over a 100 pounds in plates and reached up and grabbed a bar and just hang just grab it and just hang for 20 seconds. That is my range of motion, right? If 350 pounds of weight hanging can't lock me out any further, then, you know, that is what it is. So, I feel like I shouldn't have to explain it all the time when I've proven it. Um, but I'm gonna continue to work on these things. But I grabbed the fat bar for these chins. Man, those lit. Like, obviously, this is a back exercise, but I felt forearms and biceps like cruiser. They were lit. I decided to do one set of axle bar curls just to make sure we got a little more. That'll give me three total sets for biceps for the day. But uh I did two sets of band press downs. Really though, I could drop all the extra arm work. I feel like chins and dips with the benching and stuff. I could probably leave that alone because I really need my delts to grow, but I also Let me explain what I'm doing with the shoulders. Um I I've worked in working in all three angles at first, right? and it built my work capacity up. But realistically, that's that is a lot of volume and it is a lot of angles and I do a lot of pressing and pulling. Uh, plus I'm doing some I'm doing shoulder stuff on the GBP day. So, I'm looking at it going, what what do I really need? I need to make sure that like everything else, I don't want to hammer huge amounts of volume because it doesn't work. It didn't make my arms grow. I don't ever grow from doing that. So, I just wanted to build some work capacity. Michael, let's come in and really just focus on laterals, right? What's what's going to really hit my side delt? My side delts really need to come up. I don't like front delt, but I do need the side delts to grow. They're probably my my worst muscle group. Really, people can argue about biceps all they want, but I feel like my delts, as I get leaner, the delts need to come up. So, I'm like, let's just do two really hard sets of laterals. We PR it last time. I got new reps. I'm like, let's just push these. So, I feel like all the other work is improving the hypertrophy and work capacity of my delts because my my my plate lateral reps wouldn't be going up if my delts were not growing. So, feel like there's some muscle memory there. So, I did two sets. I got like 15 or 16. So, that's more than I got the last couple workouts. I think I got 12 and I got like 13. So, I'm like, let's just take them to failure. Let's just do two really hard sets. Because if I do this every every main workout and I just progress on these, that's six sets of direct side delt work. That's that's pretty good amount. Um because I'm also working in stuff that works my delts pretty hard on the GPP days. That's going to be my extra real volume. This can be my progressive overload and that's plenty. Now, I did want to just come in and do do the thing. Now, I could argue I don't need the band press downs with the dips, but part of me is scared to take them out, right? I'm scared to not train triceps, but I probably don't need it. My triceps were were bigger when I ditched lived on dips and close grip pressing a long time ago. Um, but I also I'm like, let's just grab the axle bar. Man, that felt really good with the with the chins. So, I'm like, I wonder what happen if I just grab an axle bar. I didn't think I'd get to 10 reps. I had to I had to kind of rest pause again to get 10. But, we got 10 reps with it, right? This was hard. like at 80 pounds at the axle bar. It's just like what are you doing? But it was bicep and forearm. So, it was really good, right? Felt really good because I want to keep increasing that grip and forearm. So, we've been doing all the weighted carries, but notice on those deadlifts, like I held that six reps really easy with with 500. It's no problem. And then I wanted to finish up obviously with some neck work. Um because I'm doing all this other athletic stuff and and everything else. I was like, let's do some neck work just in case. You know, I always get all these clowns who keep challenging me to cage matches in case one of them really does pony up the money, right? I'm going to build my neck up just in case. Plus, I used to do a lot of neck work. So, I did two sets of 15 with a 45 lb plate. Um, so again, just to get some extra and I've noticed my neck feels good doing it, all right, because I get I get cicks in my neck from sleeping on it bad. That's what happens when you get older. Um, and it does seem to help. So again, doing a little bit of neck work and then I do a little pose right there at the end. It was just from right after I squatted. I threw it in the end so you guys could have it little quad pause. Uh really good workout. Super happy with the lifts today. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.