Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here once again. It is time for a squat and deadlift day. But a quick reminder, if you guys would please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you not are not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment below, I would appreciate that. All right, so kind of what I said I'm going to do. Um, rotate back to pretty much power building. My accessory work is going to look identical to what my conjugate stuff look like. Um, but I'm just going to do top sets on squat, bench, and deadlift. and then just focus on just getting big. Right now, I feel like I just need to gain muscle, get thicker, and I would rather use my big lifts to facilitate more hypertrophy while still keeping a skill component to them. Um, I can always peek back over on conjugate later because my maxes go up. I peak really, really, really well on it between the max work and the speed work. Um, I'm at a point right at this moment, I just want to get big. Um, and I need to get bigger. And when I mean bigger, I don't mean I'm bulking. I just want to get lean gains, right? So, my diet is staying very clean. And I don't care that I'm holding water, by the way. Um I am definitely holding looking a little goofy, but it is carbs, salt, all that stuff. So, I'm not really eating any any real surplus for those curious. Uh so, for the squats, I grabbed 405. I'm like, let's just m wrap it. Let's just get as far as we can. Now, when I do side videos, um people are like, "Wow, your squats are deep in the front." They're like they're high, but then when I'll do the same box squats, people be like, "It looks a hair high to the front." But then they'll do it from the side, they're like, "Oh, you're like three inches below parallel." I'm pretty much how my squats are. Not worried about it. Just going to sink them as deep as I can. Um, I would have liked to got those a hair deeper, but I almost guarantee you based on my previous experience, those would probably pass in comp. Just again knowing my own leverages. All right, deadlifts. Today I really felt kind of my my my arms hurt. So my grip felt from yesterday. Uh my grip felt a little weak and my low back felt really fatigue. My low back was a little crampy going in even into the squat. So this might have been a little heavy. So I only did a double like 545. I'm just going to call it there. It it felt heavy. Like no point taking it to the limit. At least I got a heavy deadlift in. Obviously that is not my best performance. I've done 550 for three to four uh just a few months ago and I'm not weaker on the deadlift because I got a really clean 585 the other day. Um it's just at that fatigue. So I feel like I need to make a minor adjustment. I'm like I probably don't need to be doing many good mornings for volume right now and I need to do certain things a little different with the reverse hyper. Um but we went right right over into the other stuff. I'm up in PR territory on these belt squats. Right. Belt squats are up in that PR territory again. uh which again so if we note here we got the 270 I got 88 and 10 which is what I did get that last time but again it felt good so I feel like I'm in a good place here so that was a PR when I got it on Friday after the after the speed work so I did it again today right some of these on the first set was good some of these I do want to get a hair deeper so I'm going to focus on that a little more few of the reps not super deep like I'd like right because I'm trying to get them real deep. Um, but it felt good. So, again, this is I've replicated my same PR sets from last time. Um, I did something a little different today, though. I did a warm-up set. I never warm up. So, I didn't add the extra plates on. I did like whatever 200 lbs for a triple before I put the next 70 on uh just to warm up. And it really helped. It made that first set feel a lot better. So, I did do one three rep warm-up set on these. I don't normally do that on accessory work. Uh but yeah, it seemed to have helped. So happy with that. So I think I need to keep pushing these up, right? Um and I don't that might have been might have been uh a PR for as far as recent PRs for that 405. I know I've got six not that long ago. Seven might have been PR. I don't know. In terms of it this body weight. So, overall, pretty happy with a lot of that. Um, so the quad stuff's coming along. All right, the glute ham raises. Um, I feel like I need to do these. Uh, they they build my good mornings. And again, notice when I did the good mornings, I got up to a 500 really, really, really fast within a couple weeks of doing good mornings again. So, I know the strength is there. I can build it off the other lifts. I just feel like at this point, I need to build my low back, not beat it up. So, what I decided to do here was go heavier and stricter on the reverse hypers. So, instead of using it for restoration, I'm like, I just need to get the low back stronger again. But I'm not counting this as a low back exercise. So, if we start doing the volume, you guys see where we're about to go. We don't count deadlifts as quads. We count it as low back, glute, all that. Um, the glute ham raises plus the deadlifts gives me four sets for hamstrings. Okay. The belt squats plus the back squats give me four sets for quads. Quads and adductors. Okay. All of it hits glutes though to some extent. And then the reverse hypers. The way I did them if it's I'm just counting it really is a low back and glute exercise. Okay. So again, making sure I get four good sets for low back. I've been doing just really high rep one burnout set the last couple workouts. Um I don't feel like it's going to keep my low back sufficiently strong the way I like it. Right. So, what I'm trying to do here is again push the performance up just a hair on those reverse hypers and keep them real strict and it worked. I felt the low back working. Uh but so I did the three sets of eight with the the glute ham raises. Um these always light my hamstrings up this way. They really work that lower part. I feel it big time. And I don't care what anyone thinks about how I do them. Quite frankly don't care. I have big strong hamstrings. I've done them like this to get my deadlift to 635. I'm gonna do what I'm gonna do. Thing is, as long as you feel the hamstrings and you know they're working. People argue all day long about how to perform a glute ham raise. Don't care. As long as the hamstrings are what fails. All right. Um, Seal Rose, I got a PR. I have not got three by eight. I've got like two by eight, two by eight, then a seven. I got 889 today. So again, puts us in a really good place. Puts us in a real good place. So very, very happy with that. Right. Very, very, very happy with that because again, we're in to PR territory. We're into PR territory now. Well, not just PR territory. This is a PR, right? Last set, I've never haven't gotten eight with this weight yet. and I managed to pull off nine. So, because my best has been eight, eighth, and seventh. So, the last week or so, I just only did two sets, but I need to do the three, right? I want to make sure that whole upper back gets worked hard. It's an area it needs to be specialized in. Uh, so making sure that we are double downing on it. So, making sure I'm doing the wide grip pull-ups. Making sure I push the seal rows hard. And I may throw in some rear delt work, but I feel like those strict laterals are just a slight forward lean against the incline bench probably giving me what I need. And again, I'm trying to not go hard on the volume or anything. It's like, let's focus on quality. And again, what I'm trying to do here, as long as every muscle, long as every muscle gets, you know, sufficient volume, I think we're good. And that volume is going to be something around, you know, in the ballpark of eight sets. Ballpark of eight sets a week. Six to eight depending on how we count the stuff. But some stuff will get more. You know, things like my triceps because I'm doing, you know, pullovers or extensions plus dips plus the benching, right? That's going to get a little bit more. uh things like uh the upper back, it's going to get a little bit more stuff that I know needs needs the most work. Uh but yeah, uh so overall happy with this. So I tried to get for every muscle about four sets today of what I would count as direct work. Uh not counting the rows. The rows are again in addition to the pull-ups and stuff from yesterday, but we did three sets of of wide grip weighted pull-ups also. All right. Uh reverse hypers. I got to about 10 reps on these. Trying to do them straight. Notice I'm stopping the swing this time. Now I'm doing it for muscle building. I need to build that low back up. It's not restoration. I need to use it like a serious strength training and muscle building tool again, which is what I'm going to do. Uh it's exactly what we did. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.