Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and it's time for another bicep workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Now, I'm going to extend these sets out. Um, kind of keeping with the logic of what I do with the rest of my training. I do want to do specialized bicep work in between to make sure uh that my weakest link does get more work and I want to progress on it. And I started out with this during the cold uh when it was just way too cold and and that won't happen again. Pretty much that's done for the year. We get about two cold weeks per year here and the rest of the time it's gravy. Um, so I'm going to just keep a barbell kind of loaded up in the living room because you guys can see I don't keep a huge amount of stuff in the living room. I have a really big rug in there. I've got a big sectional couch and I just have a TV in there. U, I don't really uh use my living room unless I have guests over and stuff. So, not not really a big deal. So, I have space in here, right? So, I just put the barbell in the corner, not a problem over there in front of the fireplace, and it's just kind of out of the way. So, I can come in and just do this, leave it loaded and not worry about it. It makes it very convenient. Um, so what I wanted to do though, I just did two sets because I started higher, you know, like up to eight or whatever, and then I cut down to three. And it's like now if I do this three times a week, two hard sets with everything that I have, okay? Two hard sets with everything that we have. Um, because that's the other point I've made with other videos and my other stuff. When we start doing three, four, five sets, we hold a lot back, don't we? Even if we think we're going hard. And I've noticed on those three sets, sometimes I can pick up that extra rep on the last set. All right. And that's kind of what I saw here. Did a little bit of a rest, pause, and I felt like I didn't have anything left. Rest a second, regain my breath, get one more rep. But I went up five pounds instead of doing the little normal, you know, I've been doing the little the little tiny uh 2 and a half pound jumps when I get to 20. Went up five. Now, the reason this is significant, previously this was pretty much a 12 rep max at the end of workouts. Now, I got 20 in and 21 with it. So, what again, we've got stronger biceps. And so, that's the idea. If I only do the two sets, I feel like I will push a hair harder because this is objectively harder. Remember, I started with 10 pounds less than this for like 16 reps when I started doing this. Um, so that's that's the whole point, you know, just progressively overload it with the hard sets and it's worked for my dips. It's worked even for the the benching with the 225 benching, right? It's worked with the squats. I mean, we're we're up to 13 reps now with 405 on a high bar doing that. Okay. I want to apply this same logic to biceps, but for now, I want to do them fresh. I don't mind doing triceps at the end, you know, because my triceps get beat all the way through. I'll do those extensions at the end. I'm going to push that kind of the same way. But the idea here, this is how we specialize in in arm work because I can do like four or five big compounds. I'll add the deadlifts back in soon. And then just arm work, right? And even that laying extension, not really an isolation movement, you know, and this has come up to, you know, the debate back and forth. Do I do these like I'm doing them or go over to cheek curls? I think I'll just keep doing this. I'll keep doing this because I feel like with the cheek curls, I don't get all the way up anyways. I always go lower down because I have to do them almost like a drag curl, which is great for peak contraction, but we're not getting, you know, that eentric loading out there in the lengthened position to the same extent. Um, and I and I like cheek curls. I felt like my arms were doing decent at the time, but I was also much fatter. You know, I was weighing almost 20 pounds heavier when I was doing those. uh and felt like I had a little better bigger biceps. So again, I'm just going to stick with these. Just a normal barbell curl. Less chance of injury. And these hurt. This hurt like hell. My biceps are on fire. They're absolutely just hurting. And it's and it's not the pump type burn. It's that deep pull. So I feel like the the eccentric loading on this at the bottom feel like it's just pulling ripping the muscles apart and it's a good feeling. So again, even now this two sets my arms hurt right now. Even now as I'm recording this, my arms hurt. So that's a good thing. We know that these two sets were really, really productive. And again, because I had to rest, pause the last bit. And I think that's going to be the name of the game. And just keep pushing, keep pushing, you know, and eventually if we get really strong for a lot of reps, a muscle will get big, right? It's worked for my back. It's worked for my quads, everything else. So, uh, I'm just going to keep pushing this. And, and I've added in the extra tricep work because at the end of the day, bigger triceps are never going to make your arms look smaller, even though I feel like my triceps are way stronger. Um, but but I'll I'll do that. But again, biceps going to be my real isolation outside of my big movements. Um, and just see where I can take it. Let's just get as strong as we can. Hey, maybe one day we'll be able to rep a full big plate per side up. But we won't know till we try. And you know, that's the thing. If people can argue about, well, you just need to push them harder. Well, you can only push so hard. So, in order to push them harder, I have to do them fresh, you know, and normally I wouldn't advocate this, but what if it's just one muscle? If your calves are a weakest link and you're doing full body three days a week, you know, coming in and pushing calves really hard on an off day wouldn't be a bad idea. So, that's pretty much what what I'm going to do and just try to progress progress progress progress by any means necessary. And if that means like even I did now cut down to two sets because are we going to argue that these two sets weren't productive? They're progressive overload and they hurt like hell. And that same sort of volumes has built my legs and other stuff just fine. All right. I've never needed high volumes for that. We just need progression hard sets. And so that's what we'll do here. And I'm going to avoid tendon problems by keeping it higher rep. That's the idea. People were like, "Well, couldn't you get the same thing from really low reps?" Sure, but it's going to be my tendons up and I got to be able to deadlift. So, no, we don't have to. We'll get there just through repetition. We'll eventually get to the mechanical tension that we want near failure. As long as we progressively overload it. Uh, but pretty happy with this. I'm actually really happy that I was able to get 20 plus on both sets because I wasn't I was a little worried I wouldn't be able to, but I I pulled it off. So happy about that. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys next time.