Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Thank you. Let's get over to the training. Um added in a little bit more of some of the accessory stuff again. Um I kind of I took Monday off and then did a shorter workout on Wednesday and I noticed immediately lost a couple reps on the squat and the deadlift for these top sets. So again, um, combination of things. Obviously, me losing body fat right now on the lower carbs probably a factor. Um, doing all the protein overfeeding and I think we can all tell I'm getting leaner here. So you guys are seeing me in the morning when I'm fully fasted, dehydrated, and then everyone's like, "Oh, wow. You have abs and everything." You know, it's like u that's first thing first thing in the morning before coffee, you know, the the darker lighting, everything else, it matters. But as we can see through a lot of this footage, especially stuff where I don't have a belt on later, the overall uh body fat, the the everything is tightening up slowly but surely just kind of chipping away and tightening up. Uh so there's that happening. And so sometimes pushing these all out sets, you know, hitting those top reps I hit in the last few weeks may not happen every workout, but we're still getting a good growth stimulus from all of it. And I think that's that's the idea. But it's also me going well is, you know, I did one set of deadlifts, two sets of squats, you know, in the last week. Um, not quite enough. So, we need to make sure we get both every workout now that we're feeling good again. The the weather's a little more permitting. And, um, also getting in some of those belt squats. I feel like the belt squats have really good carryover to that. So, I want to make sure I'm getting that in just in case that's a factor. Um because even then, you know, getting about six six good sets per muscle group a week when they're really hard, I think I think works well here. Um but we maintain performance on the benching. So that tells us a lot. Plus the dips went up. We got we picked up a rep on the dips. Uh but the benching we did good here. Now, keeping in mind uh I know that previously a while back I had hit 19 before we cut the carbs back, but that was also belt and wrist wrap. So, I'm trying to do this with minimal arch, no belt, no wrist wraps, just straight up raw. The goal is to get to 20 here. And I feel like if I can consistently get to 20 reps like this with the 225, uh, we're going to be do some some good bench PRs, you know, and I think if I can start hitting it every workout and the dips go up and everything improves, I think we'll we'll see, you know, a bench PR. We'll see if I can come in and hit something heavier than a 365, you know, not unreasonable. I mean, even that poor performance on the squat with the only eight today, that still puts me past 500. Uh, so for the belt squats, I'm trying not to go as heavy. I know I'd worked up to doing seven plates, I'm like, let's just get six plates on and take them to a grindy rep, but go deep. So, because I was cutting reps on these a little bit, and you you guys will notice I tried to go a little deeper on the the high bar squatting today. Could be a factor in the reps, but I also need that range of motion. We need to make sure those quads uh, you know, are growing, particularly as we're losing body fat. We need to keep that energy turnover high. Muscle mass in the quads is a big deal for keeping our our energy turnover high. So, I want to keep pushing these things and we're going to push for progress while chipping away. You know, it's not like we we are willing to, you know, sacrifice strength or muscle here. Let's just keep keep pounding away at the body fat, you [snorts] know. So, we did the bell squats. I got right at 10. And that 10th rep, I had to pull myself up, but I'm also going a little deeper. So that matters there as far as going, well, weren't you getting a little more than that with the seven plates? Yeah, but they were barely cracking parallel. And I think we have to keep that relevant in this context. Uh did the reverse hypers again today? Because again, that's also potentially a factor. So we need to make sure everything is is getting good, you know. But even then, I think what we need to remember, this is only 12 sets per week for my entire lower body. You know, it's always funny. I get people who are like, you do so much volume, you do too much for your legs and not enough for your arms. It's like um people who clearly have never followed my training, right? I've never done 20 plus sets of isolation work for my my legs for months on end. We have for biceps. Um, so the reverse hyper though, I feel like again it helps stabilize everything a lot. Gives me what I need for injury prevention, keeping my back strong, extra glute development. So these two will help feed back into them because I do still want to work back up towards getting PRs on both of those. U you know, we got 12 of the high bar, but some of them are a little high. Let's I'd like to get there again sinking it deeper than push beyond. Same thing. I've done eight numerous times on the on the deadlift. I got nine one time, you know, a couple weeks back. Um, I'd like to build that up to 10 clean, solid reps with the 500. Like to build that up. Uh, so we'll get there. All right. The chins I lost a rep, but I also gripped a little wider. And the reason the reason I gripped wider here is I feel like looking at the footage, even though I feel a ton of bicep, when my arms are in close, there is no way I can I can lock out at the bottom. No matter how hard I try, I'm going to have like a 20 degree bend in my elbows. It's just And we already know I don't have full lock, but watch the the dead hang reps. Notice that when we grip it shoulder width instead, what happens? Well, we're able to get a little more range of motion, right? So, that's a dead hang. Some of those are hanging for a couple seconds. Um, so I got like 14 total, I believe. You guys can go recount them. There was some rest pause at the end. A couple of rest pauses uh to get there, but felt plenty of bicep, felt plenty of lat. Um, I don't feel lats as much on shins as I do pull-ups, but I think we can all agree I'm at a point where my lats are so dominated, it's not a big deal. I do need to make sure my biceps and stuff are getting the work and the pullovers help finish everything. The deadlifts help build the back and everything also. Um, so again, this and then uh I did my dips on the curls. You guys will see what I did. I went and just did incline curls today. And I'll discuss why when we get there. Uh, so the dips, same thing. Trying to get super deep. Got 18 this time. Going to my my deepest range of motion, which means, you know, we're getting that shoulder a couple inches below the elbow. Getting below parallel. Some of these were stretching and pausing a little at the bottom. And then when we take it to failure, we just ride it all the way to the bottom and then and then step back up on the boxes, you know, to get over because I don't want to trip over them trying to swing around them by the way with that plate. So, if anyone's curious why I step back up on the box, it just feels it feels safer to me than trying to swing back, you know, to step around it around that handle, just step back over it. Just safer. Uh, so it's a practical reason for me. It just feels safer and more stable than trying to, you know, get around the handle. Uh, but those were good. 18. So, I did incline incline curls. Um, I've always felt these a lot in the bicep. you know, so it's like, let's go with this. Let's go with the old school stuff to go with the pullovers and everything and we'll see see how this works. Just do one really good set to failure after the chins. I mean, I could argue the barbell curls will do everything we want also. Uh, perfectly fine. But I do I have the dumbbells. I've got the bench. I have adjustable dumbbells. Let's work on some incline curls, too. The main thing is getting getting a good stretch in the bicep. Um, and I like the barbell curl, but we may be able to make a case for just doing these since the chin's really locked me into the supine already. Uh, this is just a good exercise and it's a good lengthen position movement. Old school, timeroven, efficient way to train biceps right there. We we reached failure and called it quits and then I did pullovers. I got like 35 or 36 today. So, I got 30 last time. Um, so I just finished up with a set of of the plate pullovers. So again, these tend to I feel these do a lot for me in terms of just development, strength, shoulder health. So again, just like the hanging leg raises help with those things. Do the pullovers too, plus the tricep work. I get a lot of pec on these. Um, a lot of dudes feel lats. I feel some lat. Not that because my lats are so big and strong. Not so much on these as much as a lot of other guys, but I feel a lot of chest and a lot of tricep for me. plus just that that pull on the shoulder to help get that range of motion back. I feel like these did the most for me originally. So, I want to I do want to work them in. And I just feel like they're a great all-around exercise. Uh but overall, mostly happy with today's workout. I wish I wouldn't have lost those reps on the first two lifts, but we did. So, let's just keep pushing forward. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.