Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for another full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. All right, my lower back is doing a lot better. Uh the cramping is gone. I noticed a little tiny little bit from the squats today. No cramping, just a slight little bit of soreness and tightness, but um nothing that I would describe as real pain in any way. Uh so we're in a good place. Same thing with the overhead press. I adjusted and realized I probably need to be uh really careful on the overhead press and just making sure I keep my feet closer together. I can squeeze my glutes. Um keeping that stability as I rebuild that. Um but squats were decent today. I did 425 43. I didn't want to do a really high rep. Like I don't want to put 405 on there and try to rep it out. Like let's just get some quality reps. Let's get grab 425. See if I can get some reps with it, which we did. I got a triple. I'm reasonably happy with that. Uh because again, if we assume, you know, because that wasn't a horrifically bad triple, even if that's 95%, I'm going to do the math real quick. About about 475 on the max at the moment, which probably sounds about right. I don't feel like I'm quite back at a 500 squat. So, I honestly think that's about right, but I do want to get back to 500 plus. Uh the benching went good. Um, the funny thing with the benching, it's like I I look at a lot of it and go, "Look, I know realistically my triceps are really strong. Uh, right now compared to where they have been in the past, but I feel like every time I go to get near the end of those sets, notice that the third rep and that fourth rep was a little slow on the lockout. Felt like my triceps just weren't able to lock even though my chest feels like it's doing the most work. I keep saying I feel like my pecs are the limit on the benching. Uh, but realistically, even though I get a really really serious chest pump at cramp and I feel my chest the most on all the benching, it's probably because I pause most of it and I have a wide grip. Um, and but again, um, I feel like when I get near the end of these sets, that lock out at the very very end is slow. So, I know that if I keep building my triceps, I'm in a good place. And since the benching is my main chest exercise at the moment, um I do know I need to I need to double down on some tricep work and I need to not just beat my triceps up with tons of bands. I need to I need to keep doing uh the extensions a little bit. Um so I did later in the workout. Uh but again, I'm kind of stuck here for just a little bit. I mean, these sets are hard, but I've already said, look, I need to eventually get to that fifth rep. I was doing 315 for three after this cut. Um and then I managed to get to four. I'm consistently getting four with 315 every time, but I've been trying to hit that that 225 and I've I've done 218 two different times. I've got like 16 17. I've done 218 twice. Um and I hit it again a third time that but I could I was struggling to lock the 18th rep. If you guys notice, man, I'm really working hard on that. Um so I feel like if I keep building my triceps and my tricep work capacity, that's going to come up. And if the benching gets stronger and it's all this, you know, pause benching and stuff, I feel like my bench will go ahead and come up. So, it'll grow my chest. Um, the the deadlifts went good. I did 550 for a double today. Uh, reasonably happy with that. All right. Reasonably happy with that. Um, so again, I did 545 for a double last time, but that it didn't feel bad. Didn't feel bad. So, on the overhead pressing, I'm trying to mess just a little bit of different grips. I took the grip in just a hair and I feel like the lockout is just not still not where I want it. So, for those who haven't followed the history of it, um I lost my range of motion with a lot of this some time back. Um especially with that that impinchmention I had from the overuse on the chins few years ago. I was doing 100 chin-ups every day, which again, just silly stuff that I have to not do. I'm old enough I know better, you know. Um but I want to get this back. So, but I feel like with the overhead pressing, you know, this feels like it's it's going to be a slow effort, but if I put in the effort, that's the thing. As someone said last time, man, you're just coming in and doing these with no ego now. And that's what you have to do. That's that's really that's good. I mean, check my ego. Like, I'm literally working with 95 pounds on this, but focusing on trying to squeeze the lock out, especially near the end of the sets. I'm trying to force that lock out. And I know that I don't quite have the range of motion for it. And it's funny, you'll get someone who will say, "Just reduce the weight. I can do 30, 40 rep. I can do like 30 reps with the empty bar and still not lock it." Like it reducing the weight doesn't change it. But we only get stronger into those ranges of motion by doing resistance into a range of motion. So the same thing, uh, my pull-ups will help. So a lot of these pull-ups, I try to come to a stop and stretch at the bottom. Notice the grip is very, very similar. And notice again, the range of motion looks real similar. Uh, that's intentional. So, it's kind of like, as much as I would like to do chin-ups for my biceps, I I'll do biceps on the GBP day. Part of me is like, man, I could I could work my biceps more with chins, but I know that the pull-ups are going to give me some specificity to that overhead press. Plus, pull-ups just do so much for my back. So, again, I'm doing um here sets of 12 on this, and these are limit sets. Like, I I don't have another rep. Sorry, guys. I yawned. I'm just going to leave that in. Um, I don't really have more in here. These these are hard sets for me at the moment. So, this is all I can do. Uh, but they work. And again, my back gets lit up, gets the job done. Now, they're not super wide as wide as I sometimes like to go. Uh, but it's I'm trying to keep these just a hair outside shoulder width. Y so that I can continue to work that range of motion for the overhead press because I feel like again once my overhead press comes up. But if I can get back to where I can do 135 for 10 or 12 reps instead of for being forced to do 95 and I can actually lock it, I feel like my bench will go up too. It's going to have good carryover. So I did one set of the laying extensions and I called it. I'm like, man, that's all I have. Keep in mind that benching takes a lot out of my triceps. That high rep set always with the 225 fries my triceps. Yes, I feel mostly chest on the on the heavy work. Um, and I definitely get a heck of a chest pump and burn, but I start noticing my triceps really light up. They they burn on the high rep benching. So, again, that tells me that I need to keep building work capacity on the triceps. If I do that, um hopefully the benching will continue to come up. Obviously, we want a bench to do it. But, um again, so I do do one set. I did one set, I realized, look, the two sets of this is getting to be a lot, especially with this frequency after the benching, but one really hard set again improves the work capacity. We'll hit this the parts of the tricep that maybe get missed a little bit from the benching, right? Plus, we're overhead pressing. So, that's, you know, four sets of presses every workout. And I think people forget that these full bodies are three days a week. That turns into, you know, 12 sets of pressing. All right. Uh, the plate laterals, uh, PR these. Um, I managed to get to 20 both times and I fa like the second set I definitely paused at the on the 20th rep. I'm like, can I get another one of the plates just stuck at the bottom? So, I always think it's funny people will have this weird things like your reps don't slow. This is super slow to me. So, what people are going to laugh at because I'm a fairly explosive lifter. Watch my speed work. Watch some of my maxes in the past. People are like, "Dude, that looked like a warm-up." And it'll be a state record and then I missed the next attempt. You know, people are like, "Dude, that looked like you literally just did a warm-up." And it's a max. So, I'm feel like I'm doing slow. So, I always laugh uh when this people say, "You're not going to fail. You're not slowing down. What do you mean? This is super slow." Like if someone says this, "Oh, I do 3 seconds down, 3 seconds up." That's what this feels like to me. I feel like on normal rep work like this, because I'm a fast lifter, I feel like I'm doing super slow training. I feel like I'm intentionally doing slow motion. And I know that sounds hilarious, but I'm shocked when I watch the footage how fast I'm doing the all this stuff because I feel like I'm really going slow and just super easy about it, right? Just trying to just be real slow and controlled. That's how it actually feels to me when I'm doing it. This feels like a three minute long set. Like that feels like I'm there for like three minutes doing that. Just getting bored. Um but definitely the second one I stopped at the bottom. I didn't have another rep. That was it. I just couldn't do another rep from the bunk, but just stuck. Um so it's funny how we perceive these things. So for me I'm like what do you mean the rep didn't slow? I felt it slow. It felt like a a 5second rep. you know, perspective, guys. But I think we have to remember, I think when people watch some of the stuff I do, I'm probably fast twitch dominant. Probably why there's been NFL players and stuff in my family. Um, you know, just saying. So, for me, that is slow. So, I feel it slowing down. And then when I hit failure, I mean, the reps just stick. I've done that on curls and people are like, "But it didn't slow, but I'm like, it's stuck at the bottom." I literally reached muscle failure. The weight just stopped moving and I couldn't lift it. But I think people want to see you cheat. Like for people, they don't they don't grasp that failure just means the weight stops moving, you know. Um, and then I finish up with one set of band press downs after the neck extensions just to get some blood flow, make sure those tendons don't get beat up from those laying extensions. And uh, called it a day, but happy with the workout. Everything felt pretty good. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.