Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. Uh, once again, it is time for a max effort squat and deadlift day. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribe, do so and drop me a comment down below just to give your thoughts or say hello or whatever. I would appreciate it. Um, so on these I ramped up. I do know the 420 it looks a little high. Uh, it may not be though because again if when you guys go check for reference, check the dynamic days because I I squat onto a box so that the depth is very consistent. Look at the front view versus the side view and that will clear anything up there. Uh, but definitely so based on that other footage I have week to week. Um, I do know we got to depth with the 450. The 450 was a max with this bar today. I felt like um I didn't have anything left, which is right about 10% lower u than my current back squat max, which has been 500's been my best. So about 10% under that with this bar makes sense, right? Makes sense. So again, very very heavy for me today. Now, a goal I've set, I'd like to get to 500 with that bar. I feel like if I get to 500 with that bar, my back squat with a normal straight bar would be in a real good place. Um, the other thing is guys, I'm having to really watch volumes. I'm making sure I get get the arm work in because I do need my arms to continue to definitely grow while I focus on recomposition and getting stronger. Uh, but otherwise, guys, I'm having to watch the volume close and look at is this jump volume. What do I need? What do I not need? And so, what I went with today, we did only only three sets of of real serious quad work after the max squat. Keeping in mind the speed work hits that. Um, and so, so when we take out the squatting and deadlifting max and dynamic work, it really is only going to be six sets of serious quad work, but I'm also progressing on it, right? Um, I progressed on it today. So, that tells me I'm doing something right with it. So, for the good mornings, the same thing here. I normally I did 450. Last time I did this bar, I did three sets of 10 with 450. I went up 10 pounds. I got two sets of 10 and I called it. I'm like feel like my back is reaching um basically it's limits. It's just like this is all I can take today. Like I felt my lower and middle back with this kind of tell me we're at our limit. Stop. This is quality work. Uh last time you did this lift it was sets of 10 with 10 pounds lighter. This is good. This is progress. Chill. Back off. And that's the thing. We PR most of the supplemental work. So, the SSBs, the seal rows, and the belt squats, uh, we we did get PRs, and that's what we want. If we're pring on our supplemental work, we know that our volumes are sufficient. We know they're recovering. But I'm definitely can tell now that I've gone back to this style of training, now that I'm pushing hard, that I'm pushing the supplemental lifts hard, I can definitely tell I've worked. And so, I'm having to mitigate the volume. There's no more of this five or six day a week training. Four days is plenty. I can walk, do extra cardio, right? Getting plenty of walking in just for restoration. I can do a little bit of restoration work with bands and stuff in between, but just push push the work sets and and realistically uh you know, if we count the speed work, um you know, if I count speed works is roughly three sets. I'm at about 9 to 12 sets of muscle group, which again is pretty close to optimal if you're not trying to go for crazy high volumes. We could argue about this all day long. You'll find plenty of top coaches and researchers who all kind of agree there. Certain circles that don't and that's okay. But um so belt squats, I went up on this. Tried to get deep on these. Now looking at the footage, I feel like I could have gone a hair deeper. We're below parallel though. So I'll take it right. I'll take it because it's PR. So I think what I want to do here is it's use the same weight again. Next time, try to force a little deeper cuz that will be again, we're now in PR weight. I'm still at good depth on these. Again, they're below parallel. I'd like them to be a hair deeper. But when I loaded it up, you know, I got sixes with this. This is, I think, the heaviest I've done sets of sixes with, you know, to any sort of appreciable depth like this. So, um, happy with that. So, I got three sets of six. Last time I I did 20 lbs lighter, by the way, for three sets of six. And I know I gone a little lighter than that for sets of 10, but I'm like, let's push this up. I don't want I don't feel like I need huge amounts of reps for my quads right now. I just need good tension. So then for the hamstrings, because I had noticed on the good morning um that max good morning the other day, it just at 450 it got to be too much and I felt like my hamstrings were getting weak and I know that I quit doing the glute ham raises. I feel like the glute ham raises really benefit me to carrying over the good mornings. And if the good mornings go up, my squat and deadlift go up. So, this is an exercise, as much as I hate it, and I'm like, it never looks right when I do it on camera. It feels ridiculous. People hate how I perform it. I'm like, but my god, does it hurt. It burns. It burns my lower hamstring so bad doing it this way. Um, and I also did tons of these when I was pulling 635 and squatting, you know, 600 in the past, 600 high. It was above It was above depth, but I was still squatting down with 600 and back up. It was probably two inches above parallel, though realistically. Um, I was doing tons of these. So, again, let's push them because they pushed the good morning up. And I know if my good morning goes up, the other lifts go up. I've hit a 500 on a camber bar and couldn't even get to it last time, but I got it, you know, over a month ago. Um, so let's push that up because I did 550 when I was hitting those other lifts. So, I know kind of where I need to be. And I've kind of set as a goal for me a long term. I'd like to get to 600 pounds on that camber bar. And again, how do you build a camber bar? You know, so we know that that the camber bar good morning will build the squat and deadlift. So how do you build the camber bar? Good morning. Stuff like the rep work on the SSB to include ham raises, right? My hamstrings have to get stronger and I've got to work those weak links in it. And this is a different function of the hamstring gets worked here from the hip hinging. So, again, have to push it hard. Um, I push these sets to the limit. Um, they burned. They burned. And this is one of these movements that, you know, I don't try to push PRs. I just push for the burn because I start getting worse and worse and worse on the form. And again, you know, I don't care what people think of the way I do these. They work. I have big hamstrings. I have strong hamstrings. This is a staple and it burns like hell when I do it. And so, I just don't care what people think about it. That's fine. Um, again, it's the way I performed them when I was pulling well up into the 600s. I get great carryover and that's all that matters. So, this was five sets for for hamstrings. Um, three sets for quads done here. Keeping in mind the speed work feels like it hits my quads really hard. And if I need more work, I can add more work in. But if I'm getting PRs on the belt squat and the belt squat I made quad builder off of only six sets a week, I'm going to run with it. All right, so last time I did penlay rows, I'm like, let's do the seal rows again. I got tens with 225 not long ago and then I cut this out for a week and then I brought it back in today. Um, so I kind of skipped over some other stuff last time. I did a penlay type row. I'm like, let's go back to this. I like I bet you I can get at least six reps of 245. I got eight on the first two sets. I think like the last set I only got like seven. I think I got seven. I I just lost count. It just got hard. I'm just like, I'm done. I just can't do anymore. We're done. My whole back hurt. My rear delt. And I was even debating doing some some 45 degree incline rows, but I'm like, why? I did chin weighted chins yesterday. I did rear delts yesterday. That was a really good back and rear delt workout. This is coming in double downing on a second exercise. I PR it. Everything hurt. My lats hurt, my forearms hurt, my my traps, my rear delts, everything was just all hurt. They felt like they were beat like a with a sledgehammer. So why do anything else? Just stop. Right? I feel like at this point, had I done anything else for those muscles, all I'm doing is beating up recovery. We got we got PRs on a seal row. That's the most weight I've ever done reps with on a seal row ever in my life. Do I really need to come in and do a second upper back exercise or can we just let it run? We did chin-ups yesterday and we did some rear delt raises yesterday. We're done. So then I came in and I just did one allout set of reverse hypers. I took a weight to normally do 25s with and I'm like, let me just take one burn set all the way as far as I can. counted 41. Normally I do 25. So it means I'm probably holding back too much on those. So we just got a nice solid burn restoration work. Helps with the lower back, right? Get some work in, some restoration work for that low back because it was feeling really fatigued from the good mornings. This will help it recover and get stronger. And let's call it a day. This was a nice solid workout. Productive, good stimulus. We PR on a lot of stuff. Take the win. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.