Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and once again it is time for a bench press day. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you aren't following or subscribed, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment down below the video, I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. All right, so today um decided to do a couple sets with the 315. The first set felt really off. I didn't quite have the bar path perfect on the first rep. Threw me off. The next two reps were good. I'm like, uh, let's grab a second set of that. But then that's a lot to deal with in terms of recovery. Um, so the sets went well. However, again, when I had been doing this before, um, my grip was quite a bit wider. So for some people are like, have you gone back to full wide grip? No, I'm inside the rings. Uh, so I'm literally 3 to four inches closer on each side than I had been when I was going uh, you know, with a really wide grip. So notice I'm just inside the rings. I try to put my pinkies just inside them. Um, so what I'm doing here, uh, did this and then I did a back off work with 275 for six. All really paused. And I think what I want to do with this, cuz this grip I still feel a little weak right now on it, right? I mean, triples are really hard with 315. I did get 335 with it the other day. Um, but I need to bring that up. And I had said I want to get to a goal of of 315 for three sets of five. I don't think beating 315 is the best way. I feel like I need to gain more muscle. I feel like I even need more tricep. Obviously, chest and stuff need to grow, but I do feel the triceps a ton. When I go at 315, man, do I feel triceps. So, I'm going to keep progressing on the triceps. But, I think what I want to do, sets like this, I think what I want to do for just a bit, don't try to do the big top sets of 315 and push those. Let's just work quality, moderately heavy volume. So, sets like this. So, I think what I'm going to do next workout, I'm going to take these to, you know, about one to zero reps in reserve. Focus on technique, focus on pausing, focus on control. So, I want good one to two second pauses on the chest on every rep and just build this up. So, I think I'll I'll go 275 and just work it up. Just add weight, add weight, microlo it all the way up. So, I think that's going to be probably a better approach is I just feel like I need the quality volume because look at the quality of those reps versus even with a 315. Some of those are a little soft on the touch and go. Didn't quite have the best control. So, it's like if I just come in and just just control, perfect that touch point on the first rep, uh, like I did on the second set, then on that, pause it and just drive drive and build some more muscle. I've got to get my chest and triceps bigger. So, I think if I do that and just load it up, work it all the way up till we're doing with work sets of 315. Make sense? So, you know, we'll go 275, 280, 285, 290 and just work those sets and and try to get, you know, six plus reps on everything and and that'll always be a good spot. I know that if I can always comfortably get three by six, I can always add five pounds the next workout. So, that'll kind of be the goal and just work at that. And if it stalls a little bit, then I'll just hold and push it. And then I'm going to push the progression really, really hard on the tricep stuff. I feel like I've got a good tricep exercise in here. Let's just get the triceps stronger and stronger to accommodate that. All right, for pull-ups, I went a little lighter today than try to use a 45. I'm like, let's just come over. Let's just try to deadh hang every rep. My nice wide grip pull-ups. I get a lot out of this exercise. Um, I get tons of people who say nonsense. Everything thing I do with my lats, everyone tells me I train my lats incorrectly for years and years, but I've got a good back, you know, and I don't think they understand biomechanics. Uh, so I'm not going to go into all that. I feel that I am performing those correctly for ideal lab development. And people can disagree. I don't care. All right. Um, again, let's see the lats of your clients. My guys all have big backs. Just throwing that out there. You see tons of my clients updates lately. Team Ball has a known for big backs. I have a big back. It's no coincidence. All right. The extensions. I'm doing what I've been doing with these. I want to work these up on getting that full pullover effect. So, you'll notice on some of these, I'm stretching so far that my butt almost comes off the bench. So, that is my full stretch range of motion. Um, and again, that's just where my shoulders go. Uh, but I'm trying to focus on getting the deepest stretch I can get so that we get the benefits of a pullover in this. I also feel a lot of chest and lat when I do this. Obviously, triceps are taking the brunt of it, but I got like 10, 10, and 11. So, I went up a hair. So, I got 3x10 doing 110 last time with this. Um, and it felt pretty good really focusing on the stretch. So, you again, you'll notice me stretching to where everything's coming up. And that's cuz I'm taking it as far as I can. That's keeping the head down on the bench. So, this feels phenomenal. Like, not only do I feel the entire tricep almost feels like it's been beat with a hammer, I get a chest pump, I get a lat pump, right? I get those along with the tricep being the primary mover. So, I feel like I'm probably getting a little chest and chest and uh chest and back development from it, at least as secondary exercises since they're already also fatigued from the other stuff. But really, let's just use this to blow the triceps up. I need more and more and more tricep. Let's get them bigger. Uh let's double down on it. So, I'm going to push these hard. I'm not going to come in and do a bunch of other tricep work. Um, occasionally I'll do some band press downs if I feel like I need them on an off day or after, but for the most part I'm just going to progressively overload this lift for a bit. It's going well. I feel like it builds my tricep. I feel the tricep really well. Biomechanically, we know it works. I'm just going to see if I can progress this, get the triceps bigger to accommodate uh the bench progression. This is going to be the main exercise to feed my my benching. Keep the benching all paused so that we know we're getting the chest and everything. All right. So, for the curls, I messed around. I I didn't put the first set up because I don't have the belt on. I just wanted to see because I noticed I feel more bicep on the power curls. I'm also like, how much of it is because of bracing in the belt? And so, I threw the belt on. I'm like, I got more reps. So, I took a set to failure with with the same weight. And I felt like I got pretty much to failure. Rested three three minutes, threw the belt on, and I picked up an extra rep. So, I'm just going to call it with these. But, um, I definitely feel that I get tighter. my low back doesn't really seem to get involved. Uh, so just having the belt to brace against, I felt like I just get good activation and I'm gaining a rep. So, I'm just going to belt up. And I know people can argue, this is almost a cliche here. We're going to do barbell curls in the squat rack with a belt on. I'm going to be hated. People are going to hate me for this. Let's give people a real reason to hate me instead of makebelieve silly stuff people make up that's not even true. All right, let's actually do something. No. No. Seriously. Um, felt great. Felt a lot of bicep activation. And I'm I'm going to try to progressively overload these two. I'm just going to do these strict curls like this. That's failure. People say understand it. What do you mean by that's failure? Because I got to the bottom and I couldn't move it again on that last rep. I knew it was going to be the last one. So, I slow it down. Uh, there we see the hamstrings are doing good. So, again, did three sets of those. And then I'm doing laterals. So, you guys notice I really only do three direct sets twice a week for each muscle, not counting the squat or deadlift because they work everything. Um, I'm trying to do these stricter. So, what I'm doing, I've got my incline bench set on the highest angle and I lean forward against it. So, I'm squeezing the the base so that I don't push it forward. Have a thing down there. I'm leaning into it to prevent me from cheating. Now, that slight forward angle also is going to make sure the rear delts and stuff get worked more because they are a weak link for me, but I feel like the wide grip pull-ups plus doing these should help bring it up. Um, shoulders are generally just an aesthetic weakness for me don'ts. Realistically, I've had people try to say with the arms, but I'm like, in a t-shirt, my arms look massive. Like, I get a lot of compliments when I'm out in a like in a black t-shirt. Oh, so it's kind of funny. Uh, but I'm going to keep pushing them. Triceps need to be a high priority, but I do want to make sure I'm doing delt work. I feel like my shoulders, as I get leaner, if my shoulders u just get wider and bigger, the side and the rear delt, it'll probably work wonders for me. So, it did three sets of these. Did these right at failure. What I'm calling failure is I feel like I can't do another rep out of the bottom without cheating. So, that's it. If you can't cheat, if you can't do it without cheating, it's failure. Then, we do one set of hanging leg raises. You guys know why I do them. I'm going to try to do the hanging leg raise as I said at the end of every workout. But very happy with today's session. Uh happy with what I think I'm going to do with the progression on the bench. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.