Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here with Jason Bla Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Uh, today's workout went pretty good. Um, again, I feel like I'm starting to definitely get visibly leaner. Um, the scale went up a little when the lower carbs when strength went up, it started to trickle back down. Feel like everything is tightening up. Um, so the deadlifts are down a hair, but other stuff is going up, so I'll take it. Uh, so the thing is with the squats though, I'm trying to um focus on just a really good quality set here on the squats, right? Focusing on that quality set. Um, and a lot of people may not like the depth from the front, but I've measured from the side and these are mostly at depth. Um, but I'm happy with it because I'm getting the quad activation. Uh, and I'm kind of sitting here at 10. 10's about all I'm getting now. Now that I'm losing weight, um I'm just not hitting managing to squeeze those 11 or 12s, but it wasn't that long ago we got back up to the 10. Um so I'll I'll take the win here. And as long as I'm getting leaner and my upper body stuff, some of it's going up and I'm getting bigger, I'll take stalls on the squat and the deadlift because I just need to sustain uh my lower body strength and size at this point. And then once once my body weight, body fat normalizes a bit, I can do some stuff to to maybe bring them back up. But I'm kind of just um chipping away at the body fat. I feel like I do definitely need to continue to get leaner. Um it would be just in my overall best interest. You know, like I said, I I had worked down quite a bit before. Um we've gotten pretty much about at the leanest we've been ever on this channel. And but I do need to go further. And I've said that before I turn 50, I need to be under 200. Well, I'm floating at like 212 at the moment. you know, I turned 50 in I don't know what, 11 months, 11 and a half months, whatever, mid December, right? So, we need to get there. But notice the lower back um is tightening up. So, even that loose skin back there is starting to get tighter. So, we got 10 on the high bar squat. I only got five on the deadlift. You know, remember I hit a PR of nine not that long ago. Then, it drifted back to the eights and I wasn't able to get past eight. Then, I hit six and um and that's okay. the five, it it felt like my upper back and midback and lats were too fatigued. So, I do think it's the combination of a little bit of the the lower carbs and really just the protein overfeeding u combined with maybe those pullovers are fatiguing that area, but I feel like the pullovers bring enough to the table, we're good, but my upper body strength isn't going down. Okay, so the bench we got 18 again here. Keeping in mind my best ever was 19 with a belt and wrist wraps and a little bit more arch than this. So I want to get this to 20. I'm kind of stuck at the 18. The same on the dips. I want to get that to 20, but it's pretty well stuck also. But stuck being a relative term. You know, we've gotten we've gotten those up to to pretty dang high reps there. And I feel like given time um they I may get both of them to 20 even if I'm cutting. We'll see how it goes. If I don't, no big deal. Because at this point, if I get any recomposition at all while chipping away at at getting leaner, I feel like it's a win. You know, particularly at my age and especially if what happens if I get down under 200, you know, if I'm still sustaining all these strength levels, then um we'll be in a great place, a great place to make some lean gains after. Right. The pull-ups, like I said, I went back to the pull the overhand this last time. Um and I'm not even going to argue with people about my ranges of motion. I've demonstrated. I'm not arguing. I'm not even reading comments on the tubes anymore, only on Facebook. So, for those who haven't noticed, I'm not even reading your comments, and that's okay. I'm just letting people just kind of do their thing. If you guys want to talk to me, you can talk to me in the Q&A. But, um, we got 12 here. I got 10 brief press and then two more. I'm pretty happy with that considering it's, you know, pretty close grip overhand with a 45 pound plate. I mean, 12 total. I'll take it, right? I'll take it. Uh, dips work. We got the 18 again, but they felt all clean. They felt good. I felt like I got really deep on these today. So, again, this will over time build my chest and triceps, uh, which will help help the benching, you know. So, my chest and triceps are probably getting the most work because I'm doing three exercises, only one set, but I am doing the pullovers in here also, whereas everything else gets, you know, two work sets because I count deadlifts towards the lats, right? We count deadlifts towards the lats. Uh, but very happy with this 18 because they're deep. That's the thing. Remember, I gone up heavier and I wasn't getting depth. Um, I wasn't getting as deep. I'm like, "No, I really need the depth." And if that means I sacrifice some weight and just chase some higher reps to get those ranges of motion, that's what we're going to do. But I'm struggling near the end, especially going that deep, right? But the burn was great. Hit failure on it. I did a rest pause on the pull-up. We hit failure there. But there you guys can see at those angles like I'm starting to um get leaner like my size as I'm losing more body fat my size is showing more there like you know the shoulders and and triceps and everything. Um you know they're probably bigger than I think people thought they were but that's okay. Uh curls took them to failure. Thought I was going to get 17 reps with that because that would have been a PR. I couldn't I failed it. hip failure. And that's okay because I almost rest pause the last few reps. These last few workouts on this last couple times, right? Just trying to get that extra couple reps. We're pausing briefly at the bottom, trying to get a breath and then trying to grind through. Uh but again, took this to muscle failure because I did those rest pauses like that. The breast between, tried to grind them out, got to that, and then I tried to get a PR rep and I just couldn't. It stopped. Failed right out of the bottom. And the pullovers, we got 40. So, we're up a little. So, we the the pull-ups are up two reps from last time. The pullovers are up like three reps roughly. Uh we lost a rep on the on the deadlift from last workout. All in all though, I mean, pretty pretty good. I'll take it. Uh you guys know why we do the pullovers. I don't feel like I need to talk through the pullover here because it's two minutes of pullovers getting 40 reps. Uh but happy with today's workout. I need to get some breakfast ready. So, I hope it's been informative and I will talk to you guys and gals next