Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and once again it is time for a lower body day. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciate it. If you're not subscribed or following uh please do so and if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. Let's get over to the training. Uh 216 on the dot this morning. Yesterday when I said I hit the the 216 it was like it's some change whatever 216.4 pounds. It was 216. Um obviously the cutting's going well. We're just going to continue to do it. Some of these shots, you guys will kind of see where I'm at. Um, definitely in terms of development, thickness, some of the We can kind of see some of the muscles coming out. Um, I'm pretty happy with my overall size. I got to be fair like some of the shots that I took and put up uh from this from this footage already this morning. I'm thick. I just got to get lean like like I just have to get lean lean. So, I've definitely said I need to hit uh 200 as a baseline. And I'm not seeing 200's of gold. That's kind of a short term. Let's get down there. Um, assess how I look and then and then go from there. Um, and I could even make diet adjustments if I need to drop water at any point, but I'm I'm not worried about water. I would rather just keep doing the whole um, you know, chicken and and brown rice type setup so that I keep the carbs high, keep the training performance good, hold on to muscle glycogen, um, and just keep stripping away at that body fat because I can train hard still on it. That's the main thing and that's literally what we did. So, we did 3x5 on the squats. Um, and these were not obviously to failure. People like, "Oh, you had at least a rep in the tank." And that's the idea. I'm cutting hard. I am not trying to take squats and deadlifts to failure, but I need to do multiple sets of them. And that's what I'm going to use to pretty much retain my leg mass. Um, so rather than come in because I don't want to lose too much neural drive. I do need to keep the skill up on these. I'm not going to try to do a bunch of machine type volume and stuff for the legs. Um I don't think it's necessary. I just don't. So, it's kind of what I did the other day and I've been doing just keeping the squat volume like try to get three good sets of squats in. Uh deadlifts, get one or more sets. I did two today and I was planning on trying to do three, but I'm like, man, this these these were tough. I feel like it it really beat my fatigue up because of the cardio I'm doing to try to do three. Um, I mean, if I wasn't cutting so hard, I feel like I could be doing three sets of deadlifts quite honestly. Um, just fine. But the squats pretty good, the 365. Hit good depth on all those. Happy with it. So, I went with 255 here because I know I can do fives. Like the 300 for threes when I'm cutting right now has been pretty tough. Um, so again, fives, 455 definitely manageable. This is still challenging enough though that I'm getting a stimulus, you know, and I do feel like this is enough. We're close enough to failure u that we're getting a good training stimulus, but it's also enough reps. I'm getting some good grip training and everything here. Uh so I do feel like grip and forearms do need to improve. And again, I know that at this point in the cutting, I'm probably not gaining muscle, you know, and I accept that. But it doesn't mean we don't try. We don't go, "Well, I need to do stuff for my triceps and biceps and and so on." But some of those angles there, if you guys paused or saw some of that I put the screenshots up on both Facebook and Instagram, uh people are seeing this on the tubes can go see that. You can see kind of the stills of a lot of this stuff. Um yeah, I mean I'm pretty well happy with overall development. Obviously I need more arm. I mean more bicep is never a bad thing, but that tricep long head more. So we're going to keep pushing all that stuff, but I do feel like some of those areas I'll just keep training all of it hard. But obviously um until until I'm done cutting or the cutting slows to where I can recmp because I can't. There's again I don't want to say that. We don't want to self-program that. But you guys get the idea. All right. We need to focus on trying to gain muscle so that we keep what we have. But I also want to work like my shoulder mobility and stuff. So I think for me uh kind of what I had done before, you guys saw what I'm doing with the benching and the pull-ups, taking them in a little closer. um doing lots and lots of pullovers and I felt like I could do pullovers today too, right? I'm like, why not? It's a great abdominal exercise. I super seted it with my reverse hypers and I've done pullovers on lower days before. It's not anything new. Calf raises went with my normal setup here. I managed to squeeze out eight. They were hard to get those eighth reps. There was some pausing involved, but the legs the legs are doing pretty good here. Um obviously, we still need to get leaner, of course, which we will. So, I mean, at 216, if you figure another 16 pounds of fat loss at 200, um, I I we'll be seeing, I think, a noticeable difference week to week from here with what I'm doing with the cardio and stuff. Uh, but these calf raises, the 315 is is challenging on this plate. So, again, um, I feel like it's definitely a good number because I was getting some of them six or seven, but I got eight on all three today. Obviously, some of them had to rebalance and pause a hair to get the eighth rep, but we got it. So, we got that on these. So, I feel a ton of calf work. And again, the calf training with all the cardio I'm doing, uh, will absolutely help keep my energy turnover high. Um, and we know that from studies on marathon runners. Like that gives me a huge enormous the size of my calves gives me a massive metabolic advantage when I'm doing certain cardio, any cardio, less cardio. We burn more calories because of the swing weight of the calves. Um, the size of them. It's just muscle being used. So again, uh, good thing when we're trying to cut, right? Good thing when we're trying to cut, especially on all the list cardio that burns through the fat calories. And also keep in mind, guys, um, there's a method to my madness with some of that with the fasted cardio because so much of my cardio is fasted in the morning. My training is all fasted. The idea is also we're burning through a lot of fat calories while keeping glycogen stores really full because it's it's still going to burn fat calories with all this cardio. But then when I'm refeeding, there's very very little fat in my diet during my feed window. And I'm still doing some cardio during it, too. Um because it's just protein and carbohydrate, all whole foods. You guys see my food pictures. I put them up on social media. I mean, I really am bro dieting it up. It's it's like, oh, he's eating chicken, brown rice, sweet potatoes, broccoli, sometimes some spinach, there's another fruit, then fat-ree Greek yogurt and stuff. Sometimes I'll throw a few walnuts or whatever protein powder in it. Not every day because I'm trying to keep that fat on the very low low end. Um, but I mean, pretty much pretty much what I eat, right? Pretty much what we eat. So, it's all super clean, super high and nutritious, super high antioxidant also. So then after the calf raise, I'm like, I want to do some forearm work on this egg because I do feel like the group and forearms could come up. So I did these. I managed I got eights last time because I hadn't done these in a while, but I managed to get tens on all of them today with those standing barbell curls. Um, which I like. I'm a big fan of certain angles when I do the forearms. So I have pretty decent forms just that my torso is so big. Um, but uh again, you guys will see this the still shots from some of that when I'm not moving and it's like the thickness really came out there like I was kind of shocked. But I'll I'll have putting all those up on social media which you guys have also seen on on the tubes also. It's on the community tab. So with the these I've been messing around with different variations with my reverse hypers and I decided today let's just go with the way Louise Simmons teaches it. Notice this looks literally like a Louis Simmons tutorial now. Right. What do we do? We don't even control it. We just swing and we go all the way up. So going as high as possible and then bringing the head up, we really contract that back and then we swing. So really um that's very much a Louis Simmons restoration style. And then I superseted it with pullovers and I tried to pause all these reps. It's going to be a lot of pullover footage in here. It's really a lot of pullover footage. Um, it's like three minutes of pullovers because I'm doing 20 rep sets and doing lots of pauses there. I feel like for me, especially super setting with those, think about everything with the core. It felt like an ab workout because I'm hitting there's almost an ab workout with those reverse hypers like that. And then this pulls on the whole abs and core just super setting it. It this is really, funny enough, a whole core workout even though it's working other stuff. Obviously, there's a lot of glute and hamstring and some of the other. And this is obviously hitting all the muscles of a pullover. Um, but what I'm doing with this, I'm like, I want the extra shoulder uh flexibility added because remember when I started doing pullovers, that's what allowed me to start doing pull-ups again. And I feel like if I just keep pushing the pullovers religiously, I feel like I'm eventually going to be able to get into a full uh lockout overhead position again. Same thing. Notice my my pull-ups now. I'm doing the same thing with those. I'm taking that that shoulder with grip and I'm going into that dead hang on every rep. And then we're going to do the pullovers on the different days. And the idea I'm going to continue to work that shoulder uh range of motion and mobility and flexibility. I'm going to get there because other stuff doesn't work. I've had people say, "Have you tried mobility work?" Dude, I literally have had fans who were who are physical therapists send me protocols and I tried them for six weeks or 10 weeks. You know what they did? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. I saw no improvements. I've done other stuff. I found all my physical therapist. I look at this whole protocol to to help with that shoulder range of motion. I did one of them with like four different movements for 12 weeks straight. All it did was hurt. It didn't do anything. The first thing I did that helped my shoulder at all as far as my range of motion, two of them, was the pullovers. So, I think that's the direction I need to go and I need to do more dead hanks. So, I'm hoping as I get leaner, I'd like to get that fixed so that I can overhead press again. I would love to be able to behind the neck press again. I love behind the neck presses. I love them. Like, I'm a fan of the movement. I used to do behind the neck push presses and stuff on camera. You guys remember in different different years, even in two different countries. I love those. I'd love to be able to do those again, right? They're just such a great exercise. I don't have the ability to do them, but what if I could, right? What if I could? So, I feel like this is the stuff the only stuff they'll get me there because they're loaded. We're going to those full ranges of motion and then loading it. There's not much else to say in this vlog, guys. Like look, I've got all the footage here. I've covered everything. It's going to be a couple more minutes. I'm thinking of just winding winding the vlog down. Um leaving in obviously the next set of reverse hypers and um pullovers because they are in here. U but but you guys can see them if you want. I think I'm just going to shut this down, but you guys are obviously getting a good view of how I look coming back on screen after the the pullovers. Uh so I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.