Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it is time for a general physical preparedness workout, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. All right, let's get over into the conversation. Um, I'm not going to talk a lot about what we're doing here. I may just let you guys watch the footage, talk for the first couple minutes. Um, I did three rounds of weighted carries. Um, lighting not particularly great here. kind of kind of sucks when it gets a little overcast, but I also wanted to do this earlier in the day rather than waiting. Um, you know, it's kind of would actually look better for filming if I waited till later, but because it's still kind of overcast, but hey, um, went ahead and did it just to get it out of the way. Uh, but again, the weighted carries, uh, pretty happy with them. They felt good. want to make sure that I double down on grip and form because I feel like for me uh my grip is starting to limit the deadlifts a little bit and I want my deadlifts to continue to uh you know improve and I like the high frequency deadlifting. So I feel like the weighted carries of farmers walks do do a lot for this in terms of just helping me develop that grip strength, help with core and everything else. So did that. Uh I did one round of sleds. I don't necessarily like the sled when it's been wet outside uh because again we had a tornado yesterday. Power was out a couple hours, two or three hours, then it went out again for a little while while they fixed it. Everything good there now. Um, so I only did one round of those, but I stacked the heaviest weight. I know I've done four plates a couple times. I went ahead and put five plates on there. I don't know if I've ever done five plates before on this sled out here on the street. I may have. If I have, it's only been once. I don't think that I have, though, to be fair. So, this may be a PR weight for me. But if not, if it's not a PR, then I may have matched it one time in the past. So, I didn't sprint with it today, though. I just did one one hard uh push and it was fairly fairly difficult out there. Um, but again, I also did that machine work yesterday for quads, so I don't necessarily need to do huge amounts of it. I like to just get some in. Um, so I did that. Then I did my five sets of medball throws, and I did those out on the driveway until until it gets dry again out here. I just don't want to be walking out in the mud. Um, I don't want to be dropping the med ball necessarily out in the mud. So, once it dries up a little bit, um, and it's been a fairly fairly dry year this this year, you know, recently up until these last couple storms and raintorms, it's actually been fairly dry. So, most days it's it's really good out there for doing that, right? Really good. Uh, but for now, doing it on the driveway, but I'm also not wanting to wear my med ball out, so I'm trying to throw it to where it lands on some of my my Eva foam pads. I have all these pads because I bought a bunch of them for things like box squatting and for cushioning and other stuff. And I got a pretty big stack of them. I got them all stuffed up in the attic for now. Um, you know, just up in storage up there. Um, but I did grab a couple of them down the other day to do some of this stuff so I could also set them down there on the sidewalk for the weighted carries. Uh, but yeah, did all that. H happy with the way that went. The sled was fairly hard. The medball throws again good. I did just five sets of five. Then I did one set of hanging leg raises. Then I finished up with one set of hammer curls. So what I'm doing, I'm trying to avoid overtraining my arms. I'm trying to focus just on lower volume, very very very high quality, high tension sets, which you guys saw, you know, yesterday. We're pring on the chins. Um, but I'm so I'm wanting to avoid any of the really uh high volume stuff because it hasn't worked well for me. My arms have been biggest always when I just focused on a very small small amount of isolation with mechanical tension, right? just getting really strong at it and then really putting my effort into the big the big movements and I think we've seen that historically here, but I also need my shoulders to come up. So, I'm definitely giving, you know, delts some attention with the laterals and stuff, but again, I wanted to just kind of finish up with that. My thoughts were I want the forearm gain. So, it's like I didn't do a true bicep curl. I did hammer curls, which are a little more forearm for me. Um, so again, one set to failure. Now, looking at even at the rep range, I got like 11 reps, and I'm not sure if I failed on a roughly 11. Uh, but I reached failure on it, and and that's good enough. One hard set, right? Works perfectly well for me. Uh, so in short, three rounds of farmers walks, I did one hard push with a sled, five sets of medball throws, uh, did a set of hanging leg raises. Again, good for my grip, good for my abs, and then I finish up with one set of hammer curls. And tomorrow will be a normal full body workout. You know, squat, bench, and deadlift. I might try to mess with some sers though uh for the squatting while I just let my my shoulders do their thing and recover and heal. Uh but overall, pretty happy with this. Just it's just a GPP workout. It's just my conditioning and secondary work. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.