Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it is time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, I didn't train on Monday. Um, it was just really cold. I got in. I'm like, man, I don't want to go train in this cold. I'm going to let my body recover, rest up, and just get two really good workouts in this week, which we did. Um, obviously the squats are always always difficult. Always difficult, but I got some other PRs. um pr I didn't PR the pull-ups but I PR the dips definitely a lifetime dip PR and uh like the front raises curls all that stuff did really really well but I'm I'm super happy about the dip PR because I want my bench to go up I need more triceps and chest um but the squats we got 11 reps on the high bar today I haven't looked that close at it yet I've kind of put it in my software and chopped it but I haven't actually watched uh the footage itself self yet. So, again, overall, pretty happy with it. Um, like I said, I can always get a hair deeper on these, but again, factoring in that this is my high bar, and I know what happens on my low bar, it will carry over well. Uh, so I feel like I'm well up into the 500s, if I were to really just kind of peak my squat up, go with a little bit wider stance, a little lower bar, and and actually uh focus on some maxes for a week or two. I'm probably mid 500s. It's my my my estimate based upon on previous rep work in the past. Uh so overall pretty happy with it. And the squat's kind of my biggest growth exercise and it's mostly my lower body. I'll work the deadlifts coming back in here soon, but it's just at a point where with the lower carbs, just dealing with the fatigue, but I feel like um we we look a little leaner here today. So everything is just slowly tightening up and you guys will see it on the later stuff without the belt. Um you know, as I'm walking back to the camera, it's a little overcast outside. This is as bright as I could really get it in here. Um, so it can be a little bit of the lighting, but again, um, the longer I've run with the low carbs. I do feel like we're just slowly tightening up over time, you know, and it's it's not dramatic. Uh, but, you know, a lot of fans have noticed, a lot of clients have noticed. So, uh, after the squats, I did reverse hypers. And like I said, in the near future, I feel like as soon as we kind of get through some of the cold, uh, and raininess and stuff, I'll start working the deadlift back in. I'll work the bench back in. But I want to use the other stuff to feed my bench because I'm kind of curious. I'm almost curious because I know dips really feed my bench. What will happen if I just focus on the dips for a bit and then come back and start benching? I have a feeling we're going to have some bench PRs. I mean, we have to. I'm I'm considerably stronger at dips than when I benched to the 350 uh last year, you know, and that was flat back two second pause definitely uh versus even when I've been hitting the 18 19 reps of the 225. So, it'll be interesting to kind of see how that lines up. So, again, it's chest and triceps. And I feel like the pullovers are helping helping my dips. that combination really really is good for my my chest and triceps in terms of just working everything. But yeah, dips dips really do a lot for me. Um, they do a lot. So, uh, pull-ups, again, I'm kind of at a point where it's getting harder to progress on pull-ups. It's getting real hard for me, and that's okay, especially with the high reps I'm doing, and a lot of it, it's my grip feeling like it's getting a little slippery. Uh, but it's okay because my back is in a good place, you know? Again, it's not like I'm that worried. Back is arguably my best body part. So, not really a big deal, but we got like 10 and then I had to kind of turn loose and then do rest, pause, two more reps, and then two more again. So, I got 15 that way last time, but getting more than this. This is kind of a little bit of a a sticking point for me. But again, not that worried because my back is even looking leaner there. We're we're losing body fat. And if my most dominant body part stalls while getting leaner, I I'll live with it. Uh dips though, happy with this, right? Real happy. Uh 21 reps with the 55. Now, keep in mind, it wasn't that long ago. I was aiming for that 20 reps with the 45, right? I worked on it for a little bit. We got there, right? And then I I worked up to the 55 and managed to work it up to 19. And then last last workout I did 90 for 12. It's like let me throw that 55 on and just take it all the way to failure. Let me just pump out reps. Got 21. Not even just the 20. So remember that one goal not that long ago was like like man this is my goal. I bet you my chest and triceps will be as strong as they need to be if I can get 20 reps with a 45. Well, we passed it. You know, now we're at the 55 for 21. Um, and my triceps and chest were lit. Absolutely lit from that. Think we even saw right there in that footage a little bit of chest vein trying to come out across the top. All right, pullovers. Um, 23 was everything I had. Like this is what I got last time also, which was a PR. I just didn't have anything left. I think those dips fatigued it so much. It's kind of a case of maybe had I not burned so many reps on the dips for the PR, we might have squeezed out one more rep here. But again, we're still at the best we've ever done with a pullover. So, from that perspective, my chest and triceps should be getting pretty good. They're getting really good stimulus here, and I'm happy about that. Right. So, so, um, these two movements have done really, really well lately, and it's areas I want to improve. Even the curls, here's the thing. when we only do one set, you know, like I have these these stricter dumbbell curls, right? Coming up. Got 27. It was only 12 or 13 reps that I was able to get with that not that long ago. We have pretty much doubled the rep count with that same strict dumbbell. You know, when we only do one set and we're just push it. Even if we need to rest a couple seconds between to squeeze out a few more reps, it works. But there we go. We're getting an idea of definitely definitely chipping away at the body fat. I'm looking a little harder. I mean, I'm not where I need to be. Obviously obviously that waistline does need to tighten up more, but uh no one can really deny that it is it is improved. So, how about we keep doing that? And if it's not broke, don't fix it. It's working, right? What I'm doing is working there. Uh, same thing. The front raises, I threw these in because quite frankly, I'm I'm not convinced overhead pressing and front and front raises work the side delts less than any of these other shoulder exercises. I'm really not. Show me the evidence. And these really carry over to my bench press strength. But again, the same thing there. We could see chest, shoulders, everything getting leaner there. And then we finish up with curls. And I took these to failure like rest paused and did a couple of times through here just like I did on the pull-ups. So since my biceps do really need or probably still my weakest body part, you know, doing stuff like that, not a bad idea. And yeah, I'm doing a lot of really high reps right now. And that's okay. Um I'm enjoying it. It's easy on my joints and it's still going to make me bigger and stronger. Uh but overall, I'm happy with today's workout. Other than that, I would have liked to have gotten 12 reps to get on the squats, but I didn't have anything left. Um, all right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.