Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness and once again it's time for another full body workout. U messed with a few things today. I'm trying to mainly work on my shoulder health. You know, I want to be able to overhead press again. I found out kind of last time once I put a little weight on, still couldn't uh lock it out. I spent my whole weekend really really seriously assessing all the range of motion. Um trying to look at what all was going on, looking at everything I could find from physical therapy. again just looking for kind of solutions to that and I really do think it it is a case of just that tendon being inflamed. It appears to just be tendonitis and I do feel like um there's posture positions uh tightness in the subacchromial process and I think at this point after looking at it today I'm probably going to avoid any sort of of real overhead work. I'll probably pull the pull-ups out because I just want to assess and see kind of if it's butdding against that and they are no matter how I do them. So, I think at this point, um, I'm just going to focus after this on squat, bench, deadlift. Um, I'm going to do some very strict curls, maybe some extensions, but I'm just going to push progression really hard on on power benching and rows and let that just continue to grow my chest and back and everything and just do a little bit of arm work. Uh, but at the end of the day, um, ultimately it's going to be about the big lift. So, with the squatting today, I kind of went and messed with my power squatting again. I kind of I kind of want a power bench. I want a power squat. I want to do those things and then again um just continue to do all my running, my conditioning, my jumping, keep my diet on point, continue to recomposition. Um so, so again, the main training isn't really changing. We're squatting, benching, and deadlifting and doing accessory work um and accessory work to help me, you know, look a little better and stuff. So whether it's, you know, pull-ups and arms, but I do feel like rows adds so much for me in terms of strength. Like that's one of the things I noticed um you know just in general is that I feel like my upper back has gotten kind of weak and I do feel like that's an issue with um even the shoulders um and that's its own thing. So what I'm doing I'm going to mess more with dead hangs. Um I've noticed messing around this weekend that supine grip really light band pull aparts uh seem to really be helping with feeling all that trying to open up. So, I feel like those are things that are going to really help because I do feel like there's some some a little bit of cryptopic spine trying to start my neck and everything and some of that's come with getting older. So, I need to correct some of that with just some of those those exercises. Um, so I think that's going to continue to help. And I feel like I have to just quit butddting against that part of my shoulder. It's it's simply not going to heal doing that. So, the same thing with the benching. I do the really wide benching, but I'm like, let's go back in just a little bit. You know, pinkies on the rings. with the power bench. Um, and it was a little hard like because I'm not used to doing it. I've used a little bit of an arch. We stayed obviously flatfooted but set up a little bit of an arch. Um, that double felt fairly heavy because I'm not quite used. I've gotten really used to a much wider grip. But I do feel like pinkies on the ring is probably going to be probably going to be the way to go for me with this, you know, realistically. Um, and it felt good on the rep work here. So, these these went really well. The the two sets with 275. These felt just as good and just as strong. But I did notice when I went up to 315 felt a little heavy. Um, so let's just kind of work it all up, right? Also means I need more tricep um, and all that, right? Because I could tell I felt like my triceps because I've gotten so used to the wider grip, little bit of tricep limit. So So again, um, I feel like a few extensions wouldn't hurt. Um, I'm going to be very careful with some of that though, um, of how I want to approach that. But I think for me, uh, you know, and I did incline work here later, but I feel like for me, as far as the chest goes, if I'm benching three times a week, that's all the chest work I really need. I mean, that's a lot of chest work because I feel a ton of chest on it. So, outside of that, let's just hammer upper back. Let's hammer triceps and things, things that we know build a bench. But, you know, I'm just going to do all my benching paws. I'm going to get used to power benching because I was really strong with this a couple years ago, right? using this exact technique I'm using now. I I hit 365 for a two second pause. I did 350, you know, with this other not long ago. But um so let's just so the strength is all still there, right? Strength is there, but I just want to get used to that slightly closer grip. And that's going to take a moment. Uh but I was really strong there at one time. I got 315 for eight, 335 for five before. Um so I want to mess with it a little. Uh so same thing. I did a little power squatting. So, it's kind of some low bar deadlift. I just messed with a stiff bar, one good top set. That felt really good today. And then we went over to rows. Um, and I know rows carry over to all this stuff really well for me. So, again, if we're going to talk about building the upper back strength, I mean, rowing. So, let's just build the whole back. I'm going to focus a little more on rows instead of pull-ups uh for a bit, then I'm going to do them again because really it ends up being too much work. That's my thing. I feel like I can't really progress because I'm not bulking. pretty much just at a recmp hanging out around 209 right now. Um, you know, I've got to be careful doing too much volume. Let's just work on tension and then I can do some some little bit of work uh to improve improve aesthetics and everything. A little arm work. I just have to approach it carefully and and again, I'm not saying I'm going to get a lot out of it because again, my arms were probably bigger when I hadn't been doing all of it. But I also think I was overtraining hard with too much isolation instead of just coming in and pushing really hard sets. Trying to do endless sets just doesn't work. Um, but you know, realistically, I think I think if we come in and do three sets of movements three times a week and we just push really hard sets, you know, like the benching and the rows just now, these were hard, right? I think we'll be okay. And I'll just use the jumping and other stuff to help build the squats, but I can start doing a little bit of rep stuff on the squats. So, I can build those up from here. I did incline bench today though, just because I wanted to. I wanted to see how it felt because again, I I did the benching. I'm like, let's do a little incline here. It does feel good. I do like it. Part of me wants to incline instead of doing triceps, you know? Part of me is like, I could do that. And I totally could and it might work really well. And and I may do that instead of extensions. I might just come in and and and do incline. Uh but I can rotate it dayto day. that's also an option. But I just wanted to do a little incline benching and it felt good. Really works my chest, right? It really really works my chest. U but I think my thing is with the pull-ups, you know, I just feel like the pull-ups are not helping with my shoulder situation because anyway I do them, my butts against it. Now, I did overhand grip and then I did a neutral grip. added a set of each and I can definitely tell um and I know it from my ranges of motion just like the overhead hits that area. You know, I'm just budding against that that hard stop to where the tendon isn't able to get past that that spacing. So, I've got to just get my shoulder health good and open it up. And I've got to get that inflammation down. And I just feel like trying to overhead press, I feel like the pull-ups are not letting that that heal. So, what I need to be doing is, you know, again, rows are much easier on the shoulders. I can just row. Um, I need to be doing all the band work for the upper back. Um, I do feel like some dead hangs and stuff will continue to help if I'm careful with them and I don't I don't get excessive with them. I almost feel like maybe doing them underhand grip too might be the way to go just to open that spacing up. Keep in mind, I'm not pulling with it. I'm just just hanging. Uh, so I'm going to have to assess that carefully, right? Have to assess that carefully. Uh, but yeah, so I I need to think about what all of this is doing with my shoulders because I want to be able to overhead press again, right? I want my squat, bench, and deadlift to go up again. I want to be able to overhead press. It is something that I feel like I have to have. Um, and I have to do whatever I need to do to get there. So for curls, um, I just went super strict because the same thing we're going to talk about the shoulder situation. When I bring it up, anything more than just keeping the elbows at the side because this is full range of motion. Notice I'm my forearms touching the bicep. So if I just keep the arms pinned to the side, way harder. But, you know, let's just work just the bicep through its range of motion. Um, and again, 65 pounds is actually hard doing it super strict because I'm trying to be real strict here. And that's okay. I mean, I've done more obviously, but I'm using a different technique. So, yeah. Um, but it it lit up. It's like, oh man, my biceps haven't been getting as worked as I would like from the big movements. Um, and that's okay. I'm going to work them a bit now. All right. But, uh, I I do think, yeah, benching u benching three days a week, I don't know that I need a lot of other pressing or chest work because that's nine sets of bench, especially if I push it pretty hard. So then it's like, let's just work all the peripheral muscles and the the rows build everything. They're just like such an amazing accessory for the big three. But really overall, my size is good. Like if anything, all I really need is more arms as I continue to rec get leaner. Uh but yeah. Um so but again, I wanted to see how curls felt and I did notice, yeah, these don't inflame the shoulder. I don't feel anything at all in terms of it it doing anything negative. But I think what I'm gonna have to do with that, the same thing we have to think about. It's not just the supine. It's when I I do the stuff that hits that long head, that rotation of the shoulder, I think that's what inflames that and that makes it harder for those tendon to slip through. So I do want that to heal, but I probably could benefit from a little bit of curling. But I'm still going to put the focus on, you know, those four big barbell lifts, squat, bench, deadlift like I've been doing, and then I'm going to work rows for a bit instead of pull-ups. Um box jumps, though, we did finish with some box jumps. Uh, so I did 5x5 box jump, which again I like. I feel like they bring a lot to the table. Um, I might need to work a little sled work back in again just for the the squat carryover. Like I said, I didn't do any today. Um, but it wouldn't be a bad run to start working it back in some of the days just because again, builds the the leg muscles, builds conditioning, will help with run speed because I do want to I keep running my three days a week. Um, but again with a lot of this it's like let's just get stronger, continue to get fitter, work on being athletic, work on being fit. All right, so again, things like box jumps, cardio, running, big part of what I'm going to want to do, trying to be a well-rounded athlete. But I think with a lot of my training, it's like, can we maximize, you know, muscle and strength while still healing those shoulders and allowing all those ranges of motion to return? And it's again I do feel like it's an inflammation and tendonitis issue still with specific tendons you know up in the interior portion right because again I can kind of tell and I've assessed it very very closely for a while now and I'm trying to look at every possibility um but yeah so I do feel like the band pull apart should be a good idea especially the supine grip and a lot of physical therapists recommend that and I'm just going to work on general shoulder mobility and health stuff and just try to take it seriously. and work on some of the stuff like the band pull aparts. It'll help with, you know, posture and everything with the upper back and help open all that up and make the rear delts, romboids, and everything a little stronger. And I think rows will help. Replacing pull-ups with rows for a while. I think will help. But we just keep pushing those big three, squat, bench, and deadlift always going to be big parts of my training like I've been doing for a while. They're the start of the workout and everything else is supplemental. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.