Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and it's time for another biceps workout. Like I said, I'm going to keep doing these um in between my normal workouts. Uh I just felt like I needed a day off yesterday. It was it was just too cold. I didn't want to go out there and mess with the garage again. When I went up to check my normal workout times, it was 27°. Not doing it. Um tomorrow we're back to normal. It's 62 outside. Cold front is over. we will be back to our normal full body Monday, Wednesday, Friday. I'll probably do three of these bicep workouts in between. Um, think it works really well. Think it can be effective. And if it isn't, if I do this for a while and I don't feel like my biceps are improving at all from it, you know, even as I continue to trim down, chip away at the body fat, um, then hey, no problem. Back. I feel today though, I feel I look a little softer. I look a little softer today maybe than the last few days, but that's okay. I think as soon as we get the training back up, um that will resolve itself. We'll look like we were looking a few days ago, I think. Um I think particularly once we get a couple of the the full body workouts in again, right towards the weekend, I think it'll be a big difference. Although it could be this lighting. This is earlier than I normally do. It's in the morning, but I'm going to keep doing these workouts. So, uh PRs again. All right. I've been microl loading this up. Every time I can get to three sets of 20, it's time to add weight. So, I added another two and a half pounds. I have micro plates. I didn't even take the old micro plates off this bar. I just kind of left it there in the corner. Like, that's a nice empty area because I'm not really doing much next to the fireplace. It's just a nice empty area. It's out of the way. You know, I'm not going to walk through it or anything. Uh, so I'm leaving it set up, but I had micro plates on there already. I put another one on each side and uh yeah, happy with that. So, we're up to 70 lbs. Four sets of 20. Well, 20 on the last one. I got 19, 19, and then 20. I did a little rest pause there. But you guys know the rule that doesn't count. I have to get all sets to 20. When I get all sets to 20, I add another two and a half pounds. And that's that's going to be the way I do this all the way up. And hey, who knows, maybe I'll get up to 95 or 100 pounds for um sets of 20. And hey, that'll be great. That'll be great. Maybe it'll even get to a point where I get strong enough where, you know, I could put a full full plate on the side. I don't know. I'd be doing sets of 20 then anymore. Um, and that because that would be a completely different beast. Like, if you can do 135 for sets of 20 on a barbell curl, you're going to have massive arms, right? Just no way around that. Uh, so unlikely to happen, but I'm just going to chip away at it. And and again, the idea is biceps are my weakest muscle group, right? We all know this. We all know this. So, I'm giving them their own little separate work fresh, right? I give them their separate work fresh. And I think it'll work. And if it doesn't, not a big deal. I haven't lost anything by it because this doesn't take much time for me to do and it gives me a little extra content to put up on all my platforms. Uh, but again, I feel like I'm adapting really well to doing this exercise. Like with anything else, there's there is a skill to even even something like a a standing barbell curl. All right. And so again, uh, doing it multiple times a week, I feel like I'm getting more and more proficient at it, which means we're just we're loading up on it. Uh, because previously, like the weight I have on here now, I don't think I've ever done more than 12 reps with this weight. Now I got 19, 19, and 20 with it. So, we'll just keep progressively overloading the biceps. And people will say might say things like, "Well, lightweight." No, lightweight doesn't matter. It's about what you're doing with it and taking stuff to failure. All right. And on these final sets, definitely the final seconds, I have to rest pause to even get the reps. I mean, we're we're at failure. We at failure. Um, although some of them I think what I may do is actually rest pause them and do that and then try to do a rep. But I mean, I don't have anything left on that rest pause each time. And I know we're sitting here rambling about curls. We probably don't need to do that much longer. You guys know what we're doing here. Um, so again, just hitting the arms more. But yeah, I think as soon as the lighting's a little different in here cuz again, I did these like an hour earlier than I normally had been doing them. So, the sun's not up yet. Um, probably look a little tighter. And I think some of it at this point, uh, muscle glycogen might be going down a hair because I I only did that one serious workout on Friday, right? And had a week off from that. But now we're going to get back into the flow. Um, I feel like I'll fill right back out and tighten up more a little bit as soon as as soon as that happens within a couple of days. All right, so we'll get back to it. But the weather is nice again. Start doing some nice earlier morning workouts. And eventually as it starts getting warmer from here, I'm going to have to be up at, you know, 6:00 in the morning doing those workouts, right? Just to avoid the heat, uh, which is what I normally have to do in the summer. Uh, all right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.