Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's in time for another full body workout. And I started off with the back squat. I'm switching over to the different bars. I just feel like they're easier to use. One of the things I note, and this is going to sound funny when I'm changing the bars around. Um, I like to be able to just load and unload the plates from the squat bench and deadlift. So, if I actually use my squat bar instead of the power bar, I can already have the uh the bar set over there. I don't need to unload the plates and set them down. I can carry them from the squat over to the bench and then so on and so forth. Like I can still use the the um the deadlift bar and leave the power bar in the in the bench and take the plates over. So it does make my workout a little faster. Plus with the wider squat bar, I don't hit the uprights walking it out. I just can't put exactly even plates on and make beautiful numbers like 405. But I feel like on the squats, I'm going to continue to just do some some heavy singles. um work on training maxes and just get my squat back up. And I feel like with the other leg stuff, I'm doing this the sled work, the jumps, if I just keep doing heavy singles on the squat three days a week, my squat will come back up to 500. Um again, I know this from past experience, so I'm just going to push it this way for a bit. Keep in mind, for a little while earlier during the cut and everything, I was doing stuff like Widow Makers and things, but uh legs are still on point. Even at 209, uh you know, the legs are on point. So, for the benching, u little bit of a snafu. Um, I did a bunch of band press downs this weekend. Bunches and bunches and bunches of them, you know, like 300 a day for a couple days just because I wanted to do it. And I totally when I went to bench today, guess what? My triceps were fatigued. So, the third rep, I almost couldn't lock it. Uh, but I still did my top set, my 315. This is all obviously wider grip. Part of me is considering bringing the grip in just a hair to accommodate my overhead pressing. Um, but um, yeah, it's time to start working the barbell overhead press. And even if I can't use a lot of weight yet, even if I'm I'm still a little struggling with the range of motion, I just feel like it brings so much to the table. And even though, yeah, I like doing some incline. Look, if I just do three hard sets of bench three days a week, that's going to be all the possible chest I'm going to need. That's plenty plenty of hypertrophy here. So, I also did my little side chest and everything. Obviously, the skin's still loose, but um scale started to come down again finally now that I'm doing all the running and now that I've gone back on lower fat. Um so, we should see the scale just make a little continual downward trend. So, all that will start tightening back up again. Um and it's going to slowly work on getting leaner while we work on on these big movements. But I do feel like at this point I just want to do specificity, you know, work on my big three, pull-ups, overhead pressing, maybe some incline here and there, and just do GPP. Like I I know that for me, I don't have to do other stuff. I'll get big and then I'll I'll actually have big lifts again. Um, so a nice solid powerlifting total and again still be athletic and strong. And again, I feel like as long as I do these things, I'll I'll gain plenty of muscle from these. And then as far as the upper body looking better, overhead press and pull-ups, just keep pushing pushing those. So, I really feel like those five basic movement patterns uh will handle most of what I need. Not saying I can't throw some other stuff in every now and then. You know, maybe if I want to do some tricep work or incline or some hammer curls, I can. Not a big deal. But I really do want to just focus on my my big three and then pull-ups and overhead press. And then outside of that, we're going to run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run run less cardio and it's uh athletic stuff you know so it's going to be jumping it's going to be sleds and and again it works great again it's about well-rounded fitness so I want to continue to improve my 5k times right you know I'm down to like a 28 minute 5k so that could continue to improve and I think as I get uh lighter and lose body fat that's gonna get better as I just keep running I've been running really less than a month. Um, and we've hit, you know, quite a few five mile runs. Uh, you know, so the times are just improving all around. So, I'm happy with it. So, again, with the benching, ended up doing 315 for three and then a couple of sets of 275. So, again, I I feel like as long as I don't let the triceps get fatigued. I don't do any tricep work between now and then. We'll be fine. I'll do hanging leg raises on my off days, though. Um, but the deadlift, I did 500 for a triple and again felt nice and good. Um, for the pull-ups today, I decided to try the really close grip to see how it feels. Again, I tried I've tried to use all three grips with this neutral, and I do sometimes I've been doing the closer grip, but full pronated. I do think the neutral grip is probably overall better for shoulder health. So, I want to do it, but notice that I can't really That's my full locked out. Um, and I'm a hair weaker with the really close. So, I think the medium grip, which is closer to like my overhead press, um, probably going to give me the best bang for my buck. um I get a good range of motion and I'm strongest at it. So again, I'll probably grab grab the the medium grip next time. Seems to work really well. Part of me is considered because I kind of messed a little with with the overhead pressing to see kind of where it was was the best feel with the bar and then I filmed one set coming up. Um it's kind of that medium grip, too. So, I almost wonder if if I should consider doing some benching also with that that medium grip just so that we get a little bit of synergy on that um between the uh the overhead press and the bench because also keep in mind there can be discussions of the really wide grip bench and shoulder health and and there's a conversation to be had about that because I'm outside the rinks. So, this next workout, I'll debate if I want to just bring the bench grip in, but we're going to obviously keep pinching, benching, benching, squat, bench, deadlift, pull-ups, and then, as I said, I mess around with overhead and incline back and forth. But here's where I'm at in terms of the barbell. This is me locking it as hard as I can. So, when people say, "Oh, reduce the weight." Well, you want me to go lighter than a barbell? I do rep work with 315 on the bench. I'm not really weak on pressing. You guys saw me do rep work with 245 on the incline the other day, you know. Um, it's an issue of that's my range of motion, but it is what it is. But I feel like I want to do some of it and we'll just keep working it. All right, boxes. Um, I did 10 sets last time. I just did five today. Just five really good box jumps. Just want to get some quality in. I may take it back up to 10, but I kind of bumped the volume over time on these, but the last workout ended up being 10 sets of these on Friday. Um, so I'll just do whoever however many of them I really feel like. You know, the main thing is I'm getting the jump work. Um, and again, we keep the we jump to a box for a reason. I tell it to people this reduces injuries because you're not landing back on the ground. There's less risk of your Achilles tendon. But, you know, jumping is is really about the concentric. It's about the rate of force production. So, again, that's what carries over to our squat, you know, uh, in terms of of performance. Plus, it does build muscle. I believe jumping is good for hypertrophy. not as good as a back squat, but pretty good. But the sled work can absolutely be equal absolutely be equal to a back squat in terms of hypertrophy. Um, and I think there's some data to support that. Plus, we see it in the real world with athletes. So, again, um, even though I'm only doing singles on the squats, we do box work and then sled work and then a sprint at the end of the sled um, on all the the workouts. So, we're getting pretty good carryover. Plus, think about it. If I want better run times, I'm running going to run three days a week. For people who missed it, they're like, "Oh, why didn't you run today? You're I had some real some clown literally go, have you rethought the barefoot running?" I'm like, "No, I don't want to be running seven days a week. I feel like three is enough because I train pretty hard here. We do some lists every day." Um, I feel like three really good run days a week is a nice good spot. So, we lift hard three days a week. Okay. including the sled, then run three days a week and then do some bliss every day, you know, on the bike, right? And live stream that. So, for the sled, obviously I walk it down, which is still good, pretty good work actually. Um, there's still definitely definitely not super easy. Um, so I walk it down a bit and then get it down there and then on the way back I sprint. And I know about my distance where the sprint is going to be really hard. I kind of have a good feel for the distance and I can always push it past the camera and then come back. But I mean obviously once I get get there, I just kind of clip that because there's no point even if I go further and walk back to the camera like we don't need it because it's just looking at the street. So I push it down and I know right about where it's going to be a challenging sprint right about back to to you know to my place and everything. So again, turn it around, we sprint it back. Um, and it's and it's gives me really good uh elevated heart rate breathing. And we do one round of this at the end and then obviously we run on the other day such as most of my conditioning. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.