Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. Um, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. Um, so did back squats today. Made a couple minor changes. Some stuff I liked, some stuff I didn't. Um, but I went back to just messing with some back squats again. Um, I box squatted for over a week. Uh, felt good, but I'm like, you know, I just miss doing my normal back squat in this slot. So, I like starting off with a back squat. And I went ahead and went up to the four plates on the squat bar. I got a good double in there. So, I'm just going to keep um working that a little bit. And I may rotate box squats back in back and forth. I always like box squats. It's kind of one of those where it's like I like to do them. Sometimes I like to run them for a phase, but at the end of the day, you know, I mean, back squat is still going to tend to be bread and butter. And I don't put a lot of into it because at this point, I know that if I just get my quads bigger and I practice some squatting and do this, my squats will come up. I don't need huge amounts of volume. Um, so again, a good double here. And I may just work with, you know, the four plates for a bit and just work on pop sets like I do the other lifts. Um, but again, I really want to push up the bench. I want to push up my triceps. And I tried something different today and I didn't like it at all. So, I'm going to go back to literally what I've been doing last week because it worked really well. Felt like my benching strength came back up. Um, but today I did want to sample kind of a back offset, right? And I feel like for me, I can prioritize benching and triceps in terms of my volume. I get away with a little more stuff here. Um, because it's not being hit by my running, my cardio. And again, by keeping the volumes a little more moderate, we can get away with that. But the bench set felt really good. Look at that. Nice clean four pause reps with 315. So, we're sustaining where we were, right? We hit that again on Monday. We got that. But I feel like really the tricep work and the dips are are doing the most for that. But I also did a back down set to kind of see where my back off strength is because for me these are are interesting. All right. Because I've kind of hit stuff that I was wasn't hitting for rep work even when I paused bench 365 a couple years back. Right. Um you know I was doing like I was able to do tens with 250 but I mean the other day I got 12 with 245. I'm like so let me go down to 200. I got 16 with it. So, I got 13 with this today. And we're not using leg drive. This is all just clean. Uh mostly pause reps, right? Mostly pause reps. Super super clean. So, I'm happy about that because it felt good. Um everything was good. Um so happy with it. I also wanted to go up and try to increase the weight on the extensions today, which you guys will see I made a boooo with that. Let me try it with the straight bar since eventually I'd love to be able to do the straight bar with a full plate on each side. Um, and it felt horrific, but it's I was already committed, so I did two sets of it. But, uh, let's get over to deadlifting. Let's get over to deadlifting. Um, I just did a good triple here. I had someone say already, I saw in one of the comments for the short I put up, "Look like that went up really fast. You could have gone it for a fourth or fifth rep." I'm like, I'm I'm not that worried. I just want quality work sets and I'm just going to rebuild the deadlift because I'm I'm pulling heavy three times a week. And because probably my five rep max is probably 500 right now, I'm within a rep or two of failure no matter what. Doing it three times a week. As long as we get some quality sets, I'm going to rebuild the deadlifting off of this stuff, right? I'm going to rebuild it by doing the reverse hypers again. So, reverse hypers. Um, decided to progress on it. Um, I'm able to do five sets of 25 with really short breaks. They're like 60 seconds apart. Um, but I was doing that with the 220. I'm like, "So, let's just start adding weight up slowly. I'm just going to load it." And I know I'm fully aware they're swinging. I'm fully aware that this is how you use the device. I've had people argue with it. Uh, but I could I could progressively load it, right? Even with these really high reps and everything, I could just slowly add weight. We're still going to get a better eccentric loading. Um, and this will just build all the posterior chain back up further. Um, and just I'll just progressively load it for a while. All right. Even if we get all the way back up to ridiculous weights on this machine, which, you know, we've done in the past, right? Which we've done in the past. We've done all that. Um, so I might even might even go crazy with it and and load up four or 500 pounds on it eventually again. All right. But as long as we're able to get the five sets of 25, I feel like we're in a really, really good place there. All right. Feel like we're in a really good place. And so, we're going to continue to do that. Uh, so I'm just going to progressively load this. And so, I'll let this build it back up. And the same thing, it'll it'll bring my squatting and everything back up um just over time. So, again, reverse hyper will kind of be my little bit of volume here. and I'm just going to go heavy uh on the squat and the deadlift, right? So, at the moment, I'm not worried about pushing that 500 up for more reps if I don't need to. I might have some times where I hit four or five again. Uh but I just don't want them to grind. I want them to be nice, clean reps. Um and I'll pro, like I said, I'll progressively overload the reverse hypers for a few week and watch. It'll end up feeding back into that deadlift. Um but also it'll get my core stronger. It'll keep my low back healthy. It'll keep everything really good and in a good spot for my running and everything else. Um although the one one of the things I really wish I would have done different today, um probably could have done dips, but I felt like with the back down work on the bench, like like not doing dips, but realistically um dips might be a better choice than my tricep extensions in this case, you know, because I feel like the dips really do more for my bench. Yes, the tricep extensions are getting stronger and stronger and stronger. Uh, but me messing with the other bar today. Uh, just again, it wasn't right and we'll discuss it when we get to it. So, again, reverse hypers are going to be a big chunk of the vlog because I do five sets of 25. So, this is obviously fairly time consuming, but I don't want to do work sets that don't get in here. And this workout did take longer than I wanted. I had some really important business related calls uh that were coming through that I needed to take. you know, in the middle of the workout. So, I did have to take those. So, I got kind of got broke up a little bit. So, again, the workout took a little longer than I would have liked, but we did get it all done. Um, the reverse hypers all felt good. So, again, I'm probably just going to keep adding weight to these, you know, for a little bit. You know, I could put another 10 pounds on roughly every workout. Eventually, I'll just start adding more of the red plates, right? I have four more of them laying there. I can end up just d like even if I get to where I just double up on those. All right. Versus what I had on here. Um it'll probably be enough to push my my deadlift and everything back up. Like quite frankly, just the hypertrophy of this alone and then we get the technique and stuff from from the deadlift sets and we grow off of that. You know, you get people who are like, "Oh, we don't do large amounts of deadlifts. You can't." And you then you won't grow from it. But that's nonsense. Mechanical tension is a driver of hypertrophy, right? Doing heavy rep work like that on a deadlift will absolutely get you bigger. Um, so for pull-ups today, I did do uh overhand grip pull-ups instead of chins today. I'm always torn on that of which whether I want to do chins or whether I want to do the pull-ups, but man, these felt good, right? And I got a plenty of reps, too. I got like three sets of 10 with a little 10 lb plate. Funny enough, you know, it's like I can do a lot more weight than this, but it's like if I want to do just really strict, clean reps, you know, if I want higher reps, just throwing a 10 on works. I had someone tell me, this is funny on Facebook. They're like on one of the posts I made, we don't care what scrubs you have. Let's see you do six pull-ups with your body weight if you can't do that. I'm just sitting here thinking, do do you not know how much I love pull-ups? It was just very weird, right? Uh, but these felt good. They felt good. Like I just, oh man, they felt good in my shoulders. Felt like it just pulled. Everything just kind of opened up really good. Now, they were a lot of forearm work. But so I took just a shoulder width. I didn't go real wide. I didn't go real close. I just grabbed a shoulder width on these. And uh, you know, they felt good. I'm like, man, I liked the way those felt today. I just happy about that. You know, now I wish I would have done some dips today instead of these other extensions, but you know, I digress. I'll take it. All right, we'll take it. Uh, but we got did three sets of 10 with this, and I feel like they were quality reps. I got a lot of arm pump, a lot of back pump, but I always feel pull-ups. If I don't go super wide grip on pull-ups, it feels like a major bicep exercise to me, right? It always does. So, the the thing I'm not happy about with today, these laying extensions, I'm like, let's do them with a straight bar, right? Because if I want to go up in weight, and I only went up to 115, I couldn't even get the same ranges of motion. Some of them, they didn't feel right. They made my my forearms hurt. Uh, my elbows felt all wonky. Like, everything felt wonky with these. It didn't feel right compared to that easy bar, that really close grip easy bar. like I've I get strong on it so fast and it feels good, you know? So, as much as I might do this and say, "Well, I don't like re-rerackcking that easy bar up in that smaller thing. It could it could fall out easy and and you know, I want to use the big bar." You know what? It just it works so well. Plus, I'm not balancing it because I I feel like I'm my forearms and elbows and everything feel way better and I feel like I can tuck better with that easy bar because I get really with a really close grip. It's hard to get that same close grip on this bar. Um, but I mean I got sets of 12, but I'm doing five pounds less than this for sets of 15 and built up to that with the other bar. So, I realized realistically I should go back to that other bar. And so, what if the reps get really high? You know, I might even take them up to 20. Like, is it really going to hurt my gains? Like, oh no, you you take your 10 rep max and you build it to 20 reps. is too many reps. No, you're gonna grow from that. You're gonna grow from that. And where's my bench gonna be? If I take that and I build that up and add another five reps, I'll be good. So, I may just stick with that. I may just stick with that 110 pounds on that easy bar and just keep pushing reps, reps, rep PR, rep PR, rep PR. Why not? You know, I don't see a problem with that. I don't see a problem at all. So, that might be what I do. But, I want to keep doing the dips in there. And I liked the back off work on the bench, but man, the dips just do so much for me. Um, but I also had the benefit of hitting that that PR like that 245 for 13. That's a that's a rep PR after the the heavy set. So, I feel like the dips and stuff are carrying over. The tricep work is carrying over. So, I'm just going to bodybuild on the other stuff after, you know? So, I feel like next workout I'll kind of do what I did on Monday. Let's hit a top set of the bench. Then, we'll push dips. We'll try to push rep PRs on the dips and the laying extensions. And, you know, so what happens if we we just get more reps with those same weights? The bench will go up because we're building pecs and triceps. Um, and then curls. I went up and I'm trying to do the full range motion. I know I have a little bit of catawwampusness in there and that's just the nature of my shoulders and everything I think but I'm like I'm trying to do them strict. So I got 15s last time. So I'm like let's add some weight. So I went up 10 pounds and I got twelves. I had to take a five minute break in between the last set though because I got an important call I had to deal with. But we got them all done. So I got three sets of 12 um for full range of motion. So, like I said, we went up 10 pounds and that's okay. That's good. We're still at 12 reps, so that's really high reps. I mean, they felt good, though, right? They felt good and they're relatively strict. And yeah, there's always that little bit of shoulder, but it's also because I can't lock that left elbow completely no matter what I do. Like, I can't lock it out. It's that old one that was repaired. Um, but you know, it's still straight bar curls and I feel them in my biceps. They felt good. Pretty happy with that overall. I mean, we're up to getting good good reps with this. It's the same thing. I might work with this weight and just slowly build it up. It's just always that debate of do I want to do chin-ups or do I want to do pull-ups and and I might just alternate. And then, of course, we did a set of band press downs and I needed because my elbows didn't feel right from that straight bar at all. So, again, getting some blood work in there. So, I think what we'll do, we'll stick with the easy bar and I'll definitely do dips again next time like I did on Monday. But I don't have to do dips every single workout. Even if I get them a couple times a week, we're we're in a good place. So, did a set of high rep band press downs to finish up here. Um, and then I did one round of sled sprints. So, overall, other than, you know, bit the the tricep work, uh, with that bar going, eh, everything else was pretty good. Happy with it. The pull-ups felt great. Um, that back off work on the bed. The bench felt great. So, really, triceps, I'm just going to complain about it because they're important to me. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.