Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it is time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. So, let's get over into the training. So, uh, doing what I've been doing, right, we came in, we did the pause squat. So, what I'm trying to do here, I feel like looking at the footage now, maybe the first rep wasn't a big pause. Um, but what I'm trying to do rather than hit those, you know, six, seven reps, trying to go for rep PRs with a 405. I'm like, look, let's just high bar it. I know that some of those reps have been skirting depth a little bit when I go for seven. So, I'm like, let's just get good at pauses. I just want to work with pause work with 405 and build that up to where we know we're going deep. We're briefly pausing at the bottom and build that up from there. And keep in mind, we're doing all the sled work, which really helps build my quads. But I think some of the angles we see from some of that my quads, uh, I feel like my quads are going, they look like they're growing in the mirror. They're bigger. Uh, just in general, that's all working. Um, so what I'm also going to do, we're going to focus on dips and chins for a bit. I'm going to do what I said I'm going to do. I'm going to train my arms just like I train my legs. You know, people who are like, "Oh, you know, you clearly, you know, train your legs better than your arms." Okay, that's what I'm going to do. I'm going to treat my arms exactly like I do my legs. But I figure if if a training style grows my quads massive like they are, then it should do the same for my arms. I'm going to quit bodybuilding my arms for a bit. Uh so bench went good. Um they actually felt good. Instead of doing the 325 today, I went back to the 315 because I got triple with the 325. I got four reps and they felt clean. I didn't feel like I really had a fifth rep. I if I did, it would have been a hell of a grind with a risk of missing. So we went there. Uh but it felt good. So, I'm happy with where the bench is sitting. The deadlifts, the fatigue was high today. I noticed that. And I think a lot of it's just all those reverse hypers I've been doing. Um, that just felt hard. I got to that third rep and I'm just like, man, I'm going to call it there. Right. We hit 550 for a double that I missed it on Wednesday, right? I've been hitting 500 for six on some of the days. It was a case of, you know, I felt the fatigue on the day. I'm like, let's just end the the hard training week there. That's still a good quality work set. I'm going to call it. Just going to stop right there and be done with it. Then we get over to dips next. I feel like at this point with all the other pressing I'm doing because I am working overhead press time and I did all that really high rep overhead press on the GPP day with the kettle bell and have a lot left for it. Uh you know dips, let's just do dips. Dips are good. When my triceps have always been at their biggest in the past I was mostly doing dips and or closed grip benching, but dips have always played a role. So I'm like let's just push dips. They increase my bench. I like them. They feel good. So, I got 10 reps on both sets. These are going going as deep as I can on these. So, going, you know, not starting from the bottom, though. That's harder. I lose reps. I start from the bottom at the very beginning. But, let's just go into a deep stretch. Focus on quality reps. Take them to where the last rep feels kind of grindy. So, that's exactly what I do for my legs. Nothing to failure, right? The chins are pretty much taken to failure though. So, let's just train them like that. A big heavy compound that we know where the triceps get worked hard because I feel a lot of tricep on the dip. All the research shows us a tricep, the whole tricep gets worked on the dip. I'm just going to push progression on. That's it. Same thing for the arms. Just going to push chins for a bit. And let's see if when people say you should train your arms just like your legs because they're not understanding. They're thinking I'm not doing tons of curls and stuff. actually [snorts] do I do ridiculous amounts of curls to failure. So the chins I'm like let's just take the slightly closer grip because we know this hits biceps really hard for me. All right, do the sets as many reps as I can. All right, so I ended up getting seven and then right there just stuck at the bottom without cheating and swinging. I didn't have another rep. I'm just going to drop into what me is for a full hang. And people can argue all they want. Well, that's for me that's a dead hang. You guys see me starting from the bottom. So, right. And I'll do more of them where I come over and just pull it up. But then we drop into a hang. And then we chin up. Okay. So, I'm just kind of do weighted chins. My back is good. So, even if we would argue that I get a little more out of a pull-up for my lats in this, I'm doing rep work with heavy deads. I'm doing still a pull-up variation. I feel like my back will be fine. My back will be perfectly fine. Hell, if anything, it'll probably keep growing. Even though I'm doing this mainly to focus a little more on biceps, my back just responds in general. So, I'll probably get there. So, the the overhead pressing, I just did one set today, I went up in the weight. As you guys know, I've had to start with the empty bar. I noticed last time when I did the two sets, I felt stronger and got more reps with the closer grip, but I went up and wait here. And I'm taking these through the fullest range of motion I can. So, notice it's the same thing you see on the chin-ups and pull-ups. So, I'm just going to sit here. I think I'm just going to sit at this weight. and I'm going to work on trying to get better at locking it. Uh but it's always a case of, you know, where people will say the nonsense of of go lighter and then I go to the empty bar and they're like, "Go lighter." It's like, "Dude, I'm doing 30 reps at the empty bar. I can't go lighter." Um so I'm just going to work on it. The only way the range of motion gets restored is to keep training it. Keep keep working it. Keep working it. And just get strong in those positions. But I'm going to have to avoid, you know, overuse, impingement, all that stuff. But I don't want to talk about all that today. So, let's get over two. So, we just did one good set because I did the 20s yesterday. U I've not done that kettle bell for 20s before I did it. So, I decided because my laterals are hitting over 20 reps. I like the plates. I really like the way the plates feel. I'm like, I should in theory be able to get 10 or more with the 45s, right? Mathematically, no. I got like eight reps. I didn't like the range of motion. So, I'm like, they felt good, but let's just go back to the 25s. I'll just do the higher reps. I got like 22 reps here, right? So, I just did the plate laterals. They feel really good in my shoulders. I like plates. It's be the one thing I really kind of isolate. Let's just isolate side delts a little. Um, now I'm doing overhead pressing and all the throws and everything which hits all of that. But, um, thought let's just come in, we'll keep isolating side delts. We'll just let the chins and the dips handle the arms. Now, granted, does the throwing, does the benching, does the overhead press still hit arms some? Yeah, but it's just I'm just going to push dips and chins. We're going to keep the volumes reasonable. Two sets of each three times a week. So, about six total sets. Okay. About six total sets. And no, I didn't do the AM prep on the the bench today like I do some days. I'm still going to do that at least once a week. At least once a week. I'm going to come in and try that 225. I've hit 18 multiple times. I built up to that. I want to get to that 20. Um, so I decided here to do neck extensions just to make sure that we hit enough to get an appropriate length. I'm just going to reloop it this one twice just so it's in there. But it is it's only one set, but I got 20 reps of this. I've been doing 15s. I just did one solid set. Let me just take it as far as I can. I got 20 reps. Uh so overall pretty happy with that, right? We're pretty happy with that. Uh calling it a week here. Uh if I do anything tomorrow, it could be a GBP. It could be a rest day. I might get up and jog. We'll see how tomorrow pans out. But I really like that I had a good rest day. a good rest day on Monday and then what happened? I hit really good deadlift um after taking the whole weekend off, right? The whole weekend off and then I hit Monday, I got really good deadlifting and then the fatigue kind of accumulated. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.