Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness with another full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you will please click like down below, I'd greatly appreciate it and drop me a comment. Uh very happy with today's workout. The deadlifts are the only thing that I just kind of said, you know, I'm not feeling these today. I did one rep and said, "Yep, I'm just going to chill. I feel that fatigue. It's time to let my body rest for the weekend." Uh the squats went good. So I went ahead and came in and just did a high bar. I'm just want to get used to just that that high bar position. And so notice as I've been working on my shoulders, that's a really really close grip as far as me getting a full grip, thumb over the bar, squeezing it. So it felt really good up top, right? So I'm kind of refinding that position on high bar that feels good on my shoulders. Um I got five reps. Uh happy with it. Uh 405 for for five on a high bar. I'm happy with that. You know, I can look at that and say, you know, that's that's good. I can live with that. I I'd like to get the five reps on the on the bench here. I'd like to get this to five. I got four though. So, for the benching, uh, no PRs today, but everything felt super super good, you know. Um, something I'm gonna gonna say with this, yeah, the chest and tricep activation are are really good. So, I do feel like for me, um, the high rep benching is really actually a great tricep exercise because I just get so much of it when I do the 225. Now, the 315, I do feel like this is pretty much chess for me, you know? Again, I do the really wide grip. we pause everything. So, I do feel like uh you know, chest is is my primary mover there. It's doing most of the work with the style I'm doing. I've had a lot of people who chime in and say, "Man, I feel like your delts are the weak link on your bench." Well, it's you know, interesting because again, my overhead press since I've started doing it again and I'm trying to build it up has actually been uh you know, disproportionately weak compared to my incline and my flat. So, it's it's almost borderline comical. And we can't even blame my triceps, right? Why? I am stronger on tricep extensions than I am on overhead pressing. As comical as that is, think about that. A big compound movement. I can do extensions with work sets that I am nowhere near capable of doing on an overhead press. Like I can just lay down, throw on an easy bar um set to just destroy my overhead pressing. So again, we we know the shoulders the shoulders are definitely weak. So, I'm going to I'm just going to continue to push you over at pressing and we'll talk about that in a minute. Uh, but the 225 uh bench, I got 18 reps today. Now, I got 19 as a PR the other day, but notice that 18, it burns like hell. Like the chest and tricep burn is absolutely phenomenal on that. Absolutely phenomenal. Um, so again, my goal is to get that 225 to 20, right? My next goal is to get that 315 for five. I I was getting triples with it and I got four and I've been getting fours for weeks now on it. I'm going to get five eventually. So, the deadlift today, you know, I wanted to just do a good quality work set up with 500. I did one rep and I just felt the fatigue there and I'm like, you know what? I'm just going to quit while I'm ahead. One good rep and let's go over and let's just do reverse hypers and then all my pull-ups and other stuff for those same muscles. Um, the reverse hypers, I didn't even count reps. I got 60 somewhere between 60 and 80 reps, you know. I just left my normal weight on. I just want to one do one top set. I'm just going to push that all the way to the bleeding edge. Now, I will say, as people have pointed out, those weighted carries may very well be limiting my uh my deadlift. Like I said, last time I felt the gering out um and I definitely had people say, "Yeah, but you know, you do those those u weighted carries the day before." And so the same thing with the with the fatigue on that also, you know. So, I I do feel like I want to see what happens. Let me take the weekend off from weighted carries and let's see how the deadlift feels on Monday. And that will tell me of part of the case of do I need to be very careful with the weighted carry volume for the GBP. Um, could I do most of my GBP is throws, jumps, throws, sled work, chill for a moment on the weighted carries. I probably could. I probably could and just let the chin-ups and and stuff handle my grip training chin-ups and deadlifts. an option. Uh the hanging leg raises too. Um so so again uh I do feel like yeah there's the real possibility my deadlift is being fatigued a bit from that and that's okay. But we know that even a few weeks ago I was hitting 500 for six. I've hit 550 for a double, you know. But I've done 500 for six a couple different workouts, but today yeah I grabbed that 500 and it felt like a good clean rep, but I'm like man I'm going to grind every rep after this. Like I could tell based on the bar speed, like I'm gonna grind every rep. Let's just chill. Let's do some other supplemental work. Let's do some reverse hypers. That'll build the the low back and the glutes. Just go with it, right? Just go with it. And then we'll see how we feel come Monday. But I've definitely had whole phases where I had three really good deadlift sessions uh in a week. So again, I've just got to really watch and mitigate that fatigue. So, what I'm also doing, you guys know, I'm going to chill on all the direct arm work. As I've said, I feel like historically it's not worked. I'm going to just train them like I do my legs, but I did do one set of curls today. One really hard, really heavy set to failure. But notice the difference. I'm not coming in and overtraining this stuff. And I think that needs to be said, right? That needs to be said that we're going to avoid overtraining it. Um, so with the chins, I I've got my normal normal reps here. These are hard. I went a little wider. I started a little closer. I'm like, let's go a little wider because I do feel like doing anything too close is really kind of the issue with the shoulders. So, we need to be clear for those who are unaware. I had uh an overuse impinchment and I impinched both shoulders a few years ago and I lost my overhead range of motion. I used to live on overhead pressing. I used to be really strong at overhead pressing, but that overuse wasn't really related to overhead. it was related to pulling and other stuff. So, uh, what I want to do here, I'm gonna not overtrain my biceps anymore. I'm just going to do the stuff that I did when I knew my biceps were at their biggest. Just lots of pulling, pressing, chin-ups, pull-ups. Let's get strong at them. Uh, but as far as the overhead pressing goes, I'm very aware that this is weak, but I'm like, I still have to train it. I haven't looked at the footage on the lockout here, but I realized my lockouts are really, really bad in closer, and it also strained my shoulders. So, I'm like, let's take it super wide. Yes, I'm weaker. Really wide. Even weaker. 95 lbs for eight reps was everything I had. But, interestingly enough, the muscles feel like they're working. And as comical as that is, my shoulders feel a ton of work. My triceps get a good pump from it, but my delts get a lot of work. They're getting a lot of work from it. I did do the one set of band press downs yesterday on the GBP day. So, there's a little bit of tricep stuff, but I feel like by and large, um, all the benching really hammers my triceps, but as far as my arm size go, it really is my biceps need the work. Um, so I'm just going to I'm going to push really hard progressive overload little gents. See if we can get my biceps back to at least where they were at their biggest, which was from big movements. And then some hammer curls. But I did one set of curls today. We'll discuss that. But everything else, I'm going to really push the the shoulder work. I've got to bring my delts back up because if my delts come up, I do feel like my benching will get stronger and if my benching gets stronger, my triceps grow, you know, so everything flows. My triceps have been really strong on isolation work and dips, but it carries over. So, I can I've taken weeks off from from doing any tricep issing and get stronger and then come back and I'll PR the extension. So, I know my tricep strength is a product of the big movements, you know. Um, so again, I'm just going to do pressing, lots and lots of pressing for the triceps for a moment. And then I'll do chins. We'll do chins. Push chin-ups really hard that my biceps are smaller than my triceps. Um, and weaker, significantly weaker. But I also thought, let's do one set of really hard set of curls um today, you know, and and I think it's funny because people will be like, "Oh, you don't take curls to figure what I do." So, I did one really heavy set and I took it to failure, meaning uh I explode out of the bottom while trying to maintain the strictest form I can with a fairly heavy weight. Laterals, we got a PR here too also. So, with the 33 pound dumbbells, I got 14 I think on both both sets. And then we failed. So, the curls and let's put 95 on. And this is comical because like on a tricep extension, I could probably do 25 reps with this, right? I usually I'd be doing like 15 16 with 110 on laying extensions pretty easily. So again the biceps like this this is difficult and I think we can see that that I can't lock the left elbow here. That is my full lock out. It's an FYI but this burned like my my biceps really really really hurt from this. So I did five and then I had to cheat and I couldn't get the six rep. I couldn't get it all the way up. So that was failure right? Uh, but again, so one really hard set of curls to failure after the chin. That's it. We'll avoid overtraining them. There I'm doing the terminator. Then I'm like, then I want to do one set of of neck extensions. Again, I don't overtrain this either. And just progressively overload it. So this is again PR. I got PRs with this 45. So I went up to the 55. And I've been adding managing it at more reps each time. We got like 18 reps with this today. But overall, other than the deadlifts, really happy with today's workout. um just kind of push progression on all these these basic movements um and avoid overtraining. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.