Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, uh, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. Um, so something I I started doing today. Um, trying to fit all my big lifts in right now when I'm doing the amount of running and conditioning is a lot. So, I'm kind of doing very similar to what you guys see some of my clients doing. very very similar to what I was doing, you know, back when everyone's like, "Wow, you were pretty jacked then." You know, back when I was uh at Iron City to where I would come in and just do like four big lifts. I would do one lower body lift, uh one sort of pull-up or row, usually a pull-up, and then two types of presses, a chest press and an overhead press. So, it's pretty much what I'm going to do, but we're going to do the jumps, we're going to do the abs, we're going to do uh the sled work and stuff in here. And uh the running was was tough today, by the way. you guys who saw the vlog. Um, and I, by the way, disclaimer, the deadlifts were hard today. I'm like, I was going to do deadlifts today and then I'll squat next time, so alternate them. I think I'm going to alternate flat bench and incline a lot. Um, kind of like I used to do back then. Uh, disclaimer, deadlifts are hard. I had severe hamstring dumps, particularly my left side this morning from the run. I hit uh best run times ever, right? We hit the best run times that I've hit. However, you know, um that came at the expense that came at the expense of me getting some doms and it's the deadlifts were really hard today. But it's also keep in mind I've been deadlifting heavy three times a week. Um so I've been squatting and then I've been pulling 500 for reps. I'm also keep in mind that's the stiff bar and I'm beltless. Um people who don't ever train beltless, they they don't realize it is definitely harder and definitely the stiff bar like For me, if I throw a belt on and I grab a deadlift bar, I probably get 5% more weight, if not if not 10%. You know, realistically. So, um, the beltless training is is different. Another reason I'm doubling down on core work. So, on my off days, that is the one resistance I'm doing. I am doing hanging leg raises, right? I'm doing the toe to bars. I did a set again on camera here. I did one set today just to make sure I have some on the training day, but then I'm doing a couple sets at least um after running and everything on the other days. Uh so, but I think what it's going to be, it's going to be a lower body. It's either going to be a squat or deadlift, right? Try to do three sets. Um some sort of bench, chest press, right? It could even be a dip if I feel like it some days. So, I'll probably, like I said, I'll just alternate those. So, it'll probably be bench on the the squat days, incline on the uh deadlift days, and then I'll do an overhead press, and then I'll do a pull-up. And I I could always work in a row. And, you know, honestly, that's plenty of work. That is more than enough to gain strength, gain a little muscle, keep what I have while I continue to just keep building this running because the running is is taking a lot of my time. Um, we're building it and then we're doing other cardio with it, you know, but the running, running, running. I need to get super super fit. Um, and again I can train very similar to how I trained, you know, 2016, 2017, 2018. And because again, everyone's like, we look at some of the comparisons, people are like, you're leaner now, but you were more jacked then. It's like some people feel that way. So, you know, if that's the case, then, you know, there was a lot to that training. And you know what? My channel was really popular then, too. Everyone everyone liked this stuff. My clients are getting good results on that type of stuff. So, as I've gone into full body, we're getting more and more back to my roots there. And, you know, again, it's it's a little almost a little random with some of the lifts, but we keep up with individual lifts and we keep up with progressions on them, you know. So, as long as we're we're doing all of them, we're good. You know, but lifts I'm going to definitely care about. It's going to be squat, bench, deadlift, pull-up, incline. Overhead, I don't have a good metric because I'm still having to use the dumbbells and things till I get that range of motion restored. Uh, so I did eight sets of jumps today. So we built up the volume on that. So I did eight triples after deadlifting. Uh, so then over to the upper body work. Uh, and again, keep in mind we're doing this stuff three days a week and it's it's actually a decent amount of volume. If you start plugging it in, it ends up being nine lower body lifts, nine sets a week for chest chest pressing, nine sets a week for pull-ups, and then whatever we're working in for overhead. just, you know, six at the moment. Um, again, decent amount of work, keeping in mind then I'm also going to be doing jumping, sleds, all that. So, the lower body is still getting a ton of work. Uh, but again, these are we're in our good volume range. It's not like this is really low volume and we have exercise variety. You know, we have exercise variety. Um, again, scale is starting to to kind of drop back down. For those who are unaware, and I didn't say it, I just kept saying 210. As soon as I started running, the scale like jumped back down to 210 as of a few days ago. So, it should be whooshing down. I'm really surprised it didn't yesterday, but I have a feeling uh this weekend it the scale will finally drop down, but man did I started when I picked up all the running. I guess there's some extra inflammation and stuff that happened. Um but again, the waistline will continue to tighten up. it doesn't really have a choice at a certain point when I'm eating all clean and in a a feeding window after all this fasted cardio and training. So, I'm just going to keep rolling with it. Uh, keep rolling with it. But the incline uh 225, I managed to squeeze out five reps at all three sets. Again, I haven't been doing incline. I did get 245 when I tried it the other day for like was it three or four? I forget a couple weeks back. Um, but I'm like, "Yeah, let's work the incline in." And I'm going to rotate grips a little bit on the pull-ups as long as we get good pull-ups in. I'm going to do a lot of neutral stuff because it's really easy on the shoulders. Like I did really close a while back. Then I did medium this last couple times or last time. I'm going to do wide today. Um but I feel like I could kind of rotate these grips a little bit. Now, obviously I can't get as high with the wide grip. I just can't right. But, uh, I can get all the way chest to bar pretty much if they're really close, uh, a lot higher with the medium. I get the chin over the bar. So, I'm just going to rotate through them a bit. Going to hit the different angles just like we're going to rotate uh, the, you know, squat and deadlift, rotate, incline, and flat bench. I can rotate these pull-ups around, you know, uh, as long as we're doing them. And again, sticking with the stuff that feels good on the shoulders. And even though I don't have the range of motion returned to overhead that I want, my shoulders are feeling phenomenal. Shoulders are feeling phenomenal. But I feel like again with all these moves, as long as I push progressive overload, I'm going to be good. But I need to keep the volumes a little more moderated. I had no trouble getting really jacked on those those other volumes the way I used to do it full body three day a week. All right. So for these, I went ahead and did the one arm again today. The other perk is that I really feel like it works my abs and stuff a lot, you know, plus it lets me get a little feel like I can almost work into a different range of motion, right? I can work into a range of motion I can almost lock out in. So, I need to keep working that. Keep working the dead hang pull-ups, the hanging leg raises, but I'm going to start working more and more on swinging all the way down on those so that I get a good dead hang into it. I did that def definitely yesterday. I need to check the footage today. I haven't even looked. I've clipped it in, but I haven't looked at the mid reps to see if I'm doing it. But I need to work on going all the way so that I drop into a full hang and then come back up. So again, we work that stuff with the shoulder. But the other thing is keep in mind, notice the elbow doesn't lock either. So I've got to let the biceps fully recover. That means no supine work. Keep the volumes moderate for the um the pull-ups and stuff. And I'm going to get that shoulder health back. And when I do, I'm going to strict press 225 again. Okay, I'm going to do it right. And I think even on incline, I'd like to work towards um 315 incline, 225. I want to get back to a 365 pause bench. I did a 350 a few weeks ago with a two second pause. So, I feel like that pressing strength is there. All right. So, we did one set of the the toe to bars, so I need to remember to come all the way down on them so that I can drop into definitely a little bit of shoulder mobility. I was able to squeeze out 10 today. Um, and yes, this is the harder way to do them. People who've never done them don't realize that till they try it. I've had followers who they're like, "Dude, you're doing it easy. That's cheating." Until they and then I'm like, "Go try it." Just and they're like, "Never mind. I apologize. It's freaking harder." Um, yeah. So, I've got to hammer the ab work super hard to go with the beltless stuff. All right. I did one round of sleds. Obviously, I push it on the way down, you know, you know, just a nice brisk push and then I sprint on the way back. And that sprint, man, is it's pretty pretty fatiguing. So, I get my one round of really serious uh you know, higher intensity cardio so that we get some in. Plus, I'll get some leg hypertrophy. Like sled work makes my quads blow up. So, I figure as long as I do three sets of squats and deadlifts, even if they're really low rep um every other workout, we'll get enough leg volume to get some muscle stimulus and some growth again um along with training the neural drive. So, we'll keep pushing that and then we'll use stuff like the sleds again to get both conditioning and hypertrophy on the GBB plus the jumping. I feel like jumping actually does grow your legs. My opinion, says me. So, then we sprint all the way on the way back. So, it's taking me a minute to turn I'm turned way around down there and I'm coming back. I run it all the way back, but it takes me a bit to get down there obviously. Uh, so I should be coming back around the corner pretty soon. I clipped it in. Let me see where I'm at in there. There I go. So, I'm surprised it takes that long. All right, so we sprinted all the way back and that's my bit of real conditioning. And then I did a run and I hit a record run time today. I thought I wasn't a It felt slower. Uh but my average miles was the best it's been. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.