Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and it's time for another bicep workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Uh workout was good today. Um I ended up just doing two really hard sets. I increased the weight again. Increased the weight, went up to 85 lbs. I went up another two and a half. I did 10 on the first set. Uh pretty much felt like right at failure, but I'm like, "Okay, second set, I'm going to go all out. Rest, pause it." And I managed to get by taking two couple seconds between reps after the 10th rep. Um I got 11, 12, 13. I tried to get 14 and I absolutely just simply could not get the the weight more than halfway up. It was done. Um so again, happy with that. Good progress on it. Again, just like I said yesterday, I'm a little squishier in the midsection today. Not a big deal. I already said I kind of making some adjustments. It's water weight at this point. Um it'll come back down. So, I think in about a week, we should be a lot tighter. Uh, once again, we just ramp the protein up, take a little bit of the the dairy fat and stuff out. Actually, quite a bit of the dairy fat, replace it with more protein, and I think that'll go down. I do notice that happens for me sometimes when I do that. I feel like I get really good progress when I add a lot of the really low carb uh low lactose whole milk. I feel like it does good with my training, but it does make me hold a lot of water. Might even have caused a little fat gain again while I've been getting leaner. So, we'll see what happens. Um, so I'll just sort it out. You know, done this before. I do like it though. Like, I really, really enjoy those milks. It's just nice. But I can replace that with meat and vegetables. We can replace that with more meat and vegetables. Throw in another pound of chicken in every day and uh replace that. So overall though, happy with this. Like the progress is is good. Uh historically, I haven't even gotten 10 reps with with 85. So again, people can argue all they want, well, your your biceps are weak. Well, yeah, they're my worst muscle group. That's why they're getting specialized training here on my off days. Um but they don't get stronger by just throwing weight on. People are done with that. They're just like, "U your your biceps are lagging because you don't lift heavy." Well, no. I can't lift heavy because the biceps are are lagging. Make sense, right? It's like saying to a guy who has never done squats that his legs are small because he's only got 200 lbs on the bar. Well, it's because he's got smaller legs, you know, even if he had benched 315 at some point. So, it's the idea. So, progressively overload it. So, I'm just pushing the sets absolutely hard, making it a priority by doing it on the off days because again, I still have pull-ups on the uh the full body days, but we're making it a priority so that my biceps are fresh. They have no excuse. I can come in and just do a, you know, slightly smaller exercise like this and just progress on it. Push, progression, push, progression, push progression. Okay? And that's the idea, right? That's the idea. We just keep slowly adding weight, you know. Now, I don't know that I'm ready to add more weight next workout. Probably not because I got 10 and I had to rest pause everything to get through the 13 on the second set. Probably not ready to add weight. Although, I might, man, I'm funny like that. I might come in and put another two and a half on. We'll see. All right. But the thing is, we need to be adding reps, adding weight over time, right? keep at it, get stronger at it, right? More tension, more workload. You know, workload isn't about volume, though. Two or three sets, that's fine here. Uh, but again, happy with the performance improvement here, right? Happy with it. And, um, again, I would say to anyone who doesn't like how I curl, yeah, go watch all the pro bodybuilders, you know, go watch them. my form is stricter than Ronnie Coleman, you know. So, it's it's really kind of the same sort of idea. A lot of this is kind of just doing the same sort of tempo those guys did, but then again, near the end, it's rest pause because I'm trying to get every last fiber, right? So, just rest pausing my way through it um on a lot of these sets. And I think that's going to be the way to go. We can keep the volume just going to be a little higher than most of my other stuff. Uh because I have pull-ups in there and they're bicep movement. But as long as I get at least six sets of hard curls every week, do them fresh. Uh consider my overall volumes are pretty low. It's still prioritizing them. They're getting more work than my other stuff. Uh but yeah, it's coming along. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys next time.