Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. Uh, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. Let's get over to the training. Um, pretty much doing what I've been doing, minor changes in the accessory work, of course. Um, but what I want to do here is I can tell that this is really a lot for me to handle because my my workloads are pretty high. I'm adding in some extra lead work. I'm running at least three days a week. I can definitely tell that um some of my volumes are a little higher than is ideal. Um and and again, I know this because when I look at when I'm at my strongest and where my volumes tend to be, I know realistically I'm generally doing at most 10 sets for a muscle per week, right? That's usually when I hit the biggest numbers. And I know that historically. Uh, so I've realized a lot of my supplemental stuff I need to be careful how much uh direct arm work I do, right? My I feel like my triceps have been responding extremely well to the dips. Um, I do feel like the extensions beat them up a little bit. So, um, the what I'm trying to do here is to just take all my accessory movements, do two sets, and think about what do I really need and focus on progressive overload because the end of the day, endless volume doesn't build muscle. But I do want to do band press downs. I do feel like I respond well with some of the band work to a little bit higher stuff. Uh so again, I do want to do some band press downs, things like that, but I do feel like the dips do the most for my bench. They do the most for my triceps, and I just don't want to beat my tendons and stuff up. Um so again, stuff I'm noticing with this, if my volumes get too high, I do feel a little bit of of crampiness. I feel certain things that hurt a little bit. So just stuff that I need to think about because I noticed it this weekend. um just noticing I was getting a little bit of cramping in certain areas. So, it's like, okay, let's push hard, but let's think through how much workload do we need to stimulate growth. And for most muscles, that's about about six sets a week is really you'll see good growth. And we have to step back and say, are we getting good growth? Because I'm trying to recmp right now. Um I'm saying it's similar body weight. I've got the protein super super high. So, for me, I need to look at if I do, you know, two sets of most of these movements, but I push for progressive overload, we're in a good place. So, the squat, I went ahead and just hit a nice good 425, but that felt nice and clean. And notice it was deep. So, I feel like, okay, that's going to come up. Um, so I want to do top sets. I want to do training maxes on the squat. So, we come along. I want to do top sets on the bench and the deadlift and just use the reps to gauge progress. And then afterwards, everything else is going to bodybuild. So, I ended up doing, you know, here I did five exercises for two sets each. And I made sure I worked the whole body. So, I'm thinking of the rest of it as just a bodybuilding program, right? Making sure we're getting at two sets per muscle group, but three days a week, pushing them hard. Now, keep in mind, there's a lot of overlap because of compounds. The squat bench and the deadlift, I could probably grow from some of that. Specifically, that benching and that deadlifting, those single sets may be enough to grow from quite frankly. But I'm like, okay. So, reverse hypers and then I do the belt squat and then I'm going to do my pull-ups, my dips, and I want to do some curls. I feel like for me, biceps are always going to have to be something I hit directly to some extent. Um, it's just the na the nature of the game for me because of the old bicep injury, uh, everything else. So, I'm going to push them kind of hard. All right, for these, I added weight, right? Because I've been hitting I was doing five by 25 and adding 10 a workout. Well, I just bumped it way up. I took those I put another 35 on here. I got my two sets of 25 and I'm just going to progressively overload these, right? But if I do six sets a week and I push progressive overload, these will do fine. This will build my deadlift back up. And the same thing, the belt squats will help with what I need for uh bringing my squat up. So, I feel like this combination will give me everything I need for lower body assistance. Now, I can always throw some jumping and sled work back in. All right, we can throw all that in. But, I've noticed my hamstrings do get a bit fatigued. Now, there's some mechanic work going on over there. Someone's doing something on their house. So, that I hopefully that's not too loud in the background. All right. For these, last time I did two sets of 15, but I did it with just four plates. I threw another plate on. So, we went up 45 lbs. The two sets of 10 was hard. I had about one rep left on the first set. The second set, you've noticed the last rep, it grinds slow. It grinds slow. What does that tell us? Well, that tells us that that was about all we had. So again, I'm going to try to do the same thing here. I want to see if I can progress on these, right? I want to progress on these. Let's use a little bit of double progression, but notice I'm trying to go as deep as possible, right? I want these two sets to really count for a lot to build my my quads and adductors and everything up. Um, obviously the glutes and hamstring and stuff will be covered with the reverse hypers, the low back, but keep in mind that squat and deadlift are going to have a stimulating effect. But on these, I'm trying to go as deep as possible. So, for this, I want this to be a full range of motion exercise. I want it to be very much like um a high bar type squat, right? And then I'll do more of a power squat for my my singles. So, essentially what this is is like a a heavy top set or single on the big three, kind of what I've been doing. And then looking at kind of what are the minimum effective volumes for me to see good muscle growth. and then doing a little bit of weak point stuff like my biceps need it. Um, but I feel like the band work for the triceps and stuff, I can do some on the off days and other stuff. I tend to get feel like I get a decent amount out of that. But as far as as just really feeling uh the pecs and the triceps, dips really do well for me. So, I want to push these. And if and if we want to argue about the volumes here, keeping in mind uh my chest and triceps because they're getting a top set of bench which is going to have a stimulating effect like a four rep max or 315 on a bench is going to have muscle growth. But with these, I want to just push progression the same thing here. And I feel like if I do just two sets of dips, I can progress on these, right? I can add reps and add weight. But I'm trying to go for those full range of motion. And I got that here because last time I got 10 10, but I managed to squeeze out 11. like, well, if I just do two sets, I bet I can squeeze out an 11th rep on both of them. Okay? Because it's not about, oh, we got one set that progressed. Like, no, every set, if we can get just general progression, right? And I'd make the case that, let's say this is your 11 rep max, three sets of 10 versus squeezing out an 11th rep on two sets. I would argue from a from a mechanical tension in the muscles, that ladder is probably better. You know, keeping in mind that's six total sets of dips a week. That's three sets of heavy benching a week. That's a fair amount for chest and triceps. And then, of course, I have the press downs. And I can always do the extensions if I want on some of the days for a set. All right. Same thing with pull-ups. Um on these when I do this, I can't do a lot of weight on this particular style, but I get a tremendous back activation. Now, we could look at research and say that a pull-up will maximally grow the bicep. Like, that's a crazy thing. We could argue research and technically if we had nothing but scientific studies to go off of, which I don't think we that's what we should do. Technically, overhand grip pull-up should maximize biceps. I know for me that's not necessarily the case. Um, so I did do two sets of curls. Uh, two momentary failure, but I managed to get 10 10 on both of these. Um, that last rep, I try to try to squeeze it out. Right. I do a little bit of pausing and hanging at the bottom to make sure that tenth is about all that I have. So, I don't really have any reps in reserve on the pull-ups. And I did the same thing on the barbell curls. Um, then I just just see if we can progressively overload these movements. But I feel like for me, pull-ups do the most for my lats just in general. And part of me wants to do a chin up here. I'm just concerned I won't get all the continued forearm work I get. And I'm like, I can always do a barbell curl. Now, can I work in some chins there, too, if I really say, you know what, my back development's great and maybe chin-ups would be better for biceps, you know? And I could take that approach, but I feel like for me, I get more out of the pull-ups overall. And so on the curls, I'm like, let's just push really strict full range of motion barbell curls. Let's just push these as hard as I can, right? And some of these I feel like maybe I wasn't getting as up to the face as good as possible. So, I'll try to work on that a little bit more with these. It's just that these felt really hard today. Like these felt difficult. And it's part of what I was noticing this weekend. My biceps were feeling a little crampy. So, I feel like I almost overtrained them uh last week. Now, this second set, this is a lot better. like I'm I was much happier with this one. Notice I'm getting the bar all the way up to the face. The second set was money. Like I was happy with how it felt. So again, push higher rep sets obviously and see if I can progressively overload just these barbell curls and it should help bring the biceps along. And then I finish up with one high rep set of band press downs to make sure that I got some blood flow, got those tendons and everything healthy for the triceps and it helped feed the dips a little bit. Uh, but overall pretty happy with today's workout. The volumes were were a little more moderated, but it's still going to put me kind of in in that optimal zone and just keep pushing progression, keep doing the protein overfeeding, keep running on my off days. Um, so happy with the workout today, all the supplemental work. Uh, so I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.