Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here with another bicep workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, pretty much keeping with what we did last time. We we're sticking with the dumbbells for a bit now, seeing if we can just progress on them. Uh, doing doing a little more volume on this because again, everything else is fairly low volume for me. You know, pushing really hard sets. Uh, so again, biceps for a little bit. I'm going to just push up the volume more since they're getting their own days. The main thing I'm looking at is not losing reps, though, you know, and that's that's the big part with any sort of volume training that has to be emphasized. Your volume is junk volume once performance goes down. Like, if you're losing performance set to set versus what you could do fresh, then you're probably not growing. Like, you're just doing volume that is not contributing any muscle growth. Uh and I I generally tend to believe that. But uh in the case of this, I was able to replicate because I spaced these out through the morning while getting my other desk work done. Uh you know, my social media coaching stuff. So able to space these out. You'll notice a difference in the lighting in the background. So because they're spaced out enough, uh I was able to get the same reps every single time. And I picked up a rep somewhere in there. Uh, but we got at least 13 reps. I think I got I got 14 somewhere in here, but we got 13 reps for six sets. Um, using these same dumbbells. Now, I may stick with this same weight for a bit and just improve reps. And then if we need to when it starts to go up a little bit, I'll start adding little micro plates to them and bring the weight up. But I'm just using the 38s for now. Um, because and this is enough. They hurt my biceps. H gosh, after about the fourth set, I noticed my biceps were actually hurting between sets, even sitting down doing other stuff. So, we're we're getting up there to to the limits of what I can handle uh you know, in that muscle in a single session because again, the idea we want to avoid overuse, but I still want to still want to really bring the biceps up, right? They're they've always been something that uh has not been my best muscle group later in life, particularly with the old tear and the chunk of one missing. So, they could use the extra load. So, again, as at this point though, they're getting they're getting the most volume. They're getting the most volume. And then everything else, we just go hard. You know, squats, deadlifts, we do one set and we just go really heavy and really hard. So, I want to run this for just a little while again and put a little bit of work into the biceps. And you know, at the end of the day, they're they're going to do what they're going to do, but I'll push them push them a little harder. We'll bodybuild with it. Um, so on this, I'm also I'm not focused on trying to bring it all the way up to the face to get that function. I just want to just work the elbow flexor for the most part. Uh, just want to work the elbow flexor for the most part. So, just bringing them up uh to the full range of motion of my elbow. All right. And and it and it works. It hurts. All right. That's the thing I notice with the dumbbells when I do do it like this. Um, every single rep is very uncomfortable, right? The biceps are feel I like I feel it directly. I feel a little bit in the forearm too, but that's the thing that I noticed. My biceps do get a really really intense contraction. So, again, not that that matters that much. Work is work. But, uh, overall happy with it, right? We got we got some decent work in for the biceps. um a little more volume than I've been doing. I was doing two to three sets for quite a bit. Uh then went back to the over to the dumbbells from the barbell because of the reasons I broke down last time. I just feel like with the fact that my my range of motion is a little different. My left elbow doesn't have the same range of motion as my right. I do feel like the bar gets a little catwampus. So I'm like, let's just do the dumbbell so that it's independent. we know each muscle is pretty much failing on its own with, you know, minimal minimal compensation because it's not like I'm shifting to the sides or anything. And we'll just let each bicep pretty much reach failure, right? Um, but they got a good pump. Uh, they got they hurt afterwards. So, you know, again, we know the bicep is is doing the work. Uh, and not really feeling it much anywhere else other than a little bit of forearm. So, I always I always try to keep the wrist trailing behind to to minimize that. But you're going to get some forearm and grip training on curls. Unavoidable. Yeah. Uh happy with it. I'll just keep pushing. Again, we did about over a dozen workouts of the barbell in a row. Now, I'll just run the dumbbells for a bit and uh you know, see if it does any better. But happy with the workout. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.