Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and once again it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it so much. It's always interesting when I kind of do the different views. I wanted just a little bit of the side view so that we can see the plates on here. Uh couple points because I do occasionally get asked on this uh what what's happening like with my amount of forward lean. I've had clients that have asked this like when you do a high bar, you know, you there's still some forward lean. So, I want you guys to think in terms of biomechanics. I have a very narrow stance. My knees are very, very forward. Okay? In order to keep the bar midfoot, that's going to happen, right? So, the wider your stance goes, guess what happens? The more upright you'll be. Um, also, yeah, that even you can tell from this angle, my quads are big, so it kind of makes it hard to tell what's going on, but that is my full depth. Those are pauses. Like those are complete relaxed, sunk to the bottom. Uh so again, a lot of it has to do with the leg position though. Um I look a lot deeper when I do a wider stance. And people have kind of noted that. I know that. I know biomechanically why. It's kind of one of those things where it's if people just learned basic basic biomechanics of the squat, they would understand what's going on with that stuff. And I can only teach so much in a training vlog, but we went up five pounds. We got five five good clean pause reps. Uh bench kind of did the same thing. I paused really long on the third rep, so they're getting a fourth was probably not going to happen. But at this point, I don't mind losing some reps on these things as long as I pause. Also, same with the deadlift. Uh I chose not to deadlift today. I don't know that I need to deadlift every single workout. I like I love deadlifting. But there's going to be if I'm going to watch recovery, especially doing all the curls in between, um, you know, I don't necessarily need to deadlift every workout. I I may get to a point coming up where I really want to push the deadlift up, but I really want that pause bench. I really want those pause squats and everything. I want to put a lot of focus there for the strength purposes. Um, and everything now, just like last time, everything is being paused, dead hangs, uh, on everything. Right. The chins, I did chin-ups instead of pull-ups today. I rotate them around a lot and it doesn't matter. My back's going to grow either way. But kind of today, I'm like, I'm trying to focus on on that bicep stretch. And so I'm even doing the incline curls. Pause. I'm like, we can do some shins today. It'll be fine. Extra bicep. Same thing here. We're doing full range of motion. Pause at the bottom dips. That cost me a full plate because if I stop just a hair below parallel and touch and go it, I can do the same number of reps with two plates. So kind of the idea with some of this uh what I would say you guys know how Louis Simmons always says outside of the max effort work everything for Louis Simmons was how can I get as strong as possible with the lightest weight possible because then we recover easier. So a lot and none of this is light so we need to remember that. Um I say that but light being relative is like oh we're still doing rep work with 405 on pause squats. We're still repping 315. There's still 45 lb plates on all these weighted body weight movements. We're just doing the hardest versions. Um, side note, my doms was crazy. I still hurt from Friday. It didn't kick in. S felt fine. And then Sunday, the doms kicked in from Friday, but my biceps didn't hurt. Then my biceps hurt this morning. They have doms from the the Saturday stuff. So, these pause stretch position exercises are really hurting like hell. But that's okay. We I suspected that was going to happen, but even a single set um is able to do that. The pullovers here trying to do really really long pauses with this. So, again, the same thing. Want to open everything up. So, we're spending time paused with everything in those stretch positions. All right. Everything is is paused in a stretch position right now. again, force mobility, force muscle growth. And and with some of it, it's a case of I'm not just trying to come in and overload everything. We're not trying to do heavy lockout work. We're not it's I'm not seeking any of that. I'm just trying to focus on building general strength and then hypertrophy, improving body composition, uh getting more jacked. And we've already seen that, you know, what I can do on a squat and and so on when I really want to push it. Those were a little high, but we also know that had I done those with a low bar, I could have probably I could have got those same reps and probably parallel. Um, but I do like I like the high bar. And one reason I sometimes I get pretty strong at it too, you know, is because when I do work on the pauses and I do sync it, it limits my range of motion to write about meat legal. All right. And so when I practice doing that, I can do a high bar position too if I need to and from that side view hit that competition depth, but we can drop into it like a spring if that makes sense because then I can slingshot off of the calves pushing on the hamstrings, right? And that's the idea. It's the idea behind it. Um, but yeah, the pullovers, I feel like the pullovers caused a lot of doms doing those those deep stretches. Uh, because of the way I noticed they hurt while doing them. And it's not, oh, it just hurts my shoulders. No, I noticed my lats, my pecs. Um, even even my chest, everything hurt Sunday and today. So, it's interesting. Um, same thing like even right now the long head of my triceps has crazy doms at the moment. And I didn't I didn't put it up here in the vlog, but I even just to get some pump work, I did a set of real like A-50 rep set of band press downs to failure at the end. Uh I didn't I didn't put it in the vlog. So for those who are like, "Where is it?" Not a big deal. Um just to get some blood flow there just to help. But that is the interesting thing with doing the training like this. I'm actually getting serious doms. And I don't always get doms. It's fairly rare for me. But it's also that novel training response. It's that time in the lengthen positions. But yeah, we'll see how it goes over time. Um, again, different way to train a little bit, but I've always done I've always pushed pause work. I've always pushed dead stop training a lot in the past. I mean, I've made numerous videos about oh, dead stop training. I've made numerous videos about stretch position movements. Um, so this is nothing like none of this is anything new. This is not something that we haven't done before. And it it's just letting me continue to build off these same basic movement patterns. You know, these exercises that I think bring a lot to the table. Squat, bench, deadlift, pull-up variations, uh dips. I I like pullovers. I think pullovers are amazing. Some people, it kind of funny, not everyone rates them as highly as I do. They're like, it's not what I would have thrown in for a fifth lift like in some of the stuff I've discussed. But it doesn't matter. They're a phenomenal exercise, right? They really are. And again, I feel like for me, because they allowed me to start doing pull-ups again when I couldn't even reach my arms overhead, I'm hoping that really doing these deep the the stretch on them like this, holding as deep as I can for a few seconds on every rep, which is what I'm doing. Um, I'm going to see if that continues to improve that range of motion over time. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.