Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here with Jason Blha Strength and Fitness. And a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. Let's get right over into this workout. Um, I went ahead and did my benching and deadlifting today. I haven't done any of it in probably two weeks. Um, it's going to be a really rough week for training next week. It will probably be sub freezing in my garage. Uh, at least the first two workouts of the week. Um, so I'm going to do what I can. So, in the meantime, I'm like, I need to really come in and hit everything. I want to hit the bench and the and the uh deadlift today because next week is going to be super rough. Let's get as much stimulus as we can and just try to get any maintenance in that that's uh possible and then move forward. But happy with the workout. Um the squats, we did 12 reps. Um deadlifts, I'm actually I got five. Uh same thing with the benching. I'm surprised I haven't benched in a couple weeks and I still am hitting my numbers. Um, so that's interesting. Like last time I did that and didn't bench for a few workouts, those that rep count went down on the 25 rep sets went down to like 16. I straight up got 18 again today. So that means the dips and the pullovers and stuff, particularly the dips are carrying over. Although it did cost me on the dips. I was not able to replicate my dip PR, right? I hit a all lifetime dip PR last workout a couple days ago after benching. I was not able to replicate it. Um, I lost reps, but it was still pretty much tied, I think, with the previous PR. So, I'm happy with that. Uh, the deadlift, so I haven't deadlifted. So, the five reps felt felt pretty rough. Like 500 for five was tough. Even though you guys have seen me do eight several times, uh, you know, last year, like through December, I did hit nine one time. Five reps was hard today. like it felt heavy. Now looking at it, I I probably had another rep or two, but man, it was pushing the limits. Plus, my lower back was a little crampy from those squats. Um, so overall, I'll take the win. We got some deadlifting in. Uh, the benching, uh, very, very happy with this. Very happy with this. I mean, I got my 18 and it's flatback. And I think for me, that's the the thing is this is flat back. No belt, no wrist straps, no leg drive, flat heels, you know. So, again, very happy with that. Like I said, my goal here is 20. And I feel like may not be super hard to reach because the dips are carrying over. And like I said, I haven't done any benching in a couple weeks. And yet, we still replicated. So, once we get through this freeze, I think if I push the benching a little bit, uh, we'll be in a good place. And I notice the difference here. Um, I do feel the dips in my pecs a lot, but I feel more tricep. I noticed at the end of this set compared to how I feel on dips. I do feel my chest more on the flat bench. I feel my triceps a little more on the dips just in terms of what burns. But I feel both. Let me be clear when I say that. Not saying the bench is not a tricep exercise or the dip isn't a chest exercise. It obviously is. Um, I decided today to do chins also because ultimately, you know, I go back and forth on chins and pull-ups. My back is easily my best body part. My back is my best body part. Now, after deadlifting, this may have taken a mild performance hit, but what's interesting, I'm not stronger on chin-ups than pull-ups. Uh, I do feel my biceps a lot more. All right, I do feel my biceps a lot more. So, it's a it's a more bicep dominant exercise, but I think it's also because my back is just so strong that it just it doesn't care. So, since the biceps kind of get used a little more, I'm going to feel them more. So, I rest paused it. I did like 11, two, and then one more. Right. So, we just did rest pause and got up to 14. I mean, so overall pretty happy with this. I'm over 200 lb and able to get 11. And I mean, we see my back. Um, so the dips after benching, this was tough cuz I got 21 last time. So I'm kind of where I was a week ago, but that's after benching. You know, that's the thing. The benching takes a lot out of me and I hit failure here. Like on this after 17 reps, I just stuck at the bottom. But I mean, I'll take that because it it was just recently I got that 45, right? We got 45 for 20. Okay, that was a lifetime P VR. Then I came in um I got whatever 55 for 19. Got 90 for 12. And then I came in last time and I got 55 for 21. See where I'm going with this? So my dip strength is still up even after benching. It's not quite hitting those those PRs, but we're good. Same thing with the pullovers, man. I got to 21. I gotten this up to 23 last time, but I didn't I only did dips first. 21 was just everything I had. All right, but I like these. So, again, I feel lats, pecs, my whole core on these, but really, it's a very tricep dominant exercise. Um, so for me, again, doing this just for the arm benefits alone. Plus, again, working on that shoulder shoulder range of motion that I need, you know. Uh, again, I love these. Great exercise. I've done quite a few shorts and reels on pullovers. Why I like them. Uh, and again, I understand that I do have a limited range of motion on some of these things. There's not really much else I can do about it at this point except just do these stretch position movements. Weighted pull-ups, weighted chin-ups, try to get to the deep stretch, do pullovers, right? It's all we can do. It's okay. And I think this is one thing that people forget. They're like, "Wow, you're crazy strong for any age." But the thing is, people do note the the range of motion. And I'm like, that's one of the downsides. And I I you see tons and tons and tons of older lifters point this out. I mean, CT Fletcher, I remember him saying the same thing on his videos. He's like, I can't lock my elbows anymore. Even on tricep extensions, rope press downs. He goes, "That's all my elbows will do." Like, I feel you, bro. I feel you. But I feel like we're looking more and more jacks. So again, as it starts to warm up, um I'll probably lean out even more a little bit. But right now, I am getting leaner. So anyone can say what they want. Like or you need to get leaner fat really. I'm chipping away at it. I'm hitting strength PRs while you guys are visibly watching the body fat just chip down, down, down. Um so no, I think I'm in a in a good direction there. Happy with it. Uh coaching is way up. Coaching is up. Another reason I'm only I'm doing certain stuff different. Um I picked up six clients this month. I lost one. I picked up six. I mean, we may not keep all of them, but um so I feel like this training footage, the vlogs, um what I'm doing with this, rolling clients back in. So I'm going to keep doing what I'm doing. I've hit it on both platforms. They're coming from a mix of both platforms. It's not just the tubes. I think people forget that. I got to remind people YouTube is not my primary platform anymore. hasn't been for a long time. All right. And then we finished up with So, I did the plate front raises, which you guys know why I love, but I got a PR on those. I got 25 and then I just did this set of curls to failure. I got about 25 reps and it was everything I had. So, my biceps were were definitely fatigued from the chins. So, we kind of rest paused these. I got to 19, had to stop. It just kept kind of grinding them out. Um, biceps were just completely fried from this set in a good way. But overall happy with the workout. I wanted to get a really really good solid session in considering the early part of next week's going to be rough. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.