Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness and I thought I would get a quick GBP session done today. Um, I don't want to go overly hard this week um because I did take the weekend off from training other than reverse hypers. My low back is actually doing amazing. No cramping, no fatigue. So, I'm wanting to be a little bit cautious with going too hard on some of this. But, a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated and drop me a comment. Thank you so much. Um, so I just did uh four sets of medball tosses, three sets of sled sprints, um, some reverse hypers, hanging leg raises, and just curls. So, I'm kind of taking these GBP days to do some arm isolation. Uh, but I'm also looking at it as going, look, I don't need to do just tons and tons of it. Let's just get really high quality bicep work in. I'm going to treat it like everything else. Uh, you know, I mean, people have said stuff like, you know, if you just trained your arms, actually, I hit myself with the ball. If you trained your arms as hard as you did your legs, they would be massive. So, that's what I'm just gonna do, which means low volume, really hard sets with progressive overload, you know. Um, I think people forget that when they see my legs and stuff, they think that I just do endless sets. I never almost never did more than 10 to 12 sets a week for quads, right? And even then, these days, it's I mean, what three sets? Six if we count deadlifts as quad work and then my sleds. So, you know, I can take the same approach to biceps, just go really hard. So, I decided to do them to true failure. I took every set of curls, all five sets today to failure, but um we'll get to that in a minute. Like to true failure. So, there's no real debate here. But the medball tosses felt good. I did them at just four. Just wanted to get them done quick. I did three rounds of sledge sprints. This whole workout, you know, took, you know, 30 minutes tops. 30 minutes tops to get everything done. Uh so again, uh did the medball tosses. Those are really quick. There's only like, you know, 30 seconds, 20 seconds between those sets. Uh three rounds of sled sprints about just about a minute apart. So the sleds felt really good. Like I was surprised these didn't feel bad. Um so this is again my my higher conditioning cardio obviously. Uh but yeah, no, they felt good. Three rounds of sled sprints. I did them on the the other end of the street there. Um other end of the street. But, you know, I can tell out in the lighting. I feel like I'm starting to lean out in spite of the weight staying the same. I can tell a difference in all my belt stuff. I can tell a difference in certain stuff in the mirror. Like my waist is is getting smaller again. But some of it is is me just taking the salt and the brown replacing the brown rice to white rice. Um I've said that for a little while. I'm like, "Guys, I've been recmping. I just it's obviously um I'm holding water in the gut because I'm eating all the brown rice. Um, and I've been I've been hitting sodium really hard. And I cut that out a week ago and I'm like, let's just do the white rice, white potatoes. Um, you know, again, keep the fat really low. And then lots of fruit and vegetables. You know, obviously there's there's protein in. I probably eat 200 grams of protein a day, you know. So, the Greek yogurt, chicken breast, little fairife milk. Um, but, you know, let's just keep the carbs and lots and lots of of vegetables, but I'm going with easy to digest vegetables. The broccoli is all cooked. um white rice, white potatoes, very easy on the gut. And then, you know, it's just stuff like spinach and peppers and stuff, right? And then I'm had I had a whole cantaloupe yesterday. I bought seven cantaloupes yesterday. Um so, again, I can tell the the waistline feels like it's getting smaller again. So, I I feel like again, I'll start looking leaner and leaner. I can see some of it in the screenshots and I can see it in the mirror. Um like I'm recmping reasonably effectively at this body weight. Uh, so again, three rounds of sledge sprints, we get our our heart rate up, a little bit of conditioning. I'll see what I want to do later this week with running, but I feel like today it's like, man, my my low back cramping and fatigue is gone. Like, it was almost excruciating last week. I've got it completely gone. All it took was taking the weekend off doing the reverse hypers, and I'm 100% now. So, I feel like I was just, it was a hair of overreaching, a little overreaching on the low back. as long as we don't overdo it. Um, feel like I'm in a good place. But, um, I just want really high quality volume. Let's recmp. Let's gain strength. Let's continue to do what we were doing. Um, and just keep the volumes in check. So, I feel like I can treat my biceps uh, you know, the same way. Hit a couple angles, take the sets to failure, and see if we can progress. All right. See if we can progress. So, the reverse hypers only did two sets, but I realized when I did them on on the off off days, um that man, I can do a lot of reverse hypers fresh, even with this weight. Um, so I did just 30 and then I I cranked out 50 plus reps on the second set. So, I've been doing 25 with this, three sets of 25. So, I'm like, let me just push them out really hard. So, I did 30 is just kind of a a warm-up almost, and I'm like, I bet you I can get at least 50. So, I just kind of didn't even count past a certain point, but I know I got at least 50. Um, so I got in, hammered these out, right? We hammered these out, and I got 50 plus reps, you know? So, it felt like it was in a in a really good place here. Uh, so again, lots and lots of reverse hypers. Those who who follow me know why we do reverse hypers. Uh, the best exercise you can do for your low back, best exercise for prehab, rehab, all those things. Right. And uh yeah, but doing the really high reps on this felt good. I feel like I almost need to do these on the off days, too. So, I feel like on the weekend, getting in and doing those reverse hypers worked wonders just as a restoration. Um it's kind of one of those things you can do every day. So, I feel like if I can keep my low back healthy, I'll be able to keep doing the the squatting and deadlifting three days a week. Um but the adding the overhead press in was was what got me. So, I don't know if I want to take weekends off or do reverse hypers. I might run on Saturday morning or something, get a quick run in. Um, you know, just to get a little bit of cardio, but but otherwise, you know, hammering the reverse hypers on these days really helps. Um, but my low back, it's like it's 100% again that quickly. And the squats and deadlifts felt they felt good yesterday, right? They felt good. So, I was able to overhead press. So that was the other thing too, realizing if I'm going to do a standing press, I got to keep the stance in really close. It's just easier on my low back. I can squeeze the glutes. So, but did the reverse hypers and I did curls. I put nice light 65. I usually get about 15 with this. I'm like, let's take it to failure. I got around 17. I just stopped counting. I'm just like, let's just go until I reach temporary failure. Like when when it slows down, um do a slightly slower eentric rep when it feels really heavy, like I'm right at failure. and then see if I can do one more rep. And every time that's failure. So that happened on both sets. Uh you know, about approximately 17 reps. And I did the same thing with the hammer curls. So I'm not going to go really heavy on this because I feel like when I go heavy, I compromise form and range of motion. I mean, I can do heavier, but I would rather just get the high reps because I feel like my form is stricter. And I feel like when I fail, it's not me cheating on bad form. It's just it just stuck at the bottom. And that's what happened on that set. Um, but to me that is so when people always say they're like, "But it doesn't slow down, but I'm going really slow." Like to me these f these feel like 5-second reps. Let me be clear. I'm again I remind people I'm a really explosive lifter. For me to lift at this pace is intentionally slow. So I feel like I'm I'm just going almost super slow to me. Like this feels like slow tempo work. Um, so again, I'll just treat it that way. And then when we get right there to failure, when I feel it getting really hard, I'll I slow the negative down, right? When I'm like, I don't know if I got another rep. Let me slow the negative down. Make it really hard. Like here, it's like it's done. Get to the bottom. I got one more. That was a little cheaty. And then it just stuck. So right there, that last rep, notice I had a little bit of swing. And then see my face, you can tell that it hurts. And I get to the bottom and it just sticks. Like that's failure. It just goes to the bottom. and I try to do a rep and it just doesn't move. Now, people be like, "Well, you could have cheated, but if we cheat, that's past failure." Like, if you're cheating, we cheated slightly on the rep before. No, I just try to move it and the weight doesn't move. So, the hammer curls, um, same thing. I don't know, 16, 17, 18 reps. Something something in that range, right? Something in that range, right? Is pretty much where we're at there. And so the same thing, just kind of get there and as soon as it sticks at the bottom, it sticks at the bottom. So we did two sets of hammer curls that way with the 33s. And then I did one set of high rep band curls uh right to failure. So So five sets of curls to failure, higher reps, controlled, no cheating. Um took the curls through the full range of motion. Hammer curls we don't try to as much. Uh and then one set of band curls and called it. So again, we do pull-ups and other stuff on the other day, but I feel like on these GBP days, let me give my arms a little bit of attention. But even this, if I did this twice a week, get five sets, that's 10 sets to failure. That's the sort of volumes even I'd push my legs to when they're at their biggest. Uh, all right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.