Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness and once again it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciated if you will drop me a comment I would appreciate that also. Thank you. So just let me know what you guys think. All right. Um as I said kind of the other day I want to start box squatting again. Uh box squats have always done well for me. That's how I got my squat back up to 500 back in January, right? Uh, we got a 500 squat and I feel like I have enough muscle to do that again. Now that I've adapted the running, now that I'm scaling the cardio back a hair. Um, now that I'm I'm okay with just recmping for a little, staying pretty much similar body weight. Um, you know, I feel like I could get that squat back up there. So, again, box squats, um, doing the other stuff for my legs, my sled work, all that's kind of what I need to do. So again, if I come in and I hit a nice heavy box squat, um I think I'll be good to go. So I just wanted to get a good feel for it. So we ramped up 365 was really easy. Um did 405 fairly easy. So I just want to build this up. By the way, the deadlifts went really bad, but I also assessed my weak link on the deadlifts. Um everything else is going great. So this box squat felt really good, actually. Um and I kind of messed around with do I want to do higher bar or lower bar? I'm like, let's just get a nice wide grip, get kind of low bar on there, right? It's usually where my best squats have tended to be, right? It's where my best squats have been. So, we'll get there in that. Um, again, it's not a super low bar. It's a little bit of a low bar position. I just I feel like I get a really good position for my elbows there. Right. Come down. 405. Good. Pause. Drove up. Uh, not even not even a max, but you guys know I can always back squat at least when I box squat. I've demonstrated it numerous times. um in the past or hit PRs over it. Uh so benching the 315 for three is kind of where I feel like I'm at, but all the other stuff is going up. So I know that it's just a matter of time before that bench starts coming up uh from from kind of being where it's at. Uh because my rep work's going up. My triceps are getting stronger. I PR all that today. So with this, I got a nice good triple, right? Um good pauses. First rep obviously was really easy. Second rep not bad. Third rep felt a little heavy. So I kind of called it there, right? I got a third rep. Um I probably could have got a fourth. The fourth rep would have been really grindy and I don't see the need to do that. I'm benching three days a week. So we're just going to hit those. And like I said, I did get four reps, you know, a week and a half ago or so. I'm happy with that. So with this, I only did one back off set. Why? Because I pred it. Um I've decided I wanted to mess with a little more rep work. I don't need to be doing, you know, just fives and stuff for the back off. Let's build some extra muscle. Um, do some volume and progressively overload that volume. And that's exactly what's happening, right? I've got some twelves at 225 and then I I, you know, went up. I think what was it? 235 or something. Got tens or whatever. Got 12, something like that. I got 12 last time. So, I'm like, okay, let's go with 245. I know I can get at least 10. I got 12 reps. Like, I got 12 reps and they're clean. They're pause reps. So, I'm like, "Okay, let's quit while we're ahead, right?" And I'll double down on the on the tricep work. We're about to see we're going to get very very Westsideish again with a lot of this stuff. Um because I feel like in a lot of ways my deadlift rep work has been good, but when it comes to maxes, uh it's not good. Like I went over, I'm like, "Let's do 545." I couldn't lock it and I felt my hamstring couldn't do it. It was really that left hamstring, the one that's been bugging me a little. Um, when I'm running, it just was not strong enough. So, we went to pull right there. Hamstring hamstring couldn't do it. Hamstring couldn't follow through. And so, for me, that's kind of sad because I got 500 or five the other day, right? So, that should have been really doable, but I knew the hamstring's weak. So, what am I going to do? Reverse hypers. Um, I took all the extra posterior chain work out. And as much as I love deadlifts, the deadlifts alone with the volumes I'm doing may not be enough. Now, could I come in and do more volume? Could I do deficit deadlifts? I could do all that, but really I I'm like, let's do some reverse hypers. I have it here. I bet you few weeks of reverse hypers, I'll be back to pulling big numbers again. I think especially with the box squats thrown in. Box squats transfer over really well. And I noticed when I was doing the box squats, I felt my hamstring weakness there, too. I could tell when I sat back on that box, hamstring's a weak link in my lower body lifts. It's there. But, you know, reverse hypers work all of that for me, too. So, I'm like, let's get in. Let's hammer this. Get the deadlift back up. Um, so we're going to focus on performance, like I said here, and I'll probably start trimming down a little bit here soon. Um, I just needed a few things with my data. I want to make sure I'm recovering. If we are, but we're gaining strength on most of these movements, right? We're seeing all the upper body stuff go up. Um, so again, I'm going to kind of stream light a little bit now, bumping the protein up. Um, and I feel like at this point coming up soon, we'll recmp further. And like I said, I may cut once I get a little further along, we may cut further down. Uh, but I mean, I'm still walking around like what, 15, 16 pounds lighter than earlier this year. So, we definitely have had a decent cut, but I want to work on run times. I want to work on performance. Um, and I got to bring the arms up. I was going to double down on a lot of arm work as far as the other stuff goes. I'm going to tricep my way to a bigger bench. Um, I feel like some some hammer curls weren't a bad idea, so I threw those in. But reverse hypers, it's really what we need. And I mean, for a while I was doing when I was doing this, my deadlift was still strong, right? My deadlift tends to stay strong if if I do these. But again, the hamstring and everything else felt good. My back felt good, right? I know my back's strong enough. So again, it just felt like that hamstring. But again, like I said, I felt it on the on the box. So I knew already from that box squat, I'm like, man, I'm going have to work hamstrings more. And then that deadlift told me everything. So we're identifying a weak link. Let's hammer it. All right. So I'm doing a little more volumes here, but because I'm going to taking out the extra list, I'm just going to run. All I'm going to worry about is running on my off days. I'm not going to worry about, like I said, the bike cardio anymore. It's not I feel like again, it's not really useful. It's not giving me a good adaptation and I can just break my fast a little later if I need to in the day and not worry about it. But it also lets me then focus more on let's just run for cardio. Let's push in a little bit of extra peripheral work, accessory stuff on these full body days while focusing on my big three. Um, but I decided to just do my normal wide grip pull-ups. The first set it felt it it I didn't get as many reps as I would like. So, I went back down to a 10. I used a 25 and I got eights for this. The wide grip is hard, especially if you're going to do them from a dead hang, though. This is so difficult. Uh, but it works. Like, even with lighter weights like this, I feel like I built so much lat doing this. So, I'm like, today, let's just do the wide grip. We did neutral grip last time, right? We did neutral grip last time. But, I like these for my lats. And I've been doing some extra stuff. um a lot of of extra mobility stuff for my shoulders right now. I'm trying to see if I can get everything just to work there. So, again, but I feel like just some dead hang pull-ups like this. Not a bad idea. But yeah, I'm doing I am doing stuff for my shoulders on off days. Um I'm definitely doing stuff. I even did like late last night I did a dead hang and rather than worry about my grip, I just strapped up. I threw some figure eights on and just hung. But it left my lats hurting, too. So, it's letting me know there's a lot going on there. I've been doing really light light l raises too over the weekend band work. Just trying to get all of that to loosen up. And I can tell um you know, there's just so many adhesions and things still kind of in that shoulder because everything crackles in both of them. But I'm going to work on that. I want to be able to overhead press again. Like I feel like I need to be able to overhead press and clean. Like we really want to be truly athletic. Um yeah, I'm running. Yes, I'm doing salads. Yes, jumping again today. But I feel like cleans and overhead pressing. I've got to be able to do those things if I truly want to be, you know, a serious serious athlete again. So, these things have that range of motion has to be restored. So, I'm just going to keep working the variety of mobility work. Um, and I'm going be careful of certain stuff I do in the meantime. Uh, but okay, the tricep extensions, we PR these. I got 12. Remember, I got 11s last time. I got stopped at two sets cuz I got 11s. Like, man, that should be carrying over to bench soon. It's carrying over to the rep work, but the rep work will carry over to the maxes. So, the rep work is going up. The triceps are going up because I got 12 and then I got 13. Like, really, this was my 10 rep stuff. These are going up. So, we're building triceps, you know? We're building chest and other stuff with the the the bench volume. So, let's just double down on it, right? because I kind of slow near the lockouts anyways. I I know if I just keep building triceps and keep pause benching, um we're going to get where we need to get. So, I'm just going to kind of laten tricep. I'm going to westside it big time. Do all the pause benching. Do and then do this same thing. I'm going to reverse hyper and sled my way to bigger squats and deadlifts. Again, box squat jumps, reverse hyper sled, right? So, I did do two sets of hammer curls. I'm surprised I got 12 of these. You know, I got two sets of 12 with the 48s. So, I'm I'm happy with that. All right. But again, did some hammer curls. Um, they felt good, too. They felt pretty good. Uh, again, lit up the biceps, lit up the forearms. So, let's just build forearms. So, if I know if my biceps um are going to have issues, I don't have the the insertions I want. We know I've tore that left one. It's like, let's just hammer curl, let's build forearm with it, build brachiolis, let's just build everything. I get good grip out of this, but it'll carry over to my bench. Like, for me, the benching is a big deal. I feel like the squat and deadlift, I know how to get those way up. It's not going to take me that much work. Honestly, even staying down at these lighter body weights now to squat 500 again, to deadlift 600 again. It It's I know how to do this and I know what exercises carry over. I know Stephen doing that reverse hyper if I wanted to add good mornings in that'll do it all right but I need to get that bench up and for the benching it is stuff like can we build the hammer curl will give me more pop out of the bottom will more lag give me more pop out of the bottom and the triceps to lock in and obviously the benching because I'm doing all the pause benching that will build the chest that will handle the chest in um but then afterwards because again I'm pushing those extensions hard I'm like I did do a set of band press downs because I want to make sure my tendons are good Okay, kind of a big deal because of how hard I'm pushing those extensions. I need to keep the elbow tendons healthy. Okay, need to keep them healthy and the band press downs will do that. So, I did this one set uh to failure. So, again, pretty pretty high reps. I lost count 50-ish reps. And then I did box jumps. I did three sets of five on the box. Um and yes, I feel like the skin has really lost a day around my waist, but I've picked up a little water, some stuff in my diet. That'll come back down here shortly. Um, but again, eating super clean. Eating super clean. Boy, yeah, did three sets of five on the box. And I don't need to do huge amounts of the box jumping. I don't need to come in and try to do 10 tribles. Yeah, three sets is good. Just get some some explosiveness, get some power, get some jumping. All right. Before I go push the sled. So, did a little box work in the sled. So, if you got to look at it and say, "Okay, now we're getting more and more towards power production, force production. We're box squatting again, jumping again with the with the sledge printing, but then reverse hypers. Um, and and yeah, box squatting and reverse hypers will totally build my deadlift back up, right? Because my my all my upper back and middle back, all that's holding good. You know, hammer curls will make sure the grip grip is good. It'll build my grip and forearms up. Um, and just deadlift, right? just come in and deadlift. But I liked trying to kind of pull pull a heavy single there. It felt good, but I mean, it just it didn't go. Which again, seeing that muscle weakness, right? We know where we're weak. We know where we're weak. It's like on the benching, as long as my triceps keep getting stronger, I'll be able to really do that rep work and it'll be easier on my shoulders, too. So, there's a method to my madness there. Um, so it's what I've been doing, bench, you know, pause benching and then triceps, triceps, triceps. Um, but keep pushing the triceps. The bigger my triceps and arms get, the better my bench will be. We already know this. And then because that's even how I got to a 365 close grip before, the same idea even at a heavier body weight. I'm much lighter now, but that's okay. Almost 40 lbs lighter. Um, but we're still good there. So, finish up with a round of sled sprints. Happy with the workouts. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.