So, I thought I would chat with everyone a little bit about why I have branched away from, you know, promoting extreme powerlifting, extreme strength, all these things. Um, at any cost, which for a while was a big part of my channel, a big part of my coaching. Um, so I've had some people ask about it. A lot of people said, "I kind of like this direction you're going, but I haven't actually sat down and made a video explaining that direction or the why." It's stuff I talk about in live streams. The thing to think about, you know, I've always tried to be very healthy. I've always eaten clean with everything I do because I previously been well over 300 lb. And of course, I got sick and gained, you know, like 80 pounds. Um, had to quit lifting, was sick in bed all that time, then rebuilt, lost all of it, started uh doing the influencer stuff after shortly after that. Uh, you know, 13 years ago or so. I hate that term, influencer. Let's call it fitness content creator and coach. I like that so much better. Um, you know, and now at 48, uh, a lot of what I'm doing is, hey, I'm cutting to get a lot leaner. I'm gonna be a lot leaner coming up from even here. You know, I'm like 15 pounds into into this cut. I've already transformed a lot, but I'm like, you know, I need to get under 200 lb. Even in this video that people are seeing, I'm like 211 here. I'm like, I probably need to be 195, 190. Eventually, I might even need to go down to 185 and just be lean and gain as much lean tissue as I can. um because I have to think of longevity, you know, and and so I've been more well-rounded in that of telling people, you know what, we not only need to eat clean and do some cardio, we need to be in really good cardiovascular shape. Um we need to do cardio every day. We really shouldn't be eating junk food at all. We need to be even be thinking about even if we're carrying a lot of muscle, don't get too crazy with the BMI. That also means if people are like, "Well, the BMI is mine's super high." I'm like, "Yeah, but how much how much gear are you using? How much stuff are you taking to be there? Even if you're lean, that's going to take a toll, guys. And we we have to in the fitness world think of these things and have to think of longevity and being more well-rounded. And you know, a lot of people have said for a long time, so let me explain my logic behind some of this. They're like, you know, Blah has stayed healthy. A lot of his contemporaries and the guys from his generation, multiple of them are dead who were quote unquote fitness personalities. On the extreme end, a lot of them are dead. several of them, a number of them have had major health issues. Many of them have had heart attacks. And I don't need to name who all they've been, but we've seen that. I'm standing here still healthy. I'm one of those handful of guys from that whole generation of the YouTubers and everything. I'm still healthy. I've got good blood work. No heart attacks. My blood pressure is okay. You know, my lipids are reasonable. It's like, but I could probably be healthier. But I've watched all these other guys drop. A lot of them have been beat up with injuries who are even younger than me and they can't lift heavy anymore. We've seen the heart attacks. We've seen the deaths. Okay, at least one of them is now fat and diabetic. I mean, guys, come on. What are you doing? And they're late 40s or older. Um, but here's the thing that I think about too. My mother passed at 47 of a cardiovascular related issue. I'm 48. I turned 49 later this year, guys. I'm gonna be 50 is a year and a half away. I look at that and say, I don't need to be walking around at 200 plus pounds. I mean, realistically, and when I say cut down, it doesn't mean I'm going to lose muscle. I'm just going to shred body fat. So, that's why I'm doing the cardio. People like, man, you're doing a lot. You're turning into a cardio machine. You're doing two, three hours of cardio every day. Some days more, just list cardio, the biking, the brisk walking. I'm doing it all fasted. I do intermittent fasting. Uh my diet is super clean. I put up my food everywhere. I don't I don't eat junk. I haven't had a cheat a true cheat meal. I've gone out to eat a couple times, you know, January or whatever, but that's been about it that were not even true cheat meals. I mean, they were relatively healthy. Um you know, some Korean barbecue and stuff. Uh but since then, my last cheat meal was Christmas. You know, you guys see how I eat, man. Like right now it's the the chicken chicken brown rice, sweet potatoes, lots of vegetables, you know, Greek yogurt, you know, sometimes I work in some healthier fats in different phases, you know, some some extra avocados and stuff for a bit, walnuts, but it's all healthy foods. I get 50 to 70 grams of fiber a day. I keep saturated fat low, my refined sugars at zero. We avoid trans fats, right? Tons and tons of vegetables, all the cardio, you know, because the thing is longevity matters. I look at my training the same way of going, okay, I train a lot, but you know, do we need to be just, you know, beating ourselves into the ground? No. And I still obviously lift heavy, guys are watching some of my stuff is still decently heavy. Even this high rep stuff, you know, I mean, I do lots of sets of 10 on the weighted dips all the way down with a plate. Uh, you know, do sets of 10 to 12 with 315 on a squat, so on and so forth. Um, I can still deadlift well over 500. I can still squat well into the 400. I can still bench well over 315. have done all of it recently on camera. Um, but you know, the thing is I look at this and go, as long as I can hit those numbers for reps, like, do we have to be super strong unless I'm going to peak for a meet? If I want to peak for a meet, I'll peak for a meet. But, you know, I look at that and go, I'm close, but when I get to 50 coming up, so what do I need to be 200? No. I could walk around at 185, 190, 185 later at 50 and just be really, really, really ripped. As long as I can still bench 315 for a rep or two, I can still rep 405 on a squat. I can still deadlift 500, two, three, four reps, you know, all of that. As long as we can do that, aren't we strong enough? I think so. I'm focusing a lot more on a lot of weighted body weight exercises. Obviously, I I'm doing curls and other isolation, you know, but I'm like a lot of weighted dips, a lot of weighted pull-ups, weighted chin-ups, definitely pushing the squats, do my reverse hyper, but it's outside of that, but I'm really even at the moment that I'm making this video, I'm only training, lifting three days a week. Now, granted, it's about two two and a half, three hours, but we only lift three days a week. The rest of the days is just cardio, clean eating, focusing on sleep, stress management. Why? Because this is the way. And we have to think this way, guys. And I look at this and go, how many people who started following me 10, 12 years ago are like, "Coach, I'm getting older now, too. We got to think of this stuff." And we have to, right? My core AI get a lot of audience who come through and they're like, I started watching for some of the old call out videos. And it's like like, how old are you now? They're like, 37. Like, I started watching 12 years ago. I was 25. 37 now, right? You guys have to start thinking about this stuff. you have to start thinking about this stuff. We're not getting any younger. So, I feel like for me, because I'm one of the guys who made it out of that whole crew and I've stayed fit getting older, I need to really and truly focus on health and true fitness more and more and more. And I want to promote that message. I want to promote that message. And that's a lot of what I'm shifting all my outreach on on on both Facebook and on YouTube is towards getting people really healthy. Really looking at longevity, making the iron game and your overall health a lifong endeavor. Not even about, hey, let's do the most extreme powerlifting or competitive stuff. No, that's not what it's about. You can still do those things, but don't sacrifice your health for it. Health is wealth. And I'm standing here. I've been doing more and more of that. I'm realizing, you know, my father had a heart attack at 32. My mother died at 47. We have to live clean. I I have to. And I want to carry that into my work and the message that I put out for everybody pretty much from this point forward.