Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a general physical preparedness day. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. All right, so went a little harder with shoulder and um tosses and throws today. Uh so I just did my normal I did just my three rounds of farmers walks. These feel pretty good. Um eventually I'll increase the weight on these. These handles get a little beat up with the concrete. I may go grab some of my rubber uh tiles and lay them down to to start and stop on though just to put less beat up on my equipment because if I put some of those calibrated plates on, right, to get a little more weight. Um again, I don't want to beat my stuff up. The rubberized ones can handle it. So, I might do that. Um but again, yeah, I may need to increase the weight a little bit here. I bet it's kind of funny. I had some people chime in that, oh, it's not enough weight. Then I get other people, they don't like me wearing the belt. It's just like, guys, come on. Just stop. It's just conditioning. It's GPP. It's building my grip, building my upper back, building my core. Um, what's really strange though is is the person who thinks you don't build extra core by doing this. It's like, come on guys, just stop. Um, but overall, these are getting better. I like these a lot. I really feel like for me though, if I if I want to talk about what I'm really liking, I'm liking the the tosses. So, I ended up doing 10 sets of them today. Uh, but yeah, three three rounds of the farmers carries. did these with short breaks. You know, I don't know, 45 seconds a minute between rounds. Um, so again, got those done and overall, um, yeah, just pretty happy with them. I'm going to keep working on these, of course, you know, weather permitting and stuff, uh, because I feel like they bring a lot to the table for me, particularly with me wanting to, uh, really push up uh, the grip and forearm work with a lot of what I'm doing. And I can tell my deadlift is really benefiting already from that. Okay. Um, so notice I'm even doing I did my chins yesterday and then I did one set of curls with the fat bar, right? Just making sure those forearms um are getting plenty of work. But I feel like right now for me really, particularly if I get leaner and I think we can see some of the throws, we can see the angles and the lighting is good. We can kind of see a little bit under the soft of the density and stuff I've got there. Like if I were to get leaner, obviously we are we already know how I'm going to look. Um, I'm going to slowly, like I said, get there over time. Right now, I'm not trying to lose weight. I'm just doing all this stuff fasted. I'm adjusting my my foods a little. I decided I don't really need healthy fats outside of two omega-3 eggs. Sorry, that one almost hit my head. I realized it almost hit me. Um, so I'm just carbs, carbs, carbs. I was protein overfeeding and I felt like um definitely was helping me recmp, but I do realize I don't need to even do that. Let's just stick with the low-fat carb up, which we know with fasting, even the guys on the sugar diet are getting away with it quite effectively, even while eating sugar. And I don't eat any of that. So, I feel like I can continue to recmp doing that. Um, but the throws, I did uh 10 triples on these today. I really like doing these. If I did nothing else on my GBP days, it would be this stuff right here. All right. But I mean right there that scene in this particular one I think that lighting I mean we can kind of see what's happening you know with the legs and everything and the the you know overall muscle density. Same thing with shoulders chest there. So if I got leaner we already know what I'd look like under there. Um and eventually I will. Right now it's just not a big priority. I want to keep pushing performance up. But if I can recmp while doing it that's a win. So So let me be clear. trying to recomposition here. Um, but I'm trying to get strength, trying to get performance up, which is working. It's not just trying. Um, the bench has gone up. I'm going to continue to get the bench up. Uh, the squats and deadlifts are coming back up. I mean, I'm up to where I'm doing sets of six now on the deadlifts with 500 fairly easy. I had a seventh rep, getting a 405 or seven. Like, I would like to push some of those up just a higher reps. Um, and that's its own topic, right? Will my maxes go up if I just keep pushing those up? What happens if I get all those top sets to 10 reps? What if I get my 315 bench up to 10? What if I get my 405 squat up to 10? Right, we'll be in a really good place. So, what I'm going to do here, um, I'm really enjoying the throws. And again, I feel like these are helping with my shoulders a lot. Not just the development, but the the density, all right, or the sorry, the mobility. I apologize. I apologize. Wrong word. People are going to be like, "Oh, he doesn't know what he's talking about." Um, don't care. I'm just going to leave that in. Um, I feel like it's improving the mobility there because for me, the only way any of that ever improves, stretching, mobility work doesn't work, but actually lifting stuff does. So, I'm like I'm forcing myself into overhead positions because I've noticed that even even when I can get almost to those lockouts, like when I've messed with the bar, I don't have any strength there. And that's the problem. Even though I can incline bench just fine on a steep incline, it's that overhead's not there. So, I need things like this as I slowly am regaining that range of motion. I need stuff that's going to build strength into those positions and I'm going to have to um so again, things like this. And then I finish with the kettle bell presses, uh standing presses, and I went up to a 40 today. I couldn't get as many reps. I have I have a bunch of smaller ones and they go straight 25 and then I have a 40. So, uh, sled sprints, I only did two rounds today. Why? Because I did three last time and the squats uh, the reps are going up. I don't want to overdo it. I did a run this morning. We did a good barefoot run. Um, two rounds of sleds. That's enough, especially considering the squat reps are going up because I want to I want to keep seeing that improve, right? And I really feel like for me, even in my training, I could literally take that dad bod strength standard on the on the big three instead of maxes, just do it for top sets and just get stronger. If I could just push those reps up indefinitely on that, I'll get stronger. So, it's kind of an interesting way to look at it, but I go, do I ever technically outside of a max do I really need to lift more than that standard? No. I mean, I could literally just do rep work with it and get stronger at the reps. And as funny as that sounds, for me, especially since all my other stuff is just hypertrophy, it it will it'll build the maxis. But then I'm doing all this this conditioning work to fill in the gaps. But really, I could really focus on squat, bench, deadlift, pull-ups, chin-ups, dips, and do all this stuff. I mean, and I like to throw a little arms in. I feel like I need the laterals for now. um until my overhead gets stronger. That first that first one getting that in position felt weird. Um not the most flattering here with my side still as I lose some fat there. I still hold a bit of fat in that and it varies a lot dayto day. It's very unpredictable. Um but yeah, this was was heavier. I was struggling to get like eight eight reps, but the left side was weaker than the right. That's the interesting thing. So, I feel like my right side with some of this, right? I feel like the right side is stronger and has better range of motion than my left right now. All right. Which is interesting. These these kind of reveal that the kettle bells do kind of reveals what's going on there. Uh but at least I was able to mess with this. Now, it's probably a bit too heavy. So, I feel like if I do this next time, I need to go back to the 25 so I can get a better extension into the top, even if it's real for really high reps like last time. All right, but trying to get into these overhead positions was with anything. Um, I've got to build that back up. But then I finished up with one set of hanging leg raises, just a set of toe to bars. I got I don't know around 12 reps, something like that. And then I I finished off also with one really high rep set of band press downs to failure. Just keep getting blood flow to that area. Uh but uh but overall pretty happy with all this. It's just good conditioning work. Felt good. Had had a little quick brief run this morning on top of it. Um and we'll get ready to eat breakfast here soon. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.