All right. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. It's time for another bicep workout, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. Appreciate it. Um, continuing to progressively overload this. I added another two and a half pounds. Obviously lost a little reps, but it wasn't as big of a drop as I expected. So, I did three sets, right? I feel like my recovery is better. I feel like my recovery is in a good spot after I did that really lower volume week. So, I do think I'm really considering this coming Monday going ahead and doing my my big five lifts every workout of the of the main workouts doing stuff like this where I can do, you know, because I'm going a little heavier. So, the reps are coming down doing like three sets of curls on the off days. Um, so that again, we get a little bit more respectable volume. I I do I like doing sometimes the three to four sets for a muscle group, but I think six works better. All right. As long as I'm recovering. Keep in mind, I'm moving a lot of weight for a lot of reps, and that's one reason I did a lot of what I did. Uh, but I do think I can handle the big five movements all three days, and that'll give me, you know, six sets of muscle group. And if I want to throw an accessory in, if I still feel good, I can do a front raise or a pullover or something. Um, but I do want to also continue these curls so that again, I can prioritize biceps. So, they're going to get a little more volume and some freshness compared to the other muscle groups. Also thought was interesting, I was looking at my legs in the mirror this morning. I've been wearing the longer shorts. Um, all those squats I've been doing and whether people like the way I do them or not, my legs are bigger. Like I can see in the mirror when I look at my legs in the bathroom mirror, step back like so. My my thighs are bigger. They're straight up bigger. So, the squats are are clearly doing what I need them to do. They're clearly working as far as I'm concerned. Um, but again, I want to prioritize the biceps. So, we're going to do this. So, this went well. Uh, the last set I did a little rest pause and then I tried to rest a couple seconds and I failed. I I failed. I could not get the the weight up. So, I got 13. Then I got 13 and then I got 14 with just a little breather to get that 14th rep because I really didn't have it. Like I can't just do it continual. Like I'm I am out of steam. The muscle is failing. But if I breathe just a little bit and do just a tiny little bit of cheating, I can squeeze out that 14th rep. But then I couldn't get a 15. I tried to do the same thing. Take a couple of deep breaths, dig in, and I just I simply couldn't complete the rep. True failure, right? And and I I think if people are going to argue about what constitutes muscle failure, um I think that clearly counts, right? When you rest, get a couple of deep breaths, grind out one more rep when you knew that you were at the end, a rep that you wouldn't have got probably otherwise, then try it again and you just fail. This is that is absolutely muscle failure. But here's here's the thing. Um, this is PR territory other than doing true cheek curls, which I don't ever bring up to the face. Uh, this is the most reps I've ever gotten for even with this type of weight on my curls. So, we're progressively overloading it, you know, and people can point out, well, your biceps are are way weaker than your other muscles. Don't you think that's the problem? And it's well what they're not understanding. Um your worst muscle group is smaller than your other muscles. Therefore, it is going to be weaker relative. Should be common sense. All right. So, that's kind of the point here. I'm going to just continue to prioritize biceps. Um I feel like I haven't lost any fat in a couple weeks, though. I've made some stuff in my diet. I've been eating a lot more fat in my diet, but I feel like I need to trim some of that out. I was getting leaner faster with the with the hardcore protein and keeping the fat high, but not as much as I'm doing now. So, I think once once I get through that little bit of whole milk I have left, I'm not going to buy any more of the whole Greek yogurt. I'm out of it. Avoid nut butters. I think I'm going to just get my fats from avocados and eggs and steak. So, I think what I'm going to end up doing for all my dairy, um, I'm not going to buy any more nut butters for just a bit. I think I'll glean out. I got a giant jar of almond butter in the pantry, but it's not been opened yet, so we're good. Uh, so I think I'm going to go back to the fat-ree Mutopia, fat-ree Greek yogurt, try to get like 400 grams of protein a day, and that will end up bringing my calories down, and I'll probably go back to losing fat, right? Because I do feel like I feel like my calories are higher. I feel like it's also making me hold a little more water. My waist feels bigger just in the last few days. So again, I'll just adjust it and I think it'll all kind of come back down where I want it. It's still the same diet. It's just what I'm doing with my dairy and other stuff will be different. My main meal is still the same. It's going to be meat. I'm going to still do beef every day. I like doing beef every day of some type, but I may replace the thighs with just with some normal chicken breasts and just season them really well. And and again, I'm still going to get plenty of fat, but it's going to come from my omega-3 eggs, my steak, my avocados, because I eat at least two avocados every day, right? And then piles of vegetables. And and I think we'll start seeing me um trim back down pretty quick. But again, my recovery is really good now. Like I feel good. I feel really good in terms of recovery. Feel like some of that because I was losing fat at a respectable rate. I do feel like it was impacting my recovery. Now that I'm I'm handling I've recovered well, everything's good. I feel like I can trim some of the fat out, force more protein down, add a little more work back in. Not a lot. And uh I think we'll see the body fat start dropping back down again. Because when I was doing just the purely protein, I felt like fat was coming off pretty quick. Not purely protein. You guys know what I mean. Eating 400 grams a day with a little more moderate fat. Yeah, it was coming off. But the workout was good. Uh, again, my strongest my biceps have ever been. They need to get stronger. All right. In a perfect world, in a perfect world, I'll be curling with a 45 pound plate one day on each side of the bar all the way to my face. You know, then I'll have I would have massive biceps, though. Like, nobody doesn't have big biceps who can do that. We used to watch CT Flusher do that for 10 plus reps. Crazy. Um, but he had massive arms. So, I'll just I'll keep working on it. Progressive overload going to failure and we'll get there. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.