Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and once again it is time for a full body workout. The cold is gone. The two weeks of cold for the whole year are gone. It's going to be warm and pleasant all the way up to insanely hot moving forward. I got this workout done decently early. Nice and uh nice and cool this morning. Nice comfortable weather. Uh strength wasn't 100% today. And that's okay. like after that that little bit of downtime when I came in and got 405 for 13 on the squat Friday, that was a that was a PR. That was a straight up PR. I don't think I've ever done that before, ever that I can recall. Um, so I'm super happy with that. So to come in today and get 10 and to just say, you know what, good high bar squats, 10 reps, felt good. I got to 10 and I just racked it. It felt like a good hard work set. Could I have ground out another rep or two? Absolutely. I could have got 12. I'm going to be honest here. Um I just kind of slacked because I wanted to get over to deadlifting. Like I I'll just be honest. I really wanted to deadlift. I haven't deadlifted in weeks. I knew my strength was going to be down, but deadlift is my absolute favorite lift. And I haven't been doing it with the cold and everything. So I'm like, let's get in and pull. 500 for four. My hands didn't like it. I stopped it for like let's chill. Let's get back used to deadlifting again. I know 500 for four for Jason Blaha is ridiculously silly, but I just wanted four really clean reps. They felt good. My hands hurt when I was doing it. So, I'm kind of like my hands need a few a workout or two to toughen back up. I didn't want to risk on that deadlift bar just kind of ripping anything. Um I felt like the hands were hurting. Uh and I'm like, let's not push it. Let's not get stupid. Let's get a session or two and then we'll come back in and push that deadlift up. But I was really happy with just deadlifting again. Felt really good. Um interesting thing, my triceps still have doms from Friday. Those extensions after the bench and dips um was a lot and I noticed I got to 18 here uh on the on the 225 and I had to rack it. My triceps were done. It's kind of like I've been saying, if I can just get my triceps stronger, I'm going to get to 20 because we got 19 last time, right? And these are all clean. Notice though, there's we're using no leg drive on any of this. These are smooth, pretty clean reps. That's what I want. My chest got a hell of a pump. Like my chest got really, really, really pumped here, but my triceps were on fire. And because I still had that tricep doms from Friday because I did those 20 reps at the end with that uh that easy bar, they didn't have anything left. So, it's like that's interesting. I'm going to have to stick I think with the pullovers. I'll I'll alternate them back in for the last exercise. I'll probably mess around a little bit with extensions and pullovers. U but my triceps were absolutely the limit there, which is what it felt like. It doesn't mean it's true. It's just that I felt them burning. felt like a blowtorrch on them and they're they're still lit up and that's okay. Uh pull-ups, I went back to that little bit of a closer grip. Uh I used the really wide last time, which is cool. I like that, but I feel like I get more reps and it's a slightly longer range of motion when I go closer. So, I'm just going to stick with that. It's worked really well for me for a little while. Um, and I like to change the the grips and sometimes do chins and other stuff in there, but it works really well for me. Just that one set and then I can focus on arms after that. Uh, the dips though, triceps gave out. So, again, kind of that point, man, that that benching really, really is taking a lot out of the triceps. Um, it's a big toll. So, I need to just keep hammering away at it. But, I mean, I feel like we've made progress. We're up to where now last week we got 19. Okay, 19 with a totally flat back, no belt, no wrist straps, all pretty 18 today, but I'm gonna get to that 20. I'm gonna get to that 20. Like, that's it's a magic number that I really, really want. And I know it's arbitrary. It's arbitrary, but it's what I want to do. Uh, but yeah, the triceps were just shot on those dips. So, I decided, let's do the pullovers. Uh, the I like pullovers a lot. Even though I like those extensions, they gave me crazy tricep doms that I felt like impeded my performance today. It felt like it cost me that rep um that I got last time. And even even the dips, like you know, it's like, man, the triceps are fried. The pullovers don't seem to do the same thing for me. They light my triceps up, and I like them. I really like them. feel like they're a great tricep exercise for me, but it's not creating that doms, which is interesting. And it could be the novel training response, but I've noticed that my extensions go up based upon my dips. My dips don't seem to carry over the other way. It's not like, oh, I get stronger at the at the extensions and then my other lifts go up. It's like when my other big lifts go up, I can come in and PR the extensions even if I haven't done them, which was interesting. I haven't done those extensions in a, you know, month or two, two months probably. Who knows, maybe more. and I still hit my lifetime PR, but then my triceps hurt. And that's just from the dips. Uh whereas and I feel like the pullovers just feed everything a little bit better and they do more for my mobility. And we know that my range of motion and flexibility in my shoulder sucks. This helped. Like I couldn't before I started doing the pullovers, I couldn't after those impingements way back. I couldn't do a pull-up or chin-up at all. Now I've gotten strong at them again and I feel like the pullovers got me there. Um, so I like to just kind of keep them in as an extra exercise. Old school guys loved them. They improved their aesthetics. They seem to have helped my shoulders and yeah, even though we know that my my range of motion isn't where it needs to be, they helped it and they feel good, you know, and for me it's just a good finisher. The other five movements, those are those are pushing. Those are our big movements, right? And then we focus on biceps on the off days. Like I have three bicep days every week coming to do them fresh. But I like those big movements. We can progress on those. I just feel like though I do like the idea of having a finisher. And this just finishes off my whole upper body. And it helps with the range of motion, helps with my breathing and that burn in the tricep, right? I love it, you know. Love it, you know. And I feel like at this point with triceps kind of limiting some of my other stuff, anything that gives my triceps a good burn, not a bad thing. Yeah. So, the workouts are very simple here. Push progression for reps on those five movements. The deadlift will come back up real quick. I'm going to hammer it really hard now. Now that I'm used to squatting that number of reps, my body's getting better at it. I'll be able to deadlift solid afterwards. But all in all, this was a super short workout. And people are like, "How long does a workout like this take?" Like nothing. Like this is this is like a 40minute workout and that's taking my time just kind of coasting through it. This can be done in 40 45 minutes because I don't do a lot of warming up. I just come in and do my sets, you know, like one or two warm-up reps, that's it. And then we go straight to stuff. And all the ladder movements, there's no warm-ups, only the squat, bench, and deadlift. Uh, but yeah, happy with it overall. I mean, again, I could tell the tricep fatigue was there. Um, squats and everything felt good. Happy to be deadlifting again. So, we're going to climb back up with those. Uh, so I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.