Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and once again it's time for another general physical preparedness workout, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, just knocked out a quick one of these uh for the morning. I barely got enough footage to even get a vlog out of it because I just didn't do that much. I ended up doing uh like whatever sets of medball throws. I did three rounds of farmers walks. I did some medball throws. I had one recording with it though a little bit. Um, man, my W got slowed down a little bit there. Sorry about that, but that's okay. It didn't slow me that much. It was just a brief stop and then we h continued. Got some extra extra grip work happening there, but it's all good, y'all. So, uh, that being said, you know, again, the show must go on. We must work around uh, traffic sometimes. Just the nature of the game, guys. The nature of the game. But uh I should have got a better sun angle. I should have used the other sidewalk the other direction. I notic I noticed that man. I I look way more jacked when the sun hits me from the front, right? Versus that that shadow from behind. We got We got to work on that. I got to work on my my filming better. I did better on that with the medball throws and notice the difference. I turned the other way to where the sun was coming up facing me. I got to learn how to use lighting better. But I noticed that because um I took screenshots of the other day coming the other direct direction and I looked all jacked in it and it got tons and tons of engagements and it actually made a lot of money on Facebook. Just the one picture, you know, so that's cool. I mean, not tons of money, you know, but but definitely not what I expect from a single picture. So, um that being said, I know those the sunlight matters. I got to try to work with that a little bit better in these vlogs. I feel like got to have production. All right, production. See, because I don't look as jacked there. All right, but I digress. Back over to the back over to the vlog. This, of course, going to go on both platforms, both the tubes and the Facebook. But three rounds of weighted carries, right? We did three rounds of weighted carries and then I end up doing like uh quite a few seven sets of of the medball tosses, medball throws, whatever we wish to call them. Um I only got seven. I had a minor filming issue with one of them. So unfortunately, every now and then we get some training that doesn't get on camera like that. So I did do like eight sets or whatever, but we only got seven. But you know, it doesn't really count as just GBP work. So maybe it doesn't matter in the grand scheme of things. Also, I felt like the grass was going to be dry. I was like, "Oh, the grass field doesn't feel wet, right? It doesn't feel muddy out here until I started doing these and it's already too late and I've already got mud all on the all on the med ball splattering mud all over myself. All that nonsense. I should have just done it on the driveway again with the pad." But see the difference it makes with the light, man. Lighting makes such a big difference. Like look how much different look how much different we look when the light hits you. I I do pretty well in the sunlight in some angles. I don't know. Actually actually look like I lift. But I digress. Back over to the vlog. So I did doing sets of five on the medball throws. I keep having people ask me how much did that weigh. It's it's 30 pounds. It's just it's the heaviest medball I could find a few years ago when I bought it. Um it's been four or five years at least since I bought bought that. And I only have the one medball. One reason I'm like worried a little bit about getting it wet because it is leather, you know. It's like, man, I mean, I know it's probably treated and stuff and it'll do well, but you know, still, guys, still, I digress. Although it'll dry super fast. My garage gets gets hot. Um, you know, even sometimes in the winter, like I still haven't even turned the heater on yet. I It's winter time in my I still using my AC. Welcome. Welcome to Texas, guys. That's why I laughed. I've had people who are like, "Why are you out there with no clothes on in the cold weather?" I'm like, "Not really that cold, guys." And I'm a lifter. I'm a lifter. Keep in mind, you guys are oftentimes used to seeing me train in over 100 degrees Fahrenheit. So, there's there's vlogs up to where people may not be aware, but there's vlogs I recorded where it's like 103 degrees Fahrenheit during the filming. That's why I'm sweating. Um, I I happen to live in a a relatively warm climate just north of the Htown area. All right. 713 represent. All right, back over to the over to the vlog here. So, Htown people will get it. All right, but we did a bunch of medball throws and I ended up finishing up with one set of hanging leg raises. So the medball throws again, full body explosiveness. All right, and I skipped the sled. So why the sled? I mean, notice my quads are looking juicy today because I have doms. I'm like, you know what? I'm not even going to get out and push that sled because I pushed the sled really heavy last time instead of sprinting. And then yesterday I I did six reps with 405 on the I bar squat and then I did that um that MR rep set on the belt squat and I got way more reps than I did the other time the other day. So just having used it again, the performance is picking up and because it was it was quite a bit more quad challenge than I'm used to. I got some doms. And that's the thing. Look how when I push hard, my quads start growing again. That's why I'm training my arms now the way I train my quads. Like today I really wanted to do band press downs but I stopped myself. I'm like overtraining muscles like that just doing a bunch of high rep stuff to failure keeps me smaller. So notice all the muscles I do that in are my worst developed muscles. You know it's it's the case of just straight up overtraining. My body has never responded to it because look at my quads. My quads are built by moderate to to lower volumes. Just going really heavy with hard sets. All right. Quads for days. Really just need some squats, deadlifts, occasional machine work. So, I'm just going to train my arms the same way on a really heavy set of curls to failure. Focus on weighted pull-ups. Focus on waking weighted dips. I wanted to do press downs, but I'm like, I've been getting crampy triceps just from pushing the big movements to failure. And like I did that rest pause set on the last set of dips yesterday. Pushed that set all the way to the limit and then did a rest pause rep. See where I'm going with that? That's all that I need. I my triceps actually hurt afterwards and I've been getting a little crampy triceps from some of those limit sets on the benching too. Let's see if the if my arms respond the same way my legs do and if I mean some of these evidence-based guys are doing completely wrong and a lot of the OG guys had it right. If that's the case, we'll see what happens for the next little bit. All right, guys. But then I did some hanging leg raises. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next