Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here once again. It's time for an old school bodybuilding workout. Um, if you guys would though, please click like down below. Be greatly appreciate it. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. If you'll be kind enough to drop a comment down below, I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. Um, this is a bit less volume than some of the other days. It's Friday. Um, I was definitely feeling um a little bit of inflammation in my uh bicep area, that whole area today. But again, I've been doing sometimes multiple exercises for that while doing full body every day through the week. Um, so again, I do got to watch that just a hair. Um, I discussed already in some of the the live streams, minor diet adjustments I'll be making to help with that inflammation. But I also we did a widow maker. Why? You know, I had been thinking about doing these. I'm like, you know what? 20 reps, breathing squats, trying to do these things are kind of part of that era. And these guys built their legs off just mostly squats and deadlifts. It's kind of what I'm doing. Again, even because I have good leg development. Um, you know, kind of to match with those those old school errors. Kind of the look I want to go for. Yes, I'm still going to be strong on the big three because they were all strong on the big three. My background is in powerlifting. Um, so I'm like, let's try to do this, man. I got a few of the rest pause ref. I'm like, I'm done with this. I'm wrecking this crap. So, that was 3:15. Um, but I'll work on that a little bit. I thought, what the heck? Let's do it. I had been thinking about I'm like, I don't know about that. And someone brought it up in a stream. They're like, and I know I've thought about it, but I'm like, I don't think I want to do it. They're like, I don't know, blah. You know, it's part of that era. You know how it works. You used to do it. Yes, I did. And I got to 20 before with that. So, I've done that exact weight for 20 in my youth back in my 20s messing with some of this. So, I'm like, let's do that one set that'll give me some good quad stimulus ending the week. Keep in mind, I'm squatting and deadlifting some different stuff. And you do get some quad from the deadlift, especially obviously conventional. Um, so afterwards, I did my set of reverse hypers. Um, I feel like I do need to make sure I throw a set of these in. This could be the one non- old school thing I do. You guys know how I feel about this movement for low back, for glutes, for restoration. So, I did my my high rep set here. Yes, I'm doing it the way Luis Simmons taught it at this point. Um, you know, rather than some of the other more controlled ways because again, he's the guy who designed it. It worked great for his people. So, next week though, I think we'll start seeing the the water come down further. We'll whoosh down as we continue this cut as we work down to 200 to assess. And then we'll probably I'll probably have to go under 200 to be fair. Of course, I did my two hours of fasting cardio after this before having my breakfast. You guys will see all my meals put up on social media. They go up on Facebook and Instagram. Um so, I did that and then I'm like, let's get over to the weighted dips and and pull-ups. And I made a mistake and tried chin-ups today. Um my biceps didn't like it because I did two two types of curls yesterday, not just one. And I've been training biceps kind of every day because I'm doing full body. Um chins are not going to work for me on this. What if I'm going to do the the barbell curls and really push progression? Um chin-ups probably aren't going to work. I need to stick with pull-ups. But the dips weren't really good. Uh super happy with these today. They felt really good. Felt my chest light up and I really felt that that lateral and medial tricep a lot. Even though it does hit the long, I really felt those. But I'm gonna be doing the pullovers hard. And I'm gonna I want to focus back on the pullovers. I started progressing on them, but I do feel like I need to focus on range of motion and stretching more. So, I think I'm going to cut them back to the 95, kind of where I started, you know, within the last week. Um, I think that's where I need to go and just try to force that stretch and a pause on them. So, I'll get to that in a minute. So, with the weighted dips, yeah, we got ours to eight. And on that last rep, because I know I can't really get more than about eight with this long range of motion, I'm pausing on that last rep now and trying to go as deep as I can and hold it for a second and then come up. Now, for people like me, even stronger on dips, look at the difference. I was barely breaking parallel. With these, I'm trying to get several inches below. I'm going into the deepest stretch I can get into and trying to hammer that into a stretch reflex so that I can continue to improve that range of motion. um with chins. And this also shows my range of motion. That's as far as I can go. Watch some of these from the dead hang. That's a dead hang. Notice that to most people, my arm still doesn't look lock from a dead hang. Um I tried a really close grip and then I went a little wider. The thing I noticed with these, it hurt my whole bicep and everything today, but I also did pushed sets to failure on barbell curls and then I finished up with dumbbell curls. So, my biceps are probably just shot for the week. So, I do think I need to stick with what I have been doing, but I decided just today to change it because I do rotate my stuff a little with this through the week. And I do like to work sh in, but with the amount of curls I'm doing right now and pushing them hard, my biceps didn't like it. They hurt. And I'm just like, "Yeah, we'll stick to the pull-ups. The pull-ups have felt really, really good." And I'm not even stronger. Like, that's the thing. I'm like, "I'll be way stronger on shins." No. No. I picked up like a rep or two out of all three sets total versus my pull-ups. So, then again, and it feels like all bicep. I'm doing curls. I don't need all bicep. So, that's the thing. When I do the chins like this, it really just feels like a bicep exercise. I don't feel my lats the same way I do on a pull-up. And pull-ups have really given me that vtaper. So, the pullovers, I'm like, let's just go heavy and see how it really feels. It just hurt after doing the chins. Um, and it was just a lot of forearm. So, I'm like, okay, don't need to keep progressing these because I got whatever the 105 uh for 10, right? I got one on five for 10, but they're starting to hurt. Um, in terms of just like my whole forearm, elbow area a little bit. So, I did six with that and I dropped down to 95 and cranked out 10. And I think that's where I need to go on this. Yes, I want to progress on these. Yes, I want to get really, really strong at pullovers. Yes, it's part of the whole classic thing. Okay, but I need to focus on the ability to get deeper and deeper and deeper, which I don't have. So, this is what I need to do. I need to drop back exactly like I started with these at the start of the week, right? I started working these in on Monday and I've done them. This is my fourth day doing them this week and I progressed the weight, but I feel like this is really where I need to be where I started on Monday. I need to work with the 95 and I need to focus on pausing at the bottom. I need to get that deep stretch. Okay, I need that deep stretch and then I can progress. when I can get these to where I'm getting more range of motion, where I can force that stretch more and more because I got a hell of a stimulus. I did these with 95s on Monday for three sets of 10 and I was sore the whole week. It never went away. My lats, long head of my tricep hurt for days. So, they clearly were hammering the areas that I want. I think that's where I need to stick with, you know, because I progressed through the week. But I do think at this point it would be wise for me to just go ahead and stick with that weight and focus focus focus focus on the deepest stretch possible. Even if I have to pause every rep and I want to see if we can get that range of motion improved better and better. All right, calf raises. Um I've been doing these with a normal bar. I grab the safety bar. I'm like I bet you it'll be easier. Um other people said that too and I know it is. I've done it before. So I'm like let's just do the safety bar. Then I don't have to worry about getting cranked up under there. Um, and I managed to get 12 reps and pretty much failure. I couldn't get more than 12 with this weight. Obviously, I went a little the same place. This bar is heavier. It's 15 lb heavier bar, so it's more weight and it just felt easier to get into position. All the sets felt good. Um, they all felt really, really good calf activation. And obviously, again, I'm just happy to be able to put this smaller belt on. Now, by the way, yes, I know it's squishing me a little bit there on some of this. You can see it coming up over, but that's going to be another another marker of where I'm at is when this belt gets really comfortable and I'm able to use multiple different notches. Um, again, I'm able to finally put it on again. This is the heaviest body weight I've ever been able to put this belt on. So, that's progress. That means um definitely gained muscle then relative to that waist size. So, that's a good thing. Actually, it's about five or six pounds heavier than I was able to wear it before. So again, just happy to be able to put it on obviously instead of my bigger belt. And yeah, I can use that as a measure to know where I'm at with my waist size. And it's definitely going to get looser over the next couple weeks, I think. So again, managed to get like 12elves on these. Of course, I give you guys a little shot just to show where the quads and the calves are. Uh and after I did these three, you know, I'm like I I feel like I needed the workout. I had to cut it short. I couldn't do the other curls. I'm like, instead of some shoulder stuff here, let's just finish up with some band curls. And the reason is my biceps do need a lot of work. I didn't do any curls because they were hurting from the chins. I'm like, let's just get some blood flow. And sure enough, as soon as I started doing these, my biceps felt a ton better. Getting that blood flow in helped with all that. But now, I'm going to be adding, like I said, healthy fats back into my diet. Let's see if we can get a little better inflammation control, right, in terms of all of that happening. But overall, happy with the workout. Happy with having done some Widowmakers again on a squat and doing some rest pause after after doing about a 10 rep max. Um, this is about what I expected to get. I expected that to be right around 10 and then we paused everything. So, hope it's been informative. I love all you guys and gals and I will talk to you next time.