Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it is time for another full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that so much. Let's get over uh into the training. So, kind of starting off with my training maxes. um decided what I'm going to keep doing is just kind of hit my Dadbod strength standard the start of each workout and then uh kind of just assess how I feel and try to just do some non- grindy um singles afterwards, right? Just hit a good training max. I don't want anything that's going to be a true max. I want it to be obviously above 90%. Above 90%, but I don't want to grind real hard. So, I decided today let's just do a 435 squat. And I'm actually happy with the fact that my squat, you know, is still up in the 400s for relatively, you know, relatively easy singles. Um, well, pretty pretty far into this cut. Um, if I can still keep this up 20 lbs lighter, I'll be really happy. But, you know, nice nice decently heavy 435. I don't want to say it was easy. It was definitely above 90%, but it also wasn't a true max. Um, I definitely had more in the tank. Um, so the bench went went even better today. deadlift. I just called it at five plates. I'm like, I just pulled five plates. I'm like, ah, I'm going to call it here. I want a little heavier the other day. Um, you know, and I pulled three three moderately heavy singles this week. Let's chill on that. Especially since I'm adding the sled work. That is sled work after this. So, the bench, uh, nice flatback 315. Uh, nice pause and everything. So, happy with I'm like, you know what? I bet I can do 335 pretty easy. So, also here's my little quick do my little vacuum and then do a side chest. So, we can kind of assess my physique daytoday. I'm going to try to do this most of the workouts. Try to remember to do one of these or two of these in here. Um, obviously, we still need to tighten up. Obviously, the the loose skin and the fat around the waistline are still tightening up, but I feel like they've made vast improvements. So, if I just keep losing fat, I think they're going to go away completely. So, really, and people are like 20 pounds of do you have 20 pounds of fat? Yeah. I think looking at those areas in the hip area and the flank and the butt and all that, I have 20 pounds of fat to lose, right? But the 335 bench actually fairly smooth. I'm like, I had more in the tank. It was heavy, but it wasn't a true max. Um, so then went over to the deadlift. I did a 315 just to kind of get a feel. I'm like, so I was like, let me do five plates and I pulled it and it obviously wasn't, you know, wasn't anywhere near max. like, you know what? That's enough, right? A nice good bite plate felt good. Let's just call the heavy lifting there and get into our our hypertrophy work. And I'm going to be almost turning into an arm specialist at this point. I feel like I need to add more and more arm work. I didn't go crazy hard on arms today, though, honestly, because it's my third workout in a row doing them. And I did dips and pull-ups. I did four sets of curls, three sets of extensions, you know, and said, "Ah, that's enough for today." Keeping in mind six sets of curls the other day, like six sets the day before, you know. So, we start doing the math. We're we're up in that, you know, 15 16 set. I'm going to take that up a little more, though. I'm going to live on curls. All right. We're going to live on curls, I think. Uh, so I bet I did a set of reverse hypers, and I think it's a wise idea to keep some reverse hypers in. I have the machine. It's great. It's phenomenal prehab since I'm doing the squatting and deadlifting three days a week. uh you know, some some decently heavy singles. Let's make sure the low back stays strong. And then afterwards, we go really our real work, our real hypertrophy work though is going to be the weighted dips and the weighted pull-ups. These are going to be my bread and butter, right? Weighted dips, I'm doing them from the start. So notice I come over into a bottom up position and that's how I do the weighted dips. Yes, it's harder. It gets me used to going into the deepest stretch possible out of the bottom. It's helping me do more range of motion. know I can't do as much weight because I do it this way. But you know what? I feel like I get a better training response, right? Because you get when I was barely cracking parallel. Sure, I was doing two plates for 10, but this is legitimately a better training response, right? I know that I'm getting more hypertrophy out of it, building my pecs, building my triceps. But I'm almost at a point where um I feel like really if all I wanted to do outside of my big three, if I just wanted to do dips, pull-ups, and and curls, I would be fine at this point in my cut. Because really, where do I need to keep the muscle the most, you know? But I really do want to do arms. I'm going to I'm going to go really hard on arms. So, I even threw some skull crushers in today. But part of me is going, "Do I need to push all that out to a little bit more?" You know, my arms looked the biggest. People said they were the biggest and I wasn't even doing curls. I was living on pull-ups and dips before. So, I thought was fascinating. But dips, I really like dips. Like, I feel like they do so much for me. I feel so much chest and tricep activation. Plus, keeping in mind, keeping in mind, even as of the last couple weeks, I've been doing almost no benching now, and that bench is looking smooth. I feel like for me, these dips build my bench, right? They build my bench. But even when I was doing Bulgarian, I was benching over 300. When I used to do Bulgarian, I did nothing but singles on the squat and the bench. Um, so I do feel like for me that'll maintain a lot, but really this is most of my true hypertrophy work is coming from these. And then my sled work, right? The sled will actually build my legs, too. So, uh, pull-ups. Here's what I'm doing different. You know what? I'm forcing myself to go lighter, but I'm doing this really close grip because I can get up to the bar. I can get my chin to the bar most of the reps. And I can't do that with a wide grip. With a closed grip, I can't. If I just go light enough, I can get plenty of reps. And trying to do a lot of them from a dead hang at the very least get that full stretch. Um, but I feel a ton of shoulder benefit there, right? So, I feel like for me personally, this type of pull-up is going to be the key to me being able to overhead press again eventually because man, what a game changer will that be when I can overhead press again one day, right? You know, I feel like that'll do it a lot for me eventually. Um, just the ability to do so. Both the pull-ups and the dips, they'll build most of my shoulders. Um, and I do I did pullovers a couple times this week, but today I just didn't feel like doing them. I'm like, let's just focus on arms. But really, I feel like I could just do the dips and pull-ups and just do lots and lots of barbell curls if I wanted. I would probably be okay. I would probably be okay. Why? Because the dips do a lot of tricep. I mean, really, everyone's like, "Your triceps were bigger back then." Which is can be frustrating because I'm like, "Guys, I was doing about seven or eight sets of dips and just pressing and I was only doing heavy pressing." Right? Now granted, I was benching, incline, hand, overhead press, but but really I was just I was doing dips was almost all my volume. Um, so I do kind of wonder if maybe in my case I get the most out of that because I've done millions and millions of extensions. It wasn't doing the dips. Man, those dips, they do bring something special to the table, right? They really do. You know, I like them. I like them. But I also wondered what would happen if I could add some overhead press. Would dips and overhead press really do what I need? I don't know. But I need arm specialize. Uh biceps. Biceps. Biceps. So, we did barbell curls. I had a guy try to tell me you should be doing easy curl. It works just as well. But it doesn't really. And as far as the brachiialis and all that, I'm doing pull-ups, overhand grip pull-ups. No. Do the barbell curls. So, I did three sets of these to failure. I'm gonna push these really hard. It's almost the other thing I feel like too, if I just really, really, really push these stricter full range of motion barbell curls really hard, I think they're going to get the job done. Like, I'm kind of joking with saying I want to do a lot of arm volume. I don't know that I really need it. If I do three sets of these every workout though to failure, right, and just push barbell curls really hard, that might get what I need done, right? We do the dips, pull-ups, and the curls to failure every workout. Three sets like I'm doing there. That's a lot of stimulus in the areas I need it. And the whole whole upper body gets worked. And I don't think people grasp that. I've had people who don't understand what I've said. You could build a decent upper body off just dips and pull-ups, but in my case, I'm doing singles on the deadlift and the bench, which do hit that, too. You really could. But, you know, someone like me who needs the extra arm, it's not a bad idea to add arm work. But, I do kind of feel like at this point, um, doing either some pullovers and extensions afterwards will help me just for tricep, but but curls, curls, curls. And I like the barbell curls, right? I feel a great great deal of activation. We know they work. Lots of guys built great biceps back in the day off of them. But I did some skull crushers. I I went um this was 60 lbs here doing that that really good solid range of motion to the face. I feel these really well. If I go lighter like this, I I don't get any elbow issues. It feels great. So again, I do feel like um you know, this stuff I need to be doing. And maybe next time I'll add a little more volume of this or instead of the incline curls, I'll do the band curls again for the tendon health. But I also decided to do a set of I did another little thing here so we could see where I'm at in different lighting. And then I finished up with one set of incline curls to failure. So it wasn't a huge amount of arm volume compared to the, you know, say the last workout, but we did some extra tricep work. And it was good solid work here. you know, four sets of curls to failure, the end of a full body considering we curl every workout. Uh, everything was good. Happy, really happy with that bench. Like that was smoother and looked moved faster than the last time I did a 335 before I was down at this body weight on the cut. So, the dips the dips are the only explanation, right? The dips are the only possible explanation. So, they're working. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.