Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and once again it is time for a full body workout. But if you guys would please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribed, please do so and drop me a comment down below. All right, I decided today to just kind of hit uh training maxes. And what I did for training maxes because I know they're at least 90% right now for me. I'm like, let's just hit the dadbod strength standard, right? I kind of gave that Dadbod strength standard. I'm like, you know what? I'm in a cut. I did four and a half hours of fasting cardio yesterday. uh so on and so forth. Like let me just come in and just see how hard they actually are. They weren't hard actually. Um I could have repped every one of these, but I came in just did a heavy single. So I think on some of these days I might hit these and then go up a little bit, you know, depending on how they feel. Um you know, and do some of this stuff a little bit more stuff like the Widowmakers. I did do some training maxes. But they felt good. So you know, the 405 here, I mean, that's pretty much a high bar. It's a medium stance. I've done a little wider on some of my heavy ones, but I mean a nice wide stance. We got well below parallel. Came up pretty easy. I felt like I could have done triple with it. So, might be a case of of doing that. So, we see where the legs are. Um I'm I'm still I'm 211 today, by the way. So, no, I haven't whooshed down, but I think it if I push the cardio hard, we can get there. Um so, what we also did here, uh like let's just do a 315 bench afterwards. I did these really quick and it got over into my real workout. like let's just do a nice long two to three second pause flat back just all raw 315 nice and easy. So I'm showing that the dad bod strength standard pretty good here for me. So here's the other thing I've thought about. Um you know what if I get to 50 and I'm down to 185 pounds and I still hit this. Like right now people are like well it's not crazy impressive but what if I'm 50 years old at 150 and I come in and still hit this and I'm like 185 shredded. Is that pretty good? I I think it's decent, you know. So, but we did this. We did a 405, 315, 500. Um, then I came over and did my supplemental work. I was really happy with today's workout. One thing I would have done different, for some reason, I got in my head because I said, "Well, chin-ups and dips are enough to build a guy's upper body." I did chin-ups today. And I'm like, I don't know why I did. I feel like I should have done the pull-ups. I feel like those close grip pull-ups do what I need them to do, and I can just live on curls after that. But, for some reason, I did that and I'm like, well, I'll just do easy bar curls then. Um, so I did that, but if I were to change anything, I got to the third set of chins and I'm like, why didn't I just do pull-ups today? I don't know why I'm doing chin-ups, but the dips went good. So, what I'm kind of doing here, I feel like dips work my chest really well. So, I feel like even some of the benching, I've been doing a lot of rep work on bench and it's good for chest. Um, but I also feel like I could come in and treat my big three on days like this where I just take them to training maxes and then we come in and do all these really effective movements because this range of motion of going to full lockout. So, I'm taking these all the way up. I'm going to the deepest stretch I can go to. So, when I mean the deepest stretch, watch the first rep. We come up into it and we start from a full bottom position. Pause. That's as deep as you can go because I'm leaning into it and just driving up. Okay. I'm also looking pretty thick there. Like I'm looking at this going, "Guys, I when I drop another 10, 15, 20 pounds of body fat. Where are we going to be? We're going to be in a real good place." I I think that'll be undeniable. It's one reason I'm staying on top of it. That's why I'm pushing the cardio hard. I'm like, let's keep the diet tighter. I probably ate too many almond butter and stuff last week. Uh but I still feel like I lost fat. But, you know, realistically, uh let's take all that out. Let's just hammer down the oats, the brown rice, the sweet potatoes. Stay on top of all the vegetables. Um, throw in some avocados, though. All right, so I'm filming this. I've already had my first plate of breakfast while I'm voicing this over. Um, had had two avocados already, two small ones with my stuff. We get some healthy fats in. But fiber, fiber, fiber. Even the same thing my oats. I bought more oats today. I'm like, instead of the insta oats, let's get the oldfashioned oats. Does it really matter? Probably not. Also, even though I'm doing all this old school stuff, I don't want to leave the reverse hypers out. I feel like I could literally do heavy singles on squats and deadlifts and just do reverse hypers and be fine. I mean, that's the question, too, you know, we have to ask based on muscle memory building. I've kind of told people, look, Bulgarian probably isn't that great for building. I think we we we all understand this, but didn't I rebuild muscle memory and get my squat up to 500 again doing just singles? did six of them a week, right? I could do three of them a week. I could literally do the same thing. And here's the question I would ask. Would I build muscle memory back up in my quads and glutes? That's an interesting question. That's almost worthy experiment because I'm at a point where I'm just like, you know, as long as I can hit those numbers. I don't care that much with what's happening with my quads quads and hamstrings. As long as I can hit my cardio and get lean because I've also said, I can just muscle memory any of it back. Let's let's just get lean, but I don't want to destroy my recovery just squatting and deadlifting into the ground right now. Um eventually I'll want to bring them back up, but I did that today. I'm like, wonder what would happen. I mean, my quads got big again. I mean, I I was squatting 485 every single day for a single. I It started with like 425 and I built it up, you know? So again, could I squat and deadlift on all these days? It'll maintain the strength. Well, think about the neural drive. Am I getting all the strength I need from a single on the big three, three times a week? Yeah. So then I can come in and build all the muscles I need, you know? So chin-ups, pull-ups, dips, pullovers, and lots of curls. So again, today we did chins. Um I do feel like I almost feel like I need to do the pull-ups instead. The only reason I did chins is because I've been saying to people, you know, really, could you build your whole upper body off of just chin-ups and dips? Could the average guy probably could build a pretty decent upper body throw in some pullovers, you're really good, maybe some curls, but you know, um, so I did that, but I do want to keep the calf work up, right? And it's easy to do. It's not like it it takes me less than 10 minutes out of my whole day to load this bar. If I don't do the whole wool that we have to put shoes on for the plate, if I just put 315 or whatever on the bar, load it, do some of these, take a minute and a half between because I can keep them short. I still hit about the same failure. All right, there we go. Another leg shot. See the forearm shot. You know, I can do some calf work really easy. It doesn't take much time or energy. Just load it up and just strip it back down. Get to the next exercise, right? very very very time efficient and it keeps my calves growing right because if I keep the calves big and jacked it also helps with the energy turnover plus as I've said big calves to go with the big arms with without overdeveloped legs is a lot of that classic look a lot of them just did squats and stuff that was their quad work was just back squats from the silver era guys up to the golden era and those guys had good legs they didn't have current pro bodybuilder legs but you've got to question do we need that and I built my squat to 500 plus before doing nothing but back squats. Just straight back squats just fine. So, I really do as much as I love machines. I like leg presses. I like bell squats. I think they're phenomenal. Are they necessary? I don't know. I don't think they are. I have clients who don't have any of that stuff who have good squats and good legs because they're training at home. Just saying. I think Alex counts as that. He just does a few lunges at the end. All right, so pullovers. I'm like, let's take the weight up. You know, I'm doing 20s with the 70. Let me grab two plates and I'm just going to work with this because I can handle the two plates. What I can work on is seeing if I can improve the range of motion through more shoulder mobility. So, I'm pausing a lot of these. That is my full range of motion. add reps and add range of motion because it comes a point where I go, if I can just rep out two blade. 90 pounds on a pullover like this is actually a lot of weight. I think it shows my chest and back is doing pretty good. So then I'm like, let me do the side chest stuff I've been doing. So I did the pose here. I'll take shots of that later. You can see the skin is a little watery around the waist and love handle area. So I can tell I'm about to whoosh again. It starts getting a little looser and softer before the scale tries to go down each time. So it's kind of like that today. I'm going to see what happens over the course of the week. But again, as I lose more and more fat, that will get tighter. We know this. Like that's a given. You just have to keep losing it. Keep losing it. Keep losing it. But that's what we're doing. We did four and a half hours fasted cardio yesterday. I did two hours over two and a half hours of it today after lifting before eating breakfast. Everything in my diet is very high fiber other than a little bit of animal protein. Okay. All clean, almost no saturated fat, right? All healthy fats, predominantly healthy starchy carbohydrates, lots of vegetables, right? Tubers, whole grains. So, we'll keep getting leaner, especially with that activity level, especially all the fasted cardio. We are I am getting leaner. So, we just keep it going. But these felt good. I managed to get tens. The most I've ever got is 12 with this, but I feel like I'm maybe a little out of practice. I'm going to get stronger and stronger at this. Let's see if we can get the 90 pounds to a deeper range of motion by just continuing to hammer that shoulder position. I think the pull-ups are going to help. That's another reason I need to do those pull-ups. I feel like they put me into a position where it really really uh stretches those shoulders out. And I'm hoping it will open it up. I think a lot of it is I've got to open up stuff like my soio process and everything. It has to be stretched more and more. But again, we got three sets of 10 with these. They were hard. I paused them near the end more. So, I kind of hit it at 10. So, I want to get to where I can get these deeper and build build these. If I can build these to 20 with a deeper range of motion really, I think we're going to be really jacked in the muscles that are involved anyways. So, I don't need to be able to go heavier and use the barbells and stuff. And those feel good. It also works my grip. I get free grip training there. Um, so then I'm like, well, since I did chins, I'll do easy bar curls. They look good for the camera. They feel good. I feel all the brachiialis on these a lot. It's one reason I like to do them. They do look better for the camera, but I realistically the pull-ups plus a straight bar is probably the better combination. And then finish with some incline curls some days, work on the end of days, I feel like my biceps have it, and then maybe some bands. So, that's what I did at the end. Um, really my biceps were getting really fatigued here. I wish realistically I wish I had went ahead and done incline curls or more band curls at the end afterwards. So, again, everything went good with it. I just wish I had done more bicep work and I wish I'd done pull-ups, right? Otherwise, I was really happy with the work. I was happy with how that go. I'm gonna be honest. I really thought I was scared that because of the way the widowmakers have been going, my 405 squat was going to be hard and it wasn't a max at all. I'm like, "Wow." So, I can come in and just hit some training maxes like those. And some days I may take them a little heavier, you know, all good. All good based on how we feel. But I did these to failure. I got right at like 13 reps. Um, so we hit failure on them all three sets and then I finished up afterwards with one set of band curls to failure. So, you know, we still got seven sets for biceps and it's like, okay, that still puts me at 20 for the week at least if we count this as a third of it because we'll do more. But I do want to I'm going to turn into a curl guy. Lots and lots and lots of curls. Feel like I need to live on curls. Like even if I lost muscle everywhere else and lived on curls, I'd be in a really good place in terms of at a lighter body weight later, right? Curls, curls, curls. Um, so again, overall though, other than the one thing I could have done different, happy with the workout. Really happy with how the DadBot strength standard felt. Pretty light. Again, none of it felt like true maxes. So happy with that given this point in the cut. uh need to get the waistline tighter and tighter and tighter though. It only comes through losing fat. Uh so I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.