Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a GPP workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, really just did three basic exercises in a one set of abs and called [snorts] it a day again. Um, a little tired today. U not, you know, feeling 100% just a little bit of sleepiness. So I'm like, let's get up. Let's do do some of this. I actually had a little bit of chest arms today. Um, but I'm like, yeah, I still want to get out, do a little bit of conditioning work. So, I did three rounds of my sled sprints. Um, so that again, I do get my heart rate up, get a little bit of higher intensity stuff in. So, again, I like to do that. So, I did three of those today. Um, so I'd like to limit my other stuff, but really this was the most important thing today. This and the medball tosses um kind of kind of staples for me. So, the medball throws, but for this, I feel like I do need this because I don't do a whole lot of squat volume. And so for my legs, uh, the sled work really, really helps. Like I feel like my legs have just continued to fill back out. Uh, cuz I had cut again quite a bit, dropped some body weight down, and my squat and everything dropped, and I've been bringing it back up. And I feel like my squat is coming back to a respectable level now. And I feel like since I've been adding this all the sled sprints back in, it's really worked wonders for building my legs. Now, a lot of it is probably the squatting because even though I do three sets, they're three really hard sets. like I usually rep out, you know, 405. Like right now, I'll do a limit set with 405, uh, you know, on a high bar squat. So, again, uh, you know, hit as many reps as I can on it. But the the sled work really, really I feel like helps me a lot, particularly things like my calves. You know, occasionally get people who go, "What are you doing for your calves? They look, you know, I've had someone say the other day, your calves are getting bigger again. They were always big, but I think they've grown." And I'm like, "This is it. I mean, this is pretty much what I do. sleds. Some of the jumping helps a little, but I don't always jump. Sometimes I do other stuff in place of of jumping. So, it's not like every week I do the box jumps. I did them today, though. Uh, but, you know, in in terms of my overall uh leg work, I mean, my sleds, this is a big part of it, and it doesn't take that much. Like, three rounds of sprints like this, do this two or three times a week, uh, really fills my legs out quite a bit. And again, the same idea. I'm wanting to trim down a little leaner from here. Uh, so I'm trying to tighten the diet down. So doing all this fasted again gets that that energy turnover up, right? We're going to burn through more calories throughout the morning. So I fast in the mornings. I just drink black coffee all morning. Um, and I like to do all my training fasted. So I did five sets of medball throws here. I know we call them tosses is technically the term, but I like to think of them as throws because we talk about jumping and throwing. Um, but I I sometimes call them bedball throws instead, which it still is a form of throwing. So, I like these a lot. So, I was been starting with sets of three and I've worked up to sets of five because I can't really get a heavier medball. I Well, the only one I have is a 30 pounder, which is heavier than most med balls apparently. Uh, not really much out there that we can get that's going to be um, you know, significantly heavier than that. It's not it's not that common. very few companies make anything bigger and so for most of them 25 to 30 is the upper limit. Um but I I like the the medball throws. Um so again I built up to fives on these. So I just did a five five sets of five with it. Um and so the idea here I feel like for me they help with my shoulder mobility. I feel like that I feel a lot of shoulder activation in delts. I feel like they help with my delts which is something I do need to need to bring up a little bit. Um, but again, because I've I still can't fully lock overhead work again yet. Um, I feel like for me, this helps with my overhead mobility because I have to throw over my head and it it goes into a dynamic position for that because stretching doesn't just doesn't do anything for me. Those no type of stretching for me as a lifter has ever done anything to increase flexibility at all. Uh, but dynamic type movements like that do tend to help, you know. So, like doing pullovers, for example, got me to where I could do pull-ups again in spite of those old shoulder impingements, which are overuse injuries I had a few years ago. Um, this stuff does seem to help. And again, it's a it's a great full body power exercise. So, if we look at what we're doing here, the sleds build legs. This is full body. So, again, we're we're getting higher force production. So, this is explosive, the other's conditioning. Um, so again, builds power through the whole body, right? again trains the body to go as one unit. So then we'll do the box jumps to get force production in the legs. So if we start looking at this um we're going to get improved uh squatting and stuff from the quad and leg development from the sled work. Um as far as this goes, this will carry over to to power on things like our deadlift because of the the start position and and it being a hip hinge type movement. and then we'll do the box jumps to improve uh you know power production in the legs. So when I by the time I got to the box jumps I felt on the second set a little wobbly. It's kind of like ah my force production was down. I was landing a little funny. So I ended up doing for those just three sets of box jumps and then called it a day. Um but I did one set of hanging leg raises afterwards. I did say I do want to do the leg raises. I feel like the extra ab works good again. Uh plus it's free grip training, right? It's free grip training. But you'll see in the footage here the I may not talk through the rest of it. Um a little talked out on this, but I did three three sets of five on the box jumps on my just my 24in box. I did a set of hanging leg raises. So again, building a little bit of conditioning, a little bit of just power type work today. Uh so I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.