Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and once again it is time for a GPP or general physical preparedness workout. If you guys would give me a quick like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it. Um, obviously I did a quick run this morning first, so I wanted to do just a little bit of general physical preparedness. A lot of people don't understand what that means. It's strength-based conditioning to where you'll get some muscle growth, some performance carryover, but we just want to be generally physically prepared and it doesn't need to be structured. And I think people need to understand this. Um, so I I started it off with my box jumps. I just did three sets of five on the 24inch box. Um, so again, just getting a little bit of jumping in. Um, I like jumping. I think box jumps and plyometrics are useful in general for athletes, for power lifters, for everyone else. Um, so again, I like starting off with these. I know a lot of really high level coaches who agree with me. They've actually even chimed in on my posts on this on occasion. Um, so again, just a useful tool. And so again, don't do them for super high reps, though. Um, I do up to fives. A lot of times I'll do 10 triples. I've done that in the past, but I'm just I'm doing up to five now. We could argue that it'd be better if I just did tripbles with even shorter breaks. Um, just because again, you don't want to develop fatigue on box jump. This is how people get hurt. These are for explosiveness, right? And we jump on a box uh to avoid landing on the ground. That's why we jump up because you get all the benefits of a jump, right? And then you stand back up on the box, right? You get all those neurological benefits. And then what happens? You land on the box and stand up. So you're not landing on the ground and risking rupturing an Achilles tendon. It's a safety thing. And I use a foam box for a reason. Also safer. Hey, wooden and metal boxes are great till you get clumsy. You guys remember with the wooden box, I used to do kettle bell jumps. I used to like hold a kettle bell in a front squat or goblet squat position and I would jump up on the box till I hit my wooden box one day doing that and I ripped about 10 inches of skin off my shin. My shin was bleeding, guys. Remember, although this was years ago, you know, I learned a valuable lesson that day. All right. Um afterwards, I decided to do some farmers walks. I did these a couple days ago. I haven't done these in years. I still have these handles. You know, I have these little mini handles. And I mean, I could do the same thing with my the trap bar. I've always said that's the one use. I think trap bar deadlifts are kind of dumb. I don't like them. I don't see a point, but walking with a trap bar makes makes some sense to me. It' be a valid use. Um I did three rounds of this last time. Like today I decided to do, you know, just four rounds of it. Um again, lights my grip up. Good trap work, good grip work. Um just good overall conditioning. I had someone I put this up earlier and some people on the tubes uh were like, "Why are you wearing a belt?" understand a belt is for bracing, guys. It's just good bracing. It helps with the bracing. Um, and as far as shoes go, shoes don't improve your training response in any way. So, people don't understand why I train in general barefoot. I live and people can't say, "Oh, you can't afford shoes to squat in." I have multiple pairs of weightlifting shoes. You guys have seen them, right? I have Addi Powers. I have Powerlift Twos. I've got Chucks. I've got all these things. There are benefits to training barefoot. And the same thing for all of our other cardio for our running. There's benefits to barefoot. Stronger feet, stronger ankles. With a belt, we're getting potentially slightly better um neural drive, right? The bracing of the core, okay? Will improve things like grip strength and stuff. And that's what people are not understanding on this. They're like, I don't understand. Things like the core bracing are going to give you better overall stability on this. Okay? It's going to give you again a higher neural drive. It's going to give you a things like a stronger grip while you're doing this. So that's going to then carry over a potential training response. Now, is it going to be massive? Probably not. But I think we can make a case here for this. And you see this um even with strongman competitors. Like I think I thought it was really weird someone commented on that and they're not understanding. But really, you go watch all the strongman guys, even if they do the weighted carry, they wear a belt because it helps them with the weighted carry. Again, just better bracing, better neural drive. People can not like it all they want. And here's what I say. If someone really doesn't like what I do in my training, they can eat an entire bag of dicks. Not just one, the whole bag. All right, that's my response. So again, I'm going to do what I'm going to do. And as I point out to people, I'm about to turn 49. You guys see me doing six reps with 500 lb on a deadlift with chalk and a belt. I do rep work with 315 on the pause bench. I did 17 reps with 225 yesterday. I get out and run barefoot. I do conditioning work. You know how insanely rare anybody my age doing any of this is? So just stop. I don't want to hear it. Right? Unless you are coaching clients in my age who are doing as well as I am, I'm just really not interested in your ass opinions. I'm just not. I get it if you're not making people say, "Well, I'm not old enough to to be there." Okay. Well, put up your 45 and 50 year old clients. I want to see 12 of them at my level. And if not, then shut up. All right. Next, we're done. All right. That being said, um I decided to throw my bed ball. I just did a few. I haven't messed with it. I'm like, man, I sitting there collecting dust. I'm doing GBP. Let me try to potato flop this ball around a little bit, you know, like that was kind of fun. Did a few then I went over. I wanted to get over to the sled work. I wanted to do a couple rounds of sled today. So, I'm like I'll do the ball a few times. I'll mess with the ball more coming up. I'm just like, let me just break it out and just see how it feels. Throw it a few times. You know, it's all good. We had a little fun with it, right? Uh yeah, I could mess with the ball more with a little bit of throws and and throwing stuff. You know, you can do different types of throws. You can also press it up the air and throw it and catch it. And you know, honestly, that might be worth messing with some too because of again the overhead press situation. I do wonder if that like throwing the ball up and then catching it back down with the eentric would help with that. So, I did on the sled work, I did two rounds of these. I did I push it down and then I kind of sprint on the way back. So, I did a couple rounds because I'm not doing it on the lifting days, you know. I'm not doing it on the lifting days now because I want to just lift and then adapt to that and I want to do most of my conditioning on separate days now because I lift three days a week. You know, I can do two, three, maybe I don't know if I want to do four. I feel like I need a rest day. Even if I do do a quick jog, I kind of do need a rest day from anything super strenuous. once a week isn't a bad idea, but I mean I can do it on other days, but it's like I don't have to do just one round of Let's do a couple. I could do two. I could do three if I really feel like it. So, I did a couple rounds. Um, and then I did some band press downs. Mainly because again, my triceps need work. I'm at the end. I'm like, let's just do some band press downs and this will be the last thing and they'll have a full day off tomorrow. Um, I know I might be overtraining them a little, but that's okay. that never prevented me from getting benefits from them in the past. I used to do like 20 sets a week at these things almost uh when I was close gripping 365 and they I feel like they were possibly a factor. Um you know just in my tricep lockout strength and my tricep recovery. Um so again I like band press downs and I feel like doing them on some of these days is fine. I don't have to. I could limit it to just the the other day. Um, but I just felt like doing them today at the end of my GPP. Now, that being said, I probably could have just done some other conditioning stuff instead. But I'm like, it's it's a little high rep stuff at the end. Why not? It's GPP. Let's just do whatever we want. We don't have to program or plan it. We're just getting conditioned. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.