Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and it's time for another bicep workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, so what I'm doing here, it's going to keep overloading. I had been running this for quite a few workouts to where just kind of doing a 20 rep uh double progression, but I'm like, you know, I don't necessarily have to go that high, right? I think as long as I'm keeping the reps pretty dang high, tendons will be fine. I want to keep pushing progression. So, uh, I bumped the weight a little bit today. Went up to 80. I started doing these at 65. I got like 15 reps and then built them up to 20s, over 20, and then just kept adding 2 and a2 pounds, 2 and 12 lbs. Um, now that we're doing just two really hard sets three times a week, taking them to failure. I rest paused the second set here, but I went up even though I only got what was it 18 or so? I think it was 18 last time. I added the 2 and 12 pounds and it went down to 18. I'm like, let's add another two and a half. All right. So, I got 15 and then I squeezed out 16. Now, I I hit failure on the 15. I didn't have another rep. So, on this the second set, I got there. I'm like, let me just rest a couple seconds. Let me just dig in. Rest. Pause it. Squeeze out one more rep if I can. And I And I did. So, we know we're reaching failure there. Like, again, let me be clear. I didn't have another rep. I failed. I just I don't have another rep. But couple deep breaths. Dig in. Squeeze one more right there. Dig in. Barely bar. I couldn't even almost get it up there. And then down. And that's the idea. So again, I got 15 and then 16. Now, all things considered, from when I started doing this, uh, I'm up 15 pounds for the same number of reps. On a small exercise, smaller exercise like a curl. Um, that's pretty significant. So, I'm just going to maintain this trend. I may keep it at 80 here for just a bit and see if we can get the reps up. Try to get reps. Squeeze out every extra rep I can and just keep slowly trickling and adding up the weight. Right? It's what we need to do. U progressive overload. All right. Biceps are going to be prioritized. They're going to be prioritized. So, again, need to get leaner, get my arms bigger. And I feel like with the rest of it, I'd like my bench to get up, but I do know my legs, my back, everything is fine. They don't really need to be bigger. If they'll get a little bigger, not a big deal. I mean, I'm still training them. We're going to do a set for lower body. All three of the main workouts. We're going to do a set of weighted pull-ups to failure. All the workouts, they're still being worked. They don't need a whole lot of priority. They're already as big as I really ever need them to be. But I mean, if we can get more growth, we can get more growth. But just kind of push the arms a little more. And it's still all low volume, but I'm also uh slowly chipping down body fat. So again, uh we're only going to gain so much. But if I want to focus on the weak areas and it really be the arms, but like I said, I do want my bench up. And I mean, we're up to pretty good reps with that 225. Um the dips are up. We've hit tons of PRs on all that. So the bench may be up a little bit. I don't know. We'll have to see eventually, but but nothing really special here. I just did my two sets to failure, increased weight. Um, and I'm just going to keep pushing, keep pushing, keep pushing, just get stronger at the curls for the high rep work. I mean, just force the arms to grow. You know, as CT Fletcher said, I command you to grow. So, just keep working consistently. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys next time.