Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here once again it is time for a bench press and upper body day but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciated. Uh if you are not following or subscribe please do so and also drop me a comment down below if you would be so kind it can be to say hello give your thoughts um I would appreciate that also. Thank you so much. All right so um I started with 315. This is what I kind of said I want to do. I just want to start working top sets with 315. I want to get this back to five plus reps. If I can get it to where I can get five plus reps, I may go over to all my sets with 315. All right. I mean, how how solid would that be to be doing three sets of five plus at 315 on on chest days and upper body days? Be really good. Uh but what I did after that, I'm like, let's just do three sets. when I look at everything kind of where I want to go um with a lot of this I want about three direct sets twice a week uh for every major muscle group if I'm not even counting the squat or the deadlift towards it right I'm going to take those top sets kind of out for some of that mass so those will still end up being sets I mean they they put a lot of muscle on you um but for everything else three direct sets now there's going to be splash over why you know bench press and dips whenever I rotate those around they hit triceps say they hit front delts, they hit all that. All right. Um, most of my tricep exercises I'm doing right now technically hit chest and stuff. So, what we have to remember there's a lot of spillover, especially if I'm going to do back like I don't want to row on my lower days and have to deadlift the next day. I feel it affects me. Uh, kind of going to be that case of I'll count pull-ups as lats and I'll count rows as upper back. So if we start doing stuff like that, people need to realize this three sets turns into a lot more than three sets. And that's fine because look at all the data we have on muscle growth. Again, even the high volume people are admitting, you know, five sets a week grows muscle. So in this case though it's really let's say six sets not even counting the squad or deadlift work but then there's tons of splash over right tons of splashover. We going to claim these pull-ups don't work biceps at all. I feel a ton of bicep on pull-ups. All right so pull-ups. Um I decided to go heavier today. I did a 45. I'm like I want to just get really good at doing these with a 45 pound plate. And I don't care what anyone thinks about how I do them. I can get five reps. It lights my lats up, right? This style of pull-up has always built crazy wide lats for me. Why? Because we get the stretch at the bottom. And I think people forget that. They're always like I don't try to swing up over. There's no lat involved with that. Okay, keep that in mind. I have long arms. I have big lats. My scapula pinched together. It's not your lats involved. like you're completely removing the lats if you try to swing up over the bar. So, I don't care with the wide grip. This takes the lats themselves, the scapula itself to its full range of motion. It's it's a light exercise and it works really well. So, why do these instead of chins? I've had to ask that question. I'm like, I could do chins. I'm like mainly because I need my upper back and rear delts to grow and I don't want to come in and do 57 sets of isolation. I want to be able to do one shoulder exercise and kind of be done with it. So, what happens there? Those wide grip pull-ups do work my rear delts and everything. It does work a lot of that. Okay. And it's better for my shoulder health. Um, that's one thing I do note. Wide grip pull-ups seem to really open up my shoulders. They help with my shoulder health a lot. I personally feel like, especially that stretch at the bottom. All right. So, the same thing here. I didn't do normal pullovers. I went back to laying extensions today, which is an exercise I've been pushing hard. However, on this, instead of trying to to shorten the range of motion to get 12 plus or so, I can go heavier, I did the 110 because it's a 20 lb bar in the middle. And I'm like, let's focus on getting that deep extension at the bottom. Let's really turn it into a pullover also. So, kind of what I had done with lighter weight, I had done that with about 90 lbs, right? You guys remember when I was doing that and I was getting 12 plus reps and then I went back up. So, now it's like, let's focus on that stretch. So notice that my hips come up a little bit, right? You see everything's stretching just like we would on a pullover. So in this case, it's me taking this through my fullest range of motion. Let's really stretch it. Um, this is a big compound for me. Like this is like doing a pullover at the bottom. It really feels identical to a pullover, just that I'm getting a lot more lateral and medial tricep because I'm doing an extension with it. So my laying extension really is like a pullover and extension when I do them this way. Um, it's technically a compound movement. I feel chest on it. Obviously, the triceps feel the most work because they are doing the most work, but my chest gets a pump. Now, my triceps feel like they've been hit with a sledgehammer. Like, when I do this, man, my triceps by rep three, they feel beat. Like, I was almost scared I'm getting tendonitis. I'm like, man, it hurts that area. But then it feels okay now, so I'm good. That's one reason I didn't do them for a bit. That whole tendon area is a little tender. So, I've been putting the massage unit on it, but it's feeling okay right now. So, I feel like let's just push these. That's why I did the pullovers last time, but we really are doing a compound with this. We really are, aren't we? And it is working chest and it is working lats, even though it's a tricep dominant. It's a big compound. Will it improve my bench? I think so. Especially if the bench the lockouts are where I'm a little weak, which is where I still feel soft even with that bad pinkies inside the rings. I should be clear on that. I'm doing pinkies inside the rings. So, this is not a wide grip bench for me. So, we need to be clear. When I said I was going back to closed grip, I did go back to closed grip. Everything feels good. And now I've realized I can't be doing that pinkies outside the rings. I can't be doing my my pointer finger on the rings like I was doing. My shoulders don't like it. Let's not do it. Um, and it feels good. So, I want to keep working off that. Then I can rotate some really close grip back in, too, and assess where it's at and just keep hitting the triceps hard. Um, I did easy bar today. I did incline curls last time. I really like incline curls, but man, they hurt. They hurt so bad. I felt like I couldn't move my arms after. So, I don't I didn't want to do that today. I'm like, I got some stuff I need to get done today. Let's just do an easy bar, which felt really good. I got a great bicep pump. You know, here's the thing, and I think when it comes to some of these isolation movements, we can get over obsessive. Like, is the muscle we're working doing 90% of the work? Yes. Okay. I'm not cheating. I'm taking it through a full range of motion. Yes, the brachiolis is getting hit a little bit. Definitely being hit, but are we going to say the biceps not working? The biceps doing its full range of motion. I'm locking the elbows and I'm bringing it all the way up to the face. Yeah, biceps definitely doing the brunt of the work. I think we overthink these things. Now, I'd still like the incline curl. I want to do a lot of incline curls still, but I just felt like today, let's just do this, right? Did the biceps get a good workout today? I felt biceps even on the pull-ups. Definitely felt them on that. They got plenty of work and they got worked hard. So then for this what I am doing because I want the upper back shelf better and I do need a shoulder exercise. I'm leaning forward onto that incline bench just a little bit. Okay, this prevents me from cheating. I can't cheat and keep in mind that incline is at the highest inclination. So, it's really like a 90° incline and I'm just leaning against it. So, what does this do? Removes the ability to cheat. Takes some of the front delt out to get a little more side delt. Okay. So, that's why I started doing these last time. Um, obviously they're harder. I can't do like 14 15 reps like I can cheat with this weight normally. 10 is like a literally fail. It's all I have. So, it works well. Um, but it fills the shoulder light up. And I do need that side. I feel like for me, rear delts and triceps and side delts probably do need to come up the most visually for me at this point. Um, and I know that, but we're getting the tricep work with what we're doing. We're just not overtraining any of it. That's the main thing. And then I decided I want to start doing hanging leg raises again. Why? I feel like I need to have work and I need the grip training quite frankly. Plus, it's good for my shoulders. So, by adding these back in, I get extra grip training every day. I felt like my grip felt a little squishy on the deadlift this week. So, let's make sure we're getting the grip work. Let's make sure we're getting the ab work. So, I'm going to start throwing these in at the end of every workout. But, really happy with today's session. Everything felt great. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.