Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here representing Jason Baja Strength and Fitness. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, we greatly appreciate it. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it. All right, let's get over to the training. Um, full body workout, of course. Um, doing the beltless squats. And yes, I know with this lighting, man, the loose skin really, really shows. But that's okay. I'm just going to keep doing it beltless on camera. Just going to let it happen. What's interesting though, once the lighting and the sun comes up, it like shrinks. It's just hilarious. But, um, again, as I continue to get leaner, it will tighten up. I did notice it has started to kind of hold a little more water in there with all the running I'm doing. And I had someone already say, "Oh, that doesn't make any sense." No, it's cordial, dude. I've been adding lots of running. Um, but again, uh, I feel like I'm losing body fat, you know, because it's getting squishier and softer, all of it. Uh, but over to the squats. Um, the beltless squats. These have been tough. In the first set or two, I feel nothing but back, right? So, I'm even I'm taking a a stance. So, that that deemphasizes the back a little bit. But once I got into it, it became less less fatigue. Like the 365, the 315, all of that. It felt like nothing but low back. But then as we got to 385, 405, I could I could tell I was engaging my core better. But I am going to live on app work. So, I think something I definitely am doing. Um, I did several sets of hanging leg raises yesterday. Um, I did a set on camera today. My off days, I'm going to just go really hard on the hanging leg raises. And I'm not going to do any other lifting outside of that. So, I haven't included some band press downs in here um at the end because I want to do no lifting on my running days. I want it to be all cardio. I want to get all the real lifting in on these three days. We can go hard. We're just going to push the squat, bench, deadlift, and then my accessory work, which is mainly going to be, you know, pull-ups and overhead work and then abs, but jump. We're going to do jumping. Um, so the 405 felt decent. Um, I didn't want to go heavier, but I am going to keep working that. And I feel like for me, yeah, I mean, I've built up to like a 500 squat beltless before just doing singles. So, again, I think I can get away with that with this on the full body. I'm going to have to do a fair number of them and I may do some paw squats and stuff. Uh, but yeah, we're going to push um, you know, benching and overhead. So, I think the thing is just specificity of training. While I continue to get leaner, go to lighter body weights, I really want my big three to be big, but I do feel like, you know, again, aesthetically, stomach vacuums, obviously getting leaner and leaner and leaner. If you like the pull-ups, the overhead work, all that are what I'm going to really need to focus on. Um, and again, the other thing I'm reminding people so that I can get the overhead back in, I've removed all supine grip stuff. We're going to just chill with all curls. I'm going to let just pull-ups build build the biceps because again we had old footage, old training footage, old stuff to where my arms were actually pretty proportionate and I wasn't doing any real arm work, nothing supine grip. The only arm was a little bit of hammer curls. Um it was just pressing pressing pressing dips. So I feel like at this point um I can get back to even that arm size lighter, right? Just doing the same sort of stuff. Uh, but for the benching, we did a good solid pause triple at 315. Uh, then I did two sets of five with 275. So that the main thing here is the pausing. Also, I'm going to continue to do these poses so we can see where I'm at to hit the vacuums and then do that. So, as again, as you guys can tell, once the waistline tightens up and we get leaner and leaner, um, like I think everything's going to be in a pretty good place. Um, so I'll end up looking obviously a lot better, but at this point it really is it's just going to be about athletic type aesthetics. So I have to obviously get leaner. We have to keep getting weight down under 200 lb. And I don't think I'm ever going to stop working on just chiseling away at body fat at this point. It needs to just be an indefinite thing. I can probably get leaner every month for the next two or three years. Focus on just lean gains recomposition. I'm probably never going to try to gain weight again at any point. not going to do even a lean bulk. Probably not necessary, but I am going to push my big three against specificity of training um and then do the other stuff that we need to do. But the benching felt really good. Um deadlift, uh again, I know it's only triples and 500. These are hard, but keep in mind, number one, it's beltless. Number two, we're using a stiff bar. So it is a it is a different beast because people are like man I remember you doing triples at you know 545 550 earlier in the year. Well sure it was before cutting down to a lower body weight and it was with a deadlift bar and it was with a belt you know so throw on a belt and a deadlift bar is a pretty good numbers but I competed um I people need to remember I've pulled like 570 in comp without a belt before previously. Um, I've squatted four 486 I believe it was without a belt before, you know. Uh, but jump work though, this is going to be the other key with the squat. People will say, "Well, is the singles going to be enough?" Only we do this and I'll work some sleds back in eventually. I want to keep the running on point. And again, I feel like based on old muscle memory, I've built up to like 500 off of singles before. So, I feel like the muscle memory will still be on my side, but I feel like I do need the box work along with the heavy singles, the jumping because it does carry over to my squats for me a lot. So, I upped the volume on this. I just been doing three sets. I did six today. So, we just did uh six triples. Again, super short breaks. These are like 20 seconds apart, maybe. You know, just turn the camera off for 10 seconds. Come back, turn it back on, go repeat the rounds. So, again, uh six triples. They all felt good. Obviously, um I'm getting proficient at doing these again and I feel for me they carry over to the squats, but at this point really the squats it's going to be limited by my ability to brace right now. Um again, doing the beltless stuff, but I feel like I need to do the beltless. And you know what? Doing all of it beltless will motivate me since it's on camera, everyone's looking at the loose skin, the waistline. It's going to motivate me to keep uh keep working on getting leaner, right? I've got some extra incentive. uh because haters are gonna hate and my god do they hate. So uh the box jumps and then as far as the pull-ups go uh I've really thought about it as far as do I want to do the neutral or do I want to do the overhand and I just feel like it's not going to tax my biceps to do the neutral. In fact, I was doing lots of neutral grip pull-ups and stuff when I used to do the when I was really strong at all the overhead pressing, right? Way back in the day when I used to do tons of it. I did lots of neutral grip pull-ups, no problems. I just wasn't curling. I wasn't doing really chints and I wasn't doing supine grip curls. And remember, the overuse that I had came from doing chin-ups. So, I'm like, I think I can do neutral grip. But here's the other thing. Look at the lockout. Those are hanging reps. Okay, this tells us a lot about what's going on with the biceps still. What? These are hanging, guys. That's my full range of motion. So, this is also what we're dealing with in terms of the the mobility. It's elbow and shoulder and it's all bicep overuse. So, I've got to just completely remove supine stuff. And I think I can get away with neutral grip. Neutral grip is easiest on the shoulders, too. So, another reason I'm going to use dumbbells for the overhead pressing for now. Let's just let all of that area completely heal and get the inflammation down. So, we're going to avoid chins, going to avoid curls. This should be enough for my biceps for now. As long as I keep focusing triceps though, I think we'll be good. All the pressing and we'll do some band work. Um, people will probably ask why the band work. I'll get to that in a minute. I feel like I can get away with it and it helps me get a 365 close grip bench before. Okay, so it made my triceps really strong before and it's good for the the tendons and I'm hoping it'll help with the the inflammation. Like I'm hoping it'll help me to lock out better. So, the same thing. I can't really lock even the dumbbells here. But I'm like, let's try them one arm. Like, let's just get a heavier dumbbell. Let's clean it up and see if we can just do some one arm ones today. All right. Just clean it up and uh work on the one arm ones and do what I can. But I feel like doing them one arm at a time will let me rotate into whatever angles will let me get the closest to a lockout. And it's going to be the most shoulder joint friendly because I need the overhead work. And even if I can't do a barbell yet, I can do these with a dumbbell. Okay, at least I can do something. And then we're still getting the upper chest. We're getting the whole shoulder girdle, more tricep work. And we're working on that overhead position. Even if I can't get in with a barbell and do a tree one yet, eventually we will. I'm going to keep working it. Keep working it. Um I feel like even the the hanging leg raises on the off days will help put more stretch there. And I'm just gonna leave the biceps alone. I feel like even for me, just the pull-ups three times a week and make sure my biceps do nothing else. I'll even do pull-ups on the off days, leave them alone. Only do stuff that maybe stretches it because it is tightness. Like I can tell even even uh at the tendon insertion at the elbow, there's still tightness there. All right, hanging leg raises. These are getting stronger. Probably only reason the beltless squatting felt a little better today. Um did a couple sets of these yesterday. I was able to get 10 today with the total bars. So as I continue to hammer these and I used to do tons of these. I was I am going to keep doing these every day. Let's train abs every day. Plus think about what's happening there with the shoulders. Right? We're rotating that shoulder into that position trying to train that lock out. So that's going to help all the way around. It'll help with all my weak links. And then I just burned out three sets to failure of band press downs. Obviously, I lost reps every set cuz these were short breaks. But the other thing here, um, since I'm doing no real tricep work other than the pressing, which should be enough in theory at this point, I do want to just come in and make sure my triceps are getting something. Um, even this is just blood flow, even recovery tendons. But the other thing, I'm training that lock out with the elbow. I'm forcing the triceps to get strong to lock into that because I'm going to have to get through that point. And at this angle, I feel like I can almost lock it down here compared to overhead. It's still not 100%, but any position we can train those elbows to lock and get stronger at doing it, it's going to help me. I want to do everything to restore that overhead because I feel like that's going to take me back up when I can start overhead pressing 225 again to go with all this other athletic stuff we're doing and get leaner and that's going to put really put me where I want to be. So, it has to be a priority also. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.