Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here once again. It is time for an upper body day. And quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you would be kind enough to drop a comment down below, I'd greatly appreciate it. Thank you so much. So, what I'm going to do here now that I've kind of got this program uh kind of dialed in where I want it, I'm going to start working the volumes back up to kind of my optimal volumes, which is about that 12 set of muscle group per week. Um, which again, historically, I did really well on where I was my strongest. But I'm going to do it while I'm cutting. So, what I'm going to try to do is focus on really good form, uh, good ranges of motion on stuff, trying to maximize hypertrophy while still staying heavy enough on my squat, bench, and deadlift to keep some strength stimulus in. So, it's going to be power building because we're going to do lowish reps on these. You know, you know, stuff in about the three to six rep range on the squat, bench, and deadlift. My other stuff, we're going to try to go a little heavier. We're going to try to go, you know, 6 to 10, 6 to 12 on most of the other exercises. um trying to keep them below about 12. So trying to max it at around 10. So I'm going to do that. Keep this all optimal. Try to keep tension as high as possible. Try to create as much stimulus as I can um while doing the two hours of cardio, eating really low fat. But I'm staying really really heavily carbed up, electrolyted up. And the point behind that, I want to stay full. I want to stay hydrated so that we can stay as anabolic as possible. not worry about dropping water weight like we might do with lower carbs and lowering sodium because I don't care. I just need to get leaner, not create a fake leanness. Okay, so that means I need I need to be very very hydrated. I need glycogen stores. I need hydration. So we're so we're hitting that. So for the bench today, I just did the 275 because I know I can usually I can get six reps with that. Paused. The last set though, it felt a little tough. So, I only got five reps because again, I could tell that fatigue was accumulating. So, I tried to get when I got to that fifth rep, I just did a nice nice long pause because I knew I didn't think I'd get a six rep without a grinder because notice the bar moves slower. So, again, trying to leave one rep in the tank there. All right, then we went over to pull-ups. And you guys know in pull-ups, a lot of people don't like how I do pull-ups. I don't care. I have a wide back, big lats. This stimulates my lats. So, I do a wide grip. I try to go to a dead hang at the bottom. And then I just come up to where my scapula touch and wherever my my lats feel comfortable contracted, that's where we go. Okay. So, also I think people forget I can't even touch a bar down to my chest. I can't do a lat pull down to my chest with this grip. Uh but so again, stimulate the lats, get the dead hang, create as much lat stimulus as possible because I'm going to do other movements for the rest of the back. So for me, this exercise really is just about the lats. Obviously, the rear delts and stuff are going to get worked, but I'm not worried about building my traps and other stuff with it. So, I'm not worrying about certain things with the movement, right? We don't try to swing up over um I just keep my chest up. Um try to go to the dead hang. So, I got eight. Hey, then I got like nine on the last one here. So, I'm happy with that. Felt a great uh lat pump, great lat pump, great lat burn. Got a lot of tension on it. So, again, happy with that. Very, very happy with it. So, right around the reps I wanted. I think last time I do this I got only eight. So, it's getting a ninth rep. I'll take it. I'll take it. Um then, of course, you guys saw me do my first cardio session already. After this is up, I'll probably go get a second one in um then get some other stuff done. Uh but again, what I'm going to do here, other than arms, because I'm getting a lot of secondary arm work, I'm just going to do six sets for biceps, six sets for triceps, so we can try to really really focus effectively on them, though. Um, so I'm trying to make sure that every muscle just gets worked thoroughly with the better movements. So for second chest and tricep exercise here. So that's what I mean. It's like that's why I'm like we don't need a ton of tricep work. We have bench in there, but then I have dips. The dips light my triceps up. So this is really I'm counting it as chest, but it is a tricep exercise, too. So for this trying to go as deep as possible. I know previously you guys remember I was doing tens with 90 lbs but I was barely stopping at parallel sometimes a hair above it. So on this I am dropping to my lowest range of motion. So I find that by sometimes the first rep just going down to a pause and then pausing on some of the reps just getting into the deepest stretch that I can go to which is you know definitely well below parallel. My rear delt is definitely below the elbow. And with this eight reps is is my max. I can't get more than eight. I struggle on the eighth rep each time doing that. As you guys notice, I come up and then it's like I'm almost can't get it. I almost have to swing into the top. Um, and I know because I've hit failure on these the other day trying. Actually, I hit failure on rep eight on one of the sets. So, they're pretty much my limit there. But I managed to get all eight. Um, usually I fail there, right there. So, I had did last time, but I managed to get the eighth rep on this one and managed to get it out of the bottom and lock it back out. But if you guys notice on it, some of that I can't quite get there. So I have to jump over and step on the um step on the uh what do we call them? The boxes. So that's what I found too. It allows me to get into the first rep more comfortable if I climb up on the boxes. Uh and then I have room for the plate to drop down between it. So that's what I'm doing. But again, great chest pump. I worked bent over rows back in. Mainly because a lot of people hate on me. They don't like my bent over row form. Mainly because I go to the chest and they're like, "Oh, that's all trap." And it's like, "You guys are crazy. Um, it's an insane idea people have that if you don't swing it to the hips, they want you to swing this all the way up to your crotch. Right now, I take rows all the way up to the chest, to the armpit area. And you know what? I get great back stimulus doing it. And it works your total back. So, let's come back over to, you know, I'm going to do pull-ups for my lats. The barbell row is intended to work the entire back. I want it to work my lats, my rear delts, the entire trap. So, I don't care if my traps get involved, but this is still a lat dominant exercise. So, again, people get silly, but we got sets. The first set I think only got seven. Uh, but the other two I managed to get eight. Um, and I'm doing it fairly strict. And so, yeah, I'm doing 225. 225 for sets of eight. Very, you know, reasonably strict. About as strict as you're going to get on a row that's your body weight or heavier, right? Because again, it's got to balance it. But happy with it, right? Great, great back pump. Felt my back light up from it. Um, nice heavy weight, good tension. And again, not needing straps for it. I'm just raw dogging that. All right. So, on these, I decided to use a straight bar. I want to start doing pullovers here. So, instead of trying to do a full skull crusher, there is a little bend. So, it is a little bit of an extension obviously, but I'm trying to just do a barbell pullover here. So, I'm not going to call it an extension even though there it's partially one. I'm just calling it a pullover. This is just a barbell pullover because it's very looks very similar to my plate pullovers. So, the idea here, treat it just like a pullover, but I can go heavier. I don't have to deal with the plates. So, this is the problem I run into. I'm like, man, I feel like I could I could be stronger. I was have to do the two plates for 12 reps, right? I'm like, I was doing two plates for 12. I'm like, how do I get heavier, though? It's just like gripping that is really difficult. I'm like, let me just do a barbell. Let's just do barbell pullovers. So, I did 12 reps with 95. I'm like, I need more weight on there. So, I went up to 105. Lo and behold, guess what? I got eight reps. And eight reps were hard. The second set of this with it. The first one I did okay the second set because I tried to stretch a little more. I didn't think I was going to get the eighth eighth rep. I'm getting to rep seven. I'm like, am I going to get stuck on the eighth rep? Is it going to stick at the bottom? I don't know if I can actually do it. But we did. And these felt really good. I felt all the benefit of the pullover in the chest and lat. But I felt that tricep big time. So, this is again tricep exercise and it makes sense. Um, because I do have a little bit of elbow bend, there is some lateral and medial head, but the bench press handles that. So, does the dip really well, but this is to make sure I hammer that long head. The dip does work the long head, but not into a lengthen or stretch position. Um, I feel like I'm looking a little leaner there already, even though I haven't dropped scale weight doing all the cardio. We're four days deep, but I'm also um so I would have lost some fat there. Guaranteed there's definitely a deficit, but I'm also hitting the salt and the carbs super hard. Trying to stay hydrated, stay fuller, but I feel like um already I think I'm starting to look a hair leaner there. I just could be me. It could be me. Maybe I'm wrong. You guys can be the judge. But we're going to keep hammering it down. Um these felt great. So again, have the plates became too easy or too, you know, too easy in the sense of I need more weight. So now we go to the barbell. And what sort of goal should we set on this? Man, I I want to get to where I can rep 135. All right, barbell curls. I'm like, let's just do them over here on on the rack, right? And I found the other day, I noticed that I feel really good if I just use a belt on barbell curls. I get better stability on it, right? Just doing the nice strict curl. So, I'm trying to minimize body travel. So, this is about as strict as we're going to get. I'm trying to do it through a full range of motion. So, notice I lock out at the bottom and I bring it all the way up to the face. Why? Because that extension, that rotation of the shoulder is one of the functions of the bicep. And notice I have the wrist back so that we keep tension on the bicep at the top a little bit instead of it unloading. Um, definitely happy with these. This is the way I did them last time. I did them a week ago and then I did incline, but I'm like, let's go back to just the barbell. Let's just keep this all basic. Right. Let's keep this really basic while I'm cutting and just take these basic movements and work it. So, this is all I'm really going to do for biceps. At the moment, I I'm doing pull-ups and rows. It's going to be 12 total sets of those a week. The pull-ups help a little. It's like, let's just push a strict barbell curl. Do a full range of motion. Okay? Master it. Get good at it because it lights my biceps up, too. My biceps felt really good. And I think you guys will be surprised what I do with the delts. So, I feel like if just the arms and the delts come up a little bit while I'm cutting, I'll be in a good place. But that's definitely going to be the other thing I need. I do need that side delt to pop a little bit more as I get leaner also. I think that'll help a lot. I got tons of front delt at this point. But that side and rear delt. So, you guys will see on tomorrow I'm going to do my delt work at the end of the leg workouts. It's just too much upper body stuff here today. This is a lot of work. It's a lot of volume. Lower body is less complicated. So, I can come in and just do 12 sets and hit the entire lower body, right? Really effectively with squats, deadlifts, belt squats, reverse hypers, and then I'll do shoulders tomorrow after. So, then I finish up with one set of hanging leg raises. You guys know why we do these. I've said it many times. So, I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.