 N-ay, A little more deadlifting again, went over to one of the slipperiest bars I have. The grip is now getting used to the daily grip work. Pretty easy triple. I'm going to deadlift every day. I've done that before in the past. People freaked out. I'm going to deadlift every day, but the key is going to be to kind of keep it tame like that. But that triple with, you know, again, one of my bars a little bit thicker than a deadlift bar, not as good a knurl, right? A little bit more difficult. We did a nice little hold at the top on the third rep. The grip doesn't feel as slippery now. One of the things I'm going to note, and this may seem funny, I wonder if it's my hands lately just don't like the liquid grip because I didn't use liquid grip today. Let's use normal chalk. Felt a lot better. I broke out a new block. I have a bunch stored up. I broke out a new block today, used it. Everything felt really tight on the grip. So I also am wondering if my last bottle of liquid grip itself probably. I don't know. It doesn't feel right on my hands lately. They felt slippery. But I could just be making an excuse. But it's just worth noting in the vlog for documentation purposes. And I also kept this shorter. I didn't do the reverse hypers or the rear delta or any of that today because they've been done three days. Some of this have been done multiple times, the reverse hypers. I don't have to do every one of these workouts. I work them in on a lot. But I do think they'll help with this. But the other stuff was good. So the pull-ups we're doing from a dead hang. Pull-ups are being done all from a dead hang now to make sure every rep. And it's going to force me to go a hair lighter. But that's okay. The pull-overs, this is just kind of excelling. So I'm doing these where I'm just doing a couple second pause at each rep. And I'm not trying to do like eight or ten second pause. I'm just trying to get a good couple of seconds. Everyone get the deepest stretch that I can. Work on the mobility. I'm going to just squeeze out 25 reps with the 55. I did 15 yesterday. So this is in a good place. And I'm willing to live with that. Because, again, I also am like, well, I want the pauses. So I need to focus on that range of motion. But I also don't know that doing five, six, eight second pauses is doing everything that I want. This felt really good. So, again, I want to make sure this is going right. Also, this morning before I started training, I went over because I have a bar over in the rack. And I decided to just grab the empty bar and see if I could get like into my squat grip and do a couple of behind the neck presses with the empty one. I cranked out about five reps. And a bunch of stuff popped and crackled. It felt good. It felt good. Like it didn't hurt. And it's like doing nothing crackly now. It's worth noting. Because I used to do behind the neck push presses and stuff. Right? Not just overhead pressing. I used to do that all the time. So it's worth noting that felt really good. I would love to be able to do behind the neck presses again off the traps as I work on the shoulder mobility. But it was interesting to me that felt really good. Because I noticed the other stuff is not feeling as good. All the, when I was doing all the delt isolation, shoulders are not liking it. You know, in terms of just how it feels in terms of shoulder health. But that felt really good. It's also something to be said for the unnatural movements. Like we can argue about laterals and things like that in terms of delt development. But they're not the most natural movement for our body. They really aren't. We're not really intended to isolate stuff a whole lot. Our bodies are not built for that. But all this stuff went pretty good. So hammer curls. So I just did these five movements. One hard set of each. Called it. This is my seventh day training in a row. You know. I'm going to just not take off days. And I've done that before. And I think it'll be fine because of the, how short the workouts are. And I do need to note. I don't recommend this to other people. I don't have any of my clients do this. Couple notes. I'm doing it because I like to train fasted. I feel like it'll help me lean out more. To do something every day. I have certain things I want to work on. And my lifestyle is perfect. So let me be clear. My nutrition. Super, super good. No junk. Massive amount of antioxidants. Omega-3 is everything in my diet. Right. My diet is extremely rich in whole foods. I sleep eight, nine hours a night. Because I work from home. Run a business. Do all my stuff. I can take naps. Right. So it's not the same as people with other stuff. Right. It's not the same as someone who is going and traveling to work. And has all those other stressors. Like I don't have stressors to deal with outside of running all my business. You know, between coaching and social media. Right now. Like my stress is the lowest it's been. Like I have. I don't have non-business stressors at the moment. Yeah. I mean, I've got stressors with business and taxes and other stuff. Right. But that's the entirety of my stress. And my training results. And my training help alleviate that because I make money off all this. So realistically, I'm in a good position. I can sleep as much as I want. Perfect nutrition. I don't have to deal with nonsense. I can get away with this. Right. The dumbbell rows kind of step with the weight from yesterday. I'm able to get eight reps on that. Right. The pullovers, we've got 25. The pull-ups from if I do a dead hang on every rep, I can only get seven reps. But the 45. As opposed to like I've done 10 before. You guys have seen me do seven or whatever the 55. But that's not. That's some touch and go reps and stuff in there. And like the 10 with the 45, they were all touch and go reps. So that'll be a goal to reach towards. Let's see if we can get to 10 reps from a dead hang. Full dead hang every rep. That's a worthy goal to aim for. All right. But the hammer curls have gotten stronger. The other stuff's going up. So overall happy with it. But yeah, we finally pulled something besides just a single with 500. So kind of what I've said, when I can get that bar to five or six reps, my deadlift bar strength is going to be real good again. You know, but I want to build the grip. I want the more difficult bar. I want the harder grip. I want the lack of width there. So using steel plates with a stiffer bar, we have like no bend. Like there's no give at all. It's going to be harder. So I want to build up using that. All right. But overall pretty happy with today's workout. So I hope it's been informative. And I'll talk to you guys and gals next time. All right. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.