Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a general physical preparedness workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, I skipped the sled work today because it's really wet out there still. It was storming if you guys recall during the coffee chat. Um, it was raining pretty hard outside. The rain has stopped, so it seemed like a really good time to go get my GP done. I didn't really want to go down the street, uh, you know, at the sled with it with it wet. So, I stuck to, you know, for the most part, weighted carry and then my explosive stuff. Um, so you guys will see even with the med ball, I did them on the driveway and just mostly hit those pads so that we don't we don't tear the ball up too much. Mainly, I just didn't want to walk in the mud. Didn't want to have the ball splash in the mud, get mud all in my med ball. It's just it's wet out there. Uh, but the weighted carries um, you know, went pretty good. So, I'm also uh, today I'll I'll discuss it further in some of the vlogs and the stuff. I'm going to go ahead for a little bit because I've said look, I'm I'm actually probably just as lean, if not leaner, you know, than I was at certain points last year and people said I looked my best. I was on lower carbs. So, I'm going to go ahead and go over to healthy fats. When I say low carb, I'm going to be doing um a lot of plant-based stuff. It'll be eggs and stuff in there, a little bit of beef, and I'm going to focus really on avocados, nuts, peanut butter, stuff like that. I'm gonna I'm gonna replace the carbs with the healthy fats for a bit and see how I look. I feel like I'm starting to even look a little leaner again now, you know, with what I'm doing. Um, so I've been eating much higher satiety carbs this last week. U but I already know for me it creates a fake illusion of leanness when I drop the carbs down. Um, I mean, I'm looking thick and full and everything and I think even there, uh, I think we can see with the weight of carries, you know, we're in a really, really good place there in terms of, you know, body composition compared to historical blah, meaning I obviously don't look like a bodybuilder, right? I don't look like a bodybuilder. But now that I'm also not trying to do huge amounts of volume, I was doing really high volume even on lower carb. Uh, but I'm not trying to push the running so hard for a moment. I I know based on my own history, I'll do fine. Uh messing with that. I even hit the 500 squad, the 505 box squat, all that stuff, you know, around New Year, you know, still doing that. So, um I think that's what I'm going to do for just a bit. It'll start tomorrow. I I could start it today except I have a bunch of watermelons and cantaloupe left. All right. I want to eat all those today. I'm going to eat those today. About probably close to 2,000 calories worth of fruit. Um I need to go ahead and knock out because I've already bought it. So, I'll eat it this afternoon and then we'll do it tomorrow and then um we'll see what happens. I'll be curious to kind of just see and observe in real time, you know, in the camera if if I'm actually right and within, you know, two weeks I all of a sudden look leaner, you know, even without a calorie deficit. Um, but I do okay on the on the on the higher healthy fats. Uh, so again, just just something I want to want to assess there. But I can see the difference here in some of this. I do look a little leaner. um lately, but obviously I'm not going to be bodybuilder lean, but for me to tighten that waistline up, that's pretty much what I have to do because my waistline and my my gut is always full of carbs. All right, so I think with the fasting and everything, it'll it'll work really well. I've still trained fasted, obviously. Um but it's just something I want to want to assess and mess with again real time. U you know, and see how I feel in terms of of differences in performance. Again, just kind of rotating through those, right? And people forget I have a long history of keto diets, but I don't pro promote at this point the highsaturated fat stuff, right? Or dro dropping carbs to rock bottom, right? There's still going to be some in the the plants, you know, the nut butters and avocados. Uh but let's get over to the training. So, the medball throws um went pretty good here. Obviously, a couple of them they might have missed the mats, but for the most part, it mostly landed on there. And that's that's what I'm concerned with. I don't want to ruin the medball. I won't have to buy a new one already. I won't have to buy a new red ball. Uh cuz I feel like I get a lot out of these, right? I get a lot out of them. Um but it would being wet outside, I wanted to skip the sled. Um you know, and I didn't want to throw this in the mud. Uh so I did, you know, I think five sets of these, right? We did five sets of the medball throws. I feel like they they went pretty good, right? They went pretty good. They felt good. They took a little longer because for each one, I didn't just walk over and pick it I had to rewalk it back over to the front so that I could toss it behind me and hopefully, you know, hopefully try to land on the mats. And I feel like, again, I did a pretty good job targeting where they're going to land, you know? So, I'm I'm getting to the point where I just have good control and coordination when throwing this thing, right? I feel like I have a lot of control with it. Feel like I have a lot of control with it. But I'm out here in the sun in the natural lighting. It's always kind of interesting to see how we look different there, right? But you guys see what I mean. take the belt off, you know, with the belt on, everything looks looks quite a bit leaner, but it's like the waistline has to tighten up because I have the loose skin and obviously I hold water in there. Um, but again, as I continue to focus on getting stronger because I'm doing rep work with like 325 on the bench, I do, you know, rep work with 500 to 550 on the deadlift and so on. Um, my strength has come along really, really well, right? I'm happy with where a lot of that has gone, you know, this year after cutting some. So, it's like, okay, that's in a really good place. Let's see if I can get a hair leaner while sustaining it or hopefully maybe increasing it. And I feel like now that I'm keeping the training volumes low, I'm recovering well. I think we're going to see me continue to grow because again, I've assessed kind of what happens with the arms. I overtrain my arms and I need to just focus on high quality sets with progressive overload and just great tension and keep those volumes down low. So, I think I'm going to I am going to do an extension and a curl every main workout. One hard set pretty much to failure. The extension's a little bit harder um you know to take it to true failure, but I'll take them to a grinder and um and make sure I keep some shoulder work in there, some delt work. We're we're going to focus on squat, bench, deadlift, pull-ups, but then we'll we'll hit all that stuff. Um, but again, I wanted I want to keep some laterals and things in. So, I do feel like at this point, if I just bring up those muscles a hair as we get leaner, take a few inches off the waist, we'll be good. And keep getting stronger. Keep getting stronger. Keep focusing on all this athletic stuff. And as we get closer to uh, you know, springtime again, I'll pick the running back up, right? We'll get more running in here and there and then work on some 5ks, you know. So, that's stuff I want to get to. Like, let's eventually work towards getting down to under 200, you know, get a decent 5K time, get my squat back to, you know, 500, right? Keep my bench up at 350 plus and uh yeah, just run with it. So, then after that, I did three sets of box jumps. I did three sets of five on the box jumps. So, you guys see what I mean? The difference here now, the belts off. Um, you know, there there definitely is some water around the in the waistline in the gut. And the gut meaning not the belly up in the front. I mean, there's there's water in my GI tract and then it makes my love handle area and stuff, you know, hold more water in that loose skin. So, that's what I mean. When I drop the carbs down, that starts tightening up more. So, I want to just kind of assess and watch it real time where I can document it, you know, and then I want to see if I feel different doing that sort of approach, right? if we feel different recover um things like dom soreness all that but again so did said most of this workout was was obviously medball throws uh box jumps mostly explosive stuff for GPP I missed yesterday's workout because I woke up I'm like man I'm just too too fatigued that fatigue is setting in I knew with the deadlift grip strength going down my overall fatigue is getting high reason to maybe reassess some stuff with the diet maybe there might be some vitamin deficiencies there so I hope it's been informative And I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.