Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. Once again, it is time for a full body workout. Again, I'm doing three days a week on my cut, but if you guys will please click like down below, greatly appreciate it. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And uh if you guys will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate that so much. So, because of when I look at everything, I do realize uh really arms are the weakest thing. It's not even triceps, it's just biceps at this point. Um I'm going to push arms really hard on this cut. I'm just going to do my best to maintain my legs. I can only handle so much squatting. So, right now, honestly, just getting in at the start of every workout, just cranking out 10 reps of 315 on a back squat. Um, I know is enough for me to maintain my leg gain. It's definitely enough. It's nice and challenging. And then I can get over and do other work. And this is still fairly fatiguing for me. Um, and of course, after I finish the cut, I can always do a bunch of leg work and blow my legs up bigger if I need to, if I need to make my squat climb. But at the very least um you know I feel like because a lot of people have asked about the dad bod strength standard of could we add it over to reps instead of maxes and um you know as we focus a little more on physique stuff and hypertrophy and how they carry over to maxes. I could probably do some of that and I think it's going to be something in the range of you know if you can do eight reps of 315 there you can do eight reps of 405 on the deadlift you're in a good spot. Um, so for that I did I did my reps. Um, felt good and went over to this. I was able to deadlift really comfortably today. I could have got more than eight reps on this, but I'm like, you know what? 405 felt nice and challenging. Um, I'm doing so much cardio, fasted cardio that uh yeah, on a side note though, so I'm at 212. I'm at 212 right now uh instead of the 211 I dropped to last Monday. But that's okay because I've added a ton of salt. I added creatin again last week and I'm trying to avoid cramping so that people know what's up with that. I want to make sure that I'm fully hydrated, we're not cramping, uh metabolic rate and everything's as high as possible. So, I don't care if I if I gain a little water weight because as long as we lose body fat, we will still look leaner and leaner. Um, and the point there, my waist is smaller. So that same notch versus say a week ago or a week and a half ago in the lifting belt is looser. Okay, because I I only until I got down to a certain weight could I put that belt back on. Okay, that size mediums belt, right? But it still had stuff spilling over. Now it's looser this week. So I'm going to take that as a pure win, right? I'm going to take it as an absolute win. Um, and I'm happy about that, right? So, I know then that my waist is smaller in spite of that. So, it means basically the muscles are just holding more water. I'll take that win and the scale is going to keep going down. So, that's the beauty of it. I feel like as long as I keep the fasted cardio up, keep the deficit, the significant calorie deficit. We'll just get leaner and leaner and leaner. And it's okay if we stay stay full from from plenty of carbs, salt, potassium, lots of water. I need to stay hydrated, though, because I'm sweating in this summer. I'm training. I'm sweating in the heat training. I'm sweating in the heat out doing the walks. Um, so hydration is key. And I'm not getting the cramps now at all. So that was something I noted the other day doing the cardio. U, I had cramps on the bike cardio in my hamstrings. I don't get that anymore. So like I just did an hour a bit ago on there. Nothing. Everything feels good. So I'm on the right track with that. And I know I know bodybuilding prep coaches who who agree with that same idea. So, after the the deadlifts, I did uh 30 reps on the reverse hyper. I always want to keep that going. And then we get over to all the upper body and then the calf work. So, I'm going to push arms really hard. Also going to push chest. So, things like pecs are going to get a lot of work. My lats can get a little less, right? As long as I keep doing either pull-ups or rows, uh, you know, so I can do three sets of pull-ups each full body day, be fine. That set of deadlifts carries over, too. Uh, and we'll we'll talk about that as we go. But uh the benching I'm like as long as we get three 225 for three sets of 10 I'll pause again we're in a good place. This tells me exactly where my bench is also. Why? Because when I can do 350 for three sets of 10 I can bench 365. This is 25 pounds less. Let's assume 25 pounds. I I assume I can bench 340 right now based on this. Now keep in mind this is all flat back and stuff too. So no arching, nothing like that happening. No leg drive. So, I could be wrong, but uh so again, what I just know from my normal rep work in the past versus maxes is very much where I'm at. So happy with that. And I'm able to get the three sets of 10 and they're challenging. So, I'm pausing on the last rep. So, if you guys notice, especially like the third set, that bar slows down. The bar is slowing down. Like I do that long pause and then it does feel like a limit set at that point, right? It feels like a limit set on this third set cuz I get to that last rep. I'm like, "Let's pause it a little longer and then drive it up." And it feels almost like a max. So notice that it goes a little slower. If you guys watch, you'll see it happen there. So again, uh, making sure the chest is getting work because I'm doing three sets of bench, three sets of dips, which also, incidentally, the dips hammer my triceps super hard. Now, I only feel this benching in my chest. This style of bench, I don't really feel tricep. They're obviously working, but right there, that one, notice I'm shaking a little. Pretty much a limit set. All right, pull-ups. I decided, let's go ahead and really try to do like people talk about full range of motion on a wide grip pull-up. I cannot do a full range of motion like everyone wants me to. I physically can't do it with a lat pull down. I can do it with this really close grip. Okay, now here's what I'm going to say. Look how big my lats have gotten from the other style. And I always say I feel my lats. I'm gonna make a side note. When I try to do pull-ups the way other people say, which again, the only way I can get get the chin over the bar like that is with a really close grip. And I have to do so much less weight. I don't feel any back at all. Like if you were to ask me what type of exercise based purely on what my body feels, it's a curl. I feel biceps and brachiolis and forearms. I don't feel anything but my arms when I do this. I don't feel any back pump. I don't feel any back contraction. This does not feel like a back exercise. It feels like a curl. My biceps feel like they're doing all the work. Going just on feel. Now granted, my biceps are my weakest muscle and my lats are big, so it could be a factor. But to me, a pull-up like this where you go all the way over does not even feel like a back exercise. The ones that I normally do with that wide grip to where everyone's like, "Oh, you're doing a half rep." And I'm like, "As far as my lats go, that feels like all lat. I feel the massive lat pump. My lats will cramp on it. I don't feel my back at all when I do this. I feel my biceps big time." We'll see what happens, though. I mean, it's not that I can't do it this way. I'm like, let's do some of that. I did the curl or the chins the other day the same way. All right, dips. Uh, we're reaching better. I'm trying to focus on these of going as deep as I can now. And again, I was only able to get eights with the 45. Now, I was able to get 10 reps on all of these. And now we're getting deeper. We're getting deep. See, we're getting to where um my shoulder is way below. I was able to do barely break parallel, you know, with with 90 lbs and get 10. But then I went down to the 45 pound plate. I haven't been able to get more than eight, but I've also did that extra tricep work last week. Started doing more of the skull crushers. Um, so interestingly enough, this is up and we got 10 reps on all of them. Now, the 10th rep, notice I'm grinding. I'm almost cheating. I'm not really locking the last rep. It feels like I can't finish the rep. So, this is this is a true 10 rep max for me. But again, when I'm going as deep as I can, now we're up to 10 with the 45. And I'm also looking at this going, do I need to go heavier at any point during my cut? Right? like my squat bench and dead. I can look at that and go, "How about we just rep out two plate, three plate, four plate." Yeah, they're in the whatever range now, but if I push them up, I wonder I could just get bigger and bigger with those reps and be just fine and then still have good maxes. But same thing here. I almost wonder, do I even need more than a 45? It feels great on my shoulders. I feel a tremendous pec stretch and I get a really good, really, really good tricep pump. And that's one of the things I want to note. people, a lot of people noted on that that side shot, you know, from those before and after from nine years ago. Some people were like, "Your arms look bigger." I wasn't doing any curls at that time. So, it's probably all tricep. I was doing a lot of neutral grip pull-ups. Um, I was doing lots and lots of dips, a lot of incline bench at that time because I know what my training looked like. I was doing some extensions and stuff with dumbbells, but I mean, for the most part, it was I was living on dips and closed grip incline, but I was living on dips. I was doing dips like every workout. I was overhead pressing, too. Um, you know, so dips, dips work my triceps really, really well. So, here I decided, let's just do some laterals with the plates. I do know that I'm kind of like, do we really need a lot of delt? But I think, yeah, if I'm going to cut, I do need to make sure those side delts and the rear delts are coming up. Um, so I do want to include some delt work in here. I like the plates. And the reason I like plates, I think for me, I get a better shoulder activation, delt activation. And the reason is because I'm a powerlifter, powerlifting background. I try to squeeze the hell out of everything. And dumbbell laterals, people, a lot of even bodybuilders are like, you don't want to squeeze it too hard. It needs to be a looser grip. And it's hard for me to do that with a dumbbell. I just I naturally as soon as the set gets hard I start just cramping down on the dumbbell with the plates because of that see that grip it's it's really impossible to do that. So it just feels like a really smooth movement right and then it just feels like all shoulder right I feel like just all shoulder in there feels like it just works the delt and I get a really good delt burn. Um so again I kind of like the feel of doing them with the plates. It just feels really balanced and it feels like the delt just gets a really good pump. Same thing here. I'm like, let me just do the easy bar. As much as I like the straight bar and I point out it should work great. This close grip easy bar, I really get every time I do it, I just feel like my biceps work super hard along with the brachiialis. So, I'm like, I can just do this with incline curls. I So, I thought today I would do that and then do the incline curls. Also, I did these pretty well to failure. I was able to get 12elves. I got like 12 12 and then 13 on the incline, by the way. Uh but here, um yeah, right at 12 reps is really hard. I don't feel like I can get there, but we're we're squeezing it out. U so again, I don't know. These look good on camera, obviously. But the thing is, I really just feel a lot of bicep and and I don't want the brachiialis to not grow. That's the other thing to think about. Maybe I do need the brachiialis to grow more. wouldn't be a bad thing given given the biceps are a weak link, but I'm like I I feel this a lot with this close grip with the easy bar. And I think here too though, it's like we could argue about the straight bar, but I'm not really on that big camber, right? So, if you look at that, it really is is locked almost fully supine in that position, but it just feels really good. So, I'm like I'm just gonna I've messed with these and I and I compared them back to back to the straight bar and I'm like I know biomechanically the straight bar if we go based upon science probably is a little better. EMG studies don't agree but at least biomechanics. But I just really feel a burn, right? I really feel a bicep burn a lot when I do this, especially this way, right? That closed grip there on that easy bar. And if I go all the way up, take it to that full range of motion. I just feel such a good burn on the biceps. I'm like, let's just do that. All right, skull crushers. These felt good. Um, I added weight. Obviously, I did 20s with them with a little less. I went up to 60 pounds instead of 50. I still got like 17 or 18. So, on this, I'm trying to keep them strict. I'm keeping the elbows tucked in and I'm just going to the face. And on this, it's like I'm checking my ego on this a lot. So, the whole idea here, um, because these can really inflame your tendons, I'm like, I don't need to go heavy. I have dips and benching. I just need these to get in and really, really, really work those fibers with with even higher reps. So, I'm like, let's just focus on really good form. Let's rock it to the face all the way down to the face. And if we're hitting whatever 17, 18 reps still, that's fine. I may not even go under about 15. Definitely don't want to go under 12. Okay. Definitely don't want to go under 12. Um, you know, and on the next one, you guys will see the low back. I took some shots. The low back looks a little tighter, but that makes sense. The belt is looser or the belt is looser. So, if that weight belt is looser on that notch, then we know the waist is smaller. It's got to be coming from somewhere. So, I feel like again, everything's tightening up. Just keep losing fat. Okay. The loose skin, the low back, the love handles, everything will keep tightening up if we just keep burning through the body fat. But I've got to hold on the muscle. I have to keep the body anabolic so that we're retaining muscle. So these workouts need to be hard. They need to be enough work. But definitely the arms. I want to really really focus on my arms. And I have had people say there's no way your arms are going to grow with the deficit you're on. And I'm like, I don't care. I'm going to try to grow them anyways. But I think between those dips because they light my triceps up. And then doing these skull crushers like that, we're getting some really good tricep stimulus, right? We're really getting some good. So, there's where the low back is. I mean, we've made a lot of progress there. What happens when we drop another 10, 15 pounds, you know, that's 15 pounds is two gallons of fat. It's got to come from somewhere. That's still some of my biggest fat stores. I want to get the waist really small. Then, I'm going to start doing more vacuums. But the extensions, man, the extensions, uh, these felt really good. And because I'm keeping them so light and focusing on the form, they're good on my elbows. And I think that really is a big part of it. When we go too heavy, even for me, like when I I've gone up and done them with like 90 lbs, whatever, 100 pounds, they they start beating my elbows up. This doesn't like 60 lbs done really strict for really high reps. Really good on my elbows. But I'll do some press downs and stuff with the bands on off days here and there, a little just to keep those tendons healthy. So, I think I need to do that. And again, lots of bicep work. So, I decided to go ahead and do the incline curls today. It's like those easy bars feel good, but I'm like, I do want more bicep work. I've got to make sure my arms have some chance at all of growing. And at the very least, so let's say I cut hard and I start losing any muscle, but I'm training my arms so hard I don't lose any muscle in my arms. So, what happens with the proportions, especially as we get leaner, it'll it'll improve the proportions, you know? So, I'm going to hammer hammer my arms into the ground because again, you start looking at those classic physiques. Those guys all had great arms, triceps and biceps, but always had the really big triceps. So, small waist and big triceps is very characteristic of, you know, like the the silver era type bodybuilding, right? We always saw a lot of that. So again, I need to push that because more of the golden era, we saw the Arnold with the really big pecs and the biceps more so, but definitely um you know, you look into that silver era type guys and it's kind of the look I want. They always had really great arms, particularly triceps with a with a small waist. So again, I'm going to work towards that as a as a goal. And I'm going to obviously this is still power building in a sense because we're still doing the squat bench and deadlift, but it's not really it's really like just classic bodybuilding. But again, incline curls were always part of what they did. It was always a favorite. Some of the push incline curls. I managed to get 12. I managed to get 13 on the last set. I just dug in somehow. The others felt like failure. But that third set, uh, just I managed to dig it in a little deeper somehow and I squeezed out a 13th rep. But I got kind of angry on this one. Notice my face. I'm just like, "All right, I really want this set to count. The other two are really good. They felt like muscle failure, but my biceps are fatigued. We've done a fair amount of curls. Let's let's dig in and just push this set. And I managed to to grind out one more rep. And I don't think it's grindy. I think it was pretty good form. Still not really cheating, but it didn't feel like I was worried I wasn't going to get it, but I managed to get that one more rep. Even though the others felt like failure, they stuck at the bottom. Pushed it out and we got it. So happy with it. Then I wanted to make sure my biceps did get pumped good. So I did one set of band curls because again, I want to make sure the tendons are healthy. Let's make sure we finish them. Again, biceps being a weak link. Let's get a little bit of extra pump. All right. And I took these all the way to failure. It's something like 25, 26 reps, whatever. Squeezing when I got near the end, trying to do them through through that full range of motion. The others are more stretch position stuff. This is making sure I'm really contracting it at the top. Of course, they burn like hell. We're also getting that tendon work. So, again, trying to go hard. Then it just failed. I couldn't get another rep, but uh they felt good. And then we finished up with all the calf raises. I got like 12. I managed to get like 13. The last rep, the very last set, I squeezed out one more. So, we kind of PR this weight. Of course, you guys will see a little bit of the um a little bit of the leg posing. I did a couple forearm poses and stuff here just to kind of see where we're at. Um and I did a little side chest. And I can tell there my biceps are definitely a weak link. Biceps are definitely a weak link. But I don't feel like talking anymore. I've talked for 18 minutes straight here. I'm just going to let you guys watch the rest of the footage uh if you want to. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.