Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. So, we started the day off with uh squats and bench press. I skipped the deadlift today. I've realized, man, I've got to quit deadlifting three days a week. Um, I love doing it. I love doing it. I feel like I just don't recover from it the way I would like. Uh, mainly because I'm strong enough on the deadlift, it just becomes a problem. So, I decided to just do some other posterior chain work in that slot just a little bit. Uh, but squats went pretty hard. Did my five rep set with 405 on a high bar squat. And I wanted to just stick with the high bar. I feel like with me trying to work on shoulders and everything, just doing high bar is so much easier on my shoulders. I just put it on my traps. Just get a nice close grip on it, you know, and just work on it. Uh, and I mean, I've hit 500 plus on high bar previously when I was, you know, a little younger. So, I can just work high bar. I feel like I can get back to 500 on the on the high bar if I just keep working out a little bit. Um I'm kind of reduced my food slightly this weekend. I do feel like I need to to lean out just a little bit. So I'm just focusing on on higher satiety stuff. So like this weekend I pretty much got most of my calories from watermelon um and baked potatoes. Of course I have chicken in there and dairy and stuff and a few other vegetables. All right, the benching. This went really good. So, I did my four reps and I almost went for five, right? That fourth rep. Look how clean that was. I felt like I could have ground out a fifth rep, but I'm like, you know what? Let's stop. I don't want to risk missing the rep on camera. It felt good, though. Felt really, really good. Um, and then I went for my 225. I was hoping to get 20 reps. Like, I got to around rep 15 and I'm like, I'm getting 20 reps today. I'm gonna get 20. I got 19. Uh, these felt good, too. But it's the case of my chest was just burning so bad I almost couldn't lock the 19th rep. It's kind of like we've just slowly chipped away at this. Remember, I got to 18 a couple times. I managed to finally hit 19 uh one of the days last week and then so it was like Wednesday I got 19. Then I got 18 again on Friday. Uh so today on this and most of these are paused. A couple of them are touchand go. Most of the reps are at least a brief pause. Um, I got to 19 and it just that was it. Like around 15. I thought I was going to get it. I'm like, I can get 20. I can get 20. Just keep pushing, Jason. Keep pushing. I got to 19 and I almost couldn't lock it. So, it's like, man, I'm right at that threshold. See right there? That 19, the shaky, it just felt like it wouldn't lock. Like my triceps were giving out. So again, I feel like this is really good tricep work for me. Um, so instead of the deadlift, I'm like, let's just I'll do a set of glute ham raises. I haven't done these in a while. Um, I did a set pretty much a limit set. So I got 15 reps on the on the uh the glute ham raise. So again, uh posterior chain stuff. It can replace it can replace the the deadlift. Um I do feel like I need to make sure I do my hanging leg raises. I feel like maybe I should do some dead hangs. I want to make sure the grip holds holds up. But I felt like, you know, last week on some of the deadlifting the grip was giving out, but it's not my grip. My grip training and strength is good. Um, it's just probably overuse probably from the weighted carries, all the other stuff. So, again, I can always eventually if I need to add some extra grip work. Uh, but I feel like maybe maybe I could do some dead hangs for my shoulders. Maybe we could do uh other stuff there. But in the meantime, I know realistically it's just overall fatigue. So, I thought, let's just do a set of glute ham raises and then my reverse hypers. Uh, these felt good. They light my hamstrings up. People never like the way I do them, but then they'll see me deadlift over 600 lb. And I I in the past when I've built it off of these movements and and you know, I think we're good. I think we're good. Uh, the reverse the reverse hypers. I just put been pushing these for an allout set at this point. Just doing one really serious serious allout set. Um, and it's I feel like it's worked pretty well in terms of just uh loading and feeling like I'm working everything. So, I'm getting 60 plus reps. So, for a while, this is a weight I stepped up to and I was getting I was doing like 25 or 30. I'm like, look, let me just push these to one serious set all the way to the limits. And when I'm doing that, I've been hitting higher and higher reps. Like, I lose count, but I know I got at least 60. It was 60 something. I I don't even care at a certain point as long as just recreate that um that overall workload there. So, um and the other thing is I'm doing a little more like stuff on the uh the GBP days, pushing my sled, doing my jump. So, I feel like that will continue to carry over to the squat, but I do want to make sure I do some hanging leg raises there on those days. I got to remember to do that. Um mainly because I feel like I need the extra grip. uh the grip will carry over to the deadlifting, but uh all these other movements build my deadlift. Squats build my deadlift. Reverse hypers built my deadlift. Um and I love deadlifting three days a week, but sometimes I feel like squatting and deadlifting on all the days, it starts to accumulate. It's just a lot of fatigue. And that's the other thing, guys. I mean, I've realized the longer I train, I don't have to have high volumes of training. I do really well with low volumes. I get big. I get strong. Um, you know, I've never needed huge amounts of volumes even to push really big weight, build build, you know, big muscle, especially in my lower body. Um, I just don't have to have it. So, I feel like at this point, um, you know, focus on bench and weighted chints, just push progression on those and then fill in the gaps a little bit. So, I've started adding obviously I want to get the overhead press back, but I can't get a full lock out and I'm I'm still weak on it, particularly the lockout. Um, so I'm having to just check my ego and go really light. But the chins, um, so again, notice the inability to lock. Notice those dead hangs on a lot of those. Those are hanging. Um, but I'm able to get here. I'm able to get sets of seven. And on the second one, I did a rest pause rep because I'm like, if I'm not going to do curls every workout, like I did one set of curls on Friday, been mostly focusing on chins. I'm like, let me just push, you know, sets to failure and then maybe a rest pause rep. And it lit my biceps up, right? I feel pull-ups, narrow grip pull-ups and then chin-ups are pretty much just a bicep movement for me as far as what I feel anyways. I know I have a big wide back and and pull-ups do that, but I feel it more these days in my in my biceps, especially the closed grip pull-ups. Um, same thing with the chins. It feels like only a bicep exercise, but I felt great activation here. So, I'm just going to push that. And when my arms were the biggest, this is what I was doing anyways. I wasn't really doing all these curls and 20 sets of curls I've been doing. So, I'm trying to avoid overtraining my arms because the muscles I have that are always dominant, I don't you ever do huge volumes. I just get really strong at them and then everyone says, "Oh, those muscles are over. They dominate for you." And it's like, "Yeah, but I don't do huge amounts of bodybuilding work for them, you know." Um, but lately I've realized I do need to bring my delts up. Um, do need to bring my delts up. So, here I'm doing uh just a strict press, right? Nice strict press. So, I'm going a little wider because I've noticed the closer my my lockout is even worse and then it strains my shoulders. It hurts my shoulders. I had a mild shoulder pain the other other day from doing that. So, I'm like, let's just take it nice and wide. Focus on getting the the most range of motion I can. And if I'm forced to go because I have to use an even lighter weight when I go wide. I'm weak at it. But how do we get stronger? We get stronger by doing it. I've done heavier when I was good at overhead pressing. I could do a lot more weight than this. way way way more obviously because you guys have seen me strict press 225 numerous times back in the day. Um so I'll just work it up and I'll just have to check my ego on it. I'll just check my ego. Uh so then laterals, these got a little heavy. I think I got 14 or so last time. These have been getting a little stronger every workout. Just taking the the reps as far as I can. I got like 15 and then I got like 16 on the second set. So these feel good. And I didn't do any curls today. Um, I did a set of curls to failure on Friday, so I'm just going to push the chins hard. I'll work in a set of curls here or there, but I don't want to overtrain my biceps, but I do want to make sure my delts get hit really hard. I feel like as I get a little leaner, bringing those shoulders up will go a long way to make me look better as I lose a little body fat. Um, so again, I want to work the shoulders. And then I know on the overhead, I feel like for triceps, the benching, higher rep benching just fries my triceps anyways. So, I want to focus on bench so we can do some overhead. I'll do a set of band press downs here or there on some of the GPP days. Uh, but mainly shoulders are what I'm going to focus on isolating. And then, of course, I do one set of neck extensions because I feel like posture and neck and everything can be a factor in overhead lockout. So, I'm just progressively overloading one set of these. Um, and I've just been loading it, adding more and more reps. When I get to 20, I add more weight each time. I'm up to 18 with this plate. Uh, but happy with today's workout. The benching was great. Uh, squatting was great. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.