Hey everybody, it's Jason Boha here and it's time for a bicep workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. I know this is going to be boring. This is something I was thinking about this weekend uh because I knew it was going to be too cold in my garage to train. I literally am just trying to keep the pipes in there from busting. It is well below freezing in my garage. Um and again, this is going to be temporary. It's the coldest coldest week we've had in over a year. it's going to be over by the end of the week and it'll be back to business as usual. Uh but again, it's just unavoidable in this weather. So, I'm like, you know, I started thinking about some of my off days. Um I could just come and I could just come in and do bicep days because I've been I'm realizing that all my muscle groups do really well with the low volume really hard training, especially as I'm continuing to get leaner. I've set PR after PR, but I do realize my biceps, if anything, if haven't haven't really benefited. Um, I've done this for a little while and I can't see that they've improved. Um, so I thought maybe I should come in and just hammer barbell curls, right? Put some real work in. Just try to progress on it. Hard sets to failure. Notice there's no rest pause here. Uh, these are just momentary failure. A bunch of them, if you look, when I get to the end, I try to do a rep and I can't. I got between 12 to 13 reps every single set. Now, because I'm I didn't do this as a workout. Um, notice the lighting changes through the morning. This is spaced out over two or three hours. I've been working on other projects and I would just go in. I had the the other backup phone with the camera set up in my living room and I just came in, you know, every 10 minutes or so, whatever, in between other projects and just knocked out a set. And I think that's the difference when I talk about doing high volume in a session. You definitely don't get what you want. Um, if the breaks get too short, like you start losing reps, uh, it's no longer productive. But something like this hypothetically may work because it's spaced out all through the morning. So every set is still high quality. We're not losing strength. And that's the thing I noticed is that like look, if you do three sets of curls per hour, you don't lose any performance. You know, you're recovered between every set. And because of the temperature, I may do this tomorrow. So, I almost feel like once or twice a week, you know, maybe some extra days, I'll come in and just do a bicep day like this. Um, and see again how my biceps get affected because at this point, as I continue to strip body fat, which we can see I'm getting leaner here. [snorts] Really, my biceps just need to come up more, you know, if I want a certain look. And I've said that before, um, I said a long time ago, um, if I wanted the look that people want me to have, because again, I get it. I don't scale well because you don't see me next to other people. I am way bigger than people realize. So, if I wanted that really aesthetic athletic look, a lot of guys won't. I'd have to stop lifting weights and maybe just do nothing but curls and run and get down lean, you know, drop to like 170 or 175 and I wouldn't be able to lift weights and do that still. Um, but I'd need bigger biceps. So, yeah, I'd probably just do curls. And I said that before. that would be a viable strategy, just GPP running and curls if that's what I wanted. But I I I like carrying a lot of muscle. I like being strong. All right. I like being able to rep out 405 on a squat all day long. Uh I like being able to do rep work with 315 on a bench. But uh that being said, the biceps, because again, old injury, the bicep tear, uh my one elbow doesn't even fully lock and I can't make it lock. like it feels like it's locked, but visibly it never does even when I hang hang with weights. So, because of all that, um they do need a little bit of extra attention. So, I thought, what the hell? Let me just come in and just work on them a little. I feel like again, I've pushed them really hard with those single sets. Um but at the end of the day, I'll mess with it this way. But really, just the volume days all at once doesn't work because I'd lose performance. But doing it like this, we know we're getting better stimulus because again, every set, it's going to be high quality. We're not losing reps. And so I ended up doing eight sets of curls. They were all 12 to 13. I've got 13 like once or twice. I got 12 on most of them and they just kind of stuck at the bottom. Um, so I want to just push that performance up. And yeah, I could do a little bit of volume here, but I could start having having days where I come in and they'll be shorter blogs, of course, to where I just come in and and do a few sets and really push progression. And that's an option if I get stronger at them. But I wanted to do some hammer curls, too, because again, I just want the extra grip. I want to make sure my grip is good, and I wanted just at least a second exercise. But we could we could make the case for just coming in and just doing barbell curls. And I could have done that. I probably could have came in and done more sets of it and just spaced it out. But I did it started running later. I didn't want to keep doing these too late into the morning. I wanted to get ready to get breakfast. And I didn't start this till sun was up already outside. So this is just my overhead light in there. So this is just my normal living room lighting plus the ambient light coming coming through the backyard windows. Uh so yeah, uh happy with it. Biceps burn like hell. So, I thought, you know, we'll do this for a little bit and let's see if this makes my arms, you know, any bigger. I feel like the really low volume has worked everywhere else, though. And it's not like my arms are particularly small by normal people's standards, but by bodybuilding standards, they're going to scale smaller, but I'm not a bodybuilder. But, you know, again, biceps, I do re recognize I want bigger biceps. I do recognize that, you know, when I look in the mirror and I I can see it myself that again, if I could just add another inch to my arms while I continue to strip body fat leaner, um it'll make a big difference and it won't interfere with my other training. That's the thing. So, even if my biceps get a little overtrained, it's probably not a problem. If anything, they they help my grip. Um just the curling does. But, uh yeah, so I have enough in here. I I ended up running the last set of curls a couple times in to make sure we hit our our eight minute, which is what all the platforms want. Um, you know, but again, the training itself is only about six total minutes of sets here. Uh, but again, um, I think the lighting is interesting because it's like I look pretty jacked with just that that dimmer lighting versus, you know, what I normally have in the garage when the the sun is out and everything. So, interesting. I I think it does show definitely we can tell here uh that I am continuing to chip away at the body fat. So again, I'm going to put all this up for you guys. Uh then again, I'll I'll do this probably once or twice a week no matter what. If it's too cold to train middle of the week, I'll just do it through the week. I had a really great workout on Friday. I'm still going to have some stimulus from that with all the squats and deadlifts and benching. Um so not a big deal. If I get force pushing all the way down to Friday, I'll just train biceps all week, right? I'll just train biceps all week, which sounds crazy, but at least I'm inside doing something and not freezing and working on a weak point. I'm not going to drain. If I go a whole week without squatting or deadlifting, I'll be fine. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.