Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, I came over and decided to just do deadlifts and bench. Um, the reason is one of the things I've noticed, as I said before, I started really, really wanting to work on building my overhead press again after I've restored most of my range of motion and previously had those overuse impingements several years back, uh, from doing excessive amounts of pull-ups and chin-ups, uh, which we've discussed in detail, and I started getting shoulder pain from the overhead pressing and had to take it back out. it's not affected a lot of my other stuff, but one of the problems I've been running into um when I squat, it's sometimes a struggle to even get into a high bar position. And I started trying to squat today and it just didn't feel right. And I'm like, I couldn't get the bar to feel correct on my back. Um and even I grabbed an SSB just to see and it just felt uncomfortable up there. So, I'm like, look, let me just leave it alone. I can focus on deadlifts. I can focus on bench. I can focus on hypertrophy while I trim down a little bit. I can do other leg work. Um, and I'll be fine. Side note, bench press, five reps, 315 for five. All paused. Uh, I've never done this at under 220 before. Okay, let me be clear. People are like, "But you've hit that before." No, weigh in weighing almost 230, right? Not walking around at like 210. So, we've been working towards that PR for for months, right? Like I was regularly doing three, built up to four. I've been doing four every session. I got five. Okay, I got five. So, here's going to be the game plan, though. Um, as I've said before, you guys know I'm going to start training my arms like I train my legs. Everyone always says that, oh, you know, look how big your legs are, but why don't you train your arms the way you do your legs? And I think that's great. Other than I don't want to quit doing curls. So, I did do one set of curls um because I just can't let go of arm isolation work, right? All the muscles I have that are dominant, I never ever ever ever ever ever isolate. I never do high volume for they just get big just from getting strong doing big compounds, right? So, I decided to take the same approach though, but I did do one set of curls to failure. So, what I did here because I know that um this stuff builds my squats. So, as my shoulders get um fully fully recovered to where there's no inflammation, and I suspect I want to see what happens with my diet here as far as that doing it now that I went over and dropped my carbohydrates down and replace it with healthy fats for a bit because I want to just drop the water around my waistline. It'll make me look leaner. When people were like, "Oh, you look so much better." Um I that's what I was doing. But I want to see if it will reduce some of the shoulder inflammation a little bit. Um because I've noticed I just can't get into certain positions. And I've noticed no matter what happens when I squat, when I look at different angles, my elbows are in a different angle no matter what I do. So I'm like, look, why don't I just chill? I can still deadlift to load the spine. I'll do some other leg work. And I'm just going to let my shoulders heal. I'm not going to try to do overhead pressing. Uh and I'm just going to work on using laterals and stuff to build my shoulders. And I'm going to do the medball throws and and I'm going to chill with it. So I went ahead and did my belt squats again. I did them super deep ass to grass. So for me that's a heavy weight. Those eights were hard. I can progress from there. Um the chins I kind of did the same thing. I'm like let's try to do every every rep for mostly a dead hang. And I got PR. So I got uh started adding these back in in place of pull-ups for a bit because I'm like let's train my biceps the way that I train my legs. Which means full range of motion, heavy training, progressive overload, compound movements. I don't do more than about six. I've never done more than 10 or 12 sets for my legs when they were at their biggest or strongest. Even I was squatting like 600 lb before at a higher body weight. I only did 10 12 sets for my legs, quads every week. A lot of times I only did six. I've squatted 500 while doing five or six sets and had big big legs doing it. So that's what I'm going to do. I'm just going to treat my arms the same way. Let's just focus on big compounds, long ranges of motion, full progressive overload. So, for chins, um, I did just my longest range of motion, went into a dead hang. I PR that from last week, so the chins are getting stronger, felt really good bicep activation, but I ended up doing one set of curls, very, very strict to failure, right? People will be like, "Well, you did the rep." No, I I got to the top and I didn't get to the top. I couldn't finish the rep. It felt like it stopped at my chest, but I got it 80% of the way up, but it just came back down like I failed middle of the rep. build near the top of the rep. All right, for the dips, um, decided instead of trying to just crank out because I can get 10 plus if I short stroke them, I wanted to let me I focus on stretching into the bottom and then grinding the last rep. So, the chins I pretty much did to failure, especially the last set, got to the bottom or I just stick at the bottom. All right, on the dips, um, decided to when they start getting really fatiguing, I'll pause on the last rep, try to get a stretch into the bottom and then drive myself up as hard as possible. Right. So, doing a little bit more pausing into these, getting that deep stretch. This will build my chest and triceps. Keep in mind the benching builds chest and triceps, too, you know. So, again, these are about zero reps in reserve, but not quite failure. Close enough. Um, then the laterals, I'm like, same thing. I like the plates. They feel really good. So, I did two sets of these. So, what do we get here outside of this the the bigger movements for the upper body? Two sets of of chins to failure. Two sets of dips, zero reps in reserve. Uh the laterals, I'm like, let's just use the plates. I can do over 20 if I swing a little. I'm like, what happens if I started doing last week? Let's just go really slow, controlled, take them as high as my shoulders will allow. No cheating and just go till they fail, right? Just take the reps till they stop. And so I got like something around 11 ballpark, right? And then right there I tried to do a rep and it just stuck at the bottom. The next set I started a rep, they got part of the way up and then it failed. So again, I feel like a little bit of the water is dropped off today. By the way, I don't know. You guys can assess it. Let me know if in the footage uh the waistline is starting to a little bit of the water. Yesterday was the first day of lower carbs. Um I'll see what happens in a week or two if if my hypothesis is right here. Um, but I'm going to have to train train hard here obviously because I I So, what I'm going to do again, moderate volumes, really hard sets and not overtrain stuff. All right. So, I'm going to train my arms the way I train like my back and my legs and all these things to get all that size and see if we can get it balanced out. So, I'm going to do the same way, two sets. Now, obviously, we have GBP work, you know, so GBP is going to carry over to some of this stuff, too. But, I did those and I did one set of curls to failure. So, I decided to grab a weight I could get more than five or six reps with a little bit more. And I'm like, let me take it to failure. Go all the way to the bottom. Try to bring it to a dead stop. Curl it all the way to my face so that I take the bicep through its full range of motion. Right? So, doing and people might notice the left arm. That is my lockout. I can't lock it further. You guys have seen it in dead hangs. So, just do the full range of motion as strict as I possibly can. I always laugh though. People say, "Put your arms down." I literally can't my last getaway. You've seen my back from the back. So, I just did them strict. Took them through the longest range of motion, but I failed that rep. So, if you'll note there, I try to go to the top. We reached failure. I couldn't finish a rep. So, that was a failed rep. Even though we could count it as a rep, I'll count it as a nine. And then I did one set of the neck extensions just to make sure my neck gets trained because I feel like getting my neck stronger and all that posture up there will help over time also with uh my shoulder health and just restoring everything in the shoulders. But for now, I'm trying to overhead press didn't work. It's gotten to the point it's affecting my squatting. So, I'm just going to leave it alone and let everything heal. And I'm just going to do other stuff like the throws and the lateral work and chin-ups from a dead hang to build all of it. And um I'm just going to let my shoulders heal up. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.