All right. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a GPP day. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, I'm trying to keep the GPP pretty light at this point in terms of just total workloads. And the reason for that, my lifting is going really, really well. Um, I feel like I'm recompositioning well. I'm starting to tighten up a little bit more. I don't want to risk overtraining. I want my GPP to have a little bit of carryover. You know, I was like, I want my abs and my grip and all of that to improve from it. I want a little bit of explosiveness and work capacity, right? That's all I'm trying to get from it. I'm trying to make sure that my lifts are progressing really well while I get a little leaner. And I think looking at this footage today, um, just dropping the carbs down, everything does look to be tightening up. Um, I feel like I'm I am slowly getting tighter here. Multiple people already commented some of the other things. some of my clients have chimed in um you know just with stuff the last couple days. So, we're seeing improvements there and I want to be very very very careful about not overtraining right now because I'm on lower carbs even though my calories are still fairly high and a lot of healthy fats, a lot of protein. Um I'm doing all my training fasted. I feel like I'm waistline is tightening up a little bit. I don't want to overtrain because I'm getting stronger. Like I've actually seen my lifts go up now that I've titrated volume. You guys have watched like the training vlog yesterday, the Friday vlog. Man, guys, I'm stronger. I'm hitting pull-up PRs, tricep PRs. You know, a lot of my lifts are slowly working up. I got a bench PR on Monday, right? And I technically got a back offset one yesterday, too. My my back off work with 275 was a one rep PR. Uh so we're we're seeing improvements here and I want to make sure that I maintain that especially now that uh my deadlift um it's getting easy. My grip is coming back which means I'm recovering better. Like I'm not having grip issues at all. So we're in a good place here. I don't want to overdo it. So I kept it pretty simple. I did three sets of weighted carries here. Um did a few sets of my medball tosses. Obviously, the weighted carries are done for the purpose of improving grip, work capacity, core. The medball throws are a full body power movement. I did them out in the grass today. It's drier now. All right, it's drier now. Few people have chimed in. Why are you wearing the belt on the medball throws? Um I I do it honestly at this point just because it really pisses people off. Um and I'm actually serious. Just because people comment on it and they get upset by it, it makes me money. So, and it's not necessarily about, oh, hiding your waistline because I have a bunch of stuff without a belt on, right? I mean, I'm doing ab work without a belt. You see me do my my neck extensions at the end. I do all my shoulder work, my curls, and everything just in the shorts. So, um, funny enough, I put plenty of stuff up in every single vlog without a belt. So, it's it's really not about that for people who are going to think that that's what it is. No, because I do multiple exercises without a belt every single day on camera. No, for me it's it's really about one I could argue about the better neural drive. I could make a small case for that. Definitely the weighted carries it makes sense. Um, being able to brace my core, the neural drive probably helps a little on this stuff. Uh, but for me, the biggest part is it seems to really upset some people. And because I do like to be a bit of a troll sometimes, if I can do something that doesn't in any way harm or interfere with my training, uh, and not really a problem, that might might have some minor benefits, but if it really upsets people enough to get engagements, that's worth doing, right? So, the whole purpose there then is just because it seems to upset some people, so that's enough. That's that's clearly enough to do it. Uh, but [panting] and people think I'm kidding. I'm actually I'm actually dead serious. I'm really serious with that. Um, that's reason enough, dudes. So, back over to the training. Uh, we we do the medball throws for full body power. I feel like this will improve my deadlift. So, really, a lot of this GPP will drive my deadlifts up, right? We're doing the medball stuff. Think about the hinge involved, the grip, uh, the weight of carries. So from there pretty much just my squat pattern movements and squatting and stuff will build my deadlift along with deadlifting. I deadlift three times a week. So all this is uh sufficient stimulus for for accessory work. And then the pull-ups too. Uh pull-up PRs tend to go hand inand with me for deadlift PRs. Right. So I did this. Then I did a set of hanging leg raises. My toe to bars. I want to make sure I do that for the extra grip and abs. And then because I didn't do neck work uh yesterday, I decided to do two sets of that today. So I went really hard. I managed to squeeze out 20 reps on both sets. Um and my neck is is really tired now though because I did the 55. So again, we're kind of at the strongest I've ever been on neck extensions and and I'm at a point I don't know that I needed to get any stronger from there, right? I don't know that I needed to get stronger. So I'm just going to let it do its thing. Uh but it just keeps my neck strong and healthy. um which again we've discussed in the past as to why we do that. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.