Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, drop me a comment, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, kind of streamline a little bit of what I'm doing, looking at what the different exercises I've kind of messed with and what I can recover from doing this stuff right now with the lower carbs and kind of concluded, you know, I really want to just focus on pull-ups instead of chin-ups. I just I get a better range of motion because of my arm situation. Um, and just do barbell curls afterwards, right? To make sure my biceps get work. But by and large, I feel like my lower body doesn't need more than squats and deadlifts. So, I mean, even my deadlift strength is down a hair. And I did all the accessory work this last time. So, I think it's just a case of it's going to be a little up and down. I've hit a bunch a bunch of PRs, but now I'm getting leaner again. And so, it's hard to sustain those. And I think particularly with just what's happening with diet and everything. So that being said, um I'm going to work with just squats and deadlifts for lower body and then my hanging leg raise. That's what I felt like doing today. I don't feel that I need all the machine work. Um but uh trying to get a little deeper on these more shorts today also. And I kind of said in the thing, um I almost feel like I don't know. I've got massive legs, but I don't feel like I have to show them all the time. Like everyone knows I've got big legs. We've seen them plenty of times in the short shorts. I can just wear cargo shorts instead of the running shorts. You know, it's no actual negative to me in my training. And the other thing is I feel like because my legs are so big, it does is one of the reasons people think I have smaller arms. Now, granted, I get it. I have a big torso. Uh but that's unavoidable. Like, I'm I'm just going to be frank. If I never lifted weights again the rest of my life, I would still have a bigger torso than the average guy who works out to some extent. I just would. Um, and it's always been that way. All right. Uh, over to the point though, we got 10 reps on the squat. I felt like the reps were pretty good that time. Uh, the deadlift though, man, just six reps felt really hard, right? Six reps felt hard. I felt like my back was giving out. Um, you know, and and that's the thing. It's like I like the chin-ups, but I haven't done any pull-ups in a couple weeks now. And I feel like pull-ups just build my back better on top of it. You know, I know that I want a little more bicep, but to me, I feel like the pull-ups are just a better better way to go. So, I decided to keep them in. Uh benching though, uh this went really well. We got 18. Keeping in mind, we've dropped the belt and wrist wraps. We're trying to pause most of the reps. Uh, so again, keeping it flat back and I've got 19 was my is my previous best so far with a belt and wrist wraps and all that, but I mean 18. This is probably on par with my 350 because I did that 350 bench earlier this year uh with a two second pause just like this. This same grip form equipment, you know. So again, I feel like we're at least at that level again. So the bench is probably pretty good. And I'm just going to keep building my chest. I'm just going to hammer the rep work on the benching and the dips. Of course, I like the pullovers because I really get a lot out of my triceps. I feel like they help my shoulder health. I like to eventually be able to overhead press again. So, I want to do the things that do that. But messing a little more with the high bar squats. Being careful with what movements I pick, I feel like will get me there. My pull-ups will be kind of the barometer of that though, you know, with the range of motion looks like on those. I always get people who chime in, well, I want to see your lock like this is literally my lockout. So, if you guys watch the dead hang reps, some of these reps are from a just a full dead hang. I mean, that's what we can do. That's literally what my elbows do. And it's even worse on the chin up. Um, but so I did try to do these to a complete pull. I I felt like they were mostly hang reps. When I look at it, they weren't. Only about half of them, maybe. Right. But we got 10 total by doing a lot of dead hang here, right? And I'll take that still. I mean, 10 reps of the 45 total. Um, trying to do from a hang on on most of them like that. I'll take it. Right. But I feel like it improves my deadlift and stuff the most. And it's still I feel it a ton in my arms. When I do a closer grip like that, I feel my arms big time. Uh, the dips kind of the same thing. You know, I want to just push this up with a 45. You know, I'd like I'd like to get 20 20 pull-ups with a 45, but that's asking a lot. The dips though, I'm not far away. Just like I want the 225 bench for 20. I feel like a full range of motion dip like this. Uh 20 reps of the 45 is the goal. I'm at 18 here again. I'm happy with that, you know, but I feel like this is definitely enough stuff to keep me progressing. Um to see some recomposition hopefully while we're stripping down body fat. Just kind of come along. Just going to chip away at it. But I mean, it's it's getting better, particularly when I'm haven't had anything to drink yet or coffee or anything and I do those uh ab work videos. That really shows kind of where I'm at before anything is in my system and I'm a bit tighter then. But it's coming along, you know, it's coming along. But here's the thing. Notice my legs aren't a distraction now, though. So, it does make some stuff I feel like makes some stuff look a little bigger. Uh, and then curls. Just doing a super strict full range of motion barbell curl up to the face to failure. All right. Just want to burn those biceps. And I'm not worried about going that heavy on these because I don't seem to I don't get a lot from the really heavy curls, you know, to the same degree. And why did I go with the barbell instead of the incline? I did mess with the incline last time because I'm doing a smaller exercise selection in general. If I'm gonna do one isolation type movement, I want it to be a big enough movement to have carryover other things. And the barbell curl is technically I consider it a big barbell movement to some extent. It does work a lot of muscles of the shoulder and other stuff. They do absolutely get worked and I think enough to cause muscle growth, but again took that to failure. Couldn't do another rep. It just stuck at the bottom on that one. I knew I wasn't going to get that's why I slowed the eccentric down because I could tell I didn't have another rep. And then we finished up with pullovers. I got I counted 37 with the 45 lb plate. And again, I I like these a lot because I feel like they open up a lot of stuff in the rib cage. They work a lot of my core. Um but I feel the triceps on these tremendously. So again, building the tricep, whatever might be getting missed from the benching and other stuff. I feel like the pullovers will handle that, you know. So again, I get it. The volumes are low, but the intensity is high. Everything is zero reps and reserve or failure, and a little bit of stuff is rest pause. The curls are almost rest pause because I'm resting or a second or so and then hitting another rep until it fails, you know. Uh but the pullovers, these take a long time. It's the biggest biggest chunk of the the thing because it's such a long set. It's like a twom minute long set here, if not longer. Uh because of because again the amount of reps, but it feels good. It burns. Overall, happy with it. I feel like I look I look pretty decent here today. Um, all things considered, uh, I feel like the shorts like this, the cargo shorts may be the way to go. I used to do this, too. I might as well go back to it for a little while and just see how it pans out. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.