Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. It was super cold. I wanted to train, but I did not want to be out there in the cold. As you guys can see, I'm bundled up here though. Obviously got sweats on, t-shirt, socks. Um, so I decided like what could I do out of my normal workouts that would just give me the most bang for my buck, get done in and out fast, and still get a training response because I did kind of chill on the Monday. And then Friday looks like it's going to be about 20° warmer. I'm going to come and just kill a normal workout before the weekend. So, I'm like, let's just do my squats. Um, do my chins, do my dips. So, uh, squats decent enough, but the 10 reps was super hard. So, I went ahead and I did my normal high bar, but part of it just felt like getting comfortable in the cold, you know? That was that was definitely a part of it. Um, but we'll see how this goes. Once it gets warmer, once the summers get here, I'll be doing 6:00 a.m. workouts and stuff again, 600, 7 in the morning. But I do feel like kind of the the theme that I've realized for me, intensity is everything. It's plus I already have a lot of muscle. I'm still I'm walk around at 213 right now. Um, and as you guys saw a 213 with with kind of visible abs at this point. Uh, if we look at the ab work and stuff from uh this last week. So, you know, if I'm stimulating any growth while continuing to kind of get a little leaner, which is the goal, I'm in a good place. I felt like today looking at these, these were a hair high. A lot of these reps are a little high, but it's hard to tell with the sweats because they feel like the same death, but also it was just me kind of getting in my zone today. Um, uncomfort of the cold. I absolutely struggle with certain forms and that. So, I have a feeling as soon as it warms back up, we'll keep pushing these up because that 12 rep set last time with this, I felt like I got a lot deeper on most of the reps, I was pretty happy with it. Um, but at least we're going in. We're loading and it felt hard. My quads were burning at the end of that. It was kind of hard to breathe. Um, so good set still. Even though it's not my absolute best, we're up there in the intensity level. Um, so the chins, again, the same thing people are going to complain, but they don't realize some of these reps are a dead hang. And remember, my elbow situation. I'm not going to stand here and try to explain any longer. People have watched me do dead hangs and everything. I'm just going to go as low as I can with this closer grip. Now, the reason I like this closer grip instead of a little wider, even though again because of it, I can't get what most people would consider a full range of motion, just simply cannot physically do it. I can't even hang in it with a weight because notice the hanger reps there. Um, the bicep activation is so intense. That's why I like it. So, I'm just going to work with it and I'm going to do a lot of them the best I can. But, we got 15 reps this way and I'm happy with that. So again, we got 12 and then rest, pause, three, and a lot of those, notice there, I go into a dead hang. And so that's kind of pointing out the range of motion, those dead hang reps. That is literally everything I have. Um, so therefore, we're getting good stimulus in terms of even the range of motion. And I don't I don't really care. I don't care to explain it to people anymore. You have watched me hang 150 pounds and just hang from a bar with it around my waist and it's still Why don't you log out? Who cares? Um because that that is that that's everything. That's my full range of motion. So, uh the dips though really good. Got 17 reps here with the 45. The goal is to get these up to 20. All of this. All right. Want to get them up to 20. But dips do a lot for me. I'm always happy with the dips. So, I'm like, let's just dip instead of benching because I didn't want to set a bunch of stuff up. It's like I'm not wanting to just hang out in the cold. Uh, so we can do the weighted body weight exercises because they don't require a lot of setup and they get the job done. But squat, all right, we did back squats, we did chins, we did dips. Like, that's the super squat. So, I threw in the pullovers because I do like pullovers. I've been debating, do I want to add some pullovers back in uh versus uh, you know, some extensions? And I did the pullovers today and I got around 30 reps. A lot of them paused. I kind of dropped it in twice so that we have enough footage to hit the eight minutes. And yes, 8 minutes matters for for ads and everything. It's what the tubes wants me to do. And I'm trying to do these formats to where they fit uh Facebook also because again, Facebook is my main platform at this point. But uh we do want to crossost everything. So I'm kind of changing these formats around for the sizing and stuff. But the pullovers felt really good, right? They felt really good. Um, they give that burn, right? I feel them in my pecs, but I feel my triceps a ton. The the tricep activation is phenomenal. And I think when we see me in the black shirt, we realize my arms actually are a lot better than people seem to want to give credit for. I laugh about that because it always strikes me as strange when I'm out in public in a t-shirt or something like this. I get a ton of compliments on my arms from guys and girls, right? But then on the internet, you have deer arms and it's like, "Okay, bros." Um, but I'm also shirtless and then my rib cage and my lats and everything are so big, you know? Everything's so big there. That makes sense, you know. But then the same people who who don't like my any of my range of motion for back exercises will then not understand why I have big lats. It's like, maybe you don't know what you're talking about. Might want to factor that. That's probably why. All right, but back over to the training. So, I did the pullovers. Like, great workout. Great workout. And I feel like with this stuff is fits continues with the theme I'm doing. I almost feel like uh a lot of days I could come in and just do these movements obviously squat and bench and then still occasionally and maybe work my barbell curls back in. But that type of chin up gives me such an intense burn in the bicep that I almost wonder if that's really enough for me too, right? And it may be, but overall pretty happy uh with, you know, the little short brief 30 minute workout we did here, but we got it done. I feel like there's progressive overload there. There's enough stuff to get an adaptation, a training response from. Uh but again, there I am. You guys see me walking around. This is how I look in a t-shirt. Um you know, and hey, as long as we look like we lift in a clothes, we're good, right? All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.