Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here and once again it is time for a dynamic effort lower day. But a quick reminder if you would please click like below on the video would be greatly appreciated. If you aren't following or subscribed, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment down below with your thoughts just to say hello, I would appreciate it. All right, uh let's get over to the training. This was a chain wave. Um I did not switch to change for deadlifts and I'll explain why when I get to it. Uh so I did three weeks of bands. Actually, I did three weeks of chains and three weeks of bands. Now, we're back over to chains again, which you guys saw on the speed bench yesterday. Um, I'm mostly doing the safety bar right now, mainly out of just convenience. Uh, because again, using the straight bar, it can be nice for the carryover, but the safety bar will too. Uh, I just don't have to practice setting up under the bar, but it's also super easy on the shoulders. No real negatives to using this with speed work. we can argue about with maxes because of weight limitations, upper back, all that stuff. Speed work, not really a negative. So, I love using the safety bar for for speed boxes. Uh, so I ran with 100 pounds of chains and we went with 170 lbs of bar weight. Uh, so for people who are curious how I come up with those numbers, my goal is to essentially um have my average chain weight. So, if I have 50 lbs of chain, it's going to be roughly 25 in the middle, right? 100 pounds of chains, 50 in the middle. I want my average chain or band weight when added to the straight weight for the total to be around 50%. Do you guys kind of see what what I did there, right? Does that make sense? So, my my best squat right now with this bar is 450. So, half of that 50% is around 225 roughly. So, what do we have here? 100 pounds of chains plus, you know, 170 on the bar. We're right around the middle of the chain, the chain average in the middle, halfway up approximately being about 50% of my max. And that's kind of what we want for the speed work. Uh, so I did six doubles. I did six doubles on all this. And I'm kind of um scaling these to to optimize, not worried about, okay, let's just get tons and tons of speed work because recovery and optimization do matter right now for me. They matter a lot. Um, so I did nine triples on speed bench. So then for speed squats and speed pulls, I do six doubles and six doubles, right? So it gives me about 24 total reps today, 27 yesterday. Uh, again, thighs looking thick. Feeling really, really a lot better uh, doing this 4 day a week training. Looking at minimum effective volumes of accessory work, which is pretty much what I'm doing. Uh, while pushing the max work and the speed work pretty hard. my maxes are are definitely being pushed. Like they're looking like true maxes uh on most of the days at this point. So that's kind of the idea. So why did I go with bands? Again, mainly they're just such a pain to set up. It's like I get a vastly different stimulus by going from conventional to sumo. They're so different. I'm already getting a big change. I don't necessarily need to run the chains. And mainly I can just grab these bands. It takes me 20 seconds to put these bands on. For me to drag over 150 lbs of chains, try to get them set up. Keeping in mind, I don't have the carbiners, the same lead chain setups that I really have for the other stuff. It's hard to do for a deadlift. Um, for me, for conventional running, that is almost impossible. It's just chains bounce all over the place. I can get away with sumo in the middle. It's just a lack of convenience. It already takes up enough time to set up the other stuff. It's just convenient. And then I could still get 150 pounds of accommodating resistance. And I figure um we're just as good here. All right. Because it's such a different wave that going from conventional to sumo is night and day. So again, we still get an enormous varied stimulus. And I could still run some waves of chains if I really really were so inclined. I could even run some waves of straight weight. That would really make it so much faster and convenient for speed work. If I wanted to just run away with a straight weight, man, would that be easy. But I do like the benefits of the accommodating resistance. Um, so yeah, some of that I'm finding I'm more explosive when I try to keep toes forward on sumo, by the way. Noticing that as I as I rotate through it. All right, so really I only did three supplemental lifts besides one really high set of reverse hypers. All right, good mornings. This is PR for volume. All right, at least in terms of coming back to good mornings. Obviously, it used to be stronger years ago, but I also had a 550 Max. Good morning. Um, and was heavier. So, I I got 240 with this bar for three sets of 10 a few weeks back. Um, I also hit some heavier work with it the other day with 300, but then I got 250 for two sets of 10 earlier this week, and I just called it up. Like, my back felt that's all that it had left. It's like done. So, today I only did speed work, wasn't as beat up, so I'm like, let's push three sets. So, I got three sets of 10 with this weight. So, technically for 3x 10, this is a 10 lb PR. Okay, I'll take it. And I think people have to remember when we're at my level at this point, something like a a 10 lb PR or adding an extra 10 reps, taking your two sets of 10 to three is a big jump. Uh 10 lb uh increase for your 3x 10 work sets is a significant increase. Um, again, keeping in mind I'm a very advanced. So, technically, if we want to be technical, I'm classified as an elite lifter. Uh, I do have an elite total on file, and technically right now, I could beat that total. I could walk into a meet next week and beat my last total in the same age, the same weight class, and I had an elite total last time. It's classified there for my class, still on file. Um, so yeah, for me to add 10 pounds to something is actually significant. I'm going to keep working that up. I feel like eventually I could get to 300 for sets of 10 with this bar. But what does that equate to? That's gonna be like a 600 max with the camber bar. So that's how strong that is. Now before people make a big jump about that, I PRD on this since my 500 with that bar recent, you know, over a month ago. So just an FYI, which was what, five weeks ago or so. Um, so I'll take it. Keep moving forward. We want to keep improving. Um, same thing for the belt squats. I'm trying to focus on getting well below parallel on belt squats. So, I've had to scale back and then rejump back up. So, trying to focus on getting that depth. My first set is always super hard. By the way, I'm shocked at how much weaker I am on my first set of these every time. And it's just the nature of the lift for me. It's just that it hurts. It is excruciating in my quad tendons on the first set to the point where I don't think I can finish the set. and then the second and third set is completely gone and after the workout it's completely gone. It's just so weird. Something I deal with. Um it's just only for the first set and then it completely goes away. Um interesting. So last time I did this weight I got sixes. Okay, you guys remember that? Then I bumped it up got 3x6 with 20 lbs heavier than this. So I'm like, "Okay, let's try to get eights." So I jumped back down to this. So this that was 290 for the sixes. This is 270 again. I got three sets of six last time I did this weight. I got two sets of eight and then we got a set of 10. What? So we're in a good spot. We're in a really good spot there. I'll take it. I'll take it every time. Right. We'll take that win. We'll take that win. Uh because again adds up absolutely adds up tremendously and that's what we want to see. We want to see those PRs, right? We want to see those rep PRs with these same weights and we got that. So I'm happy with that today. Feel like my quads are looking pretty jacked. Interestingly enough, feel like my quads are getting bigger and stronger again now that I'm only doing six sets of work per week. Not trying to go more. Not trying to do a bunch of leg extensions. Literally just pushing three sets twice a week on the belt squat. Not counting my speed work and max work, even though we know that's quad work. We're getting stronger. That's good. That means I'm recovering. We're progressively overloading. We're seeing progress. Um, all right. For these, I didn't do a third set. Why? I I felt beat up. Like my whole upper back, my shoulders like we're done for the week. Um, last time I did these the other day, this is a new PR weight. I got eight, eight, and then like seven. I couldn't finish the last set. So, I just got to two sets of eight today with the same weight and called it. That still puts me at 11 sets for my middle middle back and everything this week. All right. 11 sets plenty. Plenty. Because we also do all the speed work. We do some laterals, did some rear delt stuff at different points in the week. So, again, we're in PR weight pretty much. I've only hit this weight ever in my life on this lift this week. So, I'll take two sets of eight with it today. Considering we did three sets of pull-ups yesterday. Did speed pulls first. Yeah, I'll take it. And then I just finished up with reverse hypers. We did one set of 30 and we called it a day. I feel like this is a productive day. It was fairly moderate volume for a second leg day, but you know what? It felt productive. We pee hard. Everything hit hard. Um, we're done for the week. Just going to walk. Walking is going to be the only other exercise I do till Monday. And I'll let everything heal up. Uh, come in and try to hit some PRs next week. So, I hope it's been informative and I will talk to you guys and gals next time.