Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and once again it is time for a lower body training day. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciate it. If you aren't following or subscribe, please do so. And if you guys would be so kind as to drop a comment uh down below uh just to say hello or to ask questions, give your thoughts. It'd be appreciated. Uh so doing a little bit of volume on squats and deadlifts today. Uh also obviously I did two hours of list cardio yesterday. uh all of it streamed um pretty much to the point where trimmed down for the summer a little bit. But that means we got to train hard. We got to train heavy because I need to be pushing to gain muscle, not just retain muscle. Have to try to gain muscle while trying to strip a little bit of body fat down using all the list cardio and getting the diet dialed in. So again, let's just blow quads up. I need my quads and my calves to grow. I need to push them. So three sets of high bar squats. As I know it's only 405 for three. I'm also doing it raw as can be. Uh so three sets of three. Uh it felt pretty heavy on the third rep each time. Obviously I had reps in the tank, but the point is on these I'm close enough to failure. We're getting a training response and then I did belt squats to get a little extra work here. So these are still high quality sets. And what I'm trying to focus on is sinking them, right? And I'm trying to get as much quad stimulus as possible while still maintaining a relatively heavy weight here, right? Trying to maintain a relatively heavy weight. So my goal on these is even though high bar always looks higher relative to knee angle on the depth, uh tried to go deep on every single rep, right? Basically tried to go hamstrings to calves on the reps. So trying to go deep, just get high quality reps, right? And that was the goal all the way across. um and was comfortable with it, but obviously created some fatigue. So, I definitely was going, man, I'm feeling the cardio fatigue. I went to do the deadlifts and I the grip was slipping on the third rep. I'm like, let me just do some three sets with, you know, 500. It's called 495, 500, but I just didn't put the tiny plates on. But I noticed part of the issue is I didn't grip it correctly. I came in all limp wristing it. I didn't get the thumb over correctly. And so, I'm sitting here and then I feel like the grip is trying to give. So, I'm like, let me set it down. Let me focus. What am I doing? So, I'm using the thick bar, right? I'm using the thicker bar. I got so used to the deadlift bar. I've gotten lazy about that thumb. Notice my thumb on that right hand difference. Now, I'm wrapping that thumb over. Now, it got a lot easier, right? But I feel like just some triples with 500, this is enough to just stimulate some growth, right? Especially with this bar. Um, so that's the idea. They're going to be fairly hard sets, but they're not going to be to the bleeding edge. Okay. So, I'm just going to get three sets of of pretty heavy squats, three sets of pretty heavy deadlifts in. And then, of course, we'll obviously push the other stuff harder. But again, these are close enough. I'm still going to get a training response, right? Because it's not like I have four or five reps in the tank on this stuff. Definitely with the cardio fatigue though, the deadlift. So, that third set was much better. So, that one was in a good place. I'm like, let me just hold it for a second at the top. Also, um I did belt squats and stuff, but I'm like, let's do the calf raises first. Why? Um I want to just get all the axial fatigue out of the way. We already got a lot of quad work there, right? We got lots of quad work. Not a big deal. So um my calves do need some love. I don't want them to be completely exhausted by the time we get there. I do need my calves to grow. It'll help with the burning calories on the cardio. So this time we went much harder. So last time I got 10 with whatever 335. Like I know I can do reps at 405. bet I get at least six standing on the plate which is harder. So, I did I managed to get eights. All three sets I got eights. But again, this is a lot of a fair amount of axial fatigue this workout. But we also get a growth stimulus. So, this will help the upper body grow a little bit. All the back, all that's trunk. And that's kind of the idea. That's what I'm trying to achieve with with all of this. Be efficient and go, you know, what's the minimum work I really need to do to stimulate a good growth on everything. Keep everything balanced. Um, but know what we need to isolate. some delts, some biceps, a little calves, little forearms, right? That stuff all needs to be isolated, pecs and stuff. I'm not worried. I'm benching and doing dips, you know? So, the same thing here, quads and all that. I think we're good. We got belt squats and we have high bar squats and doing it all twice a week. That's actually a lot of quad and pec volume. Fair amount of tricep volume, too. Uh but, uh, obviously, I've been isolating the the rear to side delt and things like that. But here again, I just want to make sure the calves are getting stimulus. All this walking I'm doing, every drop of calf muscle is worth an enormous amount of calorie burn, energy burn. Uh again, chasing nutrient partitioning with all this. This is this is how we cut down while potentially gaining muscle, right? It's kind of the idea. So, I do need to trim a little body fat. And people are right. You know, I could stand to be a hair leaner, but we want to be thick and we want to be strong. That's the idea, right? So, we're going to do it this way. We're going to do it the healthy way. Not going to do it by necessarily starving myself. We're just going to do a lot of lifts, which is good for your health. Good for your health. Um, do it by keeping the diet super clean, very low fat, heavy on carbs, protein, and then lots and lots and lots and lots of vegetables. All right, the belt squats. This is pretty much the heaviest I've done. I've done sixes, two sets of six with this before, but I managed to squeeze out three sets of six with 300. The idea on this, it's like I'm trying to just push them hard. I don't want to get rep tons and tons and tons of reps on the knee joint. Okay? And the reason is I'm doing all the walking. I'm doing all the cycling. I don't want huge amounts of reps hitting those quad tendons, but I want it to be heavy and I want a stimulus. So, right around that six to eight works good here. Three to five for the squats. You know, you know, about six to eight on this. So, this is about as heavy as I can go. I need to work on getting this up to eight reps, right? We can do that. We're in a good spot. Uh, but again, pushing these hard like he says, the last the last rep is very difficult. It's moving slower. It feels like I'm not going to get it. Having to pull up just a hair on the handles on the six rep each time. So, I can tell I'm I'm reaching failure at that point. But again, what are we trying to do? Build quads, build adductors, build glutes. Okay? Because if I can build glutes, too, my deadlift goes up, right? So, we're going to do reverse hypers and stuff here, too. So, we're getting a little hamstring stuff. I feel a lot of hamstring on a conventional deadlift personally. Um, but again, a lot of times it's either grip or it's glutes that limit my deadlift based upon where I miss it. So, let's just double down on that. So, what I also decided to do here, it's like, I'm not doing that much other pulling. I feel like the grip needs a hair of work. So, I decided to do some standing barbell wrist curls. I super set it with my reverse hypers at the end. Of course, reverse hypers are my main posterior chain supplemental lift. Um, obviously I'm going heavier on them and going really really really strict right now. So, I'm only able to get about 10 reps or so. Uh, so I'm trying to do them as strict and cut the swing out as much as possible to get my uh erectors to grow. So, again, I want that lower back training. Absolutely want that lower back training here. Um, even though the deadlifts handle part of that and they handle a lot of the hamstring and glute and everything, this will finish them off. Um, now for some people who say there's still a little bit of swing. Yeah, that's impossible. I mean, I guess I could let the roller bearings rust and ruin the device and not grease them up and pour some salt water in them, but then I've I've ruined a $1,000 machine. So, it'd be kind of stupid, wouldn't it? So, again, it's all roller bearings. Uh, so the the wrist curls, of course, these felt good, but my grip was so fatigued. My forearms were so so cramped. So, you can tell I'm looking thick there. So, I can go ahead and trim down. I think I look pretty big, a little leaner. Um, I couldn't finish all 10 reps on the last set. Forearms just gave out. I got like six or seven reps and that was it. So, I got 10 on the first two. So, here I'm trying to again control that swing as much as possible, which just almost cramps my low back. The low back on this is really, really strong. But again, I need that. Um, and I need more glute in general. But all of these lifts hit my glutes hard. But, you know, all this will help build the hamstrings. And of course, building the calves tends to help potentially my squat also, especially if I go on messing with the high bar a bit because I can bounce off the calves later. Uh, but yeah, so the name of the game, try to gain as much muscle as I can while stripping down for a bit. So, we're going to push all of this maximizing body composition. I'm going to train hard but stay within my recovery. Uh, and again, compensating for a lot of the cardio. I'm actually running a lot of carbohydrates with the uh the fat very very low. Again, kind of a well understood approach. It's it's a kind of a time- tested approach for recomposition and getting leaner. And then we finished up with a set of hanging leg raises. But pretty happy with today's workout other than that first set of deadlifts. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.