Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here representing Jason Bloha Strength and Fitness and once again it's time for another full body workout. Um started with squat bench and deadlift. Definitely started working the overhead press in like I said I would and I kind of messed with today a medium grip bench because I did a bunch of analysis with the empty bar this morning. Checking all my lock out with different grips and really I have the best lock out with a medium grip. Now that being said, I did not like the medium grip bench. It felt weak. Didn't like it. Um, so I'm going to go back to what I've been doing where I've been strongest where I hit the 350 bench uh over a month ago, right? So we'll we'll go back and mess with that again. So, but again, I wanted to just mess around a little and I don't think it's a big deal. The beauty of benching three days a week like I'm doing, I can mess with different grips and we're fine. Did did a little side chest so we can see where I'm at here on everything. Um, so over back to the squatting though. Um, so just did heavy singles. I'm using the squat bar, so it adds 10 more pounds. So, for those who unaware, that's a 55lb bar. It's a Texas squat bar. It's competition one. So, again, I'm just going to work on some some heavy singles and stuff just to maintain technique. And I'm going to work on bringing that up, but I'm trying to really just focus on on getting some quality singles in um while I uh work on continue to work on the running, do the box jumps, the sled work, and all in all, it will build a big squat again. Um, so again, I'm not wanting to push the singles real hard just yet on the squat. I want to really get the overhead press and other stuff good. Uh, but coming up here soon, yeah, I will probably start pushing those singles up um a lot harder on the on the back squat. I think the other day we did three of them and just did one today. And again, it's fine. Just it's like a nice little good training max. Um, and mainly just maintaining that technique. All right, so I did a a medium grip here. So, it's about halfway through uh between the the smooth and the rings. Um it's just slow and it didn't feel uh the way that I liked, but I wanted to see how it would feel because I do know that's where I'm going to want to bench with the or press with the overhead press for now. Um and I think, like I said, Friday we'll go back to the same grip we've been doing. Uh we've been doing it for probably 80% of of the uh the training. And it's okay. Again, I like to experiment a little with grips and just see how they feel back and forth, and it's nice just for overuse. And again, the beauty of benching this often. Uh, but even then, you know, the 315 felt pretty heavy and then triples with 275 felt really heavy with this grip. So, it felt possibly even weaker than my closed grip. Um, but again, I wanted to mess with it a little bit just to change grips around sometimes. Not a not a bad call. Um, but I think yeah, pinkies just outside the rings is really where I feel good. You know, maybe that that index that ring finger on the rings. It's really where I've been strongest um all year and and it makes sense. And again, it gives a lot of chest stimulus. I think that's where I'm going to stick. And I can just work overhead press, right, is a secondary press. But I'm going to have to make sure that I stop doing stuff like doing band work on the off day. It's probably not helping my pressing. I really don't need any of it, you know. As long as I'm benching, overhead pressing, I think we're good. And then the pull-ups will work along head of the tricep anymore because I mean, if I do three sets of bench every workout, that's nine sets of benching. That's a fair amount. Like, we're good. Um, deadlifts did a nice solid triple with 500. Uh, so again, fairly fairly happy with that. Felt good. Just just again, nice nice solid triple. Um, wasn't grindy. Just a good quality work set. I could could grind out a little more if I wanted to, but this is enough that we are getting quality stimulus. Uh, so happy with it. And I wanted to get over and push the the overhead press. And yeah, I know my overhead press is going to be really weak. And yes, I know it still doesn't look like a full lockout, but I've been I did a bunch of them this morning with different grips and filmed it and actually took and measured screenshots of it before the workout. I did it really early just to see, you know, where my best lockout is. And it's right there. It's that grip. And so I'm trying to pause at the top and that is 100% of my range of motion. And I did them all with the empty bar. So if someone says go lighter, it's like, well, I can't go lighter than the empty bar, you know? So that's the range of motion, but I want to work it. I want to keep working it. And I do feel like um I want to mess more with the pull-ups in that same position. So, as much as I like the neutral grip, I can just do some hammer curls to make sure I get a little bit of that supine grip work, which will work just fine. I I had biggest arms I've ever had on camera. I trained like that. Few hammer curls here and there and just did pull-ups and pressing and some dips. Uh, so again, manage. I did three sets of five just with 95 pounds. Um, and I'm just going to build this up from here. And I'm going to work the range of motion that I have. And I'm not going to care what people think because what you're going to tend to have when I do that, you'll see a lot of comments of zero zero zero and it's like, well, okay, but I'm not going to not do the exercise. You know, I feel like I get so much out of the press and as I continue to get the shoulder health improving. Really, it's the bicep. Like, now that I've assessed all of it, it really is the bicep. I never had a problem with the lockout till I started doing chin-ups and underhand grip curls and all that stuff. That's pretty much what did me in. And I'm not the first person that's happened to. So that's been the interesting thing. And I've got I've even seen Winning talk about that like, "Oh, that'll ruin your shoulders, you know, as you get older." So again, we're just going to avoid it, you know? And even with the hammer curls, I need to make sure I don't bring them up to the face and work that long head of the bicep more, right? So just keep them down low. But I'm just going to again work the range of motion that I can. Try to pause on a lot of the reps at the top at my full lockout and just take it from there. And you know, we will work what we can and that's all that we can do. But again, it's going to carry over to the benching. Like if I look where I tend to stick with that wide grip bench, that will actually help. So, ironically, I'm really really weak at the overhead and the overhead will carry over to my benching weak link. So, I think that'll be interesting to see how that goes. So, I wanted to take a fairly similar grip on on weighted pull-ups. And I went heavy. I went with a 45s. I can only do triples because that's not the best. Well, definitely not my strongest grip. And that's okay. It felt good. And I'll probably go a hair lighter this next workout. But I also instead of doing a false grip, I'm doing a thumb over grip because that's what I need to do for the overhead press. So again, um I do want the pull-up to carry over. The bench doesn't need to. As much as I don't mess around with grip width, the bench does not need to carry over because it's not really in the same plane, but I do want the pull-ups to help the overhead press. So, whatever grip I'm working with on on the overhead press, I probably need to do pull-ups, and I need to do reps from a dead hang. So, notice these are these are hanging reps, right? A lot of the reps are from a dead hang. So, again, I want it to transfer over to stretching into that position for the for the overhead press because I want a big press. I've already said again, I'm going to press 225 plus again strict. It's going to happen. I don't care what it takes. It's going to be a big part of what we do. Um, and then just after my five lifts, I did one set of hammer curls to failure. I thought I was going to be weaker than this. It's like, well, the 38s, they'll be they'll be a challenging, you know, 10 11 rep set. I ended up doing 15. So, I need to go heavier on these and I'll just progressively overload them because I don't need 15 rep sets right now. But, they felt good. And the main thing is I'm keeping them down instead of rotating up because I I don't want to inflame that long head. And this will help me just avoid all that, right? It'll still build forearms. It'll build grip. It'll build biceps. And like I said, hammer curls with very low volumes were all I was doing on my arms were at their biggest, you know? So, I don't need any of the supine stuff. Um, so I really want to focus on that overhead press because that will also improve as I get leaner. That'll improve my look, too. You know, the the whole shoulder girdle and upper chest and tricep. That'll help bring u. So, then we did box jumps. I did I did seven sets of these today. I just do them till kind of what feels good. Like I've had days where I've done five sets. I have days where I do 10. I could have done more, but again, I just wanted to do them all the way up till I did the sled. In fact, I went and set my sled up and came back and did one more set before I pushed the sled because I want want that speed to carry over. So, again, I'm going to run my other three days still. And I feel like for me, uh, the sled sprints and then the box jumps are what's going to help me with my running speed. There's going to be carryover. Even Louis Simmons always said that. Um, there's going to be carryover. And then we'll run three days a week. But again, on the runs, I I hit a 5k PR and then of course yesterday we got stormed out, so my run got shorter. Um, but yeah, uh, I'm I'm just going to work on just getting really good at running. And it the time's improved as I did it already. So, I'm not gonna focus on, hey, let's push a little time. Let's just get quality runs in three days a week. And as we just continue to focus on just adapting and getting conditioning up, um the run times will just get better and better anyways. Like I don't have to forcibly progress on those. There's no need. Um not really necessary. Just getting leaner will help. Continuing to do the box work will help. And the box work and the slope will carry over to the squat. So, I'm like, I don't need a lot of squat volume. Let's just go heavy and just start ramping those singles up and all this stuff will carry over to it. I think people forget that, you know, when we're talking about these things, it's like, no, there's carryover, right? Just like these carry over to the running, to the jogging. The jogging will get me in better shape, which will improve recovery from workout. So, again, just focus on the well-rounded. Notice we do heavy work, we do a little bit of rep work for hypertrophy, uh we do jumping for power, we do sleds for for GBP and conditioning, and then I run for overall cardio. And then I do less on the bike later. So we'll get a a a bike here and later try to do at least an hour and stream all of it, right? We stream the bike work and uh yeah, just make the most of it, you know. Uh then here's my sled. So, I push it down, you know, not super super fast on the way down. Then I come back and I sprint it on the way back. These sprints are getting easier, though. I almost feel like I might need to more add some more weight to the sled. Um because they're not really winding me as much as they used to. So, I'm just getting used to it, right? Uh so, again, we we push it down, you know, not not real fast. It's a good little pace. And then on the way back, I run and I try to sprint on the back end of it on the way back. But overall, you know, other other than other than we still have to continue to improve the overhead press and I didn't like that grip on the uh I didn't like that grip on the bench today. So, we'll go back to what we've been doing. Uh but otherwise, pretty happy with today's workout. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.