Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here and once again it is time for an upper body day. Um, quick reminder though, if you guys will please click like down below, it' be greatly appreciated. If you are not uh subscribed or following, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that so much. Let's get over into the training. This is going to be a long vlog. 16 minutes. That's what I trimmed it to. There's no warm-up sets in here. All right. Um, pretty much same thing for all the basic workouts. The only adjustments I made, I'm like, h, let's make sure the shoulder health's good. Make sure ranges of motion are long. So, I brought the bench grip in just a little bit. Notice I'm completely inside the rings. My pinkies are about an inch inside the ring. So, this is really a medium grip, but um happy with it, right? Felt good. Uh exact same reps and sets I did last time. I'm not taking these sets to failure, obviously. I'm just getting real close. Um I did all my curls to failure, though. Uh, so taking it just real close, leave it about one rep in reserve. Um, I decided to do with the pull-ups the same thing. Let's bring the grip in right about shoulder width. I'm like, let's just make sure we're getting a really good stretch there. Um, working the muscles, making sure we're working lats, making sure we're working pecs and just minimizing shoulder stress. Um, you know, and and that's the name of the game. Uh, what I can't do when I'm cutting because I'm doing all that cardio, I'm doing the bro diet. Um, so again, we're going really hard on all that. Super super hard. So I need to be aware. I need to be aware of making sure I don't get any inflammation anywhere because recovery could be compromised. Now, my diet is absurdly high in antioxidants. Uh, so that's one perk of doing the hours of cardio every day. I keep calories higher, more whole foods. So it's literally like, man, I could squeeze more brown rice, more more vegetables, you know, all this stuff in, right? So that's the idea. I want to keep inflammation absolutely as absolutely low as possible. So it's a big part um of the game here with that, keeping that inflammation minimized as much as possible. But I also need to think about that. Let's just make sure that the joints are are healthy. But it's like let's do lots of shoulder work, too. Uh, so with all this since it's three sets of eight and and I'm trying to get as high as I can on the pull-ups, but again, keep in mind it's it's a range of motion issue if I don't swing over. So, I'm not trying to swing myself back and over. I'm just going as high as my scapula allow. Uh, so again, it builds my back. You know, I always get people who they don't like how I do different back exercises, but I'm like, dude, look at my I've got a good back. Are we really worried? You know, and that's the thing. I I've kind of laughed and it's like um and and no offense attended to anyone here, but they're like, "Well, your back would be even bigger if you did this different." I'm like, "Look at my proportions already." I mean, realistically, does anyone think my back needs to be even bigger? How about we get the biceps and stuff cut? And again, not saying we want to limit growth. But realistically, the way that I train my back has led to me being disproportionately big there. It can't be that bad, guys. Come on. Just saying. I mean, people should use some common sense. Can't be that bad. So, just laugh with it. But biomechanically, it it does make sense. Like, if you if you look at the anatomy, it makes perfect sense what we're doing. And and so with the benching, I'm also making sure we're getting a good stretch. So, the ultra wide benching though works more delt. Keeping it in a little closer lets me get a good stretch on the peg. Notice I'm benching pretty much flat back. Um, I'm not even pausing. I'm doing very soft touch and goes. And my only reason for that, um, I'm just trying to make sure that I maintain that tension. And I can always build pause binching up real fast because the soft touch and go carries over perfectly to pause benching, by the way. Just an FYI, because it's it's super soft. I'm having to control it right there. and then and then reverse it. So then the same thing uh we we do the three sets of eight of both of those and it's right at eight. I'm going about one to zero reps and reserve on that stuff. The last rep is hard. Um but it's I'm picking weights that are going to put me there. I'm not intentionally stopping at eight. I'm picking weights that are hard. Same thing on on the dips because I I get right there to the end and then I stretch that last rep and I know I don't think I've got more than one rep left. I I stretch it, pause it briefly for a second. I do a lot of my lifts like that when I'm so I'm working with around an eight or nine rep max or about a nine rep max. When I get to rep eight, I always pause the stuff or stretch a little and hold things to make sure that last rep is super hard. And that's the idea. So notice even with the rows, I get to that eighth rep and I let it hang at the bottom a little longer just to make sure the rep that I know is going to be about my last one. I just want to make it more difficult so that we know that we're closer to failure with it. So the dips, I'm doing the thing to of where I'm going as low as my range of motion allows. So a lot of these I get down and I pause the reps, right? So I'm stretching as deep as I can. Notice my my rear delt is definitely below my elbow. And it's not just the shoulder joint, it's the rear delt. The muscle is below the elbow. So there's meat up there, too. Um so again, right there, notice I paused that rep at the bottom. And that's the idea. So, so it's just kind of pointing that out when we're talking proximity to failure. If I'm trying to be about one rep in reserve and I say, you know, this rep here be the last clean rep I think I can do without cheating. I always try to make it just a hair harder. Let's pause it at the bottom. Let's, you know, slow the eentric down. So, on the last rep of the bench, I always try to slow the eentric down a little more when I know it's going to be the last rep I'm going to do. Same thing the rowing that last rep we always I go I try to stretch deeper and hold it at the bottom so it's not getting a stretch reflex and that's kind of the idea and and again this stuff makes my chest it makes my back grow. I mean I don't think anyone's going to say from these side views that you know my chest or my back not pretty good arms need work rear delts and stuff need work undoubtedly and we're going to do all that at the end here. Um the thing is also got brought up um as far as tricep volume. I just can't handle more. Um, the benching does work triceps. I don't really feel it personally. So, that's why I don't count it towards my tricep volume. Other people say, "Why don't you? We know it grows it." I just don't feel it. I feel the dips. I get a crazy good tricep pump on the dips and then they just feel beat like a hammer on the extensions. So, because I'm doing twice a week, three sets of dips, three sets of the extensions, my triceps just feel like they don't have anything left. they're just destroyed. Like I I start losing the pump off after those sets. But it could be because the bench is also fatiguing them if I really am doing the nine sets twice a week. So I'm kind of like, yeah, I'm technically only doing 12 total sets a week for triceps, even though they're potentially a weak link. Not that I'm going to grow significantly with this deficit, but you guys get the idea. But it's also if that's if I'm not counting the bench press and I don't think anyone's going to deny a full range of motion dip as a tricep movement. People will deny a bench press. Yeah, you can't tell me that a a dip a dip done all the way down is is not a tricep exercise. Come on, silly. In fact, people back when I was younger used to say if you get strong enough it dips, you don't even need extensions, right? Because the dip is different than a bench. There is a different impact because that arm is back there behind you. Just like a kickback works that long head. Granted, it's in more of a contracted position, right? Just like with a kickback where it does work long. It does, but so does a dip. So, it it legitimately counts. But between those two, um like my triceps are just done. Now, my biceps need a little more. So, I'm like, I really do need two bicep exercises. I really do. So here I'm doing this and this is a as far as this strict curl. I had someone say, "Why are you doing a half rep?" I'm not. I'm not doing the other function of the bicep here. I'm not bringing it up to the face. But that is a full as far as the elbow joint goes. That's 100% range of motion. I'm working all the way. I'm just keeping the arms to my sides for now. I just want to see if that does any different. Not a big deal. It's just a slight variation. They're both valid forms. So I'm just messing with that for a bit. just progressively overlooked that. But I mean, if we're working the elbow through the full range of motion, I think we're good. It's not like we aren't doing pull-ups and other stuff. I think it's okay. Um, so I'm just taking it all the way up as high as it goes. And it's not like, oh, use less weight. I'm being super strict and I'm doing sets of 10 that are pretty well buzzed to failure. So those are failure. Like I get to the bottom, I just can't do another one. Whereas I started losing reps. Uh oh, you guys saw I had a little snap. I went to racket and I missed the hook. Fortunately, it's only 110 pounds. So, you know, we rack it. We're good. I leave snappers in, right? I I leave the snafoos in. Might as well. But, uh, as far as as the curls go, I'm locking out at the bottom, coming to a complete stop, and I'm curling up. I'm keeping the elbows as best I can. Keep in mind, because I have big lats, I my elbows will not touch my sides. I physically cannot do it. So, I've had people say, "Why don't you pin them down?" I'm like, I don't physically have the ability. Look at my back when I turn around. I can't. So, um, but in this case, we're working the elbow through the entire range of motion. And funny enough, even though there's a little bit of that popped to the side, I can't feel it when I do it. I literally only feel I'm literally only bending my arm up is all that I feel. And I feel nothing but bicep when I do it that way. I don't feel any of the other muscles. I don't feel any shoulder. I literally feel nothing but my bicep. The only muscle I actually feel with that form at all. I don't feel anything else. So, that's probably a good thing. So, let's just run with it. And that's I got eight reps with that weight last time and I got three sets of 10 today. So, that's that's progress. And I'll I'll work that weight up. Let's see if I can progress it on that technique, that form. That's that is working the elbow to the full range of motion. What we're not doing is the shoulder u flexion that works the long head a little bit more. But I don't think that's going to make or break me at this point. Let's just do that and then no one can complain and say, "Oh, you're using other muscles." Right? People do that to me all but we can't do that there. Right? Because if the only joint that is going through any significant degrees of movement is the elbow and we're taking the elbow through its longest possible range of motion, right? I'm coming up till the bicep touches the forearm and I'm locking out at the bottom. Right, there we go. We can't claim this is not bicep. Somebody will. This is the funny thing when people critique my stuff. Someone will come in and say, right, they're going to come in and say it's all trap. He's he's not working his biceps at all. Yeah. Always. So then we did I did three sets of laterals. Um I took the weight down on all the stuff just to be real strict. So, these were right about 12 reps and then I couldn't I couldn't get more. So, 12 reps with zero reps in reserve. Um, and I just I'm keeping these strict trying to keep them out to the side. So, I did these and I did three sets of rear delt flies on the incline bench. Um, I feel like I got to have the more delt work. I almost feel like I can work front raises back in, but I just felt like my front delts are so dominant. But realistically, good balance training as I get leaner, I do need those side and rear delts to pop more. I think that'll make or break me a lot at this point in the game. Honestly, it's probably more important than my arms. I had two different bodybuilders in body who compete and one of them is actually a prep coach uh last year who are friends of mine. Literally told me, "Honestly, your arms are not even your weakest. Just your delts. They're like your side and rear delts. Hit those as you when you get leaner later and it'll make all the difference." I had two bodybuilders tell me this. One of which is literally a prep coach also. So, you know, do we think am I going to disagree with them? Like I literally have them say like honestly you you know your arms structurally are an issue but they're really not small and if you get leaner they'll just look bigger. They're like hit the delts. Hit the delts. Okay. So let's just do that while we continue to cut. So three sets of laterals, three sets of rear del. So, if I did this twice a week, it gives me 12 direct sets for delts. Keep in mind, all that pushing, all that pulling. I mean, doing six sets of rows and six sets of of pull-ups. That's rear delt and some side delt. Doing all the pressing, you know, that's front delts. So, these are more direct. It's making sure we double down on the side delt and the rear delt. Keep in mind, these movements do work even the front delt to some extent. There's always some overlap. Um, but again here took these to failure, right? It's got to where it's no I can't do another rep. And I know a lot of times people are like, "How do we know you just stop?" Like, "No, because I get to the bottom and I go to move and it I feel like it sticks and it's like I know I don't have another rep, right? I can just feel it right there." So, um, this is what it is. They're challenging. They're hard. I felt my delts burn. I felt my shoulders burn on all six of these sets. So, let's do that. We'll keep doing that. Um, so we did three sets of 12 on the side, three sets of 10 with the same weight on these. Uh, and I like to do these on the incline bench. And I know I get what the range of motion that I'm capable of. It's that same situation we see with the other stuff. It's just my back and all this other stuff feels like it almost gets in the way as far as I can go. But that's okay. We're we're hitting the muscle. We're working it. Working rear delts, working side delts. And then I'm like, let's just do some dumbbell curls. The end of the day, guys, curls are curls. And I think we make too big of a deal out of a lot of stuff. Yeah, lengthen positions fine and everything, but I could just come in and just do sets of curls to failure. So, I'm like, let me just grab the dumbbell curls and do sets until I can't do reps, right? Let's just take them all the way. I got like 13 and I got like 10 or 11 on the fourth set. When you're getting down to where I'm reaching failure and struggling to get the last couple reps and then I'm reaching failure, we're good. The first one didn't quite reach. I left no reps in reserve. Didn't go to failure. The others though I got there and I'm just like I went to it stuck at the bottom and it just stuck. So that's that's definitely failure. So taking these to failure. Um it looks like the cut is slowly coming along. Um I looked bigger after my workout. I went and looked in the mirror with the pump and I went to the bathroom like, "Oh god, my waist is definitely smaller." Um definitely. And I looked thicker up top. So that part of that would explain the relatively modest weight loss, just looking fuller and thicker. So I feel like I have wiggle room on the calories and stuff. It's like I could add more cardio or I could drop a little more calories out because the performance is good today. Like I don't feel like my performance is suffering. So if I want to lose and the scale is going down, but it's going down a hair slower than I'd like. Um I mean I could always take take it down a little more and it might be totally acceptable. I think that could be reasonable. Uh, but finished up here. I'm pretty pretty overall happy with today's workout. Everything felt good at all. Burned, all got a good pump, felt challenging, uh, but still felt good. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.