Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a GPP workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click a like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. All right, couple things here. Um, I kind of skipped any direct shoulder work today. And the reason for it, um, I've started overhead pressing and incline and laterals on all of my main workouts. So again, as far as me knowing that shoulders are absolutely a weakness, I'm getting a lot of work on those three days. Plus, I have the the medball tosses. So, I feel like at this point, I'll be a little concerned with my shoulders recovering, and I'm trying to push my bench numbers up. I'm doing a lot of benching, so I have to be careful of that with what I pick on the GPP days. Um, I feel like the medball throws are doing a lot just for my shoulder mobility, though, so I feel like they're helping. Um, plus the hanging leg raises will cover that. So again, I'm going to focus on these. Skip any real shoulder work and I threw in banded work for biceps. I'll explain why at the end. Um so with this today, I also didn't do any weighted carries. Um I've started noting all of a sudden I'm getting back cramps um and back spasms and things in the middle of my squatting. I don't normally have this. That's a very rare thing. In fact, with me doing reverse hypers, my back tends to do really well. In fact, I never my back never is bothered by deadlifts. five, six rep sets with 500 lb, no problem. Uh 600 plus deadlifts in the past, no problem. Like my back never feels anything. I've done a 625 deficit, no back, not even slightly fatigued, right? Um but I feel like the weighted carries the weighted carries themselves, that extra axial loading I'm getting from it, and then the the kind of the impact of it, it's a little too much for my low back, especially doing it three days a week. So, I'm going to have to ease it back in carefully. And the reason for that because I squat and deadlift moderately heavy uh three days a week. There's a lot of axial loading. So, I feel like right now I'm going to push the reverse hypers harder. Pull that back out and let's focus on the other stuff that's really useful. So, jumping, throwing, sleds, right? So, nothing here was was was really uh any sort of true high volume like that, right? So, I didn't do long sled pushes. We did sprints. We did stuff like this. It was all very low rep explosive stuff. Now, I like the medball tosses. I feel like I get a lot out of these. Um, they feel good. They're good for athleticism, good for full body power, plus they help with the shoulders because it's throwing them through a dynamic movement, which is the only thing that seems to help my shoulders in addition to me just doing more deadhang pull-ups. Um, pushing forcing myself to overhead press through the 90% range of motion I have. It's it's the last 5 to 10% of the lockout I'm not capable of doing. Um and forever, keep in mind, guys, before I started doing other stuff after those impingements, I couldn't even do that. I was nowhere near that. So, I feel like for me, I have to just consistently do those things. And I feel like stuff like hanging leg raises, uh dynamic type movements like this, um will will do the most for getting that range of motion restored. So, I always need to be clear with my shoulders. They're not hurting. I don't have any pain. All right. So, I did uh like eight sets of those. I lost count. I just did them and then checked it afterwards. I'm like, "Oh, it was eight sets, you know, whatever I happen to do just till till they start to get fatiguing." Um, so again, did my med ball tosses just for triples and I did two rounds of sled sprints because I only did a single on the squat yesterday, no rep work. I definitely need the sled sprints. So, I feel like on this and then the the jumps to make sure my quads are getting enough work to actually grow, especially after only doing a top single, I didn't do like seven reps, six or seven reps of 405, you know, on the high bar. Um, I did the single rep. I want to make sure my my quads and stuff are getting enough work. So, the sled sprints help the these are phenomenal for legs, whether you do them the slower like I did last time or you do the sprints. And I'm not I'm not in a sprint on the way up. So, I I run it down reasonably quick, then I turn around on the way back. I sprint on the way back. So, I'm trying to really, really get that speed up here. So, I did this and I did box jumps after. Now, the funny thing is, normally I do the box jumps first, but they were just fine after. The reason I did them after so I can go inside, don't have to mess with the belt on anything anymore. Wash my feet off, you know, after running around on the ground and then come over and do all the box stuff. So, I ran inside, wash my feet real quick. um cuz I'm out there barefoot, feet, get dirty and everything. So, did that and then did uh three sets of the box jumps. I just did a a quick 3x5 just to get some explosiveness. I haven't done any box jumps in a couple weeks. Um but I'm like, well, if we're not going to do the the loaded carries, let's do some box jumps, right? Um my only concern too with losing the loaded carries, I feel like they help my grip a lot. So, again, definitely doing the toe to bars needs to needs to continue to happen. Um so, yeah. And also, I'm fully aware it's like my waistline will be a little squishy right now till I continue to to recmp because I'm eating a lot of brown rice. It tends to blow up my stomach even later the next morning plus with all the soy sauce. So, I'm not worried. Just some water. Um because I I feel like overall I do feel like I've been recmping here because I've stayed pretty much at the same weight. I'm getting stronger again on all my lifts. Um so again, not a big deal. Uh it's funny though. It's like whenever people have done lower carbs, even cleaner low carbs, not really the high high saturated fat, everyone's like, "You look way or you look shredded. What' you do?" You know, it's just it's just dropping carbs. The problem is is that I feel like I don't recmp as well. I don't perform as well. I can't train as hard. Like my training volumes and recomposition are lower, but you look way tighter. So, it's kind of funny because I could see in different pictures and phases when people said that and it's like, "Yeah, it was it [snorts] was that." Um, but if you just get leaner, it won't matter. And that's kind of something uh a bodybuilding prep coach I know was pointed out. You get lean enough, none of that matters anymore. Got a good point. Um, but I did the box jumps. Uh, did one set of total bars. So, when I did two sets of these a while back because I haven't done them in a while, my doms were too high in my my abs. So, I'm just going to do one set. I'll I'll build them back up. Let me get used to them. Then, I'll start doing a little more volume again on these. But not only do they train the abs, they give me extra grip work and I feel like they can help with the shoulder mobility. All right, reverse hypers. I did a couple three sets. On the last last set, I hit 30 30 plus instead of 25. I added weight. What did I say before? I need to add weight. Problem is, I'm going to I don't want to use up all my blue plates. I need to have enough to deadlift and not leave them loaded on. I've got the reds on there, but I can't really fit much more. So, I do feel like for now, I can I can work up with this. This is like four 420 pounds on there. Do do really really high reps. But when I used to do these crazy heavy. All right. But I used to have to load and unload it every time because I'd squat and deadlift and all that stuff with all the plates. So the other before I used to to load these up super super heavy. My my old reverse hyper. I'd put like 600 lb on it and I'd swing it and it really made my deadlift climb. Right. So, I'm realizing I do need to push these harder in terms of the weight. Push them harder in terms of the weight. It works very It gives me phenomenal deadlift carryover. And it just strengthens and and my low back because I need that lower back stronger again. I need it to strengthen up. This will do it. This hold on me to continue to train it. All right. And train my whole core really um without any axial loading. Uh, so some of the benefits we we would get from those weighted carries, uh, just push this harder, get the low back strong, and then I'll be able to work them back in. So, I need to get I need to get all of that back in a perfect spot because I want to be able to squat painfree. Like, I really was trying to push those up and then getting some low back cramps. It's It's not worth it. Um, so again to me it was it started when I looked at everything closely it was very obvious what variable change what really caused that the weight it carries and I could tell when I do them right and again it's just the jarring of it along with um you know all that weight being carried so that's definitely a factor and I noticed when I went heavier this week it got even more intense right got more intense I noticed it on on Monday. All right. Noticed it on Monday. Like, okay, we I think we found our our culprit there. So, I'm going to see how my back feels tomorrow. Uh, but these made it feel really, really good. Doing these heavier and adding another 90 lbs on the reverse hypers really made it feel good. So, then I finish up with band curls instead of shoulders. Why? Um, I feel like we know even for my arms, I'm tricep dominant. Um, my triceps are crazy strong, my biceps are not. And I do feel like if I'm going to push a little bit of barbell curls after after all the pulling, I do need to make sure my tendons are healthy. I want to really make sure those bicep tendons are recovered and healthy. Plus, it is some good good bicep work to pump at the end. So, again, just blood flow to the biceps, building the tendons, just like I've done tons of the press downs and it let me get really strong at tricep stuff before, right? I feel like it's the same thing here. So, I'm pretty dang strong at tricep movements, whether it's weighted dips or laying extensions. Uh, so again, building the tendons that will let me push the curls up a little bit heavier after doing all the pulling. And I might work some dumbbell rows in tomorrow. I feel like I might throw some in after the pull-ups. We'll see. See how it feels. Uh but again uh just to make sure that we we get blood flow to the tendons, make sure we thicken the tendons. Um and there's a reason band work works for this. A lot of people don't understand when you look at heavy partials, think about what happens with these band exercises. The tension at the top is dramatically higher than the rest of the strength curve. So you're getting those tendon benefits plus the really high reps for the blood flow. So that's why bands in particular really really work tendons, right? because you'd have such an intense peak contraction just like you would on a partial. Uh but did that to finish up. Uh so pretty happy with how that felt. Uh pretty good conditioning session today GBP work after my quick run. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.