Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and leave a comment, be greatly appreciated. Let's get over to it. Um, I did put this one uh kind of warm-up set in here right with the 305. Um, so here's what I did today. Like I said already, I've been doing some singles with 405, but I'm also like I do want to start working towards some top sets with it now that I feel like I've adapted to the running. Squatting's coming back up. Um, now that I'm kind of just staying at the same body weight, I'm used to the running, moderating the volumes on it. I feel like I can get my squat to come back up now. So, I'm like, let's go ahead and just do u, you know, a top set. So, I put 405 on it. I'm like, let's just take it to an actual work set and see if we can get some good reps in here. And I did. Uh, so again, we know I've definitely been sandbagging on the squatting, although I felt like u my upper back was limiting me and stuff, but as I've been working on the stuff to let my shoulders heal, I've been adding the rows back in. Um, rows really translate to my big three a lot, I've noticed, and I have to admit that when I went over to nothing but pull-ups. Um, I do feel like maybe my upper back didn't get everything that I might have wanted, you know, but the rows will help. Um, and as you guys know, I'm taking out all the overhead stuff. I wanted to do pull-ups and incline bench so bad today, but I'm like, "No, I want to let all that old inflammation in the shoulders go away because I can still work the muscles with benching and rowing and everything. Um, but I'm trying to not do anything to where I go up over my head until I can get that range of motion restored. So, I'm just going to do band work and some mobility things and stuff. uh you know, band pull aparts, mostly supine grip band pull aparts, trying to open all that up and just let it all heal, right? Let all of it heal and then see if eventually we can get that that overhead range of motion restore because I want to be able to overhead press. Uh and I almost feel like, man, I could incline in place of that right now, but I chose not to today. I'm just going to do the band press downs for now. Um that's what I did today. Like I said, any day I don't incline, I'll just do the band press downs. Uh, benching went good though, so that triple felt really good with the 315. Um, I've been pring the back offset. I've kind of the last few workouts. I've only done the one back offset and I've been hitting PRs on it. It's been getting stronger. So, I'm like, okay. Um, this one I didn't get a rep PR, but I went up another five pounds. So, it's like I was doing 275, I got seven. I'm like, okay, instead of five or six, that's a we're good. So, we're improving, right? So, then I went up to 280 and got seven. So, I went 285 today and I got six, right? Nice clean work set of six. Um, you know, so happy with it. Happy with it. I think it was six. I might need to count it. I counted it as six in my head. It wasn't a failure or anything, but it felt good. So, I'm like, okay, we're we're on a good track here. And two sets of bench. And I know that doesn't seem like a lot, but I've told people, look, six work sets works. cuz I mean this is three workouts in a row where I've only done two sets. I've only done two sets, you know, but it's three times a week, but it's only six sets from my chest. But it's it's it's going up, so I can't complain. Although, I don't I don't know how long I can hold off on the incline. I feel like I need to work some incline in. All right. Feel like I need to work some incline in soon, but I I want to make sure that my shoulders are healthy. Um, I feel like I get a lot out of incline benching in terms of carry over to my bench. So, deadlift, we got five reps there. We're back to making progress again, right? I was doing triples. I managed to squeeze out four last time. I got five today with the 500 on the stiff bar. So, the deadlift is coming back up now finally, right? After after the cutting, after adapting to all the running. Um, but I'm still going to continue to trim a little leaner. I want to just recmp for a bit. So, for those who keep asking, I just want to kind of chill about this body weight. Recomp for just a little bit and then we'll we'll start chipping back down a little bit. But I I feel like I've recmped. I mean, we're staying same weight and we're getting stronger again. Feel like I'm getting fuller. So, we're we should be seeing some recomposition. I think all the fasted cardio probably helps. Super clean diet. Um the rows I PR last time, so I'm like, okay, I went up in weight. Now, I didn't get PRs here because I got tens last time, but I upped the weight and got tens doing the really strict row. So, I'm trying to do these as strict as possible. Um, and these were still pretty strict, right? Minimizing any cheating, very, very little. So, it's pretty much a penlay row, as it's often called. But, you know, barbell rows are always off the floor. Definition of a barbell row is off the floor. Bend over row isn't off the floor. Uh, but I got I went up from 230. I went 230 for 10 last time on the strict ones. Obviously, I can go heavier if I cheat a little. A lot heavier. Uh, but I went up to 245. So, I put 15 pounds on and got three sets of eight. So, we're good there. So, I did three sets of that. Then for curls, I'm like, well, I did three sets of rows. I'm only going to do a couple sets of barbell curls. But, I increased the weight here, right? I went up another five and I managed to get 10, right? So, I got two sets of 10. and they I couldn't get an 11th rep, right? Because I I bumped it last time and I, you know, I got 12 and 12 and then I bumped after weight increases. So, I went up last time I got like 10 10 and 11. So, I'm like, "Okay, I think I can go five more." Um, I couldn't get 11 on any of them. So, they were 10 reps to failure, but I'm in a good place there. So, I feel like, you know, the two sets of of hard bicep work probably enough. I did three last time. Um, so again, we could argue if if that ends up being only six sets a week, but I'm doing rows. It's not like the rows are don't work biceps, so still a good amount of volume. I ended up doing a set of band curls though anyways after the press downs. Um, but one of the things I'm doing just for now, I'm like, well, since I'm not getting a whole lot of pressing volume, I'm kind I am pushing the band press downs a little bit hard on my training days and I'm not doing them on the off days at the moment. I'm not doing that. I'm going to let my everything heal. Uh, but I I do feel like maybe the top set of benching isn't improving and the top sets of the other stuff is. So, I almost wonder if my triceps might be getting a little too much because we're doing, you know, three or four sets every workout of these. That's more than 10 sets of of the band work to failure. And it may be a little bit less fatigue with the other pressing. I don't know. That's the thing I'm noticing when I do lower volumes. I I tend to do better no matter what's happening. I tend to get stronger historically and I love to push a lot of times to really high volumes because I feel like I need it, but I know that I I tend to get stronger and more jacked personally on on a bit lower volume as long as I'm pushing everything hard. Um, you know, historically. So, it's getting my head around the idea of look, can we come in and do full body three days a week and not really do more than three sets for a muscle or four sets in a single workout, you know? done three times a week. So again, having to tell myself to mitigate the volume because part of me is not enough, but I'm like the back off bench work is progressing. The you know, the deadlifts, the squats, they're they're coming back up, right? They're coming back up. And it's not like I'm blasting gear or anything. It's an explanation. So that's definitely not it. I'm not bulking. So I feel like we're in a good spot with the recovery. Um, probably recmping. Okay, there was a longer break there. I did something else and then I came back and did the band work. I had a So, I got a lot of reps on this fourth one. I was losing reps rapidly, but this ended up being a longer break and then I came back and did another set and then finished everything up. Um, I had a few interruptions, have a couple things going on, but I got that done. Then I did a set of band curls, right? I'm like, let's go ahead and I already got the other bands out. Let's just do some band curls. and um you know finish off get a good pump there help the tendons a little bit right little bit of work for the tendons and then of course we finish up afterwards with the sled so that's kind of my thing you know if I'm looking at total sets squat and deadlift does it count as my whole leg I think so does a sled count as a whole leg do we count it all as squat and hamstring I think we should I think I will so that gives me nine sets for my lower body for the week if I do it that way you know three sets but they're hard sets. And I think people forget that. They're like, you know, could an allout set of squats and deadlifts done once a week, you know, three times a week each um be enough? And it's like, yeah, I think I think you can grow off of that just fine. I think you can, especially given the nature of the the intensity of the exercises because again, progressive overload really is our our driver. And we know even low volumes have still can produce phenomenal muscle growth as long as intensities are high enough. But keep in mind, I'm not that low really. We're not really that low. Again, it's still a workout with a a set of sled sprints after a hard set of squats and deadlifts. Um, that's still a lot of work, guys. Plus, I run on the other days. Uh but yeah, and then just because I'm trying to make all these 10 minutes, we got to go into why it's helpful on one of my platforms, the Facebook mainly. It likes them to be 10 minutes. So, uh I reput the deadlift in so you guys can see the beautiful deadlift again just to reach that great set of deadlift though. Really happy with it. Um felt good. I was surprised I started doing man I don't have a PR in here for from the previous but I did when I got there. I'm like, I knew I could get when I got to Brett three, I'm like, I think I can get five. When I got four, I'm like, I know I can get five. So, we did it, right? Been happy with it. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.