Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and once again it's time for a full body workout, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. So yeah, back to a normal full body workout. Did my five big lifts and then did two smaller accessory movements, both for shoulders. Um, so for the squats, obviously the first rep definitely high, but 475 for five. I don't think I've ever done this while being on on YouTube before. And I always, again, the topic comes up, well, your high bar squats are a little high, but that same knee angle when I go to a low bar is way below competition depth. So, again, look at any of my footage of of uh the wider stance. But that's okay. I'll keep working on on sinking it deeper. There's going to be a point where I go, okay, I'm going to just focus on trying to sink these because quite a few of these reps, like that last rep there, that would that would even pass in competition. like the fifth rep, the hardest one, totally deep. But yeah, super happy with that. 475 for five. Um, you know, and I and that's all calibrated plates. Uh, are all competition calibrated plates on a Texas Power Bar. Uh, you can see the bar bending in spite of it being a stiff bar. So, super happy with all that. All right. It definitely puts uh my maxes have to be higher. Have to be higher than anything I've done in meat. Um, deadlift five reps felt hard. Like I just kind of chilled with it. I'm like, you know what? That's all I got. I could have probably ground out a six, but that's taking a moment. Um, benching just didn't feel right today. Like, I felt like my chest was simply not strong enough. Now, can that be some fatigue? I just did a really hard set of squats and deadlifts first. And I didn't really take a break. I just rotated through these three movements. Then I took a little short breather, came in, worked on a project for a bit, came back and did the accessory work. Um, so I kind of just did these back to back, but um, again, some fatigue there. It just didn't feel like I had a fourth or a fifth rep. All right. I mean, and I shouldn't be complaining. I just did 315 flat back, no belt, no wrist wraps for three reps. At my age, I shouldn't even be complaining, but I'm going to complain. U, but again, a little bit of fatigue. Also the sign I need to just do more a little more heavy benching. um work on the muscles. I feel like the shoulder work will help. All right, the shoulder work will definitely help. My triceps don't seem to be limiting my benching at all. It feels like chest, but arguably it it may be shoulders, too, because my dips my dips are stronger. It feels like now uh than when I was benching 315 for five. So, again, I'm just going to come in and all the sessions I need to go ahead and do a heavy bench, right? I did a lot of not benching. And it's not that I've lost any muscle or strength there. It's just that um little bit of technique on the neural side, right? So, I should be able to get it back, but I do need to work on some weak points. Work on the shoulders. Make sure my pecs grow. Uh the dips and the dips and the shoulder work will help with that. Um pull-ups I did 45 for 10. I'm just taking kind of that shoulder width grip. Um I'm not I'm not trying to go crazy hard on those. I'm just trying to get right at what would be close to momentary failure. Um because quite frankly my back doesn't need huge amounts of improvement and just a set of deadlifts and a set of hard pull-ups every workout it'll probably keep growing. So I'm really trying to push stuff like the dips, right? The curls on my my my bicep days. So the dips went to failure. These went to failure. And what I mean by failure, I got to the bottom and I just couldn't move it. I got 16 reps. We got to the bottom on the laterals and I simply couldn't do another rep. It just stuck. All right. Just got there and say, "Yep, the ref's not there. I tried to flex and it just they just kind of stuck." So, again, doing a little bit of shoulder work probably not a bad thing. And I think visually, um, I can I can look at my overall build and tell you, my delts probably do need to come up from my bench to come up because my chest is pretty big all things considered. You guys see enough side views also. Um, chest is pretty big. It feels like my chest is limiting the bench, but I know based upon where it's slowing probably is some shoulder, right? A little bit of shoulder weakness. So, let's work on the shoulders a little bit. Um, we'll keep building the pecs with the benching and the dips. Front raises. I got right at 20. This I couldn't get any more than that. Everything was burning because again, the same thing. I did the all that stuff back to back and then when I did these other four movements, I just went right into them back to back to back. like no real breaks other than just moving the equipment. Um, so shoulders were just it's all they had. 20 reps, they were fried. So again, uh, work shoulders a little bit. Keep working the bench. And and realistically, yes, I want the bench to go up. I want to get five reps. I want to get six reps. I want to get my my bench up with the 315, but I also have to be, you know, realistic and go as I get leaner and I close in on 50, it may not go up a lot, but it doesn't mean we're not going to try. And I think that's that's the point there. It's not about making excuses. It's saying, "Yeah, we're we're getting crazy." But same thing with the squatting, though. Um, I feel like I shouldn't be able to do this because I know other lifters, masters lifters who I chat with and they see my footage and they'll chat with me and stuff like on Facebook and it's like um, you know, some of those guys are out benching me, but they're like your squats and deadlifts like we we can't hang with you. So, it's interesting. And these are guys with big benches. So, at least I have that going. But that's the thing with the squat. The squat's always been my best lift. Squats come easy to me and it doesn't matter like what people think about my squat style or whatever else at the end of the day when I want my squat to go up or I want to hit big numbers. I can just adjust all my stuff and move really big maxes like we you've seen me do it, you know, but I like to do stuff like this to base build just because I feel like I gain more muscle out of it, you know, and it and um but my squat always goes up. Keep in mind, I took a year and a half off from squatting completely and all quad work other than deadlifts and still pushed my squat up. Look at my squatting now relative to my deadlifting. They're like 5% apart and I'm not fat. So, even though I love the deadlift, my squat just climbs when I actually push it and work on it, which I am doing here. Um, it tends to just go up and up and up. Um, but happy with everything but the benching again. And it looks really good on camera. I just felt like racking it. I did that third rep and I'm like, my chest just didn't feel right. So, it's it's not me, you know. Oh, it looks because it doesn't look that bad on camera and I'm looking at it going, I totally It looks like I have [snorts] two reps in the tank on camera. It didn't feel like it. And I trust I trust my gut on stuff like that, right? That third rep, I know that went up nice and clean and pretty. My chest felt like it didn't have anything more. So, I racked it and I'll take it for now. Uh, but overall, great workout. Um, other than the bench, I got the squat. We're super happy with the squat. Uh, so I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.