Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness and today was a full body workout. I'm very happy with today's workout overall. Uh, obviously I started with a box squat. Also, if you guys would please click like, drop me a comment down below. Um, started with the box squat, which I'm going to use to kind of build my squat back up now that I'm at a little lighter of a body weight. I'm going to continue to recmp here for a bit. The scale may start coming down a little bit with what I'm doing, but uh, not a big deal. main thing is recomposition, getting stronger, uh, without gaining any body weight, and, you know, probably leaning out a little bit. Uh, but we got 425 on that box. Um, that felt pretty heavy to be fair. I don't think I had much more in the tank from that. Um, so again, I just going to build the box squat back up for a little bit because it really helps with my my overall squat mechanics and things. And eventually, I'll work that back into a normal uh, back squat. All right. Uh, bench press. I'm just doing my top set and then I'm I'm using dips and laying extensions to kind of build the muscles of the bench beyond the top set. Um although let's be clear, a heavy set with 315 done three times a week will build muscle on the bench. So, we do need to be clear on that. It's not like there's no hypertrophy from this, especially considering I do it every workout. Uh we got four reps today with 315, so we're in a good place. I got that a few weeks back, but then I was only able to get triple. So, now we're back up to four. Um, the set felt really good. Some people would look at it and say like, "I bet you had a fifth." I don't know. It would have been a grind, but we'll get there. All right, deadlift kind of. Um, I'm chilling a little on this while I'm building up my posterior chain again. I felt like it regressed with only doing deadlifts, so I started hammering my reverse hypers. like if I can just hold this rep strength on the deadlift uh without pulling anything or or um any problems, just some quality sets, which still going to have a training response. Um I'll be good. So, I did 500 for a triple. I didn't try to get four or five today. Um and then I'm going to push these reverse hypers. All right, the reverse hypers do a lot for me because I feel like I just need more hamstring and everything. I need my hamstrings to come back up to get the deadlift um to kind of come back up a little bit. the joys of being 48 and having any anything regress when you cut or adjust stuff. Um, but we'll we'll continue to work that back up. So, I'm going to do these for significant volumes at this point, right? This is a pretty good amount of volume. So, I'm doing just 220 for five sets of 25 here. Um, and I'm taking very, very short breaks. You guys will notice between each set, you'll notice less plates on the deadlift bar. So, I just start unloading it. Then I go I load a plate or two off, couple plates off, and then I do a set, take a couple plates off, do a set. So that it's actually pretty pretty quick. You know, it really only took me about, you know, six, seven minutes total to do all the reverse hypers and unload the deadlift plates all at the same time because I just kind of did them back to back, you know. So you figure maybe 45 seconds between these sets, uh, re-recking some plates in between, just get it done, then get over and get my dips in. And I like the dips. Part of me feels like though I could just push bench in the extensions, right? I could do rep work on the bench also. Back off work. That was going up too, but it wasn't translating into my 315 set going up. You guys notice that I got it where I was pring um the back off work and didn't see anything move. Um but I feel like dips and the extensions will help. I do feel like my triceps are not limiting my bench. I know that they are on some level, but I feel all chest on the bench. My chest feels like it's doing all the work. Um, you know, so dips will help with that. For me, I feel dips a lot in my chest. I feel them in triceps, too. But for me, they're a great chest exercise. Uh, but all of that did good today. So, the the reverse hypers, everything felt good. Very, very short breaks. So, again, this is one of those where I could start progressively overloading it. You know, I could just keep using this same rep scheme and start adding weight if I wanted, but it does feel like, you know, even though I'm swinging a bit, which is kind of the way you're supposed to do these. Um, it still feels pretty fatiguing. Um, feels pretty fatiguing, but I'm not sure that uh too much loading is is the wise way because I'll just swing more. Um, but it would still work, wouldn't it? Right. We would still be getting heavier eentric loading on it. So, I may start doing that, right? I might start just slowly slowly adding weight to these, right? Five pounds of workout or something and just start pushing up um you know the actual workload and see how much further that carries over uh to getting that deadlift up. But I also feel like on the box squats my hamstrings really light up. My hamstrings feel like a almost a limit on the box squat, funny enough. Um but if my box squat goes up then my normal back squat goes up, right? You guys have seen me do that before. pushbox Quest for a while, I'll come in and my back squat will be 30, 40 pounds heavier when I test it, you know, within a week or two. So, it works very, very well for me. So, anything that brings up my box squat brings up my back squat. Um, but yeah, the back the box squats do feel pretty heavy with that weight right now. And eventually I will want to go back to a normal normal back squat, but I get a lot out of box squats. I get a lot out of them and they're a good training tool for me, right? It's a really good training tool. But eventually I'll go back over to the to the back squat um and start working top sets. But mainly I do need the consistent range of motion too because that was my concern too. I feel like sometimes when I start pushing stuff on on the back squats I'm not hitting the depth I would like. But from those camera angles with that back angle it will probably eliminate that. Like we'll be able to tell for sure. Uh, so now that I've got kind of got it set that way, which works really well for my setup for not optimal always for filming purposes, but for training purposes so that I can rotate equipment around. It works great because it essentially means I can just leave the squat bar in the rack. Okay, I can leave that bar in the rack most of the time and just come do my chin-ups. So, that works really well for me because I don't have to move anything around. All right, then dips on these. I I like doing them from the floor, but the thing is I feel like it really makes that first rep um take a lot of performance out when I could just do this, couldn't I? I do like to do that bottom up position, but it makes that first rep super super hard, and I don't think that that's necessary to get the most out of my dips. So, I'm just going to step up onto the onto the things again and just focus on sinking that first rep. Right, we're going to get well below parallel. And it's interesting, I got more reps. I got three by eight doing it the other way, but I got like eight and then I realized I left a little bit in the tank. So, I got 10 and 10 on the next couple sets. Um, but again, this is with the the for me the full range of motion. A lot of these, you'll notice I pause. So, that is my my full range of motion. Especially when you can tell that I pause and I don't go any deeper. I'm not like trying to resist against it. I'm just stretching into it. And for me, I feel a lot of a lot of shoulder in this in terms of the stretch on the shoulder. Um, but also my shoulders are feeling good. I'm doing a lot of of uh certain things for prehab. So, I feel like that's going to eventually um get me to where I can overhead press again. But in the meantime, things like dips are good for shoulder health, good for shoulder range of motion um if done for a full full range of motion. Because again, as you guys know, I want to overhead press again. And I've had some people ask, hey, you know, if you postpone that, no, not at all. It's a priority. Um but I need to be able to physically do it. Um, and so I'm trying to get all those whatever adhesions and all that stuff to kind of break up. Um, and so a lot of the stuff I do in every day for the mobility I it sounds like a bowl of Rice Krispies, you know, crackling and popping, but I feel like some stuff is starting to just loosen up in those areas. Um, you know, because I've tried a lot of stuff in the past, but it wasn't dynamic type mobility. Like stretching of any type just doesn't do anything. Doesn't matter how many weeks I do it. Um, so I'm doing stuff to where I'm doing a lot of swinging and stuff and u movements with weights on on between my training sessions and I feel like that'll help. So I'm going to stick with weighted shins for just a bit. I do know that I'm going to double down on arm work. Look, I need I need more arms. No matter what happens with my size, with my leanness, everything else ultimately things like my back grows so easy all the time. It's such a good mind muscle connection with it. it grows really easy for me. The things like my back, my arms tend to lag just with my structure and everything, too. So, I'm going to double down on arm work. So, it's going to be chins. We're going to do strict bar curls for a while again. I want to keep keep that locked into that supine position. I I need the biceps to grow. I need them to grow. So, I feel like a phase of doing that would help while we double down on the tricep work, right? Because dips and extensions, that's that's a lot. It's a lot to be doing, you know, every workout. But when I had the biggest arms, that's what I did. When I had the biggest arms, I didn't even curl. Like the biggest arms I've had while making content here online, I wasn't even doing curls. So, I'm hoping maybe since I'm doing the other stuff with it would be good. And also, I feel like the arm work, I always want to do really, really high reps and progress on that. Um, because again, all that happens when I go really heavy on arm isos, it just beats me up. Right. Before long, my tendons hurt. So, I've been pushing these up. So, this is stuff that I've been doing tens with. I'm up to 15s on all. So, I PR these. Like, I've never hit this weight for 15 reps before. We got 13 and 14 on the two sets last time. And those were PRs. So, we've been pring these. All right. So again, we're now up to where we're doing these lean extensions with 110 pounds because that 20 lb bar pair of pair of 45s on there. I'm up to 15 reps now. I used to only be able to do this for 10. So I feel like my triceps are getting stronger and stronger. I mean, they are at least on the rep work. I'm now at a point with these with 15s where I'm going, man, I might need to actually add some more weight here and go heavier. That's cool. That's cool. You know, wonder if I can get these up stronger. Can we get it up to like 130 135 for reps eventually? It' be a nice nice place to be. But the 15s felt good. My triceps were lit, right? Triceps are lit. But I do feel like, you know, if my triceps get stronger, my bench will go up. Even though I don't feel my triceps so much on the benching. We all know for power benching triceps help if you're on a big bench. Um, but then the benching and the dips and doing all the benching paws will help in my chest. Uh, but dips also help with triceps. It's great chest and tricep exercise. So, I feel like as long as I I progress on those and I may just stick with that same weight, you know? So, what happens if if I'm getting 10 out, what if I get those to 15s? I think my bench will will go up significantly at that point, right? Bench will go up significantly. And that's the idea. Um, so yeah, the extensions though went good. We PRD this stuff. Um, very very happy with that. Again, exactly exactly where I want to be. Um, good place to be hitting the PRs. So 15s on that. The same thing the barbell curls. I'm taking these curls and I'm just sticking with this weight, you know, and I'm like, let's just be really do the strict strict curls. try to do them through a full full range of motion, bring it up to my face, and just take the sets as far as they'll go. Um, and sure enough, sure enough, what happened? We got 15s again. So, I I want to stick with kind of this sort of stuff for a while, you know, and and I don't think for me, higher reps is a bad thing on arms, you know. I haven't done as much with this sort of rep range other than with bands, but I'm like, why not? Why not just take these really strict movements and see if we can we can get the rep count up even with the weights we normally have done in the past. This progressive overload is definitely easier on my tendons and joints on these small movements. I I think that's a big problem for a lot of us. You know, we try to go too heavy on on these smaller movements. you know, save the big truly big weight for the other movements. And I I've basically made a case in the past of look, we could do lower reps on these. Sure, we get plenty of tension, but I don't know that that's the best way to approach these. Not for any consistent use, you know, not if we want to keep the tendons healthy. So, I'm kind of curious to see if just for a phase, for a little while, I do what I'm doing here, see if my arms get bigger from it, right? just keeping the reps a little higher. At this point though, I mean, I'm hitting um you know, reps I don't normally hit on direct arm work because I'm just progressively overloading the reps, right? Pushing the reps as far as I can while keeping the weight on the bar the same. But now I'm up to 15. These are normally stuff I would used to do 10 with. And I know that's a really light weight, but keep in mind it's a strict curl for a full range of motion, you know? So, a little different. And then I did a set of band press downs and then I did a set round of sleds with a sprint at the end. Um, so again, because I am hitting the triceps hard, I'm doing those extensions. I just want to make sure the tendon health is good. So, I do like to do some of my band press downs for the tendon. Even though I could argue just like, dude, I'm doing 13 to 15 reps. I'm probably not beating my tendons up. But again, this doesn't seem to be hurting either. It's not like my triceps are getting overtrained from doing the band work, right? I'm getting stronger on my tricep isos. So, they're clearly not overtrained or that wouldn't be happening. We would we would be stalling and or regressing. And then we finished up with sled work. But overall, I'm pretty happy with today's workout. Happy with that benching. Happy with the PRs on all the arm work. Uh so again, good workout, good Monday. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.