Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here once again. It's time for an upper body day, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below. Um, that would be appreciated. Thank you so much. So, let's get over to the training. Yeah, it's still dark outside. I was out here training at 6:00 a.m. So, uh, doing flat bench. And so, what I'm doing with a lot of this, look, everything's flatooted. It's pretty much flat back. Just a tiny little bit of arch just for support to stay tight, but not enough to really cut range of motion. So, what I'm trying to do with everything as I'm going to continuing to up this cardio to slowly start trimming down. I need to be stimulating maximum hypertrophy. That's why I'm not doing the maxes or anything else. I'm not saying maxes are not good. What I'm saying is right now I need every last bit of hypertrophy. So, a lot of this training other other than the squatting and deadlifting. Um, but again, I'm doing all that other leg work. I want most of it to be five plus reps, you know, ideally six plus. I'm trying to stay about about five to eight. Six to eight. Some stuff can go up to 10. Um, so again, trying to get the best tension and trying to get about 12 sets of muscle group uh per week is what I worked up to with an upper lower. So on the flat benching here, again, just working with 275 because I can get sixes with it. But notice that we're focusing on pauses, we're focusing on control, focusing on stacking. So notice I am taking a grip width just barely inside the rings um to where I am getting the deepest stretch possible. So notice that my forearms are completely upright. So the reason for that is I want to get as much stretch as I can on the pectoral at the bottom right so that we get the the chest goes through the longest range of motion possible on a normal flat bench. I can always adjust some of that. I can always arch more later for maxis if I need to. In the meantime, I want to stimulate as much growth as we can. And so that stretch on the chest really the key to do that. Just like I've started taking the dips down to my terminal bottom range of motion for me, right? So some of them I've started pausing to find where that range of motion is. So I'm trying to go into a deep stretch there. So again, what we're trying to do maximize hypertrophy. And I do feel like for chest, the nice more medium grip. I would call this almost a medium grip because I used to bench a lot wider for a while completely outside of the rings. Uh works well. So, I also decided, you know what? I just want to make sure my biceps are getting plenty of tension. So, I'm going to do I I've been doing obviously chin pull-ups and rows. So, I'm like, let's just do them underhand this time, see how it feels. And interestingly enough, my biceps didn't get weaker on curls. In fact, I PRD on my straight curls today. So, pretty happy about that. So, the chins, um I'm able to get six reps. uh with 45 on the chins. So again, right about my normal for the most part, but I'm trying to do all of them from a full stretch. Trying to do a lot of the reps from a dead hang, right? So we're trying to make sure that we hang at the bottom. And it's not a long count, but notice that we go all the way into the full hang. Um and then some of them I pause so you guys can see that that really is like right there. That is my full range of motion. That is a dead hang as far as I can stretch it. So again, the idea here, build muscle, build muscle, build muscle with with moderately heavy reps, uh decent amounts of volume. All right? And I've tried to tell most people, I don't think there's most people should be going over about 12 sets a week. So where am I coming up with the 12 sets? Um if I don't count bench towards triceps and we just count it as chest, but I'll think I'll count dips as chest and triceps and then the extensions or triceps. Well, that we do it twice a week and that's 12 sets for chest, 12 sets for triceps. And I'm not counting some of the splash over like the possibility of the long head from the chin-ups and all that. We're not doing any of that. So then dips, the same thing. I can get right at eight reps is pretty much limits. Noticing I'm having to jump back up on the box on rep eight because I can't I'm struggling to lock it. So I'm pretty much at failure. So the idea with the dips, yes, I was able to do parallel. I was able to do tens with 90, but that extra few inches is so much more intense, right? That extra four inches or so that I'm getting when I drop all the way down three inches, 4 inches, whatever it is, is so much more intense that I'm definitely not able to replicate that. But I get a tremendous stretch on my chest and I even feel it all through the upper chest. So again, I've noticed this seems to be helping with my shoulder health, too, making my shoulders feel good. Um, so again, obviously we're looking veiny here. Um, also definitely feeling like I'm getting a almost inflammation from the cardio at this point. That's okay. But we're doing tons and tons and tons of the list cardio as you guys are seeing. Um, got the diet super clean. Uh, today I did an hour just over an hour and 10, hour and 12 something. Hour and 12 minutes fasted of my walking before I had breakfast. So, I I went ahead and trained, went and did my first cardio session. Um, and now I'm over here recording this and it still may may not be up for a bit. I got up super early to get started on work. I just woke up like 4 a.m. So, started working. So, I may take a nap and then get all this going and get my other stuff done. Um, need to get the other cardio, little client stuff, more videos, social media. But the dips, yeah, these felt good. So, the idea here again, yeah, I want to progressively overload them, but I don't want to cut range of motion. I feel like for me that bottom really seems to help with my my shoulder health, right? And it seems to really help my chest. I don't know that I feel the triceps more. I feel the triceps just as much with the parallel. Um so for barbell rows, um same thing. I'm like, let's do these underhand grip. I was able to replicate the performance, so I'm happy with that. Um it's a little harder to grip underhand. So this first set almost wasn't locking at the bottom. I was still stretching, but I feel like I was leaving a little there, and it's because of grip. So, I had to make sure for this the next couple sets, I really got my thumb over my pointer finger to grip it. So, again, great grip training. So, one thing I'll look at this doing the deadlifts for reps every week and then doing this exercise, it's a lot of grip work. Like, again, I feel like um definitely going to carry over to my deadlift. like grip is definitely tough with the underhand grip, but I still feel like my my back was getting right at failure. Um, so happy with that. Very, very happy with these. Uh, so I got for 225, I got three sets of eight. Uh, using that underhand grip and trying to get a good stretch at the bottom. Uh, felt a lot of back. So, here's the other thing. The only argument with what I'm doing with all this is, hey, maybe your rear delts and upper back might be getting a hair less, but we're getting more bicep and just as much. Maybe some more lat. We could argue definitely on the rows a little more lat. Um, but I'm doing shoulders on my upper days. I'm doing 12 sets for delts a week that are hitting the the side and rear delt and trap. So, when I go from that perspective, I don't necessarily need my rows to focus on the shoulders themselves, the the rear delts and stuff, and they're still hitting it. We need to be clear, the chin-ups and the rows are still hitting it, but because I'm doing 12 sets of direct delt work, uh, as of now, again, throwing it in on my lower days because again, the upper body's getting kind of a beating. I don't need to think in those terms because I mean I'm doing lots of pushing and pulling. 12 sets of pushing and pulling a week. If I can't grow from 12 sets of side delt focused work and make my whole shoulder balance from that, we got a problem. So, I don't have to put extra thought. Do I need to make sure I do a row and a chin up and or a pull-up variation that's going to hit that? It's probably not that important. It's still being hit. But um so there's no reason for me to not do the underhand grip. Again, get a little more bicep work. So what I'm doing on these, so with these, yes, I've been able to get a little more, but I'm like, what happens if I start pausing at the bottom a little? So a lot of these reps, I'm pausing, right? I'm going to the deepest deepest deepest stretch possible. I'm not just going to somewhat stretch. I'm taking these as far as I can physically go. So when you see the pauses, you'll notice it's that same range of motion. Like right there, we pause. So the idea I'm trying to stretch the long head as much as possible. Okay. So since we're benching for six sets a week, we're doing dips for full range of motion. Six sets a week. That's a decent amount of tricep. But it's like, let's come in and double down and really focus on that stretch. And I did pullovers for this last week because I was waiting on my elbows to feel better. So my elbow tendons feel better. The left one felt a lot while I was doing these. And now it's completely gone. But I'm also when I'm rubbing where it's hurting, I don't think it's actually a tricep tendon. It really is the long head of my tricep. It's just kind of like what are you doing to me? So I'll take that. That means the muscle itself is hurting from these movements. Uh I'll take it. I'll take it. So I'll assess it. If the if it feels sore in the next day or so, I want to assess it and see if it feels like tendon. Uh but I feel like doing this really really deep stretch on this. I don't think there's going to be a tendon issue. Um, so if anything, it's just going to help me grow. And then I finish up with curls. And I said not to do the hanging leg raises today. I'm like, man, my arms hurt from the curls and stuff. So the strict curls, I'm like, man, I wonder since I did chins and underhand grips. Hope the biceps aren't weaker. They weren't. I've been doing like eight to nine with this this weight on this this stricter curl, right? Just a strict barbell curl. Full range of motion up to my face. Um, I got 10 reps. So then I went up. I'm like, "Well, let's go up five pounds." And then I managed to get eight on both. My biceps were throbbing after this. Between those chins, like those those dead hang chins and then doing these curls and getting a PR, uh, biceps were lit. Biceps were absolutely lit. Um, they felt a lot of stimulus. Uh, in fact, my biceps were actually hurting at the end of this, like in a good way. But I could definitely tell biceps got trained pretty hard. And that's and that's fair because we did all the back work underhand. And then we did, you know, a fairly strict barbell curl. So again, coming all the way down, locking at the bottom. Now lean forward just a hair so that I can lock at the bottom without it hitting the thighs, especially with that wrist back. And then notice we have the wrist back. So there's bicep tension at the top when it reaches the face still. So again, taking the bicep through its full range of motion because that that shoulder um flexion is one of the functions of the bicep. Obviously, the main one is the elbow. I just want to make sure I'm taking the bicep through a full range of motion with a a good exercise u and having progressive overload. And we're getting progressive overload here. So I think definitely I notice belting up and stuff seems like it lets me just squeeze it tighter. Feel like it's helping. But very very happy with today's workout. felt like it was a good amount of stimulus. I'm happy with it. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.