Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, so today I went with a wider stance, a little bit of more low bar. Um, I do have to continue to work on getting the bar further down my back. Um, it felt almost low bar when I got under, but you can see from that side angle it's not. So I don't quite have the stability up top I would like. Um, but it does let me get a hair deeper than when I do the the high bar with the really close stance. The first rep was a little high. Um, the others a lot happier. I got some screenshots of some of it showing kind of where I hit, but I got five reps with this. And again, kind of one of those cases where if you guys notice, my my ability to keep the upper back where I want it um on the way back up is getting really fatigued. And it's again the case of the shoulder situation to where I got to work on cranking that bar further down. Um, and I haven't done any low bar in a bit in the side view. I wanted to film it from the side. Uh, so that I can kind of watch what's happening there because I suspect that's a bit of an issue. Um, but so I'm going to work on that a little bit, but as I've continued to just work on my my shoulder health, um, it uh should improve over time. So, the main thing is again, I'm only doing one real top set of squats, uh, and then using machine work for the rest. And again, once I get the shoulder mobility a little better again, um, which again seems to be improving for the squat, um, I'll go ahead and get it a little further down and then the squat will tighten back up because you guys have seen me squat some pretty heavy weights in the past. All right, for the benching, really happy. Really happy we got five reps of 315 again. Now, it wasn't as smooth as on Monday, right? Wednesday, I had to stop at four. Um, wasn't as smooth as Monday, but it did go up pretty pretty decent. Uh, the fifth rep was grindy, though. I didn't have a six rep. So, in that case, that felt like a five rep max, right? We could see it grinding just a little. The form trying to degrade just a little bit near the lockout. So, again, triceps, triceps, triceps. I've got to get stronger triceps. Now, here's the other thing. Um, my chest just cramped up on the second set here. So, after doing that, I went to 275. I got seven reps, and my chest was just done, which was interesting because I I did good with the 315 for five, but I've got up to nine reps with the 275 for a second set. But notice on that that seventh one, it went up real slow that last rep. My chest was finished. It was just like, nope, we're not doing this. Um, but we pred some other stuff. All right, deadlifts. Um, did good. Uh, got six reps and these felt good. I almost went for a seventh rep, by the way. I almost went for a seventh rep and I probably would have got it. And I think looking at the bar speed and the whole time on the sixth rep. I think most people will agree when you see it, okay, that I'm not just saying that. U, this went good. So, they just kind of felt smooth. I just started cranking out reps. Everything felt good. When I got to the sixth rep, um, I held it at the top. I'm just like, let's just hold it for a minute. Make sure the grip is good. Just hold it for a few seconds. Set it down. Felt good. I probably had a seventh rep. Probably had a seventh rep there. Um, belt squats. Uh, we prance. I'm trying to do these really close to build the quads. It's going to help me get get deeper on the squatting. So, notice I do very much like a high bar type foot position, right? Toes are a little bit kind of forward. Uh, pretty close stance. And again, cranking these out as deep as I can go and using this for for true quad hypertrophy. So, my whole purpose of this particular form is to build the quads as much as possible. All right. So, we'll get the squat up because the thing is with the squat, no matter what's happening up there with the upper back situation, if I can push through, I'm still going to still going to have good lifts, right? It doesn't matter. It doesn't matter if it starts to um the chest collapses at all. As long as I can follow through and have the quad strength, I'm still going to lock it. And that's the beauty of having had really strong good mornings in the past. It doesn't matter. I'll still always be able to lock a squat. um on that top as long as I get enough power out of the bottom of the quads. So, I don't worry about that. And I think a lot of people they complain, they'll say stuff like, "Oh, you're you're squats." But they don't understand. I have good morning. Even this year, I hit a 500 pound good morning. I've also done up to 555 uh PR lifetime on camera with a good morning. If my squats go that way, it's it's simply because that's what's happening with my upper back or the quads getting fatigued. So that's my default as I start getting fatigued now particularly uh once my quads are fatigued. So the quads are kind of a limit there still. So as I continue to just get them stronger with that and then get the upper back to where I can I can get everything a little tighter with a better bar position. Um my squat will go ahead and climb, right? We'll climb. We'll be back 500 plus um before long at a lighter body weight though. And that's the main thing we're looking for. Um, but because I'm only training three days a week, I'm like, you know what? I'm just letting myself recover. I feel like I've been sleeping more. Um, I've been needing the recovery. I realize the GPP I don't it's probably not ideal. I need to just focus on body composition, keep the diet really tight, and see if we can lean out while making any gains. Um, so three really hard sessions, but still keeping this volume reasonable. All right, we're keeping the volume reasonable. It's still only one set of squat, one set of deadlifts, one set of like belt squats per workout. All right, for pull-ups, I wanted to do a couple different things. I wanted to do my wide grip. Also, I can't get as many reps. So, the wide grip, not only can I not get as high, I can't get as many reps. And that the high people are thinking it's half reps. No, that is my full range of motion. Like, I literally can't go higher. And it's not because, oh, take weight off. I can't do it with an assistance. I can't do that with a lat pull down. Right? There not it has nothing to do with the weight I can't do with a 10 pound lat pull down. Um you know just like for me I can't touch my chest on an incline bench unless I have at least 135 on the bar. Uh it has to compress it down. So I went with a nice close grip again for the next set. U and I got 13. I got 10 which is what I've done before the other day. We get 10. And I like to dead hang there near the end. Uh got 10, then I rest paused. So I did two more, hit failure, then rested a couple seconds, and then grabbed another rep. Right. So there. And then obviously we hit failure. I can't I can't go up from there. So I'm like, okay, let me rest just briefly, regrab it, get one more. Right. So we're past failure because we hit failure there, but I'm like, let me just breathe, regrip, and go again. Um, PR the tricep extensions. I think this is the most weight I've I've ever done a set with uh with these here. Like a true set. Um, so where are we at now? 130 for 12. My max on this was 110 for 10 around the start of the year. All right. Triceps. Triceps. Triceps. If my triceps get stronger, my bench will go up. Okay. My bench will will go up. Even that really wide grip bench like I do now. Right. So, I've got I'm at 315 for five. Some days that's easier than others. I've done it like what, three times now, I think. Or four, whatever. Something like that. Who's counting? All right. But to get to six, I need more tricep. So, we're just PRing this. Now, granted, I understand that we're we're losing reps every time that I've been adding weight every session. Um, so in place of the hammer curls today, I'm like, you know what? If we're going to do all these these pull-ups, so let me just do one set of straight bar curls. I've been doing hammer curls in this slot. And here's why. I don't even care about the bicep inflammation anymore. I've realized I don't know that I'm ever going to be able to overhead press again. I'm don't know that I'm ever going to be able to lock the empty barbell. So, there's a point where I go, let me make sure I just do a little bicep work. So, one set to failure. So, we kind of rest paused here a little bit. I ended up getting 15. Normally, this is around a 10 rep weight, but I managed to get I think 15 total by just grinding through, resting a couple seconds, breathing, trying to get one more rep and just taking it to failure. All right. And then we we reach muscle failure. I'm struggling to even get the bar all the way up on the last couple reps. The hardest is the top is the hardest part for me. A lot of times I don't think people get that. So when I bring it up towards my face, that is actually the hardest part. And then I finish it up with three sets of lateral raises. Kind of did the same thing. Did the first two sets of just like very brief failure. Then the third set, um, I'm like, let me just take it all the way. So I did the most volume for delts. And the reason is I feel like my delts need the most work. And if I'm going to throw some volume at anything, they're probably right now smallest muscle in my upper body relative because I don't blast a bunch of gear. And as I cut and get leaner, I do need more more delt. It'll honestly make the most difference in my physique. Not that I care about physique as much. Performance is always way by far going to be the primary. But, you know, realistically, it'll help me, right? Get leaner and build bigger delts is never never a bad solution for some dude who's chasing better physique, right? Um, so again, finishing up and just kind of going hard with laterals. But on these, I'm trying to keep them as strict as possible and taking the sets to failure. And the last one, we just kind of we did the same thing. Rested a couple seconds, whatever we had to do. Just trying to get one more rep until I couldn't. Right. Even though I think we hit failure on the on the first couple sets, like right there. Yeah, I tried to do a rep and couldn't. So, hit failure. But we we just took breaks to try to squeeze out one more rep, one more rep, and I got got a couple more out of it. Uh, but overall, pretty happy with today's workout. some good lifts on some of the stuff. Um, this the squat didn't look as pretty as I would have liked, but I know what's going on with it. Everything else did great, so I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.