Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and it's time for another bicep workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, went good. Went good even though I feel a little boofy still. Like I'm holding some extra water. Uh, we were a lot tighter a couple weeks ago. Should be coming down. It It definitely made me stronger today, though. Uh, that's the funny thing. Like strength is going up on these curls. So, I did my two sets. I did the first set to just what felt like temporary failure, right? Got to 12 reps. Well, I got 10 last time and then I managed a rest pause up to 13 uh last time with this weight. All right. So, I kind of did the same thing here. Um I picked up two reps on both sets with the same weight. So, it might be time to go ahead and add another two and a half pounds, right? because I got 12 and then I I did the same thing. I got to about 12. I'm like, "Let me just rest, pause, rest a second, regain my breath, try to squeeze out some more reps, right?" So, what we did, lo and behold, I managed to get to 15. Then, then that was it. I was completely done. Completely done. We're we're finished at that point. Uh but very happy with it. Um so, the strength is continuing to go up. strength is continuing to go up. Positive thing, good thing. Um, so at least the biceps are getting stronger and then we'll tighten up here u once once I get used to the minor dietary adjustments. Bring a little bit of boo down. I was surprised how much just water I picked up [laughter] though just from some minor dietary changes. Not even carbohydrates added. It's fasc. It's fascinating how this works, right? It's fascinating. But um so kind of going back to what I was doing when I had a little less water and it really is just differences in like my my dairy fat and avoiding nut butters, right? Like we can get all the fats we need from steak, eggs, and avocado. That's it, right? Little bit of cheese in my my omelettes and eggs. But u the biceps are continuing to get stronger and that's the positive thing. All right. That's the positive thing. As long as my biceps get stronger on the curls, no matter what else is going on, then we know the biceps will be growing. So, I'm just going to push it. That's why I'm doing them on their own days, prioritizing it a little bit. We're just doing our really solid uh full body on the other three days. And I'm just going to come in and do a couple of real two to three really, really hard sets of curls, right? Like we're doing here. Rest. Pause it a little bit. you know, squeeze out just that little bit more that I can get because really it was just one break. I got to 12 on that that second set to just a breather, a nice break, stopped at the bottom, got a really good breath, and managed to just grind out three more reps. Um, so again, a lot of it's just digging in and we'll progressively overload it. I just need to keep getting more weight on the bar, keep adding reps, and every time we can add reps, we add more weight. and just chip away at it. Tiny tiny progressive overload. Uh but overall happy with it today. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.