 Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Once again, it's time for a full body workout. Once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it. A lot to unpack in this particular vlog. Going back to a lot of my roots. I'm gonna go back to a lot of my roots. I feel like my recovery is absurdly dialed in right now. My stress is low. Lifestyle is good. I'm truly enjoying training again. So I'm like, let's go back to the full roots. I used to do a lot of high frequency full body also. I mean, you guys have seen me do the three day a week and do really well, but I've also done some pretty high frequency. I've done tons of stuff with no belts, no wraps. And I'm like, let's just jump in. Now the squats felt a little awkward. I'm not used to doing that, that really wide stance. Last time I'm like, I did the one wrap. I'm done. I'm not doing it again. I've been my strongest when I do that. Let's just get really, really, really strong again on the squats. Okay. And I used to come in and beltless squat 485 every day for a single doing Bulgarian. But Bulgarian is the max. This is different if I'm just going to rev it out. So yeah, I'm going to come in to do that. I'll build up that 405. I want to get used to that wide stance. It feels a little wobbly, but you guys have seen me do obviously a little higher than that, up to 605 on a camber bar before. Okay. We know we can get there again. Maybe not that high. I don't want to be at that body weight because I'm going to get leaner. Dead lifts. Doing really good. And a lot of this, I'm like, look, I've messed with the closed grip. When I look at everything, I think a lot of what I'm trying to do for the shoulders is kind of not going to help. Let's be realistic. I've just got to stretch into those positions and not do dumb stuff with my shoulders. So I feel like the dead hang pull ups, doing a pull over type movement, doing dead hangs. That's going to be the key. I'm really strong. I'm a lot stronger at these wide grip benching. Because notice right here, flat back, super wide grip, good long pauses, getting a triple. So I'm just going to build this back up. And I know that the incline carries over this really well. So I'm going to push my incline. All right. When I hit the 365 two second pause, I was doing a lot of incline. So we're going to do this. We're going to incline. I'm going to do full body every day, unless I just don't feel like training. And the minimum I'm going to do these first four lifts, I feel like. And then we'll add in the other stuff. I have about eight lifts I want to really focus on. And then I can do supplemental stuff to make sure everything gets hit. So obviously, you know, the beltless squat, pausing with it, beltless deadlifts, nice wide grip bench with a long pause, pull ups, trying to go into a hang on most reps. I apologize. I am counting a full second at the bottom on every rep and somehow I'm getting touch and go reps. I don't know why. It's not the camera messing up. It's clearly me. But I feel like I'm dropping into a full hang and holding it. So I'll work on that. I apologize to my audience. I need to fix that. I feel like I'm doing it. And that's the funny thing I tell guys. When when you what you're doing in the gym, I see a lot of guys don't criticize people who film and I'm like, do you film your workouts? No. So you don't have any clue what you're actually doing. When dudes start filming their workouts, they're horrified. Who will stand there and criticize other people. And then they film their workouts. They're like, oh, my God, I have the bar all the way in my fingertips when I mentioned I'm bouncing it off my chest. I thought I was pausing my butts coming three inches off the bench. They're like, what? I don't feel any of that. I'm happy with the incline. Nine pause reps. Nice wide grip. Notice how much stronger I am with the wide grip. And I feel the chest. So let's just run with it. The shoulder health really is just going to come from doing the stretch type stuff until I can safely overhead press. So I did do the barbell rows and I like doing dumbbell rows because again, okay, confession, why do I do the dumbbell rows sometimes? Because sometimes they go viral when I do a video of me explaining how to do them. They go viral on Facebook. Like they'll get 50,000, 100,000 views, sometimes more. And I'll make a quick $20, $30 off of a little reel that took me 15 seconds to make. But really, I like barbell rows and I like them off the floor. I feel like they carry over to my deadlift really, really well. So I'm just going to do them. So I got 225 on there. Got 12 reps. I'm happy with that. So then in terms of what I'm looking at with the pullovers, the thing I'm looking at is the pullovers. I still feel like the range of motion is a big deal. When I do these laying extensions with this easy bar, and some people say, why don't you just do them with a dumbbell? Because the plates are going to fall off and bust my face. My dumbbells are not suitable for pullovers. The plates are going to, those clamps, even the best clamps I have, I've tried double clamping. They slide. It's not worth the risk with a non-fixed dumbbell. I'm not going to bust my face open for a pullover. But the easy bar, this is essentially, even though it's a tricep extension, it really is a pullover. It looks a lot like those dumbbell pullovers. I can get really deep. I can focus on that. Notice I go deep enough that I'm letting my butt come up to make sure that I'm stretching as far as possible. We got a good 10 reps there. I'll build that back up. But that's giving me what I want from the pullover also, in addition to being a tricep exercise. And then I'm like, you know what? I'm going to do a barbell curl. I don't care. Now, if I don't go crazy on it, I feel like I'll still be fine with the supine stuff. But I'm just, I'm worried that without at least a barbell curl, the biceps are not going to be where I need them to be. So I'm going to do them strict for now. I'm not going to get crazy. I need to be careful of, hey, let's do a bunch of cheat curls. Let's just do a nice strict to temporary failure up to the face. Because if I do this every day and I progress on it, we'll be fine. But I do want to have a curl back in. I feel like I need it. And the barbell curl, great exercise. But do the full range of motion. Come all the way down to the bottom. Pause it. Lock to my lockout. Notice that is my lockout. Notice that with the left elbow. I'm dropping it to a hang. And then bring it all the way to the face. And even if people think it sucks and I'm using lightweight, it doesn't matter. Let's just keep training the biceps. And notice from that side angle with the t-shirt on. That's why I tell people, I don't, on the internet it's really weird. People will say, oh, your arms suck. But in person, I can be grocery shopping and somebody will say, dude, you got massive arms. It's like, it's stupid. The internet versus real life. I just, I can't. But since I'm going to be in a t-shirt again for a while, I need to make sure all those train. So I decided at the end, everything got worked. Those are the eight exercises I kind of want to focus on for a bit. All right. And then fill in some other stuff at the end to make sure everything gets worked. So I'm like, let's do some wrist curls and I'll do some plate laterals. Just to make sure the forearms, the extensors, right? Because my flexors get toasted on barbell rows. One reason I love the over the pinlay row like that or traditional barbell row. It fries my, my forearms. They're just, they're cramping at the end. They're burning their own fire. The extensors. Those flexors could use a little more work. And then I'm like, let's just do some plate laterals. These are the most comfortable for my shoulders. They feel good. And this way, you know, everything got worked. Not a single muscle in my body didn't get really good training today. You know, depending on how you count sets versus half sets, everything got at least two sets realistically. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time. get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get a get