 All right, hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Once again, it's time for a bicep workout, and did something a little different today on this. You know, kind of when I look at the footage, one of the things that I don't like is because my range of motion in my left versus right elbow is a little different. I'm a little worried that with the barbell, sometimes it does make it slightly catawampus to use a phrase we use here in Texas. Everyone might not know what catawampus means, you can figure it out. So I'm like, let's just use dumbbells for a bit. And I wanna take these up a little harder. I feel like, look, if I can just do some sets of dumbbells to failure, we'll push a little more work here. I'm not gonna do the sort of volumes we saw on the shoulders yesterday, did it just because I didn't wanna do the other upper body stuff. I'm still gonna do a little bit of shoulder work, but again, I still think the biceps need to take over all priorities, so again, by doing it this way, we are bicep specializing. I can do over 10 sets for biceps a week. I don't think that's insane given the size of the muscle overall recovery. So again, I did five sets of dumbbells today to failure. I got 12 to 13 reps on all of them. The thing is though, the lack of losing reps is because I did these 10 or 15 minutes apart. Because I'm doing, I'm at home, I'm doing other work. Notice the sunlight changes in the background. These were spaced out over, like it over, definitely over an hour, right? An hour or more kind of just spaced out, just came in and just did the sets to failure while working on other projects between, I can just walk over and leave the camera set up. As I go in to get coffee or walk to the kitchen, I could just run over and do a set of curls. And that's the beauty of a set up like that. So because of that, it's not like they were a little two minute, three minute breaks where we're losing reps. So I didn't lose any reps. In fact, I gained reps as I went. Cause I guess I'm not quite used to doing the dumbbells. So I kind of got in the groove a little bit more. So I got like 12, 13, 13, 13, something like that. And then I tried two on the last set. I'm like, I bet I can get more. Let me try and I failed. I could not get a 14th rep. So I did a little rest pause, got a 13th, did a little pause and then thought, okay, listen, I failed to get the 14th rep at all. So we know that those 13s were limit sets because I had plenty of time to recover. It's not like these were just a couple of minutes apart. They were spaced way out. And even with that, when I tried to rest pause, I could not complete another rep. So we know that these dumbbells are pretty much my 13 rep max at this point. And again, so again, the idea here, just use dumbbells for a little bit. Because again, I'm just, I'm concerned with a little bit of the uneven loading because I do have some asymmetry because again, also part of my bicep is missing. It was removed by the doctor. And then that one elbow doesn't have the same range of motion. So I do get concerned that it's loading the bar a little funny sometimes. So with dumbbells, everything can move independently. And I would say for normal people under normal circumstances, I think the straight bar is absolutely amazing. But in this case, I'm like, I'll just do the dumbbells and they can work independently. Now, obviously my dumbbells are a little long. So I've got to come out slightly wide at the bottom, but that's also okay because I can't really put my arms down. That's my lats. I get a few people try to say, oh, there's whatever invisible lats syndrome till you see me from the back and then I do anything and you realize, no, that I literally, my lats literally are in the way. It is physically very uncomfortable for me to force my hands down to my sides, just a side note. I can do it, but I can't breathe. So for me to touch my hands to my sides tightly, I have to exhale all my air and squeeze, right? It's not actually that easy to do. It requires effort. And the second I relax, they'll pop back out. So this is what it is. So by that same token, the dumbbells being forced to be that wide, not really a big deal. It's gonna kind of be my normal movement pattern anyways. So no issue, but yeah. So a little more bicep volume that we're used to messing with the dumbbells today. And the main thing is exercise is an exercise. I don't actually think a barbell versus a dumbbell, especially on something this small creates more tension. There's no best exercise, but these work great just because of what I have going on with my own asymmetry and stuff. So yeah, decided to just do it. And I may continue to just do that. I ran for gosh, 15 workouts or so, whatever, or whoever, I lost count, right? I lost count over 10, well over 10 workouts in a row. We did the straight bar. So I'm just running dumbbells for a while and see if we can progress on it. Just keep pushing them forward. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time. Thank you.