Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for another full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Thank you. Um, I decided, you know, after like a week and a half of beltless training, I'm like, look, there's no point in me squatting and deadlifting beltless right now. There's just no point. Um, I get that I like the idea of the raw stuff, but quite frankly, I'm just simply stronger uh when I put the belt on and it did let me know I need to continue to train my abs. So, I'm going to keep doing the ab work again, though. And then I'll test some beltless stuff here and there. But, I mean, realistically, I need to get that squat back up to up to 500 while I'm cutting, while I'm getting athletic. And so, I'm just going to squat and deadlift with a belt. And I might need the belt again when I get the overhead press sorted. Obviously, we take it off for everything else. Um, you know, all the benching, the pull-ups, the incline, other stuff. So, um, again, just I feel like it's the best choice for me. I want to work on really getting getting a little deeper on those squats. So, that was wasn't as deep. The 405, I hit it deep. I want to make sure that I'm just getting really good at my leverages, getting deep on all this. Let's just get real strong at these. Again, let's chase performance big time while we're doing all the athletic stuff. So again, these are going to be full body old very similar to the way I used to train, but obviously more athletic stuff in more sled work, more lots of running, and doing the five mile runs. I'm going to continue to run minimum five miles on the off days, right? But I want to kind of vary the cardio and I know that I was getting overuse. Um, and I had to watch it really close on deadlifts today. But a nice easy 405 squat. I wanted to get back to that and up and hit that as my bare minimum, you know, every single workout. and then start working it up. Um, same thing on a bench. Now, the bench felt a little off today, not going to lie. Um, my bench didn't feel super good today compared to some of the days. Like this set felt heavy. This felt like a three rep max. But I also just closed grip and did less work on Monday. But also, it's like I've realized I need to I'm going to push incline. Um, which you guys will see me do until I can successfully overhead press, right? until I can successfully overhead press. Again, um I'm just going to push incline really, really hard because I know it'll bring my bench up and it'll improve the look. So, again, if we're going to talk about, well, we still want to look good. Well, I think I think pull-ups and I think incline benching will handle a lot of that as I get leaner, right? As I get leaner. Okay. Uh what's going to happen? I'm also at 209 today. So, for those curious, we've been we got down to 209 yesterday finally. Uh, so for the benching, I got a triple with the 315. Keep in mind, these are with with very little arch. Like I'm almost pretty much flat back for all purposes. Um, everything is paused. Uh, no wrist straps, no belt, heels flat. So, I mean, we're This is This is definitely bodybuilder type benching. So, again, um, still happy with the numbers overall. And I feel like that leverage is really good. like that stance I took and everything today, even though it is is high bar, feels really good on the squats. Um, so I feel like uh that's very close to to the way I was squatting, you know, 500 uh years and years ago, high bar when I was competing back in the UK. And I kind of like that that bar position. Um, I kind of like that stance. It feels good. So, but I am going to keep doing all the ab work because I do know I need my abs stronger so that when I do run some phases with that belt off, I don't get floored as much as I did this time. Uh, so again, back to right where we were a couple weeks ago. Squat, bench, and deadlift every workout. Um, and I'm still doing the box work, but I think the box works better at the end. Let's just get all the lifting done and we'll do box and we'll do sled and that'll also bring all the squatting up. And squatting will improve the deadlifting, too. um the deadlift because my hamstring had some doms still. Every time after I run, I'm getting the hamstring doms. I'm a little was a little worried about it. I was scared of it a little bit. So, I just did some singles and just ramped up and they actually felt good. Um and it actually the hamstring feels really good after lifting today. Um I felt it the most during the sled work. So, again, I'm just going to keep an eye on that doms. It's not like injury, but I do have DOMS and it's it's coming from the calf and it's the barefoot running really overworking those calves. So, uh, I decided just I put all three of the singles in today. So, I just ramped up 315, 405, 495, and called it. And I don't have to deadlift heavy all the time to have a big deadlift. Like you guys have seen me walk in and hit 50 lbs more than I touched in months. Like when I did that charity event, I never went over 570 and I pulled 625 for it. So, I'm just going to come in, do some deadlifting on these days. Um, it's going to vary a little bit based on how it feels, but since I'm going to pull three days a week, I don't need to go crazy hard on it. Right. Um then after afterwards I'm like let's work incline. Right. Since I can't overhead press, I still don't have the range of motion while we I let all that biceps stuff completely heal. We take curls out. Like let's just work incline. Um so again, I feel like incline improves my bench a lot. Also, just like dips work my bench a lot, incline does too. Um but again, incline's going to improve my shoulders. It's going to carry over more to the overhead. So once I can overhead press, a strong incline will carry over, right? It it's such a good intermediate between the bench and everything. So I got five reps fairly well with that. So I went up a little bit. Uh last time I did this fresh in place of the bench last week and I did three sets of five with 225, but this is after benching and and fairly hard sets of benching, too. So I got five with 225. I'm like, let's grab 235 and see what we can get. And I got four reps. And as far as this goes, I don't necessarily need three sets of this every time. Just keep in mind this is five sets of chest presses. I train bench three days a week, so that's a lot of volume. All right, pull-ups. I've kind of been torn between, do I want to mess with just the pronated or stick with this neutral grip? And I'm like, man, the neutral grip, we're just it's really strong. Of course, it also shows these are dead hangs that notice that I can't still can't fully lock the elbows. Okay, so that's what we mean of knowing that it's bicep inflammation still contributing. Uh, but I still feel plenty of bicep on these. That's been the only downside of these. I like the the neutral grip a lot. My only concern is is it still inflaming the bicep? And I think with no subnated, I think it's not. I'm gonna do it a little while and let's see how it does and see if we can eventually get that range of motion restored because I do like the fact that I get really good bicep activation on these. And again, EMGs aren't the be all end all. Remember when Contrarus did that study and he found the neutral grip pull-up, destroyed most curls on the bicep EMG? He was like really shocked. He's like that shouldn't be, but it clearly does. Um, but again, you look at hypertrophy studies, it makes sense. you know, if volumes are sufficient, these things don't even matter that much. But again, if if I can't build big enough biceps with pull-ups, and they were bigger when I did only pull-ups back in the past, then we'll just live with that. We'll just work triceps. Um, also did my set of hanging leg raises. Um, and I like to do one of these at least on the workout. I've been doing a minimum of one on the off days, also. Some of the days I've been doing two. So, again, I do need the ab work. And then plus if I do these and swing into that dead hang at the bottom, I'm getting the benefits of a dead hang to work on that shoulder also. Also, interestingly enough on these um I feel a lot of tricep long. But if you look at what's happening with the movement, it is definitely being worked at least eccentrically. There's that. All right. So then box work. I just kind of did them until till it felt a little sloppy. I've been doing eight sets of these the last couple works out workouts. I got to the seventh set and it felt a little sloppy. So, I'm like, I should probably chill with these there. Uh, box jumps though. Um, tried to just do mostly triples. I think one of the sets I did four. I lost count. I can't always count well. All right. Not always good at it. So, uh, box work, I believe it does build quads, glutes, calves, all that stuff. But we know it carries over to squats. It improves athleticism, you know? So, again, we do all this heavy work for strength and size, right? all this barbell work all the way to body weight stuff kind of kind of what we do we get our muscle most of it all the GBP will build it too right we build our strength all right do the box work for explosiveness improves athleticism improves speed strength improves power like jumping best way to just get more powerful okay and then I finished up with sled work right so then we get our conditioning also so we got heavy work we got kind of speed work and then we got the GPP Okay, great workout. This is kind of what we need. And we worked the whole body. Every muscle in the body got worked with those five movements we did. Then we did, of course, the set of abs. Um, but there is hypertrophy carryover. So, even though some of this people like, oh, you're not doing that much lower body. It's mostly upper body. Well, on the weights, but then we get to the other stuff. This absolutely will grow your legs. The sled and the jumping produce hypertrophy. And they we've got there's data supporting that. Plus, you know, look how many athletes have great legs who do this stuff, you know. Um, but again, you're still hitting the the fast twitch muscle fibers are still getting some fatigue. So, it's it's all being worked. So, really, this will still continue to keep my legs on point. Um, and both of these will carry over to my squat and my squats and pull-ups and stuff will keep building the deadlift. So, even if I don't go super hard on the deadlift for now, especially while I'm adapting to the running, doesn't matter. We're still getting technique from it. We're still building the muscles. And then again, my squat will improve my deadlift, too. I always know this historically. Um, so again, seven sets of box jumps. I did the the sled. The sled I went a little shorter distance because I threw a 55 on there instead of a 45. And for those who are kind of like, that's not a lot of weight. You guys are used to doing it on on carpet at a gym with the different feet. I'm out here on coarse asphalt with the nylon feet. Guys, this is way harder. I've I've done way more work than this on sleds on camera in the past on grass like the flat bottom sled. This is a different ballgame on this this surface. Just by the way, always be aware of that. So when people say, "How much weight should we do on sleds?" I don't know. How coarse is the carpet? How much surface area does your sled have on it? Are you on grass? How tall is the grass? If they didn't cut the grass where I used to do it versus cut grass, it was like 30 40 pounds difference with how much weight I could handle for the same distance and speed. Make sense? So again, there's no set thing. It's going to be based upon the exact surface that you're working off of or the sled you're working off of. But again, I always sprint on the way back. I like to get that that extra power and the speed. And then of course, we'll run five miles tomorrow morning just like we did yesterday morning. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.