Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. And a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, a lot of PRs, well, PRs at this body weight in this this time period. Obviously, not necessarily lifetime PRs, but overall, I'm really happy with all this. Really, the only thing that's stagnant at the moment is my bench press. Uh, so I feel like certain accessories pushing the dips up are going to help with that. Um, but I will get it there. I'm going to make it a priority. So, again, I I did address that with today's training and this week's training. Uh, but the back squats, 10 reps of 405 on the high bar. 10 reps. All right, I'll take it. Um, people could extrapolate that however they want in terms of my maxes. I feel like I'm a 500 lb squatter again. Uh, particularly if I were to just low bar it up. I don't know, man. based on that, I feel like I could I could probably high bar 500 or more at this point. I don't care about testing it. I've had a few people like, "Man, why don't you test your maxes right now?" I'm just going to do the rep work. I'm focused right now on obviously I want strength acquisition, but I'm focused on rep work. I'm trying to focus on body composition. I'm trying to build everything up and drop some body fat. So, I'm trying to recmp right now. So, uh, to do that, I'm not worried about, you know, necessarily hitting a bunch of of heavy singles because I know this rep work will build them. In other words, if if I just keep stacking reps with these moderately heavy weights over and over and over, um, invariably we are going to see the maxes go up, okay? It's unavoidable. But even with this 315 for five, it felt clean, right? I don't think I had a six rep, but it moved pretty smooth. So, I feel like I'm getting stronger with those fives there. Uh, but simply put, guys, I got to get my chest and and triceps just in general bigger, right? And I felt a lot of tricep today. It's interesting. Uh, the last workout, it felt all like all chest. This one felt a ton of tricep. And then, but I've had my triceps have been cramping a little bit from those dips. So, I feel like in in any event, dips carry over really well for me. Uh, anytime I push the dips hard, my bench tends to go up a little bit. So, I think that's where I'm going to go for a bit, right? I'm just going to push the dips. And if the dips keep going up and the bench doesn't go up, then we know it's something else. But, I feel like, like I said before, doing the extensions and just pring the extensions and getting stronger and stronger and stronger at them didn't increase my bench, which has been interesting. Right. Um, I've I've hit the 315 for five originally while quite a bit weaker on those. So, there we have it. All right. The deadlift though, uh, 500 for eight. I'm just talking about the bench and just totally disregarded a 500 for eight deadlift. Um, I'm really happy with that. That eighth rep was that was an eight rep max. So, I did not have anything else in the tank. Let's just be clear. I did not have another rep. Uh, but I'm pretty happy with it. Pretty happy with it. And I think a lot of this has been the fact that I built my work capacity up with all that cardio, all that cardio, all that conditioning. Um, I feel like I got myself into a lot better shape, and then I just pulled it all out. And then there's almost this recovery rebound. I feel like especially now that I'm focusing on sleep, keeping the volumes minimal. Everything is focused on recovery and looking at, you know, what are my efficient uh volumes and workloads that I need to get any growth, any gains, and then still be able to easily recover. So, I'm focused really hard on recovery. I'm sleeping eight, nine plus hours every night. Um, keeping the protein really high, keeping keeping stress really low. So, I feel like we're making progress. The only thing that hasn't improved in this phase has been the bench because I did hit it's been over a month since I hit the 315 for five. It's been like a month. Um, so again, that has to be addressed on the accessory side. Uh, but the belt squats the same thing. Um, I'm using that 315 again. I got 11 reps. They're all below parallel. So, I feel like that's carrying over to the squat and the deadlift. The belt squat is giving me extra muscle at those angles. All right. And a lot of it's letting me learn that I'm in a a position where the toes out isn't really ideal for me at this point. I'm noticing I get really good leverages with toes forward on everything. Now that I've been using that to build it with the belt squat. Um I seem to lock in really really well with that these days. Um and I used to do really well with the toes out like my strongest. Um, but I'm finding these days, um, I'm able to just leverage the best and get pop out of the bottom of some of these movements with those toes forward. You know, sounded like Luis Simmons there. Um, reverse hypers, 50 plus reps with the 420. Yes, I swing on this. We We know why I do that. Um, I bumped the weight up on the uh pull-ups and the dips. So, because the dips went up from last workout, I'm hoping that we're going to see that carryover carry over into um better bench press, right? Uh pull-ups. So, I've not even tried 70 lbs. Like, cuz I did 55 and got 10 and then a rest pause. I got six here and then I rest pause two more reps. So, 70 pounds um I feel is is pretty dang good for my pull-ups. And I'm doing that closer grip because I'm able to move get more total reps with the same weight normally and it's a longer range of motion. So I'll take the win. Plus I need the arm development and I feel a lot of bicep on that close grip. Well, it's really shoulder width. So it's right at shoulder width. Uh but yeah, I got eight total there. So happy with that. Um that's PR considering I weigh 210. That's 280 for eight. Same thing here. Uh, I got 11 11 reps. So, I got 10 last time with the 55 and it lit my triceps my chest got uh really pumped from it, but my triceps were cramping afterwards. Later, they were twitching and cramping later in the day. So, again, did a lot for me. But notice I'm getting these below parallel. So, we're getting super deep. And I took this set to to failure, right? No rest, pause, or anything like the other. I just took it straight to failure. And once we stuck in the bottom, you know, that's it. We were done. We just stuck in the bottom. So, we reached failure, but happy with that. So, hopefully that starts translating into a performance. Like I I want to get up to be where I'm hitting that with the 90 pounds and I think we'll see a bench increase. All right, laterals. I increased the weight. Just took my time with these. Um, didn't try to keep like any sort of real cadence uh with continual tension or anything. just good clean reps as strict as I possibly can but pausing a little at the bottom. So we rest paused at this kind of and I just went to 12 reps until I just failed until I just couldn't do another rep but a bunch of these I took a breath or two at the bottom tried to squeeze out another rep couple breaths at the bottom squeeze out another rep till just one really really really hard sets for my delts one really hard set. So, uh, again, all we need and then preacher curls, right? Did preacher curls and then I did one set of heavy band press downs and which is interesting. I gotten stronger on those. So, the preacher curls, I'm messing with this uh wider grip with the easy bar. And again, going down about as low as I can can do because again, my elbows don't lock completely perfect. But again, preacher curl. So, we do what we can. But notice, you guys will see me when I do the rest pause, you'll see kind of where I'm locking at because I drop it all the way down and then do a rep back out of the bottom again. So, I did 10 and I think I got a couple rest pause reps in here. But the this was absolutely failure. Like I failed there. I couldn't It just stopped. And then we rest for a second. Another rep, right? Another rep. Let's drop it back into the hooks and try to do just one more. One more. One more and then slowly lower it. So, a couple of rest, pause, reps here. Um, it hurt like hell, right? Hurt like hell. And then I grabbed I never do these with the blue band, so I've gotten stronger on it. Like, I normally do the reds and I haven't been done these lately, but this shows me that again, my triceps have gotten significantly stronger. So, again, if my triceps are getting stronger at everything I do, and the bench still hasn't moved, we know that it's it's not it's not triceps limiting me, per se. Um, I just use a lot of tricep on the bench. So, again, keep building the chest, the dips and stuff will do that. But happy with the workout. E, static with the workout. Hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys next time.