Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and it's time for a another bicep workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it. Um, this last week I moved over to dumbbells, but then as I was doing more of my stuff yesterday, I did say in in the full body vlog, um, I do feel like at this point for me, given given that I need more mobility, you know, in a number of joints and stuff in my body, uh, and what I'm doing just with hypertrophy in general, I may go over to the incline curls because I'm doing a lot of stuff paused. And even when I've done incline curls in the past, I've always used a stretch reflex. So, my thought here is uh take the same approach that I've been doing on the other pause stuff. Let's treat biceps the same way. Now, I can only use 33 lb dumbbells with the pause. That's all I can handle. Uh I failed reput I couldn't get more than eight reps. And notice with every one of these what I did, I paused for at least a full second uh if not longer. I tried to couple of the reps here or there, there might be one or two that isn't a pause. I did I do notice that looking through, but I tried to pause like I it was not intentional. It's kind of funny. I felt like I paused every one of them. But it's it is funny. I saw one in here where oh I didn't pause it. But uh trying to do at least a one second pause, some of them longer and then just go to failure. And failure simply means when I get to a rep and it simply sticks, I cannot do another rep. Then that's failure. And on the third set, uh we'll see me actually try really hard. I'm like, you know what? I think I can get a knife. I'm going to try. So, I got down there and I contracted and the weight moved like an inch and just stuck. So, um again, incline curls, great exercise. Uh puts us into those stretch positions. And part of again my thoughts here, just like I'm doing the pull-ups from a dead hang, I'm doing uh long pauses on the pullovers. I want to see if I can force an improvement in mobility in my elbows particularly that left bicep and my shoulders everything else. So again using my strength training to do that and that's a very evidence-based approach. Uh people will say that the stretch it's like the research shows stretching doesn't really help lifters like full range of motion lifting does more for your flexibility than stretching does uh once you actually start lifting weights. So, it doesn't help. It doesn't help at all. But resistance training and doing all this stuff through full ranges of motion probably will. Now, the thing I will note uh on this 45 degree incline, it burns my chest like hell. The stretch on my pecs when I pause on these on the bottoms makes it actually feel like a chest exercise, funny enough. So, even though the only joint moving is my elbow, I'm doing these quite strict. I feel like I'm doing a deep chest fly. Like I it's kind of funny like my chest feels like it's getting a ton of work. So hey, maybe it is putting a little stretch position into the chest. That won't hurt anything. Uh but yeah, so a slight change here of of still doing what we've been doing. We're doing a few sets of curls on the off days when I'm fresh. Uh but again, the reps are going to be forced to be a little lower here, and that's okay. So when we start thinking in terms of of tension time, and I want people to remember this, I've got a video in the rotation. I got like I have 20 v new videos uh completely new audio and everything in the rotation that will be up. Probably start putting them up uh tomorrow uh that are kind of ready to go. I'm going to start limiting I think u other than the end of the month where I take a backlog and push it out. We're we're going to do probably three videos a day, right? I don't feel like I need more than that. That seems to be kind of the sweet spot even though I've got tons of stuff uh backlogged. what we're going to do. I'll I'll do that, but I have one in the rotation where I'm going to discuss that. The pause stuff, if we're thinking in terms of reps, the reason reps matter is because you're talking about total tension time. But when you look at where the most mechanical tension is placed, it's at the bottom. So, pauses, if you think of it in in terms of that of look how long it takes to do eight reps, okay, we're looking at about 40 seconds per set here. 40 to 45 seconds for eight reps, right? A very good chunk of that is the pauses. So if you're pausing one to two seconds, you know, you're getting 10 or more seconds at the fully extended position where the most mechanical tension is in that stretch, right? The most difficult part of the movement. Uh so again, if you're thinking in terms of tension times with high quality tension, you're actually getting a lot by doing that. So if we look at it in terms of of reps, instead of thinking of rep count, you start thinking of, you know, actual maximum tension time is actually equivalent to doing quite a few more reps, which is also why we can't do as many reps with a lighter weight. Uh but again the idea here I want to get stuff into those stretch positions both for the hypertrophy as well as to see if I can improve range of motion because I feel like that is a factor for me. One one of the reasons I have struggled with biceps is the tendon and situation and elbows where I cannot seem to lock out. So I'm hoping additional training uh like that will help with that improve that lengthen position range of motion if if I can get it to do so. It may help with the hypertrophy a little bit further. But again, at the end of the day, a curl is a curl. I want people to understand that's a lot of nuance chasing a very tiny benefit. So, just be aware. Curls are curls at the end of the day. The bicep is not complicated. But in my case, because my biceps do lag behind. They're my worst muscle group in general. Um, I have to take some extra care there. And incline curls are a time proven classic. guys in the 50s before steroids were around loved this exercise. Many of them credit it with being the best bicep builder they felt and it does really well in modern scientific studies. So, it's one of those where I don't think we can go wrong with um again can be a little tough on some people's shoulders. I definitely feel that deep stretch in the chest, but overall uh happy with today's session. I feel like this is a good direction to go with the curls on the bicep day. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.