Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here and it's time for a full body workout, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. And uh you know, these recent weeks have kind of let me know uh I make gains just fine on really low volume just like I did in the past. I always thought it was interesting um certain time even midway through this channel gosh around 10 11 years ago. I mean I only worked out 30 40 minutes three times a week full body stuff. I was jacked. I just wasn't as lean as now. And I feel like um the thing I noticed with the squats, my squats went up. I I barely squatted and did some really high rep squats during all that cold. And I came back and hit a lifetime PR on a rep work on the squat. So, I've realized I don't need a lot of volume. We just need bit of frequency. Um and to push really, really, really hard. So, I'm like, I just do four exercises today. As long as I have a lower body lift, because I was almost thinking, I don't want to squat and deadlift every time. I could alternate, but that's enough. Like, I get stronger off that. My deadlift will get back up. I'm going to get that deadlift back up to eight plus on 500. I got five today. It was really I got four last time, five today. I feel like I can alternate squats and deadlifts. I can alternate dips and bench. I used to do that all the time. So, it's I come in, do a lower body lift, some sort of pull, you know, like mainly my pull-ups, some sort of chest press, dip or bench. I'll alternate them, and then an accessory movement, and then I do my curls on the other days. Um, even on the pull-ups, you know, I I feel like doing the rest pause work isn't probably doing that much for me because again, I'm hitting failure. I just grabbed a 45, took it to failure, got my 10 reps, tried to get a lot of them to deeper the deepest stretch I can and uh just go from there. But I feel like for me, obviously uh things like like chest and arms need the highest priority. So it's like, yeah, I do the dips and everything. I I feel even the high rep benching just destroys my triceps. So do the dips. So I do feel like throwing in a pullover though is a good way to finish them off, you know? So, it's like I came in, I did one set of dips to failure. I got 19 there. Uh, one set of pull-ups to failure and then just burn out for really high reps on this pullover because again, the shoulder mobility, uh, the tricep stuff. And I'll be honest, I was lit up from this workout. These four sets, I noticed that on the deadlifts, I haven't been deadlifting lately. a five rep set with 500 on the deadlifts. It's like my whole body is just lit. Like I feel everything. It's like I feel like I get a training response from that, right? I get a training response from that. And it's not like especially you see me coming down off those dips. You see me turning around, walking back towards the camera. Even with this lighting, I don't have that half nattty lighting like the living room. This is just straight up sunlight. I mean, I'm looking pretty big. I don't really have to get significantly bigger either. My strength is great. I mean, even pulling 500 for five if I get it back to eight. I just hit 405 for 13. I can do 19 reps on a 225 on a bench. I don't even know what my 315 max is. I'm plenty strong. I'm plenty big. I just need my arms to come up. And I just going to chip away at body fat. I feel like the diet, this low carb approach is doing really well, right? I've been getting, you know, leaner over time. We're still not where we want to be. You know, the skin's not as tight as I want it to be, but I just need to get leaner, get my arms a little bigger. Like, realistically speaking, when I look at where my rep strength is, if I were to spend a little time peeking and going over to maxes, I'm going to have no trouble hitting easily elite masters lifts. I feel like I could destroy my last meet even though I'm older now, about to be in the next age. This this year, I'm going to be in the next age class. I walk around with no water cut in the same weight class I was in under the weight. I could out total easily. I think my squat, bench, and deadlift, all three of them would easily be higher. My bench way, way higher than that last meet. Like I just need to get leaner and bring my arms up, tighten the waist up more. I don't need a lot of volume to do all that. And the beauty of it is it's like I've tried to say, you don't need much volume to grow. You can grow on insanely low volumes long as you're training hard enough. But again, doesn't that throws a wrench in the whole industry, doesn't it? I mean, if I'm over here doing three to six sets for a muscle group, most of them are getting six. But stuff like my legs, we might only be getting three. If I can make gains as this advanced of a lifter at my age on that low of volumes, especially if I can get the arms up doing the six really hard sets of curls a week, progressively overloading them, you've got to ask, what is anyone in this industry even doing? Because, no offense, every single bit of minutia and all this advanced programming is only there to get super advanced people to professional levels. That's it. It has no use outside of that. All this nonsense that they study and promote, it's not really worth much for most people. Because be clear, even where I'm at in size and strength, if I just shift away at body fat, just get leaner from where I am now, which I'm I'm actually doing, I mean, we're seeing it happen. It's not perfect, but it's coming along. Come on. Most most people over 40 would never even dream of being there or they can't even most of them can't envision where I'm at now. So, we've got to question that for normal people out there. What do they really actually need? And is any of the stuff in the industry that useful? Even for me as a coach, I just keep people on board so they don't have to think about it. I keep them dialed in, keep their head straight, keep their fatigue management right, and that's it. But overall, pretty happy with the workout. I am lit. My whole body hurts. My chest, my triceps, lats, quads, everything hurt. They all hurt right now. Four setps because they were really, really hard. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.