Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and once again it is time for a full body workout. This is going to be a very long vlog. Um did all the work I wanted to do today. Uh if you guys will please click like down below, drop me a comment. Let's get over to the training. I decided to do beltless widow maker. Um yes, obviously stomach's going to poke out a little bit here. No way to do any vacuums on that, but again stomach is feeling a little bloated this morning. Probably because the amount of fiber and stuff I had yesterday. So I'll just live with it. But as we get leaner, um, that will get better and better. Continue to do the vacuums. Of course, I did some of the poses in there. You guys will see coming up. Um, but yeah, in this case, you can definitely see from that angle, the loose skin is still there. Still some body visas, particularly when I have to brace my core to do a beltless squat, you know, and I think this happens to everybody, though. We're all used to that. Uh, so I'm going to do more beltless training over time. I think particularly once I get the way smaller and leaner and I have abs and everything because again the cut's going pretty dang good. It's coming along. Um I'm staying on top of the cardio, the diet and you guys are watching it all real time. Um but I decided let's drop down. I'm struggling with that weight, but I'm like let's do some widow makers. Let's do Widowmaker squats. So I grabbed the weight. I'm like I bet right now this is going to be hard for 10 and then I'm just going to do breathing squat. Especially beltless. All right. Especially beltless. So, we got 10 plus plus four there. And then I immediately went over to a pullover. And I'm like, let's do the old school approach. The real old school is to do that Widowmaker squat and then a set of pullovers, like really hard pullovers. So, I went with a weight that's really hard for 20 because you guys have seen me doing it with a 45. I'm like, let's grab 70 lbs. All right. And then I did a little side chesting. This angle is as good as the other. So, I did some after the benching, too. Uh, but I'm like, yeah, it's really hard to do that then. So, it's like what I'm doing is the vacuums every morning early in the morning while I have an empty stomach. Um, I'm doing the pullovers every workout. And what I'm doing is training that waist to get smaller and smaller again. When I was younger, I actually had a pretty pretty small waist for a while when I was younger, even lifting. So, even though I lost weight, I still had loose skin, but my waist was down to like 30 inches uh when I was a runner. So, I'm going to keep working all this down. As I lose the body fat, that loose skin will tighten up. We lose all the fat inside of it. Lose it around the waist. I'm going to do this whole school error to golden era physique thing. And I'm going to stay on top of this. The vacuums in the pullovers are critical to that. But the brea Why the breathing squats? You know, I had someone ask me in a in the live and I said I did them today. Why do that? Well, because quite frankly, at this point with the deficit, I'm probably going to get all I'm going to get out of that versus three sets, right? But the breathing squats make you really struggle for air, right? Because that squatting and then you do the pullovers after everything is just really pumped. It's really difficult and you're struggling for air. Then you do the deep breath pullovers. It's to open all of that up, right? And that's going to make you even better at the vacuums. And I feel like and a lot of guys feel like those old school Widowmaker breathing type squats with the pullovers help. All right, for deadlifts today, um I did 455 did a set to failure. I didn't know what I'd get because I could tell after doing immediately after doing those to come over and do one warm-up rep and then just jump into a set. I was like, man, I'm tired from that. That that was a lot. Right. I got five reps and then we failed six. You know, I'll still take that though. Five reps is around 85%. At least we know we're over 500. I still think I can squat over over 405 even with all this um cardio. The cardio fatigue is affecting the squats for those who don't get it. Um I decided I need to do the calf raises again. It's like, okay, let's get in. Let's do some calf raises. Um I don't want to set up the boots. I don't want to set up the plate. My calves do just fine without even doing the plate. It's easy. I just throw this weight on, come over and do sets. Um I got sets of 12 here. with 315 perfectly fine. My calves are obviously on point, right? Calves are on point. And as I get leaner, I mean, we're kind of seeing I have no fat on my calves anymore. So, what will eventually happen as we keep losing body fat, look at the density we have there, the same density of my forearms. The years of the powerlifting and the really, really hard training, the muscle density is showing. We're seeing all of it there. So, I look like that in my whole body, right? any of us who understand training, bodybuilding, all that stuff. What we're seeing there, the same thing when I do flex the quads, there's still some fat on them, but you're seeing that there. I my whole body has that same muscle density, right? This should be common sense. Anyone who looks at the all the the the experts who talk about this in the heavy training and the power training, I'm pretty much chiseled out of granite underneath the fluff. So, we keep doing the fasted cardio. We keep the clean, ultra clean diet until everything looks like my calves and my forearms do. Okay? Because I look like that under there. That is the quality of musculature I've built up over the decades of doing this, especially all the power training. So, I look like that under there. So, there's a good shot of the low back. We can see where it's at. I'm going to do some pictures again for the weekend. Again, we just keep doing the fasted cardio. We chisel away and chisel away and chisel away until everything is tight like that. And it's going to take some time. It's coming along pretty well, though. We're getting leaner. But that's the idea. So, what we see in the calves when I get my whole body like that, the cut is done. And then I can sit at that for a while and stay there. But again, um I did a set of failure here and I'm like, you know what? I want to see if I can do 315 with all this cutting. So, I did I got a PR there. Normally, I only get 10, right? I got 10, 10, and eight with this. I got 11 reps there with that all flat back. I'm like, let's I know I'm fatigued. I know I did the widowmaker. I know I do the devil's fair. I know I did a set of pullovers. I just did that to failure. My chest is fatigued. We are fatigued. We are not fresh. I'm like, if I can't bench 315, we got a problem, though. So, I wanted to assess it. So, I'm like for a second set. So, there's I did a quick thing. So, we can see a little bit kind of a watery around some of that. We can tell I'm losing fat, but it's getting a little watery. My body's kind of like uh a little bit of cortisol coming up. So, I'm going to see if we can flush that over the weekend, right? See if we can get it to whoosh a little bit down and tighten up through again just staying on top of the the serious fasted cardio. But if not, if not, but again, when I get a little more watery and looser, I know that my body is burning through the fat there because it's getting softer in that area. Um, but 315 flat back pause. Notice we're flat back. There's no arch, no wrist straps, no belt. Pause. We got a nice good double, so I'll take it. And I think we can see the back starting to to look too. You guys can tell at those angles. We're starting to see that density starting to come out there also. So, after the benching, I decided to go with what I what I've been doing. Let's do the pull-ups for a full range of motion. Try to get the chin over the bar. I can only do that with a closer grip, but they felt good. And I feel these in my biceps, too, which is interesting. So, here's kind of my strategy for continuing to get that shoulder uh range of motion and mobility improved. I'm going to really push these hard. I'm going to push the dips to the full range of motion. I'm going to start doing more band pull aparts because when I look at what seems to open up where where I struggle I feel it in that area the most when I do an underhand grip pull apart on bands. So I'm going to start doing those every day and see if we can get that shoulder resolve so that I can be also not only overhead press but be able to hit a front double bicep too as we get leaner because I'm going to need to be able to do that eventually. Right. We want to we want to look good for the camera with the classic physique. We got to be able to do that. So, not only do the arms need to come up, we need to get fatter. I need to continue to work that shoulder stuff, but I feel like this will help. So, I'm doing a lot of these today. I'm going to my longest and then I go into a hang. So, people who are like, you're not going to the bottom. You see the hang? That's that's everything. So, again, I want to continue to work this and I feel like the pull-ups are helping with that. They'll help because I can get that longer range of motion with that closer grip. But we can see the back. We're starting to get that chiseledness we're seeing in the calves coming out of the back more and more. We just have to keep burning through the fat. Diet cardio fasting diet fasted cardio. Diet fasted cardio day after day after day. And we love it. You got to tell yourself that. All right. So, for the dips, I'm going with what I've I've changed over to to where we go deeper and deeper. So, I'm trying to do them from the bottom from the first rep. I don't even use the steps. We just come over and come out of the deep stretch right out of the bottom. I'm able to get tens though, so I'm happy. Um, and what I'm also doing, I'm trying to make sure we get the chest with the full stretch. So, we lean forward. And I'm trying to come up a little bit to make sure I'm locking the triceps because if when I get that lock at the top when I force that man that tricep I get a tricep burn on the other but that is intense. I feel that long head right that long head almost cramps and so we need to continue to hammer that long head with this. Um the I mean obviously the dips and the bench hit the other heads the lateral and medial but I want to make sure that long head gets hit the same thing the pullovers hit it. So again, the idea here on the dips, I'm using these as a main builder for for triceps and chest, too. I mean, the bench obviously helps. Next time I'll probably do the three sets again on the bench for reps, but I just wanted to see where that that was. I've been doing three sets of failure the other days on bench. So, we got six sets of bench to failure before today. But then these dips, I'm taking these also to failure. I'm failing right around rep 11 or so usually pretty much consistently. But I'm doing the hardest version here now. um to where I'm trying to come everything through the longest range of motion possible on it. Just like with the pull-ups, I'm trying to take motion. So, again, this will improve my shoulder mobility, I feel like, along with the pullovers. And then I'm going to have to do the pull-up aparts and other stuff. I'm going to continue to refine that. All right. Here we kind of see, yeah, you know, the this the skin is trying to get really loose again today. we see it on these, but we can see a lot of the upper chest, the shoulder separation starting to slowly come out here on these upright rows. So, for those curious, yes, I'm doing these with a outside of shoulder width, want them a little wider. And we only go up as high as we we need to because again, if we want to protect shoulder health, everyone who's anti this movement, they always point out though, the real risk is when you go too high. Well, we don't have to go too high. It's not necessary to work the delts to go all the way to the chin. You know, again, risk of impingement. We don't have to a nice wide grip like this to the range of motion. I'm doing same range of motion as a ladder. We're putting a nice heavy weight on the entire shoulder girdle, right? It gets a little more more biceps, some forearms, some grip training, right? So, again, I like the upright rows. Plus, it's very old school, right? We can do it with a barbell. We're getting back to these basics. Of course, I'm still doing the incline curls right now because we we like those. We love the incline curls. Why? Because it's classic old school stuff. And I get a such a good burn on on incline curls. So, I went up on weight cuz I did the 28s last time and I got 16s. I got like somewhere between 10 and 12 reps on these. I started losing count because I did the first two sets to failure. It was like 11 or 10 or whatever the first two. And then the last one I did a rest pause. I'm like, I I'm going to force myself to do another rep. So, I got to the bottom, took a couple of deep breaths, and was able to grind out one more rep there. Right, we're able to grind out one more rep on it. So, again, taking these as far as I can. Uh because again, it's my one real bicep movement. So, I want to push everything into it. Now, the interesting thing, I feel those pull-ups quite a bit, though. When I go to full range of motion up to the top, it feels like a b it feels like a curl if I'm going to be honest. And I've said that before. That's kind of my thoughts on that. Um when I go all the way up, I don't really feel my back anymore. It feels like purely a bicep exercise up at the top. then that's okay. But keep in mind, I was also pointed out in that picture I thought was interesting. Everyone thought my arms looked biggest in that old uh whatever your picture that was. I wasn't doing any direct arm work. Just want to point that out. I was doing zero direct arm work. Um I was doing neutral grip pull-ups and dips and lots and lots of pressing. Uh so it kind of it's fascinating to me. It makes me even question in my own head, do I even get that much out of curls? But I feel the incline curls, so I'm going to continue to push them no matter what. I I love the burn. So even if we could argue about this stuff all day long, I could in theory pull-ups and chin-ups really do it. I feel like for me, they didn't. But when I look at those comparative pictures, I hadn't been doing any curls for years, really. And it was just pull-ups for the most part. Um, and my arms looked the biggest. People were like, "Your arms are bigger there than now." I'm like, "What?" But, um, it was dips and pull-ups, but I feel the incline curls. So, I'm going to keep doing them. I'm going to keep doing them mainly because they give one heck of a burn and a pump in my biceps. And so, and they were a favorite of the old school guys. So, I'm just going to continue to do them and I'm going to push them hard. And then I finished here with some pullovers because I only got the one set. I'm like, let's do two more sets here. Let's get three. I know I only did one set last workout and I pushed up 50 plus reps with the 45, but I'm like, let's try to grab the 70 and try to get at least 20 reps. Try to get 20s. So, again, uh, pretty challenging, honestly, because again, pullovers and vacuums, that combination is really a big deal, I think, to getting that classic look, especially when you get the little small ways from the side views with the vacuum poses and stuff. Um, it's absolutely critical. Obviously, you have to be lean enough. I'm not lean enough. But I think we see when I do do those poses from the side, uh it becomes very obvious that my waist is going to be really small doing that stuff once the body fat gets down. But I'm going to keep hammering this stuff to make sure because what we're looking for is to have our rib cage um and all the muscle supporting it as big as possible so that we can create the uh most classic X shape possible. So again, we hammer the vacuums, we hammer the pullovers, and then we just keep getting leaner, right? We keep getting leaner and leaner. And I don't do any real weighted ab work. I might do some hanging leg raises. Again, people ask me, "Are you doing any ab work with this?" I'm like, "I do really high rep crunches sometimes at night. Sometimes I do like 200 at a time." Um, so again, did two sets of these with the 70 lbs. So I'm going to push this with the plates. And I kind of was like, "Oh, I don't like doing the plates. There's too much on the grip, you know?" But it's like, I need to quit wanting to just do the plates. I feel the plates the best. It replicates a dumbbell really closely in terms of the angles and I like that. My adjustable dumbbells is not safe to go heavy. Like they're going to slide off and bust my face. So the plates is a better choice, but it's like so I'll eventually go back to my two plates. I was only getting 10 to 12 at the best with those. But then I also have to say, you know what, if I get to where I'm doing 20 plus reps with 90 pounds and we get the range of motion improved from doing it all the time, which that's the goal, too, to be able to get deeper because these are deep. A lot of these are paws. That is literally my full range of motion. But again, we're talking about that shoulder health, shoulder mobility. That's going to improve that, too. But if I get to where I can do 90 pounds for sets of 20 deep, I I think we're in a really good place. I'm not even going to be really worried about it any further beyond that, right? I'm not going to be worried about it further beyond that. But what I also decided to do at the end of this, I'm like, I want to do some of the banded curls again. Also, mainly because when I was doing those heavy pullovers before, I was getting some bicep and inflammation. I'm like, let's do some really high rep band curls just to finish just to make sure we get some blood flow to the biceps and everything because I like these and I get a good pump and it's good for the tendons and so I'm just going to do them at the end here, you know, and continue to do that. But there we can see now once the waistline gets tighter, the skin and the fat tighten up again. Now that you were seeing a good pump, we're seeing this angle. You know, we're seeing the shoulders and the biceps getting a pump here, which again gives a really good idea of where I'm going to be once I get leaner and tighter. So, we I'm still at 210. So, when I get down to 190, keep doing the fasted cardio because it's going to happen. This gives us again another really good idea of where we're going to be. So, chasing that classic physique and we don't want to overdevelop the shoulders. don't want to inject your shoulders. You don't want to use h used amounts of gear. That's what creates that crazy look that doesn't match that aesthetic. But here, we can tell the shoulders, this is actually about what we want in terms of of balance there. Um, so I just need bigger arms and a smaller waist and to get leaner and I think I'll be in a good spot. But really happy with today's workout. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.