Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a GPP workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, today was mostly an explosive day. I only did a little bit of actual what I would think of as true conditioning. Did a couple rounds of the sled sprints. Um, but again, I did three rounds of these last time. I took the weekend off last week, but I realized I do want to get some GPP in a little more often. And the reason is I probably need to start trimming down a little bit leaner here. I want to see if I can get my satiety a little more on point. Um today I'm going to eat some potatoes. I'm going to do potatoes and uh watermelon, right? Mostly today and see how we can do on just getting filled up once I start eating. Uh but again, doing some conditioning like this during my fasted window, you know, even on a day I might have considered taking off. Uh why not? Because I feel good. I feel recovered. I don't have any problems happening here, guys. Um, I don't feel overtrained, nothing's sore. So, there's no reason for me to take the full weekend off from training, especially when I could come in and do a little quick 30 minute uh conditioning session like this, you know, because this has took me about 30 minutes to knock all this out. Um, just to do some sleds, to grab my med ball, push it, you know, push the sled back up and down the driveway, all that stuff, you know, just kind of get everything set up. Um, pretty quick little workout, but again, the dividends in terms of of a little bit of conditioning, a little bit of leg work, some explosiveness is a good thing. And I mean, I talked about in the live stream today of honestly, I probably could do more a little more heavy benching and more squatting and scale the deadlifts back. Um, you know, realistically, I'm real I'm lazy with my squats. And I've been called on that. I know people are like, "What do you mean?" Because would you guys see what happens when I actually try to squat? What happens when I when I actually start doing a lot of squatting? I don't squat just 500, right? We all know this. We've seen historically what happens. I go way up into the 500s. So, you know, realistically, I could probably do more squatting. And that's the other thing I have to look at. So, what if I do want to get a hair leaner? Man, that quad development from it probably help. But, um, so today I did two rounds of sled sprints. That's that's quad work. I will grow from that. I'll get my heart rate up. We get a little bit of of conditioning from it. So, just two rounds of sled sprint and then I just did lots of explosive stuff. Um, you know, again, if we come over to just getting a little metabolic boost, right? Burning through a little bit of extra calories, body fat during my fasted window, uh, you know, which makes dietary control easier, right? Not a bad idea because I'm limiting my volume on my lifting. I'm like, look, let's just go with very moderate volumes, very, very high intensity. But my conditioning, we can do a little more stuff like this. A little bit of real conditioning, a little bit of explosive training. All right. So, I did five by five on the the medball tosses. And then I did box jumps. I ended up doing six sets. I was going to do like three, four, maybe five. I got I'm like, let's just go ahead and take this up a little bit and let's go ahead and do, you know, I just went ahead and did six. It felt good cuz I the speed felt good. All this stuff felt nice and explosive. Someone said in one of my reels though over on the Facebook because I put these up on three three places a lot of times. Why aren't I like to be a little more explosive with these and I'm like you really can't. I mean I need a lighter medball for that. Um I'm doing these pretty explosive and I am a pretty explosive person but this is the about the heaviest medball you can find. So I think people get that confused if you're grabbing the ones at your gym. They're mostly tens 20s things like that. So this is a heavier one. um about the heaviest one I could find. When I bought it, this was the heaviest one they had in stock for Titan that they made. So, I grabbed the 30. Um I always joke say I'd like it a little heavier, you know, but I mean, you're only going to throw it so high with repeated bounce like this where you're doing five. Uh but I did uh five tosses in a row, five by five real quick breaks and then um finish this up and then went over to box jumps because it's like I've realized I need some more box jumps. Right. The sleds in the boxes actually make my squat and stuff go up, too. But I mean that it is a valid point, guys. I mean, I'm doing like sets of five or whatever. I do three sets of squats a week. You know, five reps of 405. We all know that when I squat really really hard. That's that's not that impressive for what I'm capable of. So, that's something something to think about. And I do have to ask that question of well would that extra squatting increase my metabolic rate a little bit probably. Probably but I have to be careful of not overtraining certain things. Legs though I tend to hold way back right they're not anywhere near their potential. Uh so that's a valid criticism you know but I've been thinking about that. What would happen if I actually do more heavy squatting and benching? Uh I did my box jumps the first three sets though I had the camera pointed too low. I realized like the camera's way too low. I turned it up. So, box jumps. So, let's talk about the medball throws and the box jumps. I like the medball throws. They bring a lot to the table in terms of just explosiveness, full body explosiveness. I feel a lot in my shoulders. So, I feel like they're good for my delts. They're good for my shoulder mobility because I want to get the overhead press strength back up. I want that to be a really high priority for me. Um, so the medball throws feel like they really work through that where that range of motion has been limited to me and it feels like it really hammers that. So for me, they are a good shoulder exercise in addition to just being a full body power movement, right? Because think about it, just like a power clean, right? We talk about power cleans for for explosiveness. Well, a medball toss like that is it's just as explosive. the same idea because you're grabbing from that low position down on the ground and using the whole body to, you know, again toss it up in the air, right? It's a full body explosive movement. Whereas in the box jumps are just legs, right? This is an explosive movement for the lower body, which again, both of these will help. So, think of it in terms of of squat and deadlift, right? That medball toss going to help actually will help your overhead press in theory. It'll help your deadlift explosiveness, too, right? So, you're going to get better force production. Uh the box jumps are going to give you power on your squats. Okay. The sled work is going to increase um the muscle on both of those movements, too. So, sleds improve your squat and deadlift, right? Medall throws will help with all that. And people like, "Well, where's the bend?" Well, none of this really is going to help with the bench that much, honestly. Really not. You just got to get bigger. really big big chest, big triceps, build your bench, right? Hypertrophy work. Um, but I did do of course band press downs at the end. I just did one set just like I've done the last couple of these workouts. I don't want to overtrain my arms. That's been my biggest issue though historically and I know that I feel like overtraining my arms has actually kept them lagging a little and genetically my torso and stuff grows so well. Uh but again did my box jumps. Uh so I ended up doing six sets of these and we finished up with one set of high rep band press downs which is good for my elbow tendons, good for tricep uh tendon health, right? Getting blood flow to the triceps. Again, the main trick is not overdoing it too much. I have a tendency to do stuff like that. I'm like, let me just keep them limited. Let's not overtrain any of my arms and let's focus on general progressive overload on the big movements on them. Uh, but overall nice good conditioning session, GBP work. Happy with it. Mostly explosive today. A little less conditioning, a little more explosiveness. Uh, so I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.