Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. I started off with my high bar squats set. I was going to go back to these. Um, looking at the footage here on the 405, I feel like I could have gone a little deeper, but they felt pretty deep when I did them. Um, however, I will always note my front angle footage is horrific in terms of judging depth. Um, there have been times when people are like, I don't know, you're squatting a little high on the front. Then we do the same stuff from the side, like when I box squatting on the same box, like working sets back and forth, and I'll be two inches below parallel, but it looks high from the front. So, um, I probably do need to, uh, do a little bit of side stuff just to kind of assess where I'm at there. Um, but I'll work on sinking them a little deeper. Um, I'm just because I'm only going to work with 405 anyways. I'm just going to do rep work with it for top sets. So, I mean, I'm able to get five, which is a pretty comfortable number. So, I will probably work on going, okay, can I focus on, you know, sinking those a hair deeper. Uh, because it didn't feel super hard. Uh, didn't feel super super difficult. Not like I was just dying there. Um, then I did a back down set. So, all my big big three, for those who aren't aware, I I'm kind of like to do um a heavy top set with a prescribed weight, then I do back off work for higher reps. Although, the deadlift I've only done it once. Disclaimer, a lot of times I do one heavy set of deadlifts and I'm done. Um I also deadlift three days a week, though. And we always work with 500 lb right now. I don't really go lighter than that. So, for this, I got 12 reps. Although, again, the same thing. Messing around with the high bar squat. I'm not fully used to these stances again. Uh so again, I like to do these stances because I get really really good quad activation, but um same thing. I'd like to see a little more depth there. And that's okay. I'll work on it. Um so I'm not going to beat myself up over it. I'm just looking at the footage here because I don't normally high bar squat that often. When I do, I tend to be just as strong as my low bar or very close. But but um just self-criticism, they need to be a little lower, right? No problem. I'll fix it. Uh everything else though, really good today. Really, really good. Uh the only thing that didn't really increase was deadlift. Um deadlift, incline bench, but I went heavier on the incline, so I don't know how we'll count that because I kind of I kind of got the same stuff on the high rep. All right, but any event, let's go over to the bench pressing. Uh four reps. Again, overall happy with this because it wasn't long ago I was doing triples. Now I'm up to consistently hitting a good clean four rep set. Now keep in mind I have a very modest arch, right? We have a long range of motion. This is fly to yield. It's a very mild arch. We're almost flat back. So it's a good long range of motion. So overall, um I'm still happy to be hitting fours and people are like, "Man, that fifth rep's coming soon." I feel like it is, too. But I feel like um this is feeding it a lot. I've been doing right now the last few workouts for my back down work because, you know, I did 225, then I did 245, I did 13. I'm like, I wonder on this the like the combine type challenge with just real clean reps. How many reps can I build to with 225 after a top set, right? I remember when I got 13, we got like 15, 16, 17. Now I hit 18. I've added a rep almost every workout, right? I got 18 today. Now, some of these are touch and go. All right. All right. I'm going to be I'm gonna be honest. A few of these are touch and go. Few of these are not paused. I'm still going to count them. I'm still going to count them. Now, is that hypocritical of me to count the touch and go reps? Uh, no. Because remember, I did 315 for eight before when I was he much a little bit heavier than I am now. Meaning, I was like 15 lbs heavier. That's why I'm like, we got to get back up to that at a lighter weight. I mean, like three of those reps were touch and go, maybe even four out of that eight. So, you know, did we still count it as eight if most of the reps are paused? I I will for these purposes because there's no bouncing, but I can understand why some people, including myself, might go, I don't know, man. Some of those reps are a little iffy. Was it a true 18? But either way, I'm going to I'm going to claim it. I'm going to take the win. I'm gonna take the win anyways. Yeah, there were a few touch and go. There were at least three or four in there. Um, deadlifts, four reps. Just felt I felt like stopping at four. I got six on Friday with that. Um, which is the most I've hit in over a year. So, it's like we're we're back up on that. But I just stopped at four. I'm like, let's not push our luck. That felt good. That fourth rep felt pretty heavy. I'm not going to beat myself into the ground on deadlifts. Um, went over to Rose. So, I didn't PR these. Um, same reps I got last time, but last time was a PR Friday. I I 15s was a PR. I got uh two sets of 15 here. Two sets of 15, 225. All relatively strict penlay rows. Again, are they super super ridiculously strict? Uh, the first, you know, 8 to 10 are right. Those are strict, but a little bit of a little bit of body English as we get further into it. Yeah, I think so. But I'll live with it. I'll live with it. Um, they still felt really good. They were high quality work sets, you know, a fair a lot of strict reps. A little bit didn't work, you know, and that's okay. Again, long as I'm not getting crazy crazy with it. Um, but for barbell rows, as you guys know, I believe in touching the chest. One reason I have the back development. I do. I don't believe in that nonsense of swinging to the hip. I've discussed why many times. All right, incline bench. I've been doing just reps. I added these back in recently. My lifetime best on these at a heavier body weight again. 225 for 10. I've only done it one time. Um added them back in and I'm working with 185. I've got 11 here with just a soft touch and go. Um I got 11 and then 10 last time. The time before I got two sets of 10. I kind of did these and I'm like, I'm just I'm not feeling these high reps today. And I know all my non big three lifts. I'm trying to do reps, higher reps. I'm like, you know what? I'm just going to put 225 on for the second set. We did a high rep set. So, we can't say, "Oh, you didn't do any higher reps on." We did. We did 11 reps, which I haven't passed yet with 185. I tend to suck at reps. It took me a while to build that 225 for 10. Um, and it's funny like even this doesn't I don't feel that it matches. Like even 225 or five, I don't know that I should be getting five with that based on that. Did I get five or six? I think I got five. I'll count it here as we go. Right. Three, four, five. Or did we do six? Okay, I did six. Yeah, I did six, you know, so I'll take that win there. We got six. Um, I want to get that back to 10. I feel like my bench itself will be in a really really good place if I can get sets of 10 with the with the incline, but I mean, six is a pretty good run. We're pretty far into the workout. We've already done squat, bench, deadlift, rows. All right, pull-ups. I know a lot of people don't like my pull-up form. I don't care. Look at my back. They feel good. They feel amazing. And that's what matters to me. So, and I just focus on getting the stretch at the bottom of going up as high as my shoulders comfortably allow without me swinging over the bar. And I feel like when people do that whole thing and they swing up over the bar, like there's there's no lats anymore. I'm just doing my lats to their full range of motion. But I got 14. So, these are PRs with the 10. So, I've been building this up. I was doing sets of 10, 11, 12. Um, now I'm up to 14. I got two sets of 14 with these today, you know. um felt a great back pump, great bicep pump. And when I do a slightly closer grip like this and I'm not way out wide, it feels like a curl. Like I'm not going to lie, these don't feel different from a curl to me. Yeah, I feel lats, but to me it feels like a bicep exercise, you know? And when we look at EMG data and we look at hypertrophy data, we don't even have proof that curls grow biceps better than this does. We don't actually have data proving it in the lab. It's not founded to happen. so far. Not saying it doesn't, just saying we don't have evidence. Beyond anecdote. Um, but happy with that. And I got a great bicep prompt. Uh, all right. The laying extensions. I got a PR. I stopped it one set. I'm like, you know what? We hit a PR on the bench rep work. Okay. I did a ton of tricep work with bands on some of these off days. So, I've been doing a lot of band press downs. Also, we've been we did these extensions. My triceps felt devastated. When I did this set, my triceps cramped. I was getting tricep cramps after this set. I'm like, I'm not doing another set of extensions. We're done. I know I only did one set. It was a one rep PR. I've managed to get two sets of 15 twice now, including on Friday. I've never got 16 reps on this with this weight. I got a PR and my triceps are cramping. Why should I subject myself to another set? It's not like we didn't do lots of pressing already. Um, so I decided to do hammer curls. I'm like, here's the thing. My forearms have been getting lit. I also worry I am only doing pull-ups and rows for biceps. I was like, man, I my biceps I know I don't want to do supine work because and do a lot of isolation because I want to make sure there's no inflammation there that's interfering with my overhead mobility. And by the way, I feel like those throws with that med ball yesterday really hit that area uh too as far as mobility. And that makes sense. Think about dynamic stretching is way way more powerful. Static stretching does absolutely nothing for me. I've never at any point in my entire life static stretched and seen a single half inch of increased range of motion at any joint in my entire body in my entire life. Completely useless, including everything I've done for my shoulder. Complete waste of time. It's stupid. Does absolutely nothing. The research says the same thing compared to lifting. So, you know, I'm I'm trying to do other stuff like that, but in the meantime, I'm like, let me double down on the forearm work, right? I'm working forearms and grip a lot, especially with all the weighted carries, man. Hammer curls will still work biceps some. It will still work my grip and forearms. Let's just keep doubling down on grip stuff and forearms. All right, let's just build monstrously big forearms in the meantime, right? Especially with all the weighted carries, all the strapless pulling. So, I did that. Then, I finished up with a set of bend press downs to just finish off those triceps. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.