Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here with Jason Blha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it is time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, today of course I haven't done anything but curls all week uh since Friday. Had a really great full body workout Friday. Been dealing with the cold. It's quite a bit warmer, but still pretty dang cold. So I'm like, I'm going to come in and do just my four lifts, kind of my abbreviated type workout. And I'm like, you know what? I don't even want to squat 405 today. I want to see if I can get 20 reps with 315. I almost didn't get it. Keeping in mind I'm hitting 10 to 12 with 405. Uh so honestly, this is pretty close to what I should be seeing off the 10 reps with the 405, right? So I got 20. Uh felt pretty good. Obviously tested my cardio quite a bit. Felt good. My legs were absolutely on fire, right? My quads were on fire. Breathing was heavy. And I'm kind of liking doing a lot of this really high rep stuff. And I feel like for me, even if I come in and mess with this 315 trying to hit 20 plus reps, what if I take it higher? Will it carry over to my legs? Will it carry over to my maxes? I think so. Um, but I do like some of this really, really high rep stuff I've been doing with the compounds. And I almost feel like even today, plus just doing curls through the week, um, I'm still going to have a growth stimulus, right? We're going to have a growth stimulus. And part of that, um, I got a dip PR. All right. Got a dip PR. Now, looking at the footage, I'd like it to be a hair deeper, but I think it's pretty similar on the depth. Honestly, it's it's actually about what I did last time when I got the uh the 21. So, I want to kind of just work with that weight and see if we can get it deeper. Uh my pull-ups was a pretty normal set. I decided I'm just going to do pull-ups instead of chins because um I'm doing all those uh strict bar curls. That's going to be plenty of bicep. This is just to build my back and all the other muscles associated, you know, with a pull-up. Um, so I got my 14, uh, which is pretty normal for me. So I got like 12 and then a rest pause. Got two more. Some of those are dead hang. Again, people who want to comment on the range of motion, notice the dead hang reps where I swing at the bottom. That's with a 45 lb plate. That is my literally my full lockout. Um, if you don't grasp that, it's nothing else to say. Of course, my left elbow doesn't doesn't lock all the way at this point um due to the old injuries and surgery, but happy with the performance. Um the dips dips felt good. Man, they burned like hell though. So again, uh just having done curls for a week, uh you know, everything's doing good. And I feel like that'll let me just specialize in biceps. But if I wanted to, obviously I'm going to have days where I want to do deadlifts. I'm going to want to bench. Going to want to do all those things. But I feel like honestly just these four lifts and specializing in curls, I could still recomposition just fine while doing my lower carbs. Just push progressive overload. As long as we're gaining reps on some of this stuff here and there, we're good. Um, we'll talk about the curls more tomorrow. I'll probably start bumping the weight, start microloing it. I'm up to 20, actually, technically 21 on the last [snorts] set. Probably need to add a little weight, micro load it up, and I'm just going to leave the barbell set up in my living room. I'm just going to leave that in there. I have plenty of bars. I have room for it. No big deal. Um, and I got plenty of open space there. Um, I have a lot of stuff kind of packed into other rooms and my living room is very clear. So, not a big deal. You know, just got my couch TV, got my sectional couch, a big rug in there. Um, pullovers though, I got a PR here. So, again, I've built up to where I'm past 20 reps. I got 25 reps. I get a little deeper as I go further into this. I need to kind of stretch out. Uh, but I feel like for me, the pullover complements everything that I need, right? I can build my upper body mostly off the dips and pull-ups. pullover really adds that other element. I want to eventually get to where I have that shoulder range of motion restored. Now, the problem is because of my elbow, I don't know that I'll be able to ever lock an overhead press. The more I look at it, I do feel like it's it's it is largely that elbow. So, the only way I'm going to lock an overhead might have to be the really wide grip, you know, but I would love to be able to do so, but I just can't right now. And it's not a big deal. Um, but again, I still want to do some benching in here. But again, dips and pullovers kind of build all those secondary muscles I need. A lot of the shoulder, the pecs, the triceps. So, again, you guys know I do this for the long head of the tricep. Um, but I feel the whole tricep. And that's the other thing. The dips are getting stronger just from dips and pullovers. So, um, again, what I'm going to do a little bit, I'm going to keep doing like the off day curl workouts. I'm going to do these a lot of these abbreviated workouts. Some days we'll work in the deadlifts and the bench like we did last week. Um, and just push rep PRs as we continue to trim down and remp. And I feel like this will maintain a lot of my squat, bench, and deadlift. Um, even all this rep work, it builds muscle. I'll be able to come in and peak any of those, build them up. Um, I have no idea what my squat would be right now, but it's got to be pretty good because I've hit 12 with a 405. I got 20 with 315. I hate to extrapolate by comparison. Right? And I hate to extrapolate by comparison here because remember what I was doing when I hit the 605 with the camber bar. I was doing sets of 20 with a 300. See where I'm going with this? So, I don't know where my squat would be. I've had some people suggest um even on groups and stuff um you know online where I post some of the reels that you might be pretty close to a 600 squat and I don't know that that's the case. Some of it would have to be could I do it with a lower bar because that's where I'll get the the the better depth in terms of hip position. The knee angle is the same. Um but again, the quad development's coming along. I still have big jacked quads. You can't always see them in here, but I see them. Without the short shorts, I get to see them all the time. Um but again, squats go up, the dips go up, curls go up, pullovers go up, get leaner, my upper body will get more jacked. I don't feel that my lower body really needs to be more jacked. So, I thought I could just do squats and deadlifts. Um, but honestly, I feel like people could build I built my legs off squats originally. I mean, I've done all this other stuff, but I had big quads and was squatting 500 when I was back in the UK after rebuilding. And I did that with nothing but squats. I had no machines, nothing in my home gym. We did it with squats. Uh, but overall happy with today's workout. Feels good to actually go do some other real lifting again besides just the curls. Um, but I feel like again really hammering down on the curls while I continue to just chip away at the body fat on the lower carbs probably my best approach because it'll bring the most to the table for for what I need to bring. Like if I could add an inch to my arms and strip off another 10 12 pounds of body fat, I think I'll be I'd be in a pretty good place overall. Uh, but again, happy with the workout. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.