Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a GBP workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Uh, let's get over to the training. Um, some of this I decided kind of at the end, you guys will see what I did just with the bicep work. Uh, but I decided, look, I just want to start doing some bicep work at the end of some of these. Not a bad idea, just like I did the uh, banded curls last time. So, we started off with some medball throws. I did a few sets of these and did my sled work and came back and did um three more of the tosses here. So, as most of you know, I like these a lot. These are fun. I enjoy them. They're good for full body power and they seem to be helping with my shoulders in general. But yeah, I'm really learning to enjoy these. You know, sometimes it's kind of it's hard to get the lighting right. So, it's kind of like the sun is always coming up over the other way. So, I'm trying to find good lighting for the camera here, and it's a little hard to do. Um, so again, as it gets warmer later, once winter's over, this will be a little easier. Or I may just move it over to certain spots. I'm trying to find good filming angles for you guys, you know, uh, so that we can see see pretty good here. But it's all good. Uh, so again, did I did like I think around five sets of these and then I I decided, okay, that's enough for now. I want to go get my quick sled sprints in, but I felt like I wanted to get a little more. So I'm trying to do a decent amount of explosive work on the GBP days. So, I'm trying to do the medball stuff. I'm trying to do the jumps, especially if I'm not going to do um the loaded carries, right? If we're not going to do the loaded carries in, I would like to make sure I get um both jumping and a throw of some type in so that again, we work, you know, full body explosiveness. So, again, I just want to get a fair amount of these. Plus, I feel like they do so well for my shoulders. And I don't want to do any extra rep work for the shoulders on these days. And I'll explain why as we get over to the bicep training. Um, I've been doing it, but now that I'm overhead pressing, I want to do all my shoulders. I really want to focus on them at the end of my main lifting sessions so I can get that overhead press back. Um, and bring the shoulders up so that that's its own uh that's its own conversation for the main lifting logs. So, for the sled work, did a couple sets of sprints. These were a little Man, my feet noticed today. My feet were like, man, that was kind of tough. So, so again, um, I'm going to have to make sure the feet stay tough. I'll probably try to do a run on Saturday, go get another run in um and then do my GPP uh once Saturday rolls around. But part of it I just didn't want to get out and and do a stream with that today. And that's that's its own conversation. I just kind of have a lot of things going on today trying to get scheduled. So didn't want to mess with any of that. Um so again, I want to make sure I always do the sled sprint. So this will keep my conditioning up. Um and some days I may do more of these than others. You know, I almost think sometimes on Saturdays or whatever, if I'm going to have the day off, doing a run and then pushing some of the sled sprint volume up a little bit wouldn't be a bad idea just to make sure we get all that leg work in. Um, so again, I'm going to play how my low back feels tomorrow by ear on the squats, but it's not really a big deal because I did a 405 or seven last Friday and then I got a training max in with 455 on the high bar on Monday. So, the main thing is, like you guys know, I've taken the weighted carries out to make sure that my u my low back is doing okay because they were just too much. With me squatting and deadlifting fairly heavy three times a week, my low back was was starting to really get bothered by the weighted carries. And they don't bother me on deadlifts. They only bother me with the squats. But then I I hurt the rest of the the morning. And it's not like um a pain in the bone or lumbar. It is my erectors just absolutely on the left side starting to cramp, right? And I can feel it's it's muscular uh spasm almost. So again, I'm going to push the reverse hypers a little harder. Take the weighted carries out for now. Um and do this other stuff because I want to be able to squat and deadlift three days a week. Those are important to me. They're more important than the loaded carry. So um jumping though, I did three sets of five on the box jump afterwards, right? So, we did we did medball tosses, couple sled sprints, and then we did more medball tosses, and then we did jumps, right? So, this is most of my actual GPP is sorted right here. So, again, we don't need huge amounts of stuff here. You know, we really don't need a ridiculous amount of stuff for the for the general physical repairedness in. So, it's just, you know, some some uh conditioning stuff, some sled work, um and then and then jumping and throwing type stuff. So again, want to train explosiveness, train a little bit of speed and conditioning. Uh, and then obviously the running handles most of the real conditioning. Um, but right now I'm I'm trying to keep that just at a reasonable level. And the reason is I want to push my training and body composition stuff back up. Um, so so again, doing all of it fasted though again will will work. So, it's kind of funny like I know where I'm at in terms of body composition of of body weight and it's always people you looked better at this one time but I was on lower carbs. I already know right now if I were to just drop my carbs down within two weeks everyone would think I went on trend because then my waistline gets like three or four inches smaller. But I can't perform as well. So the way I'm training and dieting right now will improve the body composition even if it doesn't keep my waistline tightened up. And I just don't care because at a certain point winning the body composition and performance in wins because again I already know how to drop water if I need to. So just an FYI so people who aren't understanding when they think that I looked better when I was technically not any leaner and definitely not bigger or stronger than I am now. It it had to do with diet and water due to being a really really low carbohydrate. So for me that matters. Uh so after that did a set of hanging leg raises. I want to do at least one set of toe to bars just for the grip training for the the shoulder health and to keep my abs strong. And then we're working on reverse hyper extensions afterwards. So with the reverse hypers, um I've bumped the weight up to to 420. I did a couple sets of 25, then I just took them out. I don't know. I got over 30 reps on the third set. So again, uh the reverse hypers. I'm going to push these harder and just I it's harder for me to get more weight on there. I have to pull red plates off, put some of my blues on that I have to then take back off. So, I feel like for now, for convenience purposes, I can probably work with this weight, but I'm just going to scale the reps upwards, right? And we might take these to where we start doing like sets of 50 with this. And that's okay. And most of my training is really high rep. I think people are starting to realize that outside of my top sets, I really want most of my training to be 10 plus reps. All right? Most of my training is is over 10 reps. Uh so even my bench back off work is kind of like um I did a little little heavier yesterday and ended up doing like eight reps on the back off, but I've been doing a lot of top sets with 225, trying to hit 17 18 and then trying to get to 20 reps on that. So again, for me, my heavy work is my squat, bench, and deadlift, you know, and and that stuff is moderately heavy, but I'm not really going for for allout maxes generally. It's it's rep work. So a lot of it's four, five, seven reps on a top set and then I'm doing more bodybuilding type rep like people think of as bodybuilding type rep ranges afterwards. So again chasing body composition but wanting to maintain that strength and using the squat bench deadlift for that. Uh but then we also are getting uh explosiveness on the GPP days. So in a lot of ways it's funny a lot of aspects of conjugate are still in my training even though my training itself is not conjugate because the top end work replaces to some extent um max effort work. We do lots and lots and lots of reps on everything for hypertrophy but then I'm also doing explosiveness and GBP. So again I mean I have three days every week generally where it's dedicated to to doing explosive type movements. Um, and then just the general running, the the sled work, and just the overall general fitness. Um, something I'm doing. So then after this, here's what I did. I'm like, I wanted to just do biceps. And the reason is I know my biceps are still need work. My triceps are way stronger than my biceps. Even though my arms aren't particularly big relative to my my torso in person, everyone thinks my arms are really big in a t-shirt. It's it's comical. The internet, not so much. Especially shirtless. Um, but I know that doing just some curls, but keeping the reps high will help my grip. It'll help my biceps. Um, but I hate trying to squeeze it in at the end of the the other training. And then it's kind of like I'd like to work on shoulders and stuff, but I feel like I need to hammer the shoulder work and the overhead pressing and any isolation I do at the end. And that way I have 48 hours before I bench again. I don't want shoulder work interfering with my bench. My bench is really important to me right now. I want to get that bench up and particularly I'm chasing performance like quality performance, not ego lifting because you guys see my my stuff is very high quality reps. Pause work, no bouncing, everything controlled. And then the same thing, I'm trying to reach goals with the 225 um clean reps. I want to get to 20 clean reps. I've done 18 twice. So, I don't want my shoulder fatigue, but I need my shoulders to come up. They're they're absolutely a weak link, right? For me, if my my delts and my biceps just get bigger, if I get leaner, everyone will think I'm a different person. Also be comical. So, I'm like, let's do some really high rep curls. I end up doing eight total sets of biceps today. Um, and that might not seem like a lot to you realize if I do this up to three days a week, that could turn into a lot. But then I do pull-ups and other stuff. So, and I almost feel like I I've considered working some rows in here or there um after the pull-ups also on the main training days. But ultimately, um and guys, hopefully those leaf blurs in the background aren't too loud. There's nothing I can do about it. Just got to accept it. U you live in the suburbs, man, those things run all the time, especially after this last storm. People out there blowing stuff. Uh but three sets of curls. These were around 15 reps to failure, right? So, three sets using a lighter weight, full range of motion. So, I did three sets of this and I did three sets of the hamburger curls. Those are all like 15, 17, 18 or whatever. So, this locks me into a supine position. We're guaranteed that those biceps are working. And then I want to make sure the brachiialis and forearms and grip get trained, but it still works biceps. So, I did three sets of hammer curls to failure, right? These are only 33 pound dumbbells, so it's it's relatively light. I think one of the sets I reached around 17. I stopped counting at a certain point. But I'm just I just do them until the muscle feels like it's giving out and then we start reaching failure on some of it, you know. Um so again, this is all very high rep just pump work, but it is to failure. So it's still high quality sets, fairly strict taking the sets uh to that edge. But the other thing is it doesn't beat me up. So that's the thing. You can come in and do a lot of rep work like this and it's not going to be a problem for for joints and other stuff, especially here's the other thing. Why am I changing movements in here? Again, make sure I'm not going to get overuse from it. So, and I'm also making sure every angle gets worked because we have the barbell curl, which is a full range of motion all the way to the top. Then I have the this with the hammer curl, very almost the opposite. Uh way more focus on the brachiialis and not being locked into a supine position. And then I did a couple sets of banded curls, which those give you really the peak contraction and then the tendon health. So, that's the other reason to throw those in is I want to make sure my tendons don't get any overuse. But I feel like by just doing um higher reps on this, it will. And again, it's just kind of body bodybuildering it. You know, my other stuff I push push a lot heavier. Uh but I do feel like my biceps would probably benefit from just really just doing higher rep sets to failure because I feel them a lot more. And I'll just bodybuilder bodybuilder them up. And if this just doesn't work, I run it for a while again. I'll look at it and go, if it doesn't work, I might have to just power building them up. But I feel like I can get away with doing this sort of sort of volume without any sort of overuse. And that's the main thing. Um, especially while I'm running all these really high carbohydrates, I might as well. And and working on body composition, it's a good good time to see if I can get these biceps to come up a little bit. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.