Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a general physical preparedness day. But a quick reminder, if you guys will click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it. A little bit later start this morning on a lot of stuff. Tornado knocked the power out. It was out till gosh um 7 8 a.m. at least 8:00 a.m. Um after 8:00 a.m. for sure. So it was out all morning. Um I slept in later. I'm like I'm not going to do a coffee chat. I had to do instant coffee and and by the time the power was up, I didn't feel like brewing my coffee pot. So, at least we got a little caffeine in. Um, but um, no coffee chat, none of that other stuff. So, but I wanted to get a good GPP session in. Obviously, uh, no other vlogging could happen. So even running like there's there was no connection trying to even do a jog because uh so I just did a little little brief little quick run um again it's wet out there and because everyone was on cellular data the whole neighborhood's power was out it was making the connection really bad so it's like I couldn't even stream but um farmers walk I went heavier I just did two rounds today I bumped this up I threw another 25 on each side and with these smooth handles These are kind of heavy. I'm actually considering at this point messing some with unless I just want to go light on these because of the smooth the smooth handle. Um just doing longer walks with less weight just for better conditioning. Uh but as far as far as if I want to go heavy on some days, I think I need to just drag dumbbells out, right? We need to drag out dumbbells uh because they've got neural on it. I can go heavier and that will be a little bit better if I want to do heavy because it's definitely those really smooth handles. Uh when I put that's was like 135 or something on there per hand. Uh it's just a lot to grip. Uh but it's still it was it was heavy. It was uh it felt good. All right, the medball I had to clean the ball off after this. It's still wet out here from tornado coming through and and the rain. My med ball was really slippery. So again, this was awkward. So I only did four sets, but it's like we still got it done. That's the beauty of it. I'm be looking thick there. Come on, coach. Coach is looking thick. Happens. I get a little leaner and that waistline tightens up more of that loose skin. We're getting thicker. I feel like my shoulders with all the shoulder stuff I've added back in because I haven't I hadn't been doing it while I was letting everything heal up. I feel like I'm I'm looking thicker up top. Is it just me? Like you guys comment. Let me know. I'm I feel like the shoulders are are filling back in and it's making me look thicker. It could just be in my head. I don't know. Um, like I said, it could be my own body dysmorphia going back and forth, but so we just did four sets of the tosses, guys. We did four sets of the tosses and uh got it done, you know. So, again, that ball was slippery, but at least I did it. That's the thing. Uh, but I did make up for some of it by doing some other shoulder work. All right, sleds. The same thing. I'm like, I don't want to sprint. The ground is wet. I'm like, let me just load more weight on than normal and let's just do a nice solid push. Like nothing crazy. Let's not try to sprint. Let's not risk slipping and falling. Just do some good steady pace pushing. Did a couple rounds of this. Um it burned actually. Man, my quads uh my quads were burning from this. So I definitely felt it. Like I like the sprinting cuz like man we get that extra power. But just in terms of almost feeling like squats, you know what I mean? Like you know when you guys do a higher rep set of squats how your legs feel. Just going heavier with this moderate pace like this. Man, feels a good burn. I feel like I feel like I did a couple of of 15 rep sets of quad of squats. Right. Look at that quad pump. Right. We got that quad pump going. Coach got quads for days. Coach got back for days. Little in the middle, but he got much back. All right. Little in the middle, but he's got much back. So, right. Love me looking thick. Thicker than peanut butter, y'all. So, again, got this got the sled work done. And I mean, yesterday's workout was really good other than I skipped on the deadlifts. Um, so again, because my low back is feeling so much a little crampy from all the the squatting with what I'm using, I'm like, I've got to keep the reverse hypers in. So, I did reverse hypers today. They're going to have to stay a staple um because that low back uh getting crampy in those workouts from the squats is something else. Funny thing is, if I took the squats out, it wouldn't happen. I don't get it from deadlifts, but then it can affect deadlifts later. But yeah, same thing. Look at the quad pump. We looking thick and I'm not gaining weight. Everyone's like, "Are you bulking? through blasting. No, I mean I'm carb and salted up, but I mean I'm doing really just really low fat now. Lots and lots of super clean carbs. You guys see my food. Clean carbs means like brown rice, sweet potato, cantaloupe. These are like most of my calories. Um but but definitely salt salting it up too. A lot of potassium, plenty of soy sauce. Uh so we did three sets of the reverse hypers, right? You guys know why we do reverse hypers. Um, again, low back, king for low back. And this gives me a little bit of a low back and posterior chain work because I don't do a lot of deadlifts. I only do like three sets heavy sets of deadlifts. They're not heavy though. If I'm doing six reps, is it heavy? So, so here's the question. If we can do five or six reps, is it even heavy? That's the real question. I think the answer there is is no, not really. really doesn't count as that heavy. I don't think so. Says me, says Coino. So, um, but again, I did like 25, 25, then I did 30. So, I bumped the weight up on these a little bit. I'm going to probably need to add some more plates to this and just rep it out. When I used to go really heavy on this, my deadlifts were strong. Like, and I know people say, "It's too much swinging." But, you know what? It builds my deadlift like a mofo. So, I mean, how are people going to hate on me doing if I they they keep in mind, you can't not swing. So, anyone who tries to I laugh. Someone will tell you not to swing. I'm like, you go make a video and demonstrate it. You put 90 lbs on this thing or 150 lbs on it because I I've got a lot on there. That's 655 pound plays, but I've done 600 lb 700 lb for reps on this. You know, the thing is you they'll tell you not to swing. It's like, well, you do it. Show me on camera. and they can't do it. So, it's it's talk about Dunning Krueger effect and even you're supposed to swing even the way Louie demonstrated it. So, it's it's such an interesting position people take. But here's the thing. How strong was I on deadlifts when I used to swing with 600 lb? No, really. Like, how strong was I? You guys saw me doing deficit deadlifts with over 600 lb. Okay. Let's be clear. So, I probably do need to work this back up. Like, I get just so much carryover to my deadlifts. Like, heavy reverse hypers with either pull-ups or rows literally build my deadlift, you know, plus it actually strengthens the lower back. All right, so for these again, I decided to grab the the 25. I just did two sets um because I can't fully lock out overhead work. I feel like doing the high rep lightweight kettle bells and just doing the range of motion I can is adding a lot to it. Now, one of the shoulders I definitely notice it crickles. It sounds like Rice Krispies while I'm doing it, but everything's kind of pops into place. I notice on the incline bench the first uh warmup like um everything crackles and pops and then it drops into place. So, so again, um, those movements that kind of make everything. I feel like what's happening is with a lot of it, there's some adhesions and stuff in there. It's some calcification. Like there's stuff going on in there from those old impingements, but they kind of break free cuz cuz like on some of the movements, so sometimes when I squat, it'll all crack into place and it's real loud, but once it cracks into place, then I can move and get into the squat positions. Same thing on the incline. So, I think with a lot of it, um, that's just what it is. It's going to have to be these dynamic movements that load the joint because stretching doesn't do anything. Hangs, dead hangs didn't do anything. It's only dynamic movements. So, I feel like in this case, work the range of motion that we can. Even if it's with a light weight for 15s like this, keep working the range of motion that I have until it opens up because we're loading it. you know, this is we're still resistance training through it, okay? We we can't ignore it. And that's the thing, my biggest problem. I ignored it too long. It's like, wow, that's why I didn't even do pull-ups till I did the pull-ups and got the ability to do pull-ups again. It's like, so we can't ignore it. We have to work it. We have to work that range of motion until we restore it. And just letting it leaving it alone was was definitely a mistake on my part. And a lot of it I did because I had so many Well, you're not locking off those. I got so much flack for it, but I was still pretty strong on the rep work, you know. And so by me doing that, I feel like I I really short changed myself. I should have been working it no matter what anybody said on the internet. That was the biggest mistake. Do not listen to people online. You know, they are your enemy when it comes to giving advice. Uh be very careful, guys. Don't listen to randoms ever. But I I let some of that probably get to me and I should never do that with my training. Uh so but then we finished up with some band work. I did a set of press downs. I did a set of band curls just for the tendons, for the blood flow to finish everything up. Uh but pretty happy with the good conditioning work. So I hope it's been informative and I will talk to you guys and gals next time.