Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and once again it's time for another full body workout, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below, I'd appreciate it so much and drop me a comment. Uh, we got a PR on the high bar squat today. Um, I'd done the last couple workouts I worked with 315 420 plus, but I'm like, man, I just started ramping up and it felt good, right? Felt good. I'm like, let's put 405 back on. Let's see what we can get. And we got 13 reps. Um, that's a PR. All right, PR. Very happy with it. Almost felt like, man, this this is growth stimulus right here. My whole body might even grow from this. Now, joking aside, I know that my arms need the extra work, which we'll briefly cover. As much as I love pullovers, I feel like those laying extensions I do uh wouldn't be a bad idea. So, I worked that in as my last exercise. Yeah, I didn't on a deadlift today. It's still It was a little It's warmer now. Couple hours later as I'm getting sitting down and getting this done. Didn't feel like deadlifting quite in the cold yet, but I feel like it's about to improve enough. I'm g start pulling again, too. Um, I'm start deadlifting again. I feel like the pull-up strength and this will will carry over just fine. All the squat work. Uh, benching. I thought I was going to get 20 today. Okay. I got 19 last time, which was the first time I've got 19. Um, like with this whole flat back, no wrist wraps, no belt setup. I got it before with the other, but I got it finally 19. I got to around rep 14, 15. I'm like, I'm going to get 20 today. I'm totally I'm getting 20. I'm going to get it. I didn't. I got 19. You know, notice I just kind of paced myself, just went through, controlled, trying to get good pauses on most of it. You know, a couple of them are a little touchandgoy. No bouncing though. Um, but again, I'm like, I'm gonna get 19. And I didn't, you guys will hear me like if you listen to the the short or the reel, uh, where I don't have it muted, like when I'm doing these voiceovers, I was like allowed. It was like trying to get that 19th rep. I almost didn't get it. All right. Right there. See that lockout? That was grindy. And ironically, it felt like my triceps were giving out at that point. My pecs were lit up, but my triceps, I'm like, you know, even though we could argue it really is a chest exercise, especially for the higher reps, let me just keep I'm going to work my triceps some more. I feel like that's the only thing holding me back. It was just that last few inches on the 19. So, it's like, well, what happens if my triceps are stronger and they're not as fatigued for one more rep? Feel like I could get to that 20. Uh, pull-ups I did a little different. But I did the really wide grip because I feel like I can stretch deeper at the bottom. I can't go even as high, which you know, you guys know that I literally can't do it with a lat pull down either. I don't even feel like explaining anymore. But we got 14. I got 13 and then one. Although I do feel like as much as I like the wide grip. They feel good. Um, I may go back to that closer grip or more of a medium grip this next time. I just I like to change it a little on my pull-ups. It's still a pull-up. We need to be clear. It's not like I'm not doing a pull-up just because I changed my grip. Uh the dips, I'm kind of running into this same problem, especially if I'm going deeper like this. All right, a little bit deeper. Well, most of them. If I bench first, I I can't hang on the dips. I love dips and they do a ton. I can't hit those PR numbers again after benching like that. It just takes so much out of my chest and triceps, right? Takes so much out of them, you know, that I can't quite get there. I only got 18 with the 45, you know, when fresh when I don't bench first, I've got 21 before with the 55, but it's it's all that I have left. And then so I'm like, let's do these old extensions. I haven't done these in a while. I feel like I could get a little little deeper on these if I u get used to the movement again. I haven't done these in months. Couple months, I don't think. I hit my old PR though. Okay. 110 for 20. My triceps were on fire after doing the dips to failure and then doing this set. My triceps are throbbing. They hurt right now. I'm over voice over. I've already edited all this all this other stuff. Put the shorts up. I'm doing the My triceps hurt. They are like, "What in the world did you do to us?" So, I'll take that as a good sign. All right. Take it as a good sign. Get some decent protein here in a bit. I'm still fasted. I'm waiting to eat. Um, but yeah, they felt good. I had the garage door closed. It was still a little nipply. I'm going to start open next week. It looks like it'll be warm enough. I'll start opening it up. It'll help with that later in the workout lighting a little. But, um, yeah. Overall though, good workout. We matched the bench PR, matched the tricep extension PR, got us a high bar squat PR. You know, I'm just going to keep pushing this. I've had some people say, "Where do you get to 20?" If I get to 20 on this, I don't even know what my back squat would be. It just feels so easy though, just just doing the early reps, though. The first three reps feel like the empty bar and then they get harder. Um, but yeah, happy with it overall. good workouts. Only five work sets and then I'll do the curls tomorrow. My biceps are obviously getting the most love. Everything else the bottom is being kept very the volume is being kept very in check because the intensity is high and I'm on lower carbs and I'm literally chipping away at this body fat. Um I'm keeping the volumes very in check to compensate. Arms are going to get the priority. Like even though I'm even throwing a tricep extension in after dips, but biceps get the most priority right now because they're they need the work, which you guys will see. I'll probably do that early in the morning tomorrow. But again, happy with the workout. Um happy with some PRs there. So I hope it's been informative and I will talk to you guys and gals next time.