Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here once again. It is time for uh one of my full body workouts. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that so much. Thank you. Let's get over to the training. Um yeah, I kind of decided yesterday that I'd go ahead and work out today, but I'm going to scale the full body back to three days a week so I can focus on more cardio. Um, the thing I'm noticing doing the full body every day, it's a bit much in terms of just my low back feeling fatigued all the time. Plus, I feel like I'd like to be able to do more squats. I do feel like I'm maintaining quad size really good doing one set. The Widowmakers, I don't think they're working too well. I think that's what's fatiguing me. Um, attempting to do the Widowmakers, uh, is probably just too much on a significant calorie deficit. So, I need to basically just do sets of 10. Now, I might try to over the course of this see if I could do multiple sets of 10 with this instead of just doing one. But at the minimum, if I get in and at least get every workout one really good challenging squat set, it should be enough to uh maintain muscle in my lower body. But ideally, I'd like to be able to push that up. I mean, if I could do as many as three, that would be phenomenal. Um, a lot of this stuff though, I want to go with a little more rep work. Um, and the reason is, again, I just want to make sure I'm not beating my joints up. We're going to train everything three times a week. I want to focus on just muscle, muscle, muscle, muscle. Um, because again, body composition. I need to get a lot leaner. I didn't whoosh this week. So, I'm going to make sure that I keep the diet tight, keep the cardio, maybe step the cardio up a hair. So, that means lifting three days a week at least enough to maintain and maybe if I get lucky, add some size to my arms. Um, so going to push arms pretty hard in in the middle of all of it, but I need the cardio to come up as we get leaner. And realistically, like I've said, I probably need to be 190. Um, and so I know I've got to go under 200. And like I've said previously, I've had to really put a lot of thought into this and think about this. Um, and I've got to think in terms of longevity. Uh, due to my age, I really need to be under 200 lb. I don't need to be walking around above 200 lb. And there's no reason, right? And there's no reason I can't be jacked and just be lean, right? There's no reason I can't at all. And as much as I like chasing the strength, the large amounts of strength, there's a point where I go, it's not worth walking around at 215 or 220 just to try to hold on to a 500 plus squat or a 600 plus deadlift. None of that is necessary. Um, and I can might be able to get back to those numbers at a lighter body weight anyways, okay, if I can gain enough muscle. But the thing is I need to be leaner and it's just better for my health. And so for now, all the training is going to be really pure bodybuilding older school because I'm going to do full body stuff. So even the benching, you know, I'm doing sets of 10, 225. That also tells me my bench is probably 330 to 340 right now. Uh because these are sets of 10 with a little bit left in the tank doing nice long pauses at the end. And I know what my rep work looks like when I bench 365. I It's literally 25 pounds heavier for hard sets of 10. So again, do the math. So these are all really comfortable, right? Really comfortable sets of 10. I feel like I could probably push them out a little more and I might. So I think even the the chins and the dips of chins, I wasn't quite getting 10 because I'm doing the full range of motion. Uh but after that I also I'm like let's do one set of reverse hybrids. I thought I was like I was thinking about deadlifting or rowing. I'm like you know my low back was just really feeling those squats. So it's a case of this is why I need the day off between I really kn need to go 48 hours without training again each time. Um so I need to make sure my low back is just recovering from everything. So I almost feel like instead of barbell rows I might work some seal rows in so that I do I do chin-ups and seal rows all those days and try to deadlift once a week if I can. squat three times. Uh, but deadlifting three times a week on this cut probably going to be too much. I got one good deadlift session in um on Tuesday. And you know, again, that's probably all we can handle in the deficit. But the upper body is doing great. The pressing, the dips have felt good, the benching feels good, right? So, I'm going to push all that stuff. So, the chin's what I'm going to try to do. I want to work on the longest range of motion possible. So, I'm like I want to do reps. And the only way I can get my chin over the bar physically, I can't physically do it with a wider grips or with pull-ups. Uh, but I can do it with a close grip like that, right? So, I'm like, let's just come in and crank out some chins. Some of we're going to be to a dead hang. We're going to hit the full stretch at the bottom. Crank chins and then I'm going to crank I was doing incline curls. I might just mess up barbell curls. I'm like, part of me wants to go, let's just do barbell and weighted body weight stuff, you know? Let's just do lots of it. Let's just really old school it up. Use it to hold on to some muscle. Although I might need some delt work. So we I could always use plates even for delt work. Part of me just feels like the whole wanting to go just super old school. Now I could still obviously do incline curls on some of the days too because I like incline curls, but I also want to do barbell curls. So stuff where you can change it up and change it up a little bit and I think that'll be fine. Um but I feel like dips do so much for my triceps. I did skull crushers a day because I did dips like four days this week. I did tons and tons and tons of weighted dips. I'm like, this Friday, let's maybe give those muscles a break because I did them after benching. But I think coming up I want to bench and do dips every workout. Now, that's a lot of sets for chest. And then I'll assess tricep work, you know, how much extra tricep work I feel like I can handle through the week. But I do feel like, you know, the arm work not a bad idea, right? And like I said before on these skull crushers, I'm going to use a little smaller plates uh so that we can see what's going on on the movements, right? Um see what's going on. But I felt like on the dips when I'm getting off that thing and I have that pump from the dips, my triceps when I'm coming down off the thing each time in the pictures, the snapshots, they're like really swollen and poking out to the side. Like it's like, okay, so I feel like the dips have been doing a lot. And it's like I said, I've said this a few times. I have some older pictures when I looked at when I noticed my arms actually looked pretty decently big. You know, Graham's a little fatter than I am now. I was doing living on dips because I was doing a lot of pull-ups, too. A lot of neutral grip weighted pull-ups, a lot of dips. Um, I feel like dips do a lot for my triceps. So, I need to just double down on them. Keep pushing the dips a lot, especially after benching. All right. So, you guys can see where the lower back is. I got a screenshot of that I'll put up. It is still tightening up um slowly but surely. So, I mean, if that's where we're at at 211 and it's gotten substantially tighter and smaller, what happens when we drop another 15 or 20 pounds? Okay. I I think I think it's going to be a game changer. We just got to get leaner. We have to burn all that fat that's in there. But the skull crushers, I did really high reps. I did 20s on these. I took a weight that was hard to do 20. Like, it was burning like hell. But, um, so if I'm going to do these, let's keep the reps high. Let's be easy on the elbows. And we'll see how much of I can work in. But if I'm doing benching three times a week and doing dips, that's a lot of lot of pressing. That's a lot of tricep and chest. But I feel like those muscles could stand to come up. They could definitely stand to come up. Even as I get leaner, I feel like they would help. Um, obviously bicep, but even then triceps, bigger triceps will always make your arms look bigger. And I again I feel like dips are doing a lot um lot for me because tons of extensions didn't do as much as I would have liked for my triceps honestly. Um clos benching and dips have tended to do well for me. Mainly the dips and I feel the dips. I noticed it a lot yesterday. The reason I'm I'm making that note when I benched first so that I walked into the dips fatigued, the tricep pump off those deep deep deep dips was really intense. And I noticed even with the the pictures or the screenshots as I'm stepping off the thing, my dip my my triceps look a lot bigger there. So, um, if the muscle is getting pumped enough that it looks visibly bigger at the end of that exercise and I feel an intense pump and I know historically when my arms were at their biggest, I was doing a lot of dips, um, I should keep doing them. I think that's reasonable and I've been doing them. Um, and I like them a lot. Now, here I was getting really tired, so I just did one set of barbell curls because keep in mind, guys, I did curls every day this week. Yesterday, we did weighted chins, right? or we did weighted pull-ups, right? Uh we did three sets of incline curls and then we did banded curls. I've got a lot of bicep work this week, but I'm like, well, it's Friday. I want to make sure they're going through the weekend. We did some shifts. Let's do one really good set of barbell curls and then I just finished up with my calf raises. Um and the same thing, I'm like, you know, it's really a pain in the butt to put that SSB up there. It's so much easier to just grab the barbell. I'm like, I'll just get the good position and do the barbell. It's fine. Uh went good. Got the good good calf pump at the end. Also help with the cardio. I did like two hours 20 minutes or so uh today. The fasted cardio. My breakfast is in the Instapot now. It's it's not finished. Um I'm going to wait till noon to eat. It's about 11:00 a.m. while I'm recording this. Uh so I have another hour till I till I eat. Um and again, got plenty of fasted cardio. I streamed all of it. Uh so again, uh that's going really well. And then the weekend, we're going to take it off from training. we're going to do a ton of cardio. Same thing Tuesdays and Thursdays, we're going to do tons of cardio and let's just keep peeling down and get leaner. Like, let's get leaner. And the same thing with the shoulders. I'm like, do I need a lot of shoulder work? I don't know. Um because if I get leaner, they're going to be more capped anyways. Like, leanness is really what gives you the the delt separation and caps. So, I'll think about how much delt work I really need to do. And the reality is I need to be doing tons of arm work more than anything else at the end of the day. Arms, arms, arms for me will be the biggest game changer. Losing fat and building bigger arms be the best things I could do for my physique. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.