Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for another full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I'd appreciate it. Um, little bit briefer of a workout. Just did five work sets and called it. Uh, one of those days where I'm like, it's cold out there. Um, didn't really want to train, but I'm like, I'm going to come in and train. I'm just going to keep it brief and we're going to go really hard, right? Everything is going to be real close to failure. So, the squats, I got 11 reps with this. I've been getting 10. Uh, so I ended up doing the 405, got my 11 on the high bar. Pretty happy with it. It winded me for a minute. Um, but because again, not wanting to mess too much with the cold there. I'm like, let's just chill on the uh the benching and the and the deadlifts. Fortunately, I don't have to do a lot of those the other stuff feeds them. I do like to do them a lot of times as staples, but I just feel like at this point, a lot of my weighted body weight stuff works. So, I have days like this where I feel like I need just a briefer workout. Focusing on the squat, the pull-up. I had been doing chin-ups with that, but did pull-ups this time. Uh, a dip and a pullover works just like the super squats type approach, except that I threw a set of curls into failure with dumbbells. Mainly because I was like, I already had those dumbbells loaded. I knew they'd be close to 20 reps, probably. I knew they'd be over 15. So, I just came in and did them. So, the squats uh came in, got it done. Um, the depth wasn't quite I felt like as deep on this as it was last workout, but at the end of the day, I think people again are always shock at the side view. I'm still happy with it. I felt my legs lit up. They were burning. Felt like this alone is a full body workout. And I think we have to remember that. I almost feel like a lot of times, man, I could just do one set of hard squats and probably go home. And honestly, some dips and pull-ups and go home. It it would be fine. We'll get a growth stimulus. So, I think that's the other thing, too. I'm slowly chipping away at the body fat, and I can tell my recovery is suffering a little. I need a little more healthy fats. I've been doing the heavy protein overfeeding, and it's been working, but I'm I'm going to maybe take the protein down a hair. Still going to be crazy amounts, but I've been doing like 400 plus grams, but it's leaving me feeling a little nauseated. I feel like some healthier fats. I got some in today. I put up a picture on social media. Um, and I I can I can get by on like 300 grams of protein. So again, just for my overall recovery and feeling better. Uh but again, the workouts have been going good in spite of it and people have noticed we're continuing to get leaner. Obviously these workouts I don't look quite as lean as the down lighting, you know, in the morning. Uh when I'm 100% fasted, no water, that's when I look lean. So everyone's like, "Wow, you're starting to look pretty ripped." Um you know, later in the day, the more the more sun up, I've had more hydration. Uh not quite as lean, obviously, but that's okay. Uh, the pull-ups though went really good. I got 14. I got 12 and then two. So, I did a rest pause. So, again, I want to do curls just to make sure my biceps get finished off, but I do feel like I get a good bicep stimulus from this. And funny enough, I was only doing pull-ups in rows when my biceps were kind of at their biggest years ago. And I've mentioned that, but I feel like for me, I need to do some curls. And again, a lot of it's just about proportion. It's proportion. Do what we can do. Uh, the dips since I got that PR, I needed to up weight. I got 20 reps with the 45 last time. I've gone from doing 18 a couple times in a row with it to 45 for 20. So, I'm like, let's grab a 55 and let's see if we can get We got 17. A couple of them barely [clears throat] broke below parallel, but most of them were deep. Just looking at the footage here. Happy with it, though. I felt my chest. I felt my triceps completely fried. And yeah, all this stuff is higher reps. People will notice my lowest set today was 11 reps, right? These big compound movements taken for rep PRs. And like again, stuff like when you're hitting 20 reps, you need to add weight obviously, which is what I have to do on stuff like the dips. I mean, we don't want to just start hitting 21, 22. It's a point where it's probably too much, but because it's still really high reps. I got a PR on the pullover right after, too. So, again, I feel like the pullovers, yeah, it's a chest and a a lat exercise and a rear delt. I feel my whole shoulder on it, but really, I feel my triceps just so tremendously. So, I really like these. Um, so again, little hard to balance when you get this much weight because this is now 90 pounds and it's semi straight arm. You know, not quite straight arm, but close enough. Not far from my lockout, though. I think people get shocked on that. But, uh, 18 reps, we got 16 last time. I' had been doing the really high reps of the 45 and I came in last time and grabbed the two 45s for 90 and we got 16. So, I'm like, let's keep pushing that. Well, I got 18 today. I had to just dig in. Just do it. Just grind through it. But, it felt good. Uh, we got it done. I got a PR here. So, again, dips are pring. Pullovers are pring. Chest and triceps have to be growing. So, I think we're coming up here soon in the very I bet you within the next I don't want to give time frames, but at the rate it's going that 20 reps with the 225 bench is we're real close because we've been getting 18 now uh with the flat back and no wrist straps or belt, but all the accessory work is getting stronger, especially bigger. These are big movements, you know, they're getting stronger. Uh then I did some curls. Instead of loading up the barbell, I didn't even want to bother. I'm like, let's just grab the dumbbells. It's still a curl. It's still a supine curl if we do an underhand grip. And I'm like, let's just do them stricken. Let's just go to failure. I got to 20. I counted roughly 20 and I just couldn't get anymore. I didn't even think I get to 20. It's the burn was kicking in. But again, after those pull-ups, you know, your biceps are already getting some stimulus from it. So, it's like, let's just come in and just finish them. One really hard set of these supine grip curls where we know there's no uh pronated action, maybe unloading the biceps. is just get in, get it done, and um got a good burn in them. But all in all, five work five work sets today. Feel like it was good growth team. People are like, "Are your lower I know my lower body is jacked and it is obviously ahead of my upper. You can't tell once I put these shorts on, but it's like all my lifts still hit the upper body." So, let me talk about that. I'm just going to have this pullover footage going again while I discuss it. I've had some people ask me stuff like, "Well, wouldn't it make sense to do your upper body first?" No, not really. Because then you're fatigued going into squats and deadlifts. But squats and deadlifts work the upper body. I don't have any lower body exercises that only work the lower. And that's part of your solution. Okay? So, we know that the the upper body gets worked on every set. That makes it more upper body biased, you know, because in my case, I mean, my legs are going to be jacked no matter what. And I mean, I'm I'm doing 10 plus reps with a 405 on a squat. I'm going to have jacked legs. Like, I understand how ridiculous that is. I have clients who chime in who've been training 10 years and they're like, "You you understand that's insane." They're like, "It's not insane for 49. That's just crazy. That's crazy for 29." Like, just own it. You know, it's just true. So, just coming in and doing the squats and deadlifts are are enough to keep my lower body where I need it and eventually progress on it further, but they do give upper body stimulus and that's a big part, you know, the whole game with this. But man, these pullovers, these felt good. But I would say again, if you a chin up might be better if you weren't going to curl, but as I've said before, dude, you can get jacked on just squats, weighted dips, weighted chin-ups, or pull-ups, and some pullovers. Like, every muscle in your body is going to get worked. There is no muscle that's not getting good grill stimulus on doing that. Not one. And that's what we have to keep in mind with that. Um, so again, pretty pretty happy with the workout in spite of it being, you know, a 35minute workout. Uh, that's really all it took. This was not even an hour. It wasn't even an hour because I didn't have to deal with setting up plates and moving bars around for the squat and the deadlift. This is super efficient. Super efficient. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.