Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please drop a like and a comment down below. I'd appreciate it. All right. Uh we do one real work set of every lift. Um just try to push progressive overload. Yes, I've been taking the reps up higher and higher because at the end of the day, as long as progressive overload is there and we get close to muscle failure or failure or in some cases I took some sets past failure, um we're in a good place. All right, we're in a good place. Um and part of it is so I got 12 reps today with 405 on the high bar squat. Part of it is uh it's about just protecting joints. Like and I'm not saying that lifting heavy is automatically bad for your joints. I'm saying that for me I'm at a point where at 49 I am strong enough that my four and five rep sets are stupidly heavy and they can be a lot for my joints to deal with things like my shoulders and and hips and everything else. And so I can build muscle with higher reps and then use moderate weights. And I know I get that people are like, uh, 405 and 500 are not moderate weights. Well, they are for me, but think about it in the context of what happens if I want to do four or five reps. Okay, stop and do the math for a minute. It it starts to get really really heavy and instead I can just build muscle. And as far as bone density and all this other stuff, my weights are heavy enough. My bone density is through the roof. Like, oh no, I'm only working with 400 on the squat and 500 on the deadlift. It's it's high reps. Yeah, but I'm getting all the benefits. Like, this is still four and 500 lb. All right, so I digress. Um, and plus again, I just it feels better, right? It feels better. none of my joints or anything feel inflamed and I'm able to train all these lifts multiple times a week. Uh the other thing is if we think in terms of the systemic growth and I do believe in systemic growth and I think there's a scientific case to be made for it. I'm fully aware some people disagree um but I will point out to studies on stabilizers growing from compound movements in studies. Are they maximally growing? No. But they are growing. So stuff like doing an allout set of squat and deadlifts like that, the work capacity, the conditioning, the growth is tremendous. Like mo like honestly I would gain muscle if I just did those two lifts and went home. All right, so the benching um I want to work up. I want to get to 20. Now we're doing it flat back. No wrist wraps, no belt, pausing most of the reps, trying to do this super clean. I got 18 today. Now, I remember before I hit 19 a little while back. I got to 19 already, but then I took the wide grip out and the high really high reps out, but I want to get to 20 here and I want to do it like that, like straight up the hard way. Chest and triceps were fried. So, here's here's the thing with that. Like, that's that's enough. Like, I'll I'll gain muscle from that. And it doesn't matter that it's only 225. I bet you I'll have a pretty dang good bench when I go back and start ramping up and testing maxes later. If I can get to 20 plus pause reps, clean reps like that. What happens then if we try to build a max? What happens if I want want to do belt and rest? But I I didn't need that to hit 350. I'm stronger now though than I was when I benched the 350 with a two second pause like that. So I don't know. We'll see where I'm at. All right. I decided to do chins. Interesting. I'm not stronger on chins than pull-ups, but I am able to get a little more range of motion. Shows me that again, my lats are so much stronger than my biceps still. So, again, realizing I probably do need more biceps still, I decided to mess with shins for a bit instead of the pull-ups. Um, but I got 13 reps with a 45 for for for me of my full range of motion. So, I'm happy with that. Same thing with dips. Yeah, I was messing with 55. I messed with 90. I'm like, let's just work with 45 because again, I can get a really good stretch. Um, and again, as long as progression is there, we'll gain muscle. But again, my pecs and my triceps were just a lit from this. So, I took this to failures. I did rest pause for the chins. All right. Uh, I got 16 reps here and then I failed, right? We hit failure. I just kind of I kind of stuck there at the bottom. like that was me just sticking like I couldn't come back up. So happy with that. Uh 16 pretty good for that. Let's work on getting to 20. I'd like to get both of those lifts up to 20. I'd like to get the squat up to 20. I want to get the bench is really close to 20. Okay. I think we can hit 20 reps on any lift. It's time to increase weight. But I'm fine with doing these. So I got like I did uh really strict curls today with the bar. I only did 65. I know I messed a 75 for work with 65. Let's see if we can get this up to 20 reps. Let's see if we can get it up to 20. Um and and again, this is a point I make for people. You can get crazy strong off high reps. I did almost all high reps when I was squatting 600 at a much heavier body weight and so on. Okay, this is not a problem because we build muscle and then you just have to ramp up and test maxes, practice maxes, and then boom, you're good. Doesn't matter. So, I got I got around 16 there. Same thing. I lost count with the laterals. I like doing the plate laterals, but I just I just took them to failure. Took them to failure. Um, and I've decided notice I rearranged the lifts. I felt like those really high rep benching makes my deadlifts harder. I noticed that because I noticed the deadlifts really my chest cramped up. Like I felt my chest straining on that last rep on the deadlifts. My chest cramped a little so I needed a short break. Uh so again also tells me that even my chest is a is an important stabilizer in my deadlifts. So I did all that there and then I decided let's do the same thing with the reverse hypers. The reverse hypers are a lot of reps. They could be fatiguing my other lifts. We can just do them at the end. And then of course I did one set of band press downs after. So here I'm trying to do at least 50 reps with this on the reverse hyper so you guys can uh can see me do that. I don't think we need to talk all the way through it. And then I did a set of band press downs just to finish off those triceps because even then uh we could argue the chins the chins light my triceps up too. I definitely feel that long head. You know, we could argue about the bench and the dips, but I decided it's Friday. I'll have two days off. If I'm going to do something like that, I can definitely work it in today. Uh but the reverse hypers, we just take this all the way up to 50 plus. They burn like hell. And then it did this thing that got around 20 with the band press downs to failure. Uh, but again, good workout. And my point here with a lot of this stuff, we're just a lot of these are the same weights I've been using frequently. I'm just getting more and more and more reps. And that's okay because as long as we're not clearing more than 20 reps on most of the stuff, I think it's perfectly fine, right? It's kind of this silly idea. You know, people say, well, you know, it's just people will make arguments, even evidence-based guys, they'll make arguments about higher reps, but I'm like, do we stop gaining? So, so look, if you only bench 225 for three reps and you build it up over months and years to 20, do you stop gaining muscle from it? At what point at what point do you stop gaining muscle because it turns into height reps? You see the silliness of the idea? Same thing with the squat 405. Well, 12's a Okay, but I'm I'm pring. These are more and more reps. Are you telling me we're not getting bigger and stronger? Just stop. Just stop, people. Silliness. Uh, but overall pretty dang happy with today's workout. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.