Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it is time for a GPP or general physical preparedness workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Thank you. Let's get over to this. Uh, basically did three exercises plus a set of band press downs. All right, so I decided to work the weighted carries back in today because quite frankly, I need the grip training. Um, and I don't feel like this is why the grip has gone down. A lot of people said, "Well, you know, those weighted carries are probably fatiguing your grip." U not to the point where I'm seeing it. I feel like I straight up need need the grip work on my deadlift. So, my grip just needs to get stronger again. So, I need to be doing if anything more more grip type stuff. So, again, I want to work the weighted carries back in here. Plus, it works the shoulders, other stuff. So, again, it's just good for my overall conditioning. So, I decided to do three rounds of these um you know, fairly short breaks because again, these nice decently long little little walks with it will help my grip, you know, helps my traps, helps my upper back. But yeah, I mean, if anything, I feel like, you know, with with my overall lifting, um I just I need my grip to come back up. Like, there's no reason for my grip to be a limit on my deadlift with where I'm at. I'm nowhere near the strongest I've been in the past. Um, so again, need to need to do the grip work because my overall training volumes are quite low. Um, I think it is more the opposite of because my actual lifting volume is on the lower end. I'm just pushing a lot of intensity. Uh, my grip may be just simply getting neglected. Maybe getting neglected. So, I feel like stuff like this will help. Um, so I'm going to I'm going to work with a little bit. Uh, so again, this is why I got to be careful when I read comments or listen to friends and other people who chime in. My own experience as a coach tells me no, I'm simply just not getting enough grip work. All right. Uh because again, my overall training volumes are are on the lower end. So I've got to bridge that gap with the GPP. All right. And so that being said, uh doing the weighted carry is a really good idea. So I did uh three rounds of these. Uh and again, weather permitting, I want to do GPP three days a week. Again, as long as the weather permits um doing all of it fasted. Uh so again, I may be losing just a little body fat. I'm tightening the diet up just a hair uh to get leaner. So mainly I'm just changing the satiety of what I'm eating. Just eating the the highest satiety carbohydrates because I don't actually uh track my stuff that close anymore. Like I don't track macros. I just try to make sure I get 200 grams of protein. Um and I just eat really clean. But again, so satiety um is a big factor and I know roughly what I eat in terms of calories. Um, so again, I'm just focusing on higher satiety carbohydrates. So, it's going to be a lot of a lot of potatoes, watermelon, cantaloupe, right? But I like to get my my fasted uh fasted training in here. Get my fasted training in. Um, so again, I need to do the conditioning on the off days because again, um, and the reason I'm focusing on this a little more instead of the running for just a bit, I want the the body recomposition benefits. Running ends up just burning through some calories. And yes, that can help with overall fitness and weight loss, but it's also not having any sort of training carry over to my lifting directly. And I'll eventually push the running hard again. I like to do this stuff in phases because I do I do rather enjoy running. But the sled work like this gave me the running just fine. So when I started running again, my run times got really decent, really super fast. I'm talking within a week or two, couple of weeks of uh you know, just because I do this other conditioning work. So, it just keeps you in shape. I was interesting. I know some other coaches who've done the same. They're like, man, they like to go do some 5k cases. They'll just peak for them a little bit and they're like, I don't do that much sometimes, you know, other times they're like all the GBP keeps them there. So, more or less the the same principle here. So, I did two rounds of the sleds today and I did more focus on uh the throws today. So, I really wanted to do lots of my med ball throws also because I feel like for me this I get a lot of shoulder benefits out of this, right? In addition to the full body power. So, we ended up doing three rounds away carries, two rounds of the sled sprints, and then I did like six sets of these. Uh, so I just did fives with it. So, again, I have about the heaviest med ball that's out there. You don't not really see any. So, for those who are curious, it's talking about with weight on it or getting more or lighter or more explosive. Well, I'm using actually a very heavy medball, right? Very, very heavy. I'm on the heavier end. Uh like as in most companies don't make anything heavier than this because it's a 30 pounder. So, and it's the biggest one Titan makes. When I bought it, I just bought the biggest one they had. I'm like, might as well, right? Not saying I wouldn't like to have a collection of med balls, but I just went for the heavy one. So, I feel like fives for me works really well. Um, and I just throw it and step out from under it. So, so I did six sets of five with it. And then I finished up with one set of band press downs, right? Just for the triceps, which made my triceps cramp like crazy. And so, I'm limiting a lot of that. Like even the bands like just a set, one set here or there, just get the blood flow to it, keep the tendons healthy. Um, but I am focusing a little more on the triceps from my benching because I can tell all my rep sets on the benching is really limited. Like I'm wanting to hit 225 or 20 reps. I keep getting 19. I've got 19 twice now. I've got 18 like two or three times. Um, my triceps are just simply running out of lockout power right at the end, you know, and I I know that for me that will carry over to my max bench over time. Like I still do a lot of even my heaviest sets. I do like 315, 325, you know, so I'm not doing not maxing at the moment, but I like to do that back off work because I just want to build the muscles, but the even the 315 and 325 sets are heavy enough to give a carryover. I'm sure my max will be pretty decent if I go test it right now, right? It'll be pretty decent. A minimum 350, if not more, you know, so so all good. So, I just want to keep doing that to build it up. And I feel like the same thing because I do the benching as my main chest exercise. and my chest will just continue to grow off that as long as the bench improves. So, I'm working triceps more for that. Um, but again, I hit a PR yesterday on my tricep stuff, right? Hit a PR. So, my triceps have gotten progressively stronger this year, right? In terms of smaller isolation type movements, my triceps are probably the strongest they've been, you know, on this channel. But I like to do the press downs just in there to to continue get a little blood flow, keep the tendons healthy, help feed the uh the extension to make sure that my tendons uh stay recovered for it. But I also don't want to overtrain the triceps either. But we don't. So I do we do need to keep in mind I'm only doing, you know, the benching and then I do one set of extensions, like all out set of extensions. So the volumes are still barely moderated. I can get away with the press downs in terms of recovery. Uh, but that's pretty much what I did today, guys. So, I did that, did the six sets of medball throws, and then, uh, I did a set of band press downs, and we called it a day. So, I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.