Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for another full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Let's get over into this. All right, uh squats. I only got 11. I got 12 last time. Um I tried to focus on getting deeper most of these. I felt like the first rep was a little high. Then I started getting quite deep. My goal is to keep getting this rep count up while improving rep quality. But I do want to point out um with a lot of this stuff, people are forgetting knee angles when I do low bar squat. Even when these are a hair high, they reach the knee angle that I would need for competition depth when I do the wider stance. Um but what this does is it lets me get a lot of good conditioning, good volume percent, a lot of quad work. My quads just blow up from this. Um so again, what I'm using this for is for overall hypertrophy and then it carries over. Uh, but I feel like um right now if I were to just spend a couple weeks practicing singles um and going back to my power power stances, I'd be squatting mid 500s easy right now. So, uh, just based upon my projections of all this, because when I hit a 500 squat a year ago, back last January, um, I had been doing five reps for the most part with this, right? I think I might have hit six at one point. So you guys could extrapolate that math over and be like, man, he's hitting 10, 11, 12 reps pretty regularly there versus five or six with the same weight. Yeah, we're at least 10% stronger. Um because I'm not really deadlifting because it's been I feel like I've just taken it out for just a moment while I focus on these these easier to recover from workouts. Um I feel like I do need the reverse hypers. I'm concerned my posterior chain isn't getting enough. But I know that for me, squatting, pull-ups, reverse hypers build my deadlift. So, I have a feeling as soon as I come back to deadlifting, I think what I'd like to do is see if we can PR that deadlift quickly uh once I I work it back in. I'm just taking a breather here. Uh because I feel like with me getting leaner, and we can tell I'm getting leaner. Um at this point, it's quite obvious. Everyone's noticing it. Um fans, clients, so it's just we're coming along. Um, but I decided I do need some reverse hypers in here. And it's a great place to do it after the squats because the squats, man, I just have all that compressive load there. Like that's the good time to come in, decompress that spine, then I go take a breather. Um, I came back to my desk for just a minute, then I come finish the workout. Some people say, "How long is the workout?" The workout's only about 40 minutes. Uh, but I want to be clear, and you know, it's probably less than that. The back half is only like 20 minutes, right? Ramping up to the squats a little bit, doing some singles, getting my shoulders in that position. That all takes a minute. But so I do all that. Then this other stuff I come in and just did, you know, five sets, five exercises of one set each and um called it. So the pull-ups um I felt like I was getting really fatigued on uh rep 11. I feel like it was at failure. So I did my rest pause. still got 15, but I decided to rest pause all the way to 15. So, I got to 11. Um, and then did two, then rested again and did two more. And then, so, so again, um, you guys know why we do pull-ups, you know why I do pull-ups the way I do them. I don't feel that we need to cover that at this point other than obviously I have a jacked back and it carries over to all my stuff. U, great overall upper body exercise. I do like the rest pause on them because I'm able to recover from it quite well. Notice that dead hang there on that one rep there. So you saw the dead hang and notice where my elbow locks. So just for reference. All right. Uh the dips I've been hitting super super high reps on these. I'm like let me bump the weight a little bit because I got 19 with 55. I'm like man we're getting up in that 20 plus and I know I'm going to hit that with the pullovers. So I don't want that many crazy high reps. So I'm like let's take it down to a little lower. I'm like I know I can get 10 plus with 90. So we did. Now, these are not quite as deep as when I did 20 with the 45. It's close. They're still below parallel, but I did notice that with the heavier that some of those are deep. Some of the reps are deep. A few of them, they're getting below parallel, but they're not where I'd like it perfectly. But that's okay because we've increased load dramatically. And some of the reps are are getting super deep. Uh chest and triceps were crushed after that. crushed after that because then that's a PR for me. I've not hit 12 reps with that weight before. So happy with it. And then the pullovers. Um I got 20 the last time, which is a PR. I'm like, let me just grind it out. I hit 23. I hit 23. So pretty happy about that. Um I'll do a short on the on the pullovers coming up here later. Big fan of these. I I'm getting crazy doms from these. So, I'm going to note um I still have doms from Wednesday. When I got 20 reps with this, it burned so bad. I've noticed that I have trap doms. My whole trap all the way down hurts. I had pec doms, tricep doms from hitting 20 reps on this stretch type movement last time. Um it was a pretty much a lifetime PR, but I'm sore from it. But I got 23 today. So, again, I do want to note that that seems to be what's causing it. I can tell even when I go to squat, man, I can feel uh like my traps were hurting from all of this last time. So, it goes to show you how much we can get beat up from really, really hard sets with, you know, still with low volume. Uh but again, it's working. Uh it's working pretty well. Happy with all of it. So, again, 23 in a good place. And you guys will see how I look here. I think this is the first exercise where I don't have the belt on and you'll see me come around the corner. Um, I do feel like the waistline because of some of the food I'm eating, the walnuts and stuff, adding a little water in the gut itself, but it's still not bad. I'll adapt to all that. Uh, adding the healthy fats back in, but again, I still look leaner and trimmer there. All right, the curls. I decided just to do dumbbells again. Third workout in a row, and we progressed on it every time. I got 26 reps. And I know it's cuz I have those dumbbells loaded up, and I'm like, I'm fine with some really high reps on something like this because again, isolation movement. Uh, we did pull-ups first, so we got heavier heavier tension, but um, again, I don't mind it hitting like 26. It's not a big deal as long as we get to failure, and we're targeting the biceps. And so, again, just a good underhand grip >> [snorts] >> uh, curl with the dumbbells, uh, biceps got pumped, they got lit, we took them to failure. Sure, I could probably come back over to the barbell here soon to see if we can progress on it, but the dumbbells are just really convenient because I don't have to reload a barbell up on the floor or anything. And u they're just really convenient. And at the end of the day, a curl is a curl. All right, I felt good. And then I did front raises. So, why a front raise? And I got a PR on that. I got 21. I've done 20 in the past. Um because I feel like the overhead press brings a lot to the table for me and I don't have the range of motion to lock it still. This works the same muscles throughout the torso and I do feel it works the side delts. Now when I I saw this stuff the other day, I saw Nipper really frustrated as an evidence-based guy because he did EMGs on himself and another guy doing a seated shoulder press and the side delt lit up more than the front delt. And this is what a lot of people have been trying to tell people for years. Like, dude, plenty of guys grow massive side delts on the overhead press. What are you guys talking about? Well, this replicates the same thing. Uh, plus it works the upper chest, the front delt, the upper trap. So, I felt like just getting in and doing some front raises uh would be good. I I need the video to be a little longer. We don't want under eight minutes. So, obviously, this is the same set put in again. But again, we see where I'm looking. I'm looking tighter and tighter. We're not where we want to be yet. I want to chip away and get leaner, bring the biceps and stuff up more. But overall, um, this body composition has been generally improving. And then I'm going to end up having good strong lifts as a powerlifter on all this other stuff is a lighter, bigger um and getting really good at all the rep work. But overall, pretty dang happy with today's workout and the training week. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.