Hey everybody, it's Jason Baja here with another bicep workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, so I'm just going to leave this in the house. You know what? I don't see the need to go to my garage. Um, I can put this over in the living room. I'm going to leave this bar loaded and I think what I'm going to do most of my off days and I might not do any real days off because I recover really well between these training sessions. Yeah, my sessions are hard with the squats and all this stuff. Um, but I really want to focus on five main movements on my my big days and not worry about the biceps and do what I'm doing here to where I just do them fresh. You know, again, that's been uh something many people do tell me. They're like, "Okay, fine. You've had the torn bicep. Uh, obviously your torso is massive in comparison, so it makes them look smaller." But, you know, you really should do them fresh. It's doing them at the end is is does hurt your progress. I don't necessarily agree um because I've done arm days before, but I really do wonder if I take advantage of the frequency and I think that's the main thing we're we're looking at. I've always said the higher frequency, even with really low volumes, uh produces great results. I mean, my legs, people are always like, "Your quads and stuff are massive. They overshadow your upper body when I don't have these shorts on." Um but I've always done them at a high frequency with low volumes. So, I can do the same thing here. And honestly, if I'm doing really low volumes, I don't hold back. You know, that's one one thing I've noticed with a one set training. So, I'm just going to push progressive overload here. And we're already seeing it. Like, I'm I my biceps are probably the strongest I think they've ever been. It's hard to say with the really high reps, but um you know, norm normally if we were to look in terms of rep strength, I'm definitely up since I started doing this. So again, we're going to get uh some specificity of training there uh in terms of this one exercise, right? And if I can progressively overload just a basic barbell curl, biceps will grow. And the beauty of it is my volumes just aren't that insanely high. They're not that insanely high. And this falls within the recommendations. I do tell people I'm always like, you got to watch certain stuff with frequency. You don't want more than three or four real training days. But biceps are small and I'm doing only high reps. See where I'm going? It's not going to beat my joints or tendons up. That's the biggest issue I have with the really high frequency training. And I tell that to guys. Well, I want to do a six day push pull legs. Like, yeah, but your your joints are being beat up with no days off. I'm only doing real training three days a week. Curls are not to the same degree. They're just they're not real training in the sense they beat you up, especially when everything is 15 plus reps. Um, but we got 20s on everything today. I had to fight for that last set. I had to rest pause it a little bit to get to the to get that 20th rep and it hurt like hell. Uh, but that's the interesting thing, you know, when I'm doing these these sets to failure for the higher reps on this strict barbell curl, they hurt. They hurt a lot. And even though I'm recording now, I finished this, you know, 15 minutes ago and I'm just now sitting down to record, my biceps are on fire still. So that's the interesting thing. But the volumes are still not crazy high either, are they? You know, I've been talking about the merits of lower volumes, then we can specialize in a body part. If we don't count the pull-ups as biceps, I think we should. So up to three sets of pull-ups a week. But if I do this three days a week, it's only nine sets. Okay? And I started off last week because it was too cold for me to get out and train of just doing arms every day for four days straight. So, we started with a little more volume, but it's only nine sets. And it's 12 if I do four. And I generally don't think more than about 12 sets gives any muscle growth. And I've said that before. I think very few people will grow at all for more than that. But even then, that's that's in where we are. So, if I just progressively overload it, and I'm still getting leaner. I mean, everyone notices it at this point. Um, I look different a little bit from day to day. Some days I look tighter than others, but it's just the nature of what's going on with the carbs, water intake. Um, yeah. So, I feel like the diet's working, you know, and I feel like what I'm doing with diet, like really the last month or so of six weeks, people have really noted the body fat just kind of chipping away, right? Pretty pretty noticeably. What I'm doing is sustainable. Like, it's not difficult to follow. Like, I don't really get hungry. My appetite's controlled. I enjoy what I eat. You guys see my food. I put it up on social media and stuff. All right. Only stuff I eat outside of that is just more meat and vegetables. Lots of my Greek yogurt. I am doing the full fat Greek yogurt at the moment. Uh but it's lots and lots of meat and vegetables. Huge amounts of it, right? And and omega-3 eggs, right? I get those freerange omega-3 ones. They're not that expensive these days. So, yeah, I feel like I can continue to lose body fat, right? So look at the amount we've lost say in the last six weeks. I think we'll see the the same thing in the next six. You know, I'll sustain the same diet. I'm going to take keep all my reps really high like I'm doing. I'm finding it easier. And that's another thing too, you know, that gets pointed out. Squatting 20 reps compared to ramping up to a max. It's not that hard. So I think my deadlifts are going to be the same. I'm going to try to just see if we can get to 20 with 405. Right. Yeah, it burns, but it's not hard. Like, it's not the same as doing a heavy single and titrating up to it. It doesn't hit you the same way. And that's something I've noticed doing this, too. And I used to be a big advocate for tens, tens, tens, tens, tens, and then just enough heavy training to get really strong. right now. I'm messing with a lot of 15s, 20s, 20 plus. I don't know. I I just don't think it's that hard even to do those sets to failure. Like, it's And people always make this nonsense. They're like, "Oh, bodybuilding type training is harder than powerlifting." You're a weak ass Like if you really think that you've never moved anything heavy because I can tell you right now squatting 500 plus pounds is harder in terms of how you feel than doing 10 reps of 405 20 reps of three especially 20 reps of 315. Yeah. You get out of breath it burns but it's not hard you know. It's just a work set you know. Yeah, it burns, but in terms of it feels like less effort. Burns like hell. And the same thing here though. Uh so yeah. Yeah. So I just kind of looked the three sets to get the full vlog, but it's three sets. We got 20 on all of them. Um with this new weight finally, so it's coming along. Uh happy with the workout. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys next time.