Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here once again. It is time for a GPP workout. And a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Let's get over uh into the training here. So, this is a very very brief session. So, I ended up doing a couple rounds of farmers carries and I did a couple couple of sets of medball throws. Um it was kind of cold and yes, I know I'm only in shorts, but I'm like, eh, I just didn't want to be out in it too long. I just wanted to get a little bit done. Like I I wasn't in the mood to do any training today. I just wanted to sit in and work on other stuff, but I'm like, you know what? It is kind of a GPP day. I need to get out and do something, guys. Even if it's a very, very brief session. Uh so we did, you know, so again, two good rounds of these, two sets of the throws, and I did five sets of box jumps, and I did a set of hanging leg raises. I'm just going to put all this up for you guys to watch it here, though. Um, as far as the hanging leg raises go, I got ab cramps after. I pushed them all the way. I've been getting about 10, 11, but I'm like, man, I'm only going to do one set. Let's go ahead and take it as as hard as I can. And I got 15 reps of the toe to bars. And then it made my abs cramp after I walked in for a few minutes. I had to kind of lay down. I'm like, man, what happened? Uh, but again, can't have an ab weakness. Can't have an ab weakness. So, basically though, I just like the little bit of the grip. I like the little bit of the the walking for the farmer's walk. even if it's only two rounds. And I wanted a lot of explosive work today, right? I feel like I don't want to overtrain my upper body because I'm pushing really hard on on the those big movements and I'm progressing. So, I actually wanted to be careful of that. Part of me wanted to do some some band press down. So, I'm like, "Oh, let's not do it. My triceps are hitting PRs are getting stronger and stronger. Let's not risk something stupid like interfering with their recovery with a bunch of band work." You know, it's something I'm thinking about more and more. You know, the the way I've been training lately, I'm getting stronger. All right? And if we're getting stronger on rep work, we know that we're gaining muscle. So, again, I'm trying to not overdo these things, but I also don't want to be lazy. So, I need these little mini workouts, these GP sessions, just to keep neural drive high, get some explosiveness in to burn. Not really worried about a lot of calorie burn. My calorie burn is through the roof, and I'm doing all this fasted. Um, but it is just to not be stagnant, you know, but I also have to balance that with let's get something that actually has a training effect that gives me some benefit without interfering with my main workouts, right? Um because again um got the carbs a bit lower so I've got to watch volumes but I'm getting stronger while probably I think definitely getting leaner like we're looking leaner but I also have my protein ridiculously high. I'm not even tracking at this point. I'm just forcing down all the meat and healthy fats and vegetables um during my feed window and you know so again I do all this fasted and again just seeing improvements. Now, of course, on some of the days like this where it's cold, my skin around the waist is a little looser. We know that historically, and as soon as it warms up, um, that all gets tighter. Uh, so again, did my my rounds of that stuff, did my my uh medball tosses, and like I said, I did them in the driveway and try to just focus on hitting that pad instead of the yard since it's a little damp out there. Um, I I don't like walking in the mud and stuff if I can avoid it. Um, so again, till that dries up a little bit, I think I'll do them on the driveway, which works. But then we we did a 5x5 on the the box jumps and the set of hanging leg raises and pretty much called it a day. But at least we got a mini workout in. We got something done. Uh, and I'll just put up all the footage for you guys to continue to watch. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and cows next time.