Hey everybody, it's Jason Boa here once again. It's time for an upper body day. But if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. Yes, that's a lightning storm in the background. Um, and if you would be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that so much. Thank you. Let's get over to the topic. All right, training day. So, um, down to 2:15. I threw in a little bit of the footage um, of me walking away from the camera so you guys can see where the low back is. It's the tightest. It's been um so again this cut's going well and I'm like man if I'm already there in the loose skin and love handle area back there is starting to get tighter 215 what's going to happen at 200 so I'm just going to keep running with that actually motivated me to really get the cardio warm this morning I've already done over two hours fasted before recording this uh so I'm really happy about that and benching's holding up all the benching and pull-ups everything's holding during the cut and that's what we care about squat bench deadlift pull-up if those are good we're in a good place um I will note I felt like my my front side though looked a little looser, but it could be because I lost fat over the weekend because the skin feels thinner. The skin folds are definitely smaller uh from all the cardio. I did a lot of cardio this weekend fasted. I did over at least three hours both Saturday and Sunday separately fasted, not counting any bonus. So I did o at least six hours fasted this weekend of the list cardio. Um, so again, we're in a super super good place there. So that's some of it. Plus, it's this lighting, right? The sun's not up in. It's a lightning storm. So that lighting is going to be really high like that in the shadow. So maybe in brighter light it wouldn't look like that. Um, but so it's kind of hard for me to assess, but I am going to make a note of that because people may notice it. But the lower back is definitely smaller and tighter. So, whatever's going on there with the front uh with lighting or whatever, I don't even care because that low back getting tight is a huge huge deal for me. Like that's means there's a significant amount of fat being lost. Right? In other words, because that's one of my largest fat deposits is still there. And when that is getting visibly smaller, like when I can see it on camera and the the belt's getting looser and looser, right, that belt lifting belt's getting looser, then then I know that I'm in a really good spot. So, I'll take the win. Um, pull-ups, I'm trying to do them dead hang. I'm doing a little bit closer uh than I have been doing because I just feel like, look, let's just really get that stretch. Let's make sure we keep the lats strong. Of course, my lats are in a good spot. So, I'm not doing a lot of extra lat work. I'm doing the pull the pullovers. I mean, I'm not rowing at the moment. I may work some of that back in. I may work a second press and a row in. I just feel like I want to push pullovers super super hard right now for the tricep long head and the shoulder health. I want to get my shoulders to where I can overhead press again and I really still can't. I feel like that would be a game changer, especially if I could behind the neck again. But I feel like for me, the reason one of the reasons I'm doing the overhand pull-up, think about the shoulder difference, right? So, I'm trying to take a position to where I can get into that deeper stretch closer to where my overhead press grip would be. So, I get my lats will grow no matter what I do on pull-ups. As long as I get a stretch out of the bottom, my lats just really respond. Um, so in this case of trying to do most of the reps, dead hang, right? We're coming to a complete stop. Some of them I'm I'm resting a second or two at the bottom as we get there, right? We get near the end like this last one. It's like let's rest couple seconds, two or three seconds and then get that last one. Um, I get got a great back from that. Then I did pullovers. I'm like, well, I don't even care about the extensions. So there we can see the low back. I put up pictures so you guys can see it not moving. I put one up already. Um, it's tightening up. Uh, it's obviously still some loose skin there. There's still fat there, but it's getting tighter. So, I said just let's just just run straight pullovers. And it's too hard to progress with the plates. I'm like, let's just do the barbell. Mainly because I'm too strong to do plates. Like, I do a pair of 45 pinch and it's it's almost a fight for the grip. So, what I'm trying to do, obviously, I still don't have the full range of motion I want on these. But, if we're going to get into overhead work, this is going to eventually get me there. So, I'm trying to pause on most of the reps at the bottom, but I got three sets of 10. And a lot of them I paused on the very last rep. I tried to do a nice long pause on some of them. Uh, so I got three by 10 with 95. And I'm stretching them as far as I can go. So, again, notice some of these I paused for two or three seconds there, trying to get the deepest stretch I can. Um, but pretty happy with that. So, I want to progress on pullovers. I feel like again, they do a lot for my shoulder health. I feel like they do a lot for physique. feel like I feel them in my triceps so much in that long head. I want to really push them to keep seeing if they'll they'll bring my long head up more and more of my tricep because that is still probably my weakest area, you know, be maybe possibly the people can argue rear delt, but I wonder how much of that is also that long head of the tricep just needs to come up and then I mean and I'm going to keep pushing biceps. I'm going to push biceps crazy hard. I did a bunch of curls today. I'm going to work in like I've kind of did last time. So, I did my forearms today so that I can just work pullovers and maybe some curls on my lower body days. I don't need huge amounts of volume for my lower body to maintain it or to even build it. I never have. So, I could come in and do like three sets of squats, two or three sets of deadlifts twice a week. My legs grow. Then, I'm doing calf work, of course, and reverse hypers. Um, so push the calf raises, keep the calves big, but as far as that goes in a deficit, I already know too much leg volume will bury me, but I can get away with a lot more upper body volume because it is easy on recovery. So things like biceps, those smaller muscles. Um, you know, in a good spot there. Yeah, the pullovers all felt good. And again, that's I know that's not paused, but I I put up a screenshot on all my social media, YouTube, Facebook, Instagram of that, me standing there like walking from the camera on that so you guys can get a really good view of of what's going on. I actually have a really good vtaper in spite of still having the fat and some loose skin there. Um, so again, once that's tightened up, we're going to be in a in a really really good spot. Um, so that really motivated like guys, even though I was kind of like the front on the stuff that curls, you guys will see it. Like that that doesn't look great today, but that lower back is so much tighter than it was last week. Like I'm really shocked that one pound because I've only lost a pound since since. Then again, it's been two a week. So we're not through the whole week to get another pound. I think we will. So it should be two this week by the time we're done. Right. So midweek I'm hoping to be in a 214. I think we can pull it off. Just keep running with it. Um but I can also make everything tighter if I just dropped carbs, but I don't want to. I really feel like the the bro dieting is doing me a lot of good. It's allowing me to get really good performance. But here's what I mean. So notice the front, but it's also the lighting, you know, can be a factor. Um that looks a little looser, but I've also leaner. My waist is smaller. So, some of it could be because I lost body fat this weekend. It's just kind of going to u be how do we describe it? Like that whoosh type effect to where you lose some fat and then you gain some water in the area and then your body will reach homeostasis. So, I'm not worried about it because the scale's down. I'm leaner. The waist is smaller. Um it's it's a good sign. So, we just keep losing fat. Just keep losing fat. It'll tighten up. So, the curls I pretty much hit what I I got last time. So, we're good. Um, I managed to get three sets of eight. I might have got a ninth rep in here somewhere. Um, so I might have picked up a rep. So, I'm trying to do these slow and controlled all the way to the face. And I'm going to push these really hard, too. So, I feel like even though I did a bunch of other pump work for biceps, must feel like on the on the lower body days, I think I'm going to do pullovers and barbell curls today. Tomorrow, I know it's going to be that tricep and arm, tricep and bicep because I feel like I need those, right? But looking at this lighting, when I get leaner, I feel like the delts will be fine. So even that side delt, I think it'll be reasonable. I could always throw some in some more. But I did rear delts today just because I do want to make sure they they're getting stimulus. I'm only I mean the pullovers do hit them, the pull-ups hit them. Uh I still feel like they could use it. So I did some anyways. Not and it may not matter so much on the deficit, but we're still going to come in and train stuff. But I'm just going to train the hell out of my arm. So I reached failure there. Yeah, we reached failure. So, I went ahead and did rear delts and I superseted that with uh standing dumbbell curls. So, back and forth here. All right. And then, of course, we did wrist curls and then we did uh you know, obviously band curls. So, between I did three sets of barbell, three sets of dumbbell, then three sets of bands for biceps. I'm going to hit them again tomorrow. You know, why not? Why not just train biceps all my workouts? You know, let's just really grow it up. Let's just go grotastic and keep pushing biceps while we get leaner and the long head of his tricep with all the pullovers, right? Why not? What's the worst that could happen? I keep my arms while getting leaner. Keep the muscle I have. Best case, they grow. I'm going to try to grow. I'm going to force this stuff. It's like, let's force progressional puller. Let's force this stuff because let's try to gain some muscle. Yes, I know I'm I'm dropping two pounds a week. Yes, I know we're in a big deficit. Force muscle growth. Doesn't matter. you try because at the very least it's like when guys accept, oh, I'm not going to make progress and they get lazy. What happens? I'm not being I'm being lazy on the volume a little for the lower body, but I'm still pushing stuff hard. I'm actually working really hard on all those movements. Same thing here. Some of these other muscles, it's like, man, let's really push things like the biceps. We're not going to overtrain them, you know? Not a big deal. Let's just run with it. So, push biceps hard. So, I went heavier on these, too, right? I increased. I was only able to get like eight to nine or reps. I got like nine on a couple of these. So, I've counted as three times eight plus, right? So, let's push these super set them with rear delt flies. I'm like, yeah, I'm just going to push some curls. I'm going to train the hell out of my arms unless I'm going to do bicep work all my workouts. I don't care. Do biceps all the time. I really feel like it. I start throwing another arm day in in the middle of the week and just not care. But no, I mean, four of them will be fine. So, we're going to make sure the triceps get work with the pullovers like we did last time. I don't want to do forearms on the the lower day. We can just do it right here today. I'm gonna make sure my biceps and triceps, particularly that long head that needs it. I I want them to get worked every workout. Even though I'm cutting, I'm just going to do it. You know, I'm just going to do it. Just run with it. At least for now. It worked really well last time. And then I came in and hit hit really PRs on those pullovers. Getting tens for that 95. We're in PR area. But yeah, that barbell feels good, too. Um I feel that I like the plates a little more, but it's a weight limitation. It really is at this point. It's just such a hassle to pinch two plates. What am I going to try to do? Build up to 345 pinch. I got to work. Um, so then the wrist curls. I've managed to get three sets of 10 with the 85 on the behind the back wrist curls. And I'm doing these because I do feel like I want to make sure I get some forearm work. I know I have pretty good forearms, but it's still arms, right? I need my arm just in general, all my arms bigger, right? We need them bigger. Um, and that's that's going to be the point. That's the idea. That is what we are trying to do. Uh, caps are doing good here, though. It's like I'm glad I'm pushing calves pretty hard too while on doing this because again all this cardio and I've had people argue that I don't care. I had a guy really get an argument with me. It's so little like this is about burning through everything I can and if I'm going to do all this cardio I need to be thinking you know what if I can push my calves harder will I burn a few more calories from all the walking and the the biking because of the swing weight on the calves. Why not why not just push everything? Let's just go for it. Optimize. Yeah. Super motivated today. Super super motivated. Once especially when I saw the low back, I'm like, "Oh, wow." I mean, and I know it doesn't look good, but compared to how I used to look, right? And again, noticing even all that's causing that the skin on the waistline. And I think it's because I lost fat all around the waist. So, it's now trying to hold water to reach homeostasis. So, keep losing it. And then when that water whooshes, man, I think everything will be a lot tighter. Um, so did the band curls pretty much to failure, right? Just to finish them off. Get a heck of a pump. 20 plus reps uh on all that. But see, it's starting to not be as dark. And watch as I come to the camera. So, I think later in the day, it's not going to look like that. I think it really is that lighting is it making it more accentuated. We're seeing the definition in the loose skin just like we do the other stuff. Uh, but yeah, really happy with today's workout. Um, happy with being down to 215. Let's keep pushing, man. Let's just see how lean I can get while trying to get more and more jacked, right? I think people will be shocked because they're not realizing when they're looking at my stats where I'm at. Let me get to 10% body fat with the muscle I have. Let's do it. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.