Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and it's time for a bicep workout. And a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, increase weight again. So, pretty much the strategy here is now two sets of workout, take them to failure. I had to do a little bit of rest pause to try to even get those same reps on the second set, but we know that we're getting quality work. Um, added another 2 and 12 lbs cuz I got 20 then 21 last time, so I added another 2 and 12 lbs. Uh, so we're using the micro plates and I got 18 and 18. Uh, overall really happy with that. So, the thing is I'm noticing with doing this these these really hard sets, my biceps hurt like hell doing this. Um, I don't really care what anyone thinks about the form or whatever I'm using. It's full range of motion for the biceps. My biceps literally hurt at the end of both sets. They get a pump, they burn, they hurt, and we are progressively, slowly adding weight, right? And I'm pretty much doing like a double progression here for those who haven't figured that out. It's very straightforward. Hard sets to failure. Uh doing if we have to a little rest, pause at the end so that they're high quality sets. I'll just do it, like I said, three times a week between my main workouts so my biceps are fresh. And the goal is get to 20 reps every time. So that's my my rule. I don't have a lower end of the double progression. We just add weight. Two and a half pounds, five pounds, but generally two and a half and bring it up. But since we started doing this, I'm up 12 1/2 lbs from where I started. And I'm technically doing like three two more reps than I started with. So I'm just going to ride this out. Just use double progression on this indefinitely. And if we stall, we stall. At least if we're going to failure, we know we're stimulating growth. Um, so my biceps need to grow, force my biceps to grow while continuing to get leaner. Obviously gotten a lot leaner. Not where I want to be, but we are definitely leaner. Uh, lots of people notice. Um, although the people on the tubes, just reminding you guys, I'm not reading comments. And I I really do mean that. That's not BS. It's not trolling. It's not a lie. I am completely ignoring the comment section. It's a free-for-all. Um, as far as I know, I've unbanned everyone. Apparently, even though I have, it shows nobody banned anywhere. Uh, someone did link me their account saying they were banned and just were threw some profanity and nonsense at me, but I unbanned them. Uh, I unblocked them yesterday or the day before when they sent it over. Uh, so as far as I know, it should be you guys should be able to post whatever you want other than links. So, enjoy the free speech there on the tubes. Obviously, Facebook, I read everything because this goes on both. Uh, so just just letting people know. Uh, so I don't really care. So people who are giving advice or anything, you you are wasting your breath. That's cool as you want to post. I'll take the money, but I'm not going to see your advice. And quite frankly, I'm not interested in it. Right? Not interested in your advice. Uh, but this is a great exercise. It's a big movement that works the biceps obviously extremely effectively because we're locked into a supine position, but it still works other muscles. I think the barbell curl counts as a as a big compound movement. Barbell movement just happens to put most of the focus on biceps. They're always going to be what fails. All right. Uh so again, just trying to maintain a smooth cadence while I do this. Uh I don't want to use the term continual tension, but a lot of people would call it that. Uh very no point really is the tension taken off the biceps. And that's the idea with what we're doing. Obviously, we may have to pause a little at the bottom, but we try to get the full extensions at the bottom, bring it up. And with that, the wrist cocked back, the forearms don't take the load at the top. So, as I get higher up, the biceps actually are put into a contracted position. And that's the idea. Um because I don't have it from the side, people don't see that, but I have pretty long arms. So yeah, with but with my wrist back, the biceps have a lot of tension still at the top. And that's why we do it that way, right? You don't get the forearm pain that people complain about. Keeps tension on the bicep. And yeah, just progressively overload it. Do uh double progression. And hey, who knows? One day I may be able to rep a full plate aside. So I'm just going to keep adding, keep adding, keep adding. Um, in terms of this exercise for these reps, this is the strongest I've ever been. All right, I've I've never hit 20 reps even with a lighter weight than this before. You know, 10 pounds lighter than this. So, just keep pushing progression. Just get stronger at the rep work until the weight gets heavier and heavier and heavier. Um, and that's the idea. You know, again, people will say, "Well, but you're going to need more weight." No, you don't. You need to go to failure. And as long as we're adding weight, it doesn't matter. Um, 20 rep sets are never going to be that heavy, but as long as they are getting heavier and we're taking them to failure, works great. And the beauty of it is is that it it spares my tendons and joints. They're not having to take a heavy load. We're achieving it by by burning through higher reps to create that fatigue or, you know, with a lighter weight, but then you still get the upper threshold fibers on the last five reps or so. Um, good way to train. So again, just going to keep pushing it forward. Um, and like I said, did my two sets. I managed to get 18 today, right? We managed to get 18 today. So we added weight, lost a little reps, and we'll But that's happened several times. We'll just keep pushing it back up. And when we get to 20, we'll add two and a half pounds again. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.