Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, super happy with today's workout. Super happy with everything pretty much other than I wish I would have got a fifth rep on the bench again. Uh, but I could feel my triceps kind of giving out there. So, on the squats, I kind of stepped in and like look, um I know that the squatting has been really annoying on my shoulders uh lately, but it's because I keep trying to really get a full grip over the bar when I just go into the fingertips and I high bar. Perfectly fine. Zero problems at all. So, I'm like, you know what? While I just kind of let the shoulders heal, eventually get to where I can overhead press again. Let's just do that. I'm just going to do the fingertips in the bar. Do a high bar. I got 405 for six. Pretty happy with it. Um, I feel like I want to just push that up from there, right? I feel like that has a lot of room to grow. And I do want to work on sinking it a hair deeper. Most of those reps, again, when people see it from the front, it doesn't look the same as when I video from the side. People are usually shocked at the difference. Like, oh wow, you you aren't you weren't kidding. Um, I look way way deeper from the side. Uh, but that's also my high bar, so it's going to be different knee angles. But I'm happy with it. Felt good. So, I got six reps there. the benching today. I got I got the 315 for five, which is PR at a sub 220 body weight. First time I've ever done that, right? We got that on Monday. Today, the four reps, it was hard. Like the fourth rep felt felt a little tough. Um, and I could feel my triceps. Now, does that mean my triceps are the weak link? I'm pretty strong at tricep exercises all things considered. It could just be compensation, but I noticed my triceps were just lit up. they were burning like crazy there, especially the the left side. Um, you know, but I've been doing a lot of that tricep work. U, so I also wonder if it's just chest and triceps in general. It's what I feel, but realistically it's a really wide grip. But, you know, I mean, dips will help. So, I decided I I'll just keep doing dips. Uh, bench deadlift today went really good. You know, I started working on grip again. All of a sudden, my deadlifting is getting easier. And and what I've tried to say on the deadlift, my deadlift never feels heavy. It just feels heavy in terms of the grip lately. So, this felt really good. I'm like, uh, I just started pulling and everything felt good. I pulled five reps, held the fifth rep at the top, which tells me basically I've just needed to get my recovery back on point, right? Keep the volumes more moderate. And I'm on the low lower carbs now, so I'm going to see how that goes over the next few days. Some people have already said that I'm starting to look leaner in the face and stuff. Um, like just in some of the sitting down videos, it makes me drop water. That's what I've tried to say. Um, you know, some people say, "But you look so much better last year." And I'm like, "I was just on lower carbs and more healthy fats." Like, I wasn't leaner. I've just been eating tons and tons and tons of carbs, which makes my waistline, you know, fuller in terms of my holding water in my intestines, right? So, we'll we'll see how it goes. Um, I decided to just do one set of belt squats after, right? I don't need huge amounts of leg volume, but I feel like as a complement to those squats and to make and to work on getting deeper, um I did these really deep. I got 11 reps, like 11 reps. Okay, I did two sets of eight with this last time just on its own without squatting first. Uh so again, I I probably was sandbagging a little. So what I need to do here is just progressively overload. I'm going to do a lot of stuff where I come in and do one one to two sets of exercise. I'll do more than two of anything now other than conditioning work. I don't need it. Just focus on progressive overload. So, the same thing I want to want to keep working the shoulder health and I've got to be realistic. I feel like doing supine stuff just isn't useful. My biceps don't have to have it. So, I'm like, let's just do all the pronated stuff. Um, and see if we can get that shoulder feeling good because I've done a couple of things while I'm trying to overhead press that I've said I know may be inflaming it. So, let's just take all the supine stuff out. This felt really good though. You know, I did. And these are my dead hang. And that's kind of the problem we have. That is my lockout. Look at the hang reps. Those are to a hang. So, that is the lockout problem just in total, just in general with the overhead press. But, you know, this replicates the bar path on the overhead press. So, I'm just going to do these. And I'm like, well, the 10 was was kind of easy. Let's grab a 45 and see if I can get at least five reps. And I got six. And I tried to go for a seventh. and I couldn't get it. So, I got five and then I did a pause at the bottom, a hang, and then I'm like, "Let me get a six. Okay, I got a six. Let me see if I can get one more because a lot of these were a little touchand go, but that one I went into a full hang." Notice the swing on the hangs there tells you everything. Like, that is truly my range of motion. But, we just keep working on it. But I feel like pull-ups help a lot. So, I need to just take the supine stuff out. Then, I did a set of hammer curls in here, you know, in place of doing a supine grip curl. It still works. Biceps. All right. As far as as in the past goes, I know that dips historically always built the biggest triceps for me. Um, that enclosed grip benching. So, I'm like, let's just keep doing the dips. Um, I know I did a bunch of tricep extensions before. But even when I take the extensions out and I don't do them for two weeks, if I get stronger at dips, I come back and PR on them. So, I feel like kind of my two strategies that either need to work. I either need to do more volume on benching and then do extensions or I just need to do dips. and I feel like I can go either route, right? And I can mix and match them. So, there'll be days where maybe I come in and try to hit that that 225 for and try to get to that 20. I've got 19 reps on it on the bench and back off. Um, I want to eventually get there still, but I'm like, let's do dips. So, I did two sets of dips dips today. The first set, the eight reps felt like a max, but I'm like, let me dig in. I almost need a warm-up set on dips. Let's come in and try to pause a little more at the bottom on a lot of them. uh get get the best stretch that I can right control it. And I managed to get 11. So I did like a rest pause here. I got 10 unloaded and I'm like I bet you I can squeeze and get one more. So we got 11 here. So that that tells me um definitely definitely u left a little bit in the tank even though it didn't feel like it. So again, want to get just get stronger at the dips. Uh my chest and triceps were on fire. like I felt my chest but also the triceps uh just absolutely crushed there. So then I've decided to finish up here with a little bit of of shoulder work. So like I said, I've gone back over. I want to just I like the way plates feel, but I was getting too cheaty. So I'm like, let's just do these as strict as I possibly can and just take them to failure, right? And failure means temporary muscle failure. You go to do one more rep and you can't like without cheating. So, it's pretty much what I did. And I get about 12 here. If I go super strict like this, I'm trying to not move my torso. And I'm trying to go as high as my shoulders allow. All right. This as high as I possibly can get my shoulders up. Um, so I got 12 on the first one. Then the second set, I definitely took it to figure. I tried to do a rep at the bottom that I couldn't. Uh, so again, these these felt good. They feel really good in the shoulders. Part of me wanted to do some front raises, too. And I'm like, but I'm like, let's not overtrain anything. Let's keep these volumes reasonable. We're doing all this three times a week in the conditioning on the off days. Like the other thing that I think that has to be said, I'm bad about overtraining. I give myself more volume than I would ever give any of my clients. I got clients who do less volume than I do sometimes or have in the past who are squatting over 600 lb, benching over 400 lb. They'll be doing 30% less volume than I do. So, it's like there's a point where I go, "Yeah, let's let's coach thyself, coach." You know what? Two sets three times a week, six total sets of direct shoulder work is is enough. So, I decided to do the hammer curls here. I almost feel like I need to go up and wait. I did a set of these yesterday, just one set. So, I'm like, just to accompany that, to make sure my biceps and grip get a little more work, let's do some hammer curls. Okay. Again, it's not supenated. So I want to see what we can do with that shoulder and the inflammation. But I do feel like if we watch, you know, what happens with that inability to get that elbow fully locked also on the on the hangs, there is possibly just overall bicep inflammation still that is related to the shoulder lock out. So let's just work with it. And I did. So I'm like, let's just focus on hammer curls. Let's avoid the supine stuff like we were doing for a while. Do the dead hang pull-ups and see if we can get the shoulder heel. just pick squat variations that don't put stress on my shoulder like I'm doing. Um, and then I like to finish up with a little bit of neck work. So, I did 20 reps here. I'm right at 20. I've had to build up to that. Still feels really hard to get to 20 with a 55 to get a little bit of neck and upper trap work in. Uh, but really happy with today's workout. I wish other than I wish I would have got one more rep on the bench, but I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys next time.