Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here and it's time for another bicep workout, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I would appreciate it so much. Um, so for those curious why we didn't get a third full body workout in, nothing to do with overtraining, nothing like that. Um, I do occasionally have days where I choose not to work out or do a partial workout if my I'm getting certain symptoms with my maners's disease. Uh even though I'm in the burnout phase, um I'm considered, you know, obviously medically capable. I'm not disabled or anything like that. I do occasionally have days where certain aspects of it um acts up. And I don't want to go into all the full details of my life or medical stuff anymore, but by the time the the late morning got here, I was fine. But it started off early enough that I'm like, you know, I'm simply not going to risk it. I'm just not going to take the chance. I'm not going to mess with it. we're going to leave it alone. Um, so instead of doing real training, I just grabbed a couple of plates and did a few sets of plate lateral raises, but I also felt like I didn't want to record those and make a blog out of them or any of that. Um, because it's not as big of a priority. I already have kind of a pattern to do in the curls like this, you know, is their own day, right? We do that right now. And I just felt like I'll just do some laterals. And I'm considering at the end at the end of the others adding more shoulder work again like I did a couple workouts in a row. Wouldn't wouldn't be a bad idea. I could use the extra shoulder work. But yeah, I just came in did a few laterals because it's not strenuous. The main thing is I didn't want to get under a heavy barbell. I didn't want to squat, bench, deadlift, anything like that. Um in spite of the fact that that, you know, the symptoms are only there an hour or so. I just don't take the risk. It's not worth it. Um I don't want to exacerbate anything because I do have an autoimmune condition. Um then people forget that sometimes. So again it creates its its own set of problems at times. Um but it wasn't vertigo which I get I get other symptoms um that that again there's sporadic uh and it actually made it for it was really hard to work get my desk work done for about an hour that morning. So over to the training the curls um just keep progressively overloading. Okay. So, since I managed to squeeze out with the rest paws 15 uh with the 85, last time I added another two and a half pounds, I got 11 and 12. Now, we're kind of getting to the point where it's it's getting difficult to progress. It's none of this, hey, we're hitting 20. We're just adding slowly. And if if I'm getting more than 10 reps, good, you know. So, this may be a case of the next workout I may leave this exact same weight on, you know, and then if I can bring the rep count up, we bring it up. I would rather not risk falling under 10. And that's the main thing. I want to be at a minimum of 10 reps on these for now. So, uh, in keeping with that, that's what we put on the bar. And, uh, yeah, of course, there's my left elbow. Uh, that's my lockout. So that's one of the reasons a lot of my other lifts look. So look at when you stop. So there's a good way to to look at it when I do the pauses or I do the bottom there. That's it. That's that's a hang for me. So there's always that for me to contend with. And I don't know why it seems to have gotten worse. I assume it's due to the old scar tissue and bicep reattachment, but it's it's increased over the years. So that's interesting. Um you know, but we'll just keep curling, right? We don't not curl because we have a situation like that. That would just be silly. It would be silly. But um yeah, they felt good. They burned. Uh biceps were lit up from it. But the main thing is we're just gradually chipping away at the progression. And for context, remember when I started doing these, even when it was, you know, it was around 14 reps or so, uh was 22 and a half pounds lighter than this. So, it's making progress, but I'm gonna have to just keep pushing it up. Like, pretty much we're at a point where until I can get at least 10 reps with 100 or more pounds, my biceps are probably not going to be where I want them to be, but we have a plan here in place. Um, but I do feel like some delt work would help. And, and with a lot of it, it's a lot of it is really just the bicep thing is my own ego in the internet, right? It's it's it's really what it comes down to because in real life I don't have this problem. All right. And it's fascinating how people out there see you versus the fitness world. If I have on a t-shirt, I get compliments on my arms in public, right? I get compliments. So, it's it's always strange to see the difference, you know, with um internet perception. And I had a former client who I was doing some consults with uh last year and he kind of said he's like he said your biceps were worse. He goes, "But honestly, I feel like they're balanced. They're proportionate now." That was his opinion and he's he's competed in at least an amateur bodybuilding show. Um so that was his opinion. I said, "Well, I don't I don't think that they are, but I do appreciate that." And that's what he said. He's like, "You've worked on them a lot. Um and I think they're honestly proportionate." and he was really like, "I'd probably just bring up your delts." And I've had a couple of bodybuilders tell me that. It's kind of funny. I've had I've had two different guys who've competed in bodybuilding who I know who've kind of said the same thing. They're like, "Your biceps are just because of your structure and just your overall size. Your biceps may not look uh, you know, massive." He goes, "But that's just just your frame and they're like they're proportionate." They're like just uh I'd work on your delts and get lean. You know, what do you do? Uh but happy with the workout. Again, progressive overload is present. Uh so it's all done. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.