Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with another full body training vlog with a quick reminder. If you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. I wanted to start going a little heavier on squats. I mean, I've been hitting 11, 12, 13 reps um on the high bar squat. I do know a few people are like, "Oh, your squat a little hard." You know, they they make a big deal, but when I go heavier like this, I don't. Right. So, we we went deeper on this first rep a little high. The others definitely got depth based on what we see from my side views normally when I do high bar. Um, so happy with this. 455 for six. Uh, I was hoping to get five, but I got six. Uh, so I'll take the win. It felt good, right? 455 for six. I'm 49 years old. I'll take it. Uh, so I also I just did my five basic lifts and I'm like, I'll think I'll throw in some front raises just because I feel like my shoulders my shoulders feel a little weak when I'm benching heavier. Um, deadlifts went okay. Got my five again. It's going to take me a moment to build these back up. I didn't deadlift really much during all the cold weeks and other stuff. I didn't want to mess with it, but 500 for five is always a good baseline for me. Is when I'm there, I feel like I'm okay because I can always take it back up. You guys watched me get it to eight a few times and then nine, you know, last year. So, you know, five is is a good good benchmark. It does feel a little little heavy in my hands, not going to lie. So, that's almost what's holding me back. Uh my hands are like, "What are you doing to us? We haven't been deadlifting with a deadlift bar lately." Um benching. So, with the bench, I went with my 315 again. I want to work this up. I know I said I really want to get to that 20 with the 225, but I've been hitting away at it and it's not really at this point not giving me as much carryover as I'd like to really heavy benching. Uh because the 315 still feels quite heavy. So I'm like, look, let's go a little heavier for a bit. I feel like I've gained some pretty good muscle from doing all that rep work. I do need to get the bench strength up a little bit. So the four felt pretty heavy. So again, I always kind of pause there like I did last time. racked it because I'm like, I don't know if I have a fifth, right? I didn't know. I wasn't sure. It was like a 5050. I'm like, if I go for a fifth rep, it's going to grind like hell. So, I'm like, let's just do some heavier benching for a couple weeks and see if it comes up. Do some heavier dips. Um, but interestingly enough, I always feel all that tricep burn on the high rep [snorts] benching. I don't feel it on the on the 315. My triceps are just kind of there. Um, they're just like, yeah, we're here. when we're doing something, but my chest, shoulders, front, front delts, pecs, particularly pecs, feel it. So, I need to just keep building the pecs up. Um, pull-ups, same thing. I I did my 45 for 10. Just kind of take my time with them. I'm not doing any rest pause. Just trying to focus on quality reps. I can get 10 and then I pretty much failed. All right, weighted dips. I'm like, "All right, we've been doing all these really high reps." Notice how deep I got that first rep there. Michael, let's go deep and let's go heavy. Went ahead and bumped these up to 90 lbs. Hey, you guys see me do, you know, 20-ish, 18, 20-ish, whatever with 45, 55. I'm like, let's go with this and really push the dips hard. Let's build the chest up nice deep. Trying to take those as deep as possible. And I only got eight reps. I failed. Rep, if you notice, I was grinding it and then it failed. And then I'm like, well, we'll do some front raises, too. Let's just make sure my shoulders are strong. So, five, my five basic lifts and I'll do an accessory at the end. It can be a front raise. It could be a pullover. Um, so I just want to push my five lifts real hard. All right. Push them with a little progressive overload. Doesn't matter whether I'm doing the really high reps or more moderate reps like this. Progressive overload. Progressive overload. Still feel a little boofy today. I look goofy today. Um, taking some of the fat out of my diet. Bump. Just go really heavy protein. That's what was making me uh leaner for a bit. Now that we're going to train with a little more work. Uh, do the full body three days a week. Bump the protein up. will start trimming back down further again. Uh shouldn't take very long. We'll see what happens in a week. And so did the front raises and I'm going to do my curls obviously on the off days because I feel like I get a lot out of that. All right. So really happy with the workout other than the benching. Like the benching it's like I was really hoping to get a fifth but when I went to do it I'm like I don't know that I got that fifth. But I'm super happy with the squats. And I'm happy that after a set of squats like this, I was able to still pull 500 or five, right? But these felt good. Like it was hard, but I wasn't like dying. It's not like when I do the 405 for high reps. I feel like I'm about to meet God when I do that, right? These felt like good solid work, but I'm not dying trying to get air at the end, you know, because it's it's six reps. But yeah, I'll see if I can work with this for a bit. Try to get them good and deep. Um, you know, you keep using it to build muscle. I mean, fours, fives, and sixes still build muscle, too, but obviously we're doing some high rep stuff, too. Uh, obviously the pull-ups are like 10ish. Uh, the dips will we'll get there. We'll get to to 10 plus again with that 90. Just got to I want to focus on going really deep. I I used to not So, when I hit 10 before with 90, I wasn't as deep as that, right? It barely break in parallel. So again, get the stretch, do the work, get the bench up, but I feel like the front raises may help a little bit, you know, just with making sure my shoulders are strong on the bench also. And then obviously curls get a really big priority by doing them on all the on the three of the off days fresh. Uh but super happy with the squats, happy with the squats and delts. Honestly happy with the dips considering the range of motion. Again, I'll take it. Um the benching is the only thing I'm a little unhappy with. I was hoping that I'd be hitting five plus again soon, you know, with a week of coming back and starting to work heavy instead of just 225 repping it out. Um, but I don't think it'll take long. It won't take long. We'll tighten up a little bit. See if we can get the bench up. And uh, yeah, overall though, happy with the workout. Really, really happy with those squats. Right. I'm over here complaining about the bench when I hit a set of squats like that. I don't know what's wrong with me. All right, I'm being silly, Jason. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.