Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it is time for a general physical preparedness workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it so much. Uh so increase the weight on the loaded carries. Now, I put some uh some of those old foam pads I used to use for box squatting. I put a couple of those down. Uh and here's the reason why. My handles do get a little beat up on the concrete. I now have to because I'm using that next set of weight up. I've got some of my really expensive steel calibrated plates on there. I am not dropping them on the concrete if I can avoid it, right? So, you know, it might happen if my grip slips further down. But, you know, those things happen. Uh, in the meantime, there's no point in banging them down every single rep on that. So, I drop those down so we can increase the weight. So, now we're bumping the weight up on the weighted carries as I said I would do. Um, said I was going to do that moving forward and I'm a man of my word. So, that's what I'm doing. I'm taking that weight up a little bit. Um, now I used to do these fairly heavy and I used to do them inside the old condo in the hallway. People would laugh like, "Oh, this dude's doing weighty carries down his hallway." Oh, they thought it was so funny. But I'm like, um, you know, doing pretty heavy weighted carries in my house. What's the problem, guys? You know, better than up and down outside. I wasn't trying to do it inside the, you know, the yard of the condo. But, you know, out here, man, there's a sidewalk. It's public public property and everything. Uh, you know, in my neighborhood, we just do the stuff down the street. Uh, but yeah, so it didn't go quite as far because again, I take fairly short breaks on these and this is a heavier weight. You know, I've got to hold on to that grip. And I think people need to remember these handles are smoother. Um, I might eventually go over to dumbbells for this if I want to go heavier because I have those really long handle dumbbells. Remember, I do have those um way better grip. So, it's something to think about. Um, I don't have any nurl on there. That is smooth on those particular little mini handles, right? They're smooth. So, um, the grip can be a little bit harder. Uh, also, I did my med ball tosses. I really like these. Um, I feel like because I'm throwing stuff up over my head. I feel like it feels really good in my shoulder joints, you know? I feel like this will continue to help improve the uh the mobility along with doing some kettle bell overhead work, which I did today, which I did for a little more volume today. So, I ended up doing three sets of those. But, let's talk about the medball throws. He's felt good. He's felt good. Of course, I think the first one I put up um that came up in the stream might have because I have the audio for they're just out there while I'm doing them for reals and shorts. I think we might have heard one of the neighbors firing up lot a whole lot of camp, you know. That's all good. Um through anyone who's curious what what sound might have been if that one's the one. I think that's one of them I put up. uh just I don't listen to it. I just throw it up there. But you know, you guys might have heard that big cam hitting you. Beautiful sound. So yeah, and I think on these like um again what I pointed out out here in the sunlight, we can see under the bit of fluff still there that muscle density I have from all the years of heavy heavy power training. Right? You can see underneath there that grainy look just underneath that layer of fat. So again, as I pointed out, every time you see a powerlifter, a strength athlete, like a serious one, diet down, there's a totally different look. Same look Dorian had actually just making that note, right? There's that density. We saw it with Mark Bell. We saw it with all these other guys. All right, there's that certain look um that's under there. And it's something we tried to point out the years. I train Martin Burkin kind of had it. All right. And this is because of real dense hard myofibrillar growth. So it's just I can see that it's already there. So I think eventually as I continue to I will get leaner over time. Um gives us a real good idea. My calves and forearms you already see it. But yeah, gives us a good idea what's what's under that fluff. Um you know, but yeah, I feel like with what I'm doing with all this fasted training um and messing with my diet, I drop the dietary fat real low. My only real fat at the moment are my two omega-3 eggs. Everything else is pretty much fat-ree unless we count chicken breast and brown rice as sources of fat be pretty low. So I'm just running a lot of carbs now because I think with all this fasting, I really do think that's going to be the way to go. I've adapted to doing all this. My body's used to it. Um just carb up, you know, very similar idea to what the sugar diet guys do, but doing it all fasted makes a difference. All this training is done that way. So we're again um you know, digging into those reserves a little. So yeah, but I feel like the diet's really good there. I feel like the diet is really fueling my performance, right? My workouts are getting really, really good while doing it. Now that I've scaled running back, I chose not to run. I'm just going to run a couple days a week just to keep my fitness up, right? We need to run enough to keep my feet and ankles tough uh to the barefoot part and we need to run enough to keep my cardio up. But the GPP that I'm doing here, all this GBP has a hypertrophic effect. So there's going to be muscle growth. This gives recomposition. I always tell guys that like do GBP, right? do your heavy lifting, but then if you need to get pursue other activity, something like general physical preparedness will get you fit. Right. Right. And it'll improve body composition. I tell a lot of guys, I could almost just have you squat, bench, deadlift, and chin up and just do lots of GP. And most most dudes would get everything they want to get, right? They get the physique they want over time with a good diet. Two rounds of sled sprints here. All right. Two rounds of sled sprints. I've decided to adjust the camera right there since I'm doing them pretty short. So, the first ones are not a sprint. I go a lot faster on the way back. So, for those curious, that's just a nice steady push. It's a little jog. When I turn them around and go, I actually run. So, I try to run hard. So, these are sprints at this point, right? We're trying to sprint with it. Um, you know, so again, get as fast as I possibly can. Uh, get get some good conditioning out of it. But I did two rounds. I mean, Saturday we might do three. We might do three, but I just did two rounds of it here. Uh, just nice, good sprints. I feel like it's carrying over to my squatting. I feel like I know it builds my quads and calves and everything, right? I know it builds all of them, but those squat reps are going up. And I feel like I'm almost stuck. I got seven twice with that 405, but I'm going to get it to 10. The same thing with that deadlift. I'm going to push those top sets up to 10 reps. Now, if I ever get the bench to 315 for 10, then we'll be smoking, right? That would be just amazing for me. Like, yeah, that would be like feel like an impossible dream, but I'm gonna work on it. All right. Um, I grabbed the 25 pound kettle bell again for these and I did three sets of 15 per arm. Um, and and I'm fully aware that Oh, that's not locked. That is my log out. That's why I'm doing this because I need to work it. Even if I can't lock it all the way out, I need to work it. I need to work it. And the funny thing, it sounds like a bowl of Rice Krispies. Especially the right one when I'm doing these, man. All I hear because I don't have my music in, my headphones aren't in, it sounds like a bowl of Rice Krispies all the way up, you know? But that's okay. That means what does that tell us? Because I don't hurt. And that's what people need to remember that when we talk about the range of the shoulders, they're like, well, you know, if it hurt, like, no, it doesn't hurt. That's the thing. There's zero pain. I just simply can't go through the ranges of motion which we've kind of observed. And the dead hangs I can hang do dead hangs further into them that I can press. So some of it's telling us, yeah, there's definitely uh some scar tissue or adhesions or whatever in there. And maybe just the movements will help break up. That's one reason I notice the hangs don't do anything, but maybe the overhead does. There's a lot more sounds. And people can make it that what they will when I'm actually pressing stuff or lifting the arms. I know that when it's when I mess with really light blue raises. Um so again, I'm maybe hoping if we just work through the ranges of motion, we'll just continue to improve it and get stronger in them. Uh so yeah. Yep. And then I ended up doing three sets of reverse hypers. I'm not going to talk through all the hypers. I'm not going to talk through all the hypers. But I think over time too once as my body gets used to the more carbs and salts and stuff again, I feel like that waist around that love handle will tighten. It's tighter on some days than others. I've noticed. Of course, if I just went low carb, it would all drop off, but I don't want to do that. It would impede my performance and not necessarily be optimal for health. Uh but eventually eventually I feel it will get tighter. Um, but I'm doing so much brown rice right now, it'll make me hold a hair of extra water in the gut. But that's okay because as long as I'm recompositioning, I don't care because eventually that does get tighter. Uh, but the reverse hypers, I did more than 25 on the third set. I've added that extra weight. Um, and I just did three sets of them and I took it more reps on the final one. I didn't really count past there. I But I got I know that I got more than 25. So, I did three sets of these with this newer weight. Make sure we get that lower back. My lower back is a little crampy yesterday after squatting and deadlifting, especially the squatting. So again, I want to make sure I'm working that area, but really happy with this workout. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.