Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and once again it is time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder if you guys will click like down below be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate that so much. So um for the duration I think of this cut, I'm going to continue to obviously do the full body. Um today I decided to just do one set of my big three, right? I'm like let's do a really challenging set of bench. Um, I did 275, did them all pause, flat back, got seven reps. Pretty happy with that. And I think what I'm going to do, um, and it's kind of a wild idea. I might just do my sets to failure, right? Might just do my sets to failure, which means I'll use those safety arms on the bench. I went ahead. I may just do squat, bench, and then deadlift. Uh, just do one set, take them to failure so that we know we're getting a quality set. It'll also tell me where I'm at in terms of strength because nothing's held in reserve. Um, I thought I'd do a little better on the back squat today. I did 375 using the the squat bar. I got four reps and then I I failed on the fifth. And that's okay. I set the pins knowing I thought I'd get the fifth and then fail the sixth, but you know, all things considered this far into the cut. Um, I'll live with that. I'll live with that. It still means my squat is over over 405. So, um, but again, I think I need to do some heavier hard sets like this to where we we do that. Uh, I used to do all my stuff to failure back in the day and I got pretty strong doing it. But I just feel like for me and it's just kind of a fun way to approach it to where I know I'm going really hard on my big three. One top set because we really only do a single of meat anyways and then everything else we can just come in and bodybuild. But yeah, at this point, guys, I mean, this much cardio, all the fasting, I mean, some of these top sets are not going to be crazy good like they used to be. And but, you know, I feel like I can bring them up a little bit when I just get used to doing it again, right? I feel like recovery is really on point. Like, I feel good. Like, nothing feels bad. In fact, I'm really happy with uh, you know, a lot of the stuff happening as far as doms. Uh, no cramps because of all the salt and everything. But I'm obviously probably lighter than I think I am. I'm still sitting at 211 now. But man, I'm hammering down so much salt and everything. Um, it's so much water. Uh, trying to make sure I'm hydrated. I have a feeling I have a feeling like right now if I just cut carbs in salt, I'd dropped 200 lb straight up. Uh, so I feel like I'm holding a few pounds of water, but that belt is looser and looser and looser. Something else I worked on. I didn't put it into the stuff that I messed with a little overhead pressing with the bar. I even did some behind the neck. Behind the neck, it looks horrible because it's the the range of motion isn't there. I'm going to go ahead and double down on doing overhead pressing, right? I'm going to double down on overhead pressing. I need to master it again no matter what. And if that means that I gotta check my ego at the door and the only thing I can lock is 95 pounds, but I can get it pretty close to decent over my head, then that's what we're going to do. But I feel like I need to do more dead hangs. I did chins today, but part of me also feels like I need to do the pull-ups. Why? Because those pull-ups put me into the same position as the overhead press, right? I want to continue to stretch that area. Um the dips today because I got 10 with the 45. three sets of 10 doing this really deep range of motion. I'm like, I bet I can get work sets with a 55. And I did. We got three sets of eight with that deeper range of motion. Okay, so this is now PRs, right? We're we're into PR territory because I struggled at first, but like six, seven, eight, getting really deep with the 45. Then I got 10. Now I'm doing eight with the 55. I should have put that camera angle a little bit higher on this so when I step off, see how I'm looking. Uh, my bad. I'll fix that next time. So, we did we did uh yeah, deep dips. So, I feel like for me those really deep ranges of motion on the dips, forcing myself to do pull-ups and chin-ups with the grips that allow me to get my chin to the bar so that I get all the way up there. Okay, it's going to be the way to go. And force myself to overhead press, force myself to do dead hangs. I will get back to where I can do that, you know, because I looked really thick off of just dips, pull-ups, overhead pressing, and benching in that other picture. I think people forget that. They don't realize how minimalist my training was for that picture with the green screen that I put up, the nine-year-old one, guys. I was I was just doing full body three days a week. And I wasn't doing any isolation work, like occasional triceps. That was about it. That was that was really my only isolation work. It was but it was a lot of weighted body weight stuff plus my big three and overhead pressing. So now that I'm going to do isolation for the arms, it's kind of like, you know, we'll see where we can get with some of that. Uh but for these today, I did chins uh because I can get all the way over the bar. I did these last time with a 25. So I'm like, let me see how well we can do with a 45. Um and we ended up getting that's a dead hang. So that's the problem I was talking about with the range of motion with locking out overhead. Those are dead hangs. And notice it still looks like it's not locked. So at chins, it's even worse than the pull-ups. So I I do want to keep working on that. So I feel like pull-ups might be better. I decided to do chins today because I was going to do straight bar curls. I'm like I could use the extra bicep work. But you know, by that same token, my biceps were probably I mean people were saying they looked bigger in that other thing, right? And it's like I wasn't doing any curls. I wasn't even doing chin. I was literally doing neutral grip pull-ups. So, I also feel like if I continue to do the pull-ups so that I can get the overhead pressing, but I push barbell curls really hard and just curls. Um, I feel like we can continue to get some bicep growth. Um, right. We'll continue to get bicep curls, but today was really serious bicep. Of course, Monday was even more so because I did a lot of curls. Uh, but today we didn't. We just did three sets of chins, three sets of curls, but I took the curls to failure. And then I even I did a rest pause on the curl. Uh because why not? And I could argue that it may not help. But if I'm doing a relatively low volume and I'm just going to push really really hard, you know, I don't see a problem with that. And I think the other thing too when it comes to the old school training, I don't think people realize most of those bodybuilders trained to failure. So those three day a week bronze and silver error guys, they just trained everything to failure. People don't don't always know that. Just an FYI. I think some stuff like dips and skull crushers, it's a problem potentially. But is it really a problem? So maybe I could take the dips to failure. We don't look as cool stepping off the off the platform, right? But also if I take them to failure, I might want to not even use the platform. You might want to just step up and learn to start in the bottom position. I could work with that a little bit, right? We could work with that. But the curls, I got two sets of 10. I think I failed. Did I hit failure on the second one? I think I did. Uh we got in there and and it failed. And then the third one, I failed and went rest pause because I'm like, why not? Let's just push the biceps really hard. Do we necessarily need more volume or do we need to just train harder? You know, because if I'm doing pull-ups or chin-ups every workout and then we do three sets of barbell curls, I think we're pretty good. But this set, I went ahead, I took it to failure, then I set it down, rested a couple seconds, and squeeze out two more reps. I couldn't quite get the second rep after all the way to the top. So, it failed also. So, I hit failure twice, but I'm like, you know, might as well. Let's just push my biceps all the way to the limit. Let's push them to the limit. Um, just like those dips hit my triceps, but I'm like, let's let's progress on those skull crushers. Like really, really strict skull crushers. So, I did I went up another five on those and I got like 15, 16, 16. So, you'll see coming up. But here on the curls, right, we hit failure. I could not finish the rep. I set it down, rested a couple seconds, grabbed it. I'm like, let's grab a little bit more. And maybe I just need to train biceps like this. What if I just do barbell curls like this also every workout? my biceps will be forced to grow, I feel like. So, again, I'm I'm gonna do more stuff to failure. Um, I feel good with my training. I feel like for the recovery, the salt is really kind of what I lacked. And I think people do need to remember with some of that I tend to run a really low sodium diet because I have miners's disease. So, a lot of times people don't realize I'm on like a gram of sodium, sometimes a couple months at a time. But in terms of the training in this heat, man, the salt and especially with all the cardio, it seems to really make a difference. I've noticed I don't get any cramping and I don't get any doms right now with all the salt I've been adding in. Um, so there's something to be definitely be said for that. And when I say I'm adding a lot, I'm not even tracking. I'm just dumping. I'm probably eating six, seven, eight grams of sodium. But even my potassium, I add potassium salts. I add like a gram of potassium salt at least a day between my water, my food, because I do potassium chloride in my rice, plus the other stuff, all the sea salt, all the soy sauce, but then I also throw that scoop of potassium citrate in my big jug of drinking water. Um, so I am probably getting five plus grams of potassium, probably who knows, six, seven, eight grams of sodium a day. I'm drinking about a gallon. So, I'm trying to stay as hydrated as possible. Uh, but these skull crushers are feeling good. Here's the beauty of this because I'm going so light. Like, this is stupidly light. This is only what, 65 lbs, and I'm still getting 15 plus. But what I'm doing on these, notice we're we're going all the way to the forehead. Um, but I'm keeping the elbows tucked. So, I'm not able to flare out and cheat and use a heavier weight. So, it's forcing me to use this really light weight, but it's really lighting my triceps up, but it's doing it without destroying the elbows. Now, the point with this is we're pushing dips really hard. So, we're progressively overloading the dips and then progressively overloading these behind it. This is going to make sure my triceps uh really get hammered, right? And I feel again I can get away with all this because if I bench just one set to failure, then three dips, it's going to give me 12 sets for chest a week. But then we come in and really hammer the triceps. So, I think again triceps, biceps, but I really, really, really want to work on overhead pressing. I feel like I have to get it back into the rotation. And it doesn't matter if I got people in the comments going zero, zero. And then calf raises. We did our normal calf raise. I'm getting good at just finding the position that lets me stay comfortable in this. It's really easy now. Um, so I got twelves and I did a little posing here. Just see where I'm at. you know, so obviously I still got the belt on here, but um because I have a leg pump from doing this, it's just a good time to just do a quick thing. So I did, you know, a little straight arm, did a side chest after doing a little leg, just see where my legs are at. Um, you know, people can assess it from there. Uh, but obviously body fat still needs to keep coming down the cut. I mean, realistically, I'm probably going to need to be 190 and I'm still 211. So, you know, another 20 pounds probably, you know, another 20 lbs. But I got to get that waist really small, that's going to be the main thing. So, look there. Like, if I get the waist really small, look at, you know, again, the overall thickness, get my arms a little bigger, I'll be in a good place, right? But biceps are obviously, if you look, biceps are obviously the weak link. Uh, but overall really happy with today's workout. Um, I would have liked another rep on the squats, but I'll take it all things considered considering they were nice and deep. Um, and yeah, I'm going to start doing more just taking everything to failure and just dropping it on the pins. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.