Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it is time for a GPP workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, so changing stuff just a little through here back and forth. Um, I think people have to remember that with GPP, don't get too set into a routine. So again, I didn't do any weighted carries for just a bit and I realized going a little too heavy on them in terms of just my axial fatigue, but my back feels good, everything feels good. So, I worked them back in and of course they felt just fine. The thing is just don't overdo them. So, I didn't go uh you know crazy heavy today, right? Like 90 lbs a hand, right? It's like 90 lbs in each hand. Fine. Uh run out to just and get it done. Um so, a couple rounds of these. Again, it's just good for my grip training, good for my core. Um and I just I like it for the extra grip work. I do everything raw. all my pulling, all my deadlifting, pull-ups, everything are done raw, but I like the little bit of extra grip work and I feel like it carries over a lot. Um, so again, but I just did two rounds, so it wasn't too intense. I wanted to focus a little more on the sprinting and throwing today, which is pretty much was was the name of the game. So, we just did the two rounds of of weighted carries um just to get some in, right? Just to get it in. Uh, but again, I I like the uh the grip training and there's going to be days where I push this a little bit harder and I didn't I didn't do the curls in here. I've realized I I almost want to experiment with the idea of, you know, someone said I've had people give me a hard time, you know, they're like, "You should train your arm. If you trained your arms like you trained your legs because they don't know what I do, so they only see the, you know, the video footage and the pictures, then, you know, you'd have way bigger arms, you know. So, it's like interesting. I don't bodybuild for my legs, by the way. So, that's kind of why that's interesting. What muscle do I really train like a bodybuilder? My arms like I train my arms like a bodybuilder and they always like. So, it's like why don't why don't I treat my arms like I treat my legs? Just forget isolation and high reps completely. You don't need it. I mean, other than our condition work might be the way that I go. I mean, other than I don't want to pull band press downs out. Uh, but what does that mean? We don't do crazy volumes, right? I have never needed 20 sets for my legs in my life. I mean, even now, what do we do? One set of squats. We'll do like three rounds of sled sprints like you saw here, you know? But when even if we add that up, let's say we do three really hard sets of squats a week, and then we do three sets of the sled sled sprints twice a week. That's nine sets for my quads. Are we counting deadlifts, too? Maybe. I guess we could count deadlifts. So, deadlifts worked in. It's 12 total sets. If I don't do any jumping, that's it. So, either nine or 12 sets, depending on if you want to count deadlifts, no isolation, but I don't want to take isolation out of arms. But I feel like I don't know, maybe if I just pushed really heavy chins and a very low volume, very low volume of of curls, quit doing all the band work and other stuff for my biceps, right? Quit trying to do huge amounts of sets. Maybe I just overtrained. I always want I always kind of say that as a coach. I probably overtrained my arms, right? Realistically speaking, total reps, total sets. I probably overtrained my biceps to be fair. I don't know. I wonder I wonder what would happen if I treated them like my legs. We see what my legs look like. H maybe might give it a try. But limit the main thing is just really hard sets. Limit the volume. Focus on progressive overload. All right. For the throws, I did med ball tosses. Um did six triples on these. So again, I wanted to focus on these were short breaks. This is a a real quick workout. This is not a long workout at all, but I wanted to do the throws and I wanted to do some some overhead work because I can still go a little harder on the shoulders. I can do pump work for the shoulders, but I almost feel like with the arms, um, I need to chill with some of that. Maybe just do my big movements, focus on progressive overload. I've thought about just really pushing shins hard. I mean, if I if if I wanted to treat my biceps like my legs that people are like, well, you know, train them like your legs because is it is it just my leg genetics or is it my whole body genetics? Is it because modern bodybuilding doesn't really work without tons of drugs? Maybe I try to bodybuild my arms too much. I I know as a coach, like if I if I had a client want to do the amount of arms I do, I would probably be like, "No, dude, you're overtraining them. Stop. you know, might not be ideal. And I've had people come to me who chasing aesthetics who do just tons of pump work for their arms and they're not getting the results they want. So maybe that's what we need to do. Maybe we just need to push that progression. Treat my extensions the same way. Maybe I don't need all those band press downs. Maybe just one set here or there. do one set of of extensions for progress, bench hard, and and call it quits. Might might might actually work. I feel like my triceps are limiting my benching at the moment. So, just stuff stuff to think about, guys. Stuff I might think about, but the the medball tosses, I like these. They feel great. They feel great on my shoulders, and that's a a big deal for me. I really like how they feel on my shoulders in addition to being full body explosive movement. But I must wonder if just for a phase, what if I just, you know, focus on progressive overload on curls. Don't do more than six sets a week. Like seriously, just cap it at six. What if I did maybe some chins? So that would be about like my leg volume. What if I did chins instead of pull-ups and just went really heavy? Didn't try to do 12elves or 15s like I do with the weighted shins. Let's throw a little weight on. Maybe do some some six to eight reps. Put some actual weight on. Do shins that way. Maybe. Maybe. worth considering. All right. But the shoulders though I am doing all this this volume. I like a lot of reps. Like I'm doing 20 plus rep sets to fail your laterals. Um but I so I feel like here at the end of the GBP doing some overhead pressing because again we want to work on restoring that range of motion. So just doing lots of overhead work even with lighter weight it's going to help me with that range of motion that ability to eventually lock out again. Um we know that's a priority for me. So, I did two sets of, but I got to 20s this time. I've not got 20s with these. I've done like 15s. I did three sets of 15 not that long ago with these kettle bells, but two sets of 20. So, we're get getting more reps. I'm getting stronger at the overhead work slowly but surely. It's just coming along. So, again, I did 20 with with each arm for two sets. Uh, so again, let's just keep building that overhead strength. You know, that's the only way I'm going to get the ability to lock out again is going to be just pushing stuff into that position as far as I can go over and over and locking as hard as I can. You know, doing my dead hangs on chin-ups and pull-ups and just continue to do dynamic stuff because we know stretching doesn't work for me. If stretching worked, I would have amazing overhead mobility again. Dead hangs, weighted dead hangs, none of it's never done anything. mobility stretches, angel, angel stretches, all sorts of stuff, wall slides, none of this stuff works, doesn't do anything. My experience, so I did this and I did one set of hanging leg raises to call it a day. Uh, so again, I'll just wind it down here. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals the next time.