 Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha, it's Jason Blaha here, once again it's time for pretty much a pull day. This is still full body though, so I, yeah, I'm gonna call it back bicep forearm, but my whole body's getting worse. I'm doing deadlifts, I'm doing pullovers, so yeah. Alright, I took the belt off. Embarrassing. 500 felt really heavy. I'm like, my back doesn't feel like it has multiple reps. I just pulled with that stiffer bar. You know, we did 500 for four yesterday, it was pretty easy. Going beltless again, and again, keep in mind, a couple few years ago I pulled 605. Now granted, that was on a deadlift bar. Not the same. 605 without a belt. So for 500 to feel well above 90%, hmm, we gotta work on that. So I'm gonna have to practice the beltless deadlifts again. We're gonna do everything raw. I'm gonna take off all the belt, all the straps. I'm just gonna leave the shirt on for now. As I get leaner, I'll pull the shirt back off once I'm leaner later. I don't think we need it off right now. I'm just gonna wear my shorts, wear t-shirts, and just get my training done and not worry about things. Just get in and just train. Enjoy the training. But, what do we have to do a little different here? Oh man. Reverse hypers. So, if I'm gonna do the beltless again, I gotta do the reverse hypers. Or, I've gotta go do a bunch of good mornings. Because the low back, and it's not, I didn't feel like I was straining it. But my low back is like, wow, we are not used to working like this. Right? My whole core felt like my abdominal wall. My lower back felt a little crampy on that rep. And it's because they engaged harder. I feel like they engage harder than they're used to. So, I'm gonna go back to the beltless. And let's set a goal. Let's set a goal. I like goal setting. Alright? I like goal setting. How about I build up, I wanna build up to five reps with that stiff bar with no belt with 500. That's a good metric. Alright? Build up to that. But I'm gonna need to do some reverse hypers here. And it'll carry over to both. But, um, lets me still double down on all the grip stuff. And that's the funny thing. Man, I better hammer down on these hammer curls. And my press downs. I'm gonna be in a black t-shirt. I need my arms looking bigger in the shirt though. So, we're gonna do all that. You know? It's always funny to me. You know, the internet versus real life. If I'm not in a t-shirt like this in public, I get compliments on my arms. It's ridiculous. Like, the real world versus the internet. It's so different. It's so different. But, uh, yeah. So, did that. Uh, my three sets of that short breaks. Obviously, you can see me unloading the bar in between the sets. You'll notice it strips down further. Uh, then I went straight over to my pull-ups. So, again, the idea here. Taking a nice, just shoulder width. Um, I'm trying to dead hang on every rep. That's the goal. I want to get these from a hang, uh, for the most part. Funny, like that one of them there was a touch and go. But it felt like a hang. I swear I counted a full second at the bottom. But a lot of them are. Especially near the end. We're getting up there. And even tell I'm out of steam. Struggling to get to the top for that long pause. Uh, but we're doing eight with the 45. I'd like to build that to 10. And, and to get the range of motion improved as we work on the shoulder mobility. Uh, dumbbell rows. Pretty much 10 reps is where I'm running out of steam on these right now. With this weight. Which we built up to that. This started at eight. So it's up to 10. Uh, anything past 10 is getting hard. And it's mainly because I feel like my grip is getting a little slippery here. Which makes sense. You know, we've done deadlifts first. We've done pull-ups first. But we'll keep, we'll keep training the grip. Right? This is a grip tool. So it's like, this is not a case of going, oh, well, if your grip is slipping, you better figure that out. No, this, this trains the grip. One arm dumbbell rows. We're all without straps. Our phenomenal grip tool. But let's keep in mind when I'm getting the 10 reps, it's not like I'm not really, really close to failure with everything else. So keep that in mind as your upper back gets fatigued, your grip fatigues with it. Right? Your grip fatigues with it. But happy with it. So doing it through the full range of motion so that we do get the rear delts and everything effectively worked. Um, pullovers. Like I said, doing here, working on just getting a pause. And of course I pause longer as I get deeper into the set. I'm just going to work with the 25 for now, you know? And yeah, it's, it's putting me up at like 25 reps, but I'm going to work this and I won't pause this. But I've realized the super long pauses are not doing what I need them to do. Um, I do need it to be a dynamic movement, not just some static stretch with a crazy lightweight. However, getting 25s here with this, I may need to step this up. Right? Um, and it's only because I can't get past that range of motion. Now, if I had the mobility to get deeper, I feel like this would be like a 10 rep set with this weight. If I could get all the way behind my head. So I do contemplate not increasing the weight because of that. All right. I'm contemplating not increasing the weight. Because if I can get this to just continue to unlock more and to get that stretch, which again, a little dead hanging, uh, working some other stuff, uh, should help with that. I did some band pull-up parts at the end here too, just to make sure we're getting some of that. Uh, but again, I have to avoid supine work too. So that's going to be the name of the gang hangs, dead hang, pull ups, pull overs. Right. I might need to eventually add some, uh, toe to bars again, just for the, for the grip, the abs and, and the shoulder work. You know, again, anything I can do to get that overhead hang. Right. But adding in something like a hanging leg raise. Uh, so we'll, we'll think about that. We might need to add some of those into to get the abs a little stronger again also, because man, the abs felt a little, almost crampy on that, uh, that deadlift. Hammer curls. I'm like, yeah, I just double down on the grip and the hammer curls, man. I'm being the t-shirt. Uh, I need my arms to look bigger. No, I'm just kidding, but not really. So, uh, I got my 11, which was my PR the other day, but this way doing them real strict. And then I did a second set and got 10. Right. So we, we did do a second set and I'll keep in mind, I'm doing this every day. So a lot of people are like one set, but I'm like, yeah, but it's seven days a week. And it's after doing rows and pull ups and stuff. But again, keeping the supine workout to see if that helps with the shoulders over an extended period of time. Now that I'm close grip pinching again, all the supine stuff is gone. Do it all the stretch to hang stuff. Let's get the shoulders open back up so we can overhead press. Right. Focus on, on performance, focus on performance and keeping my diet dialed in. Um, so I can get, get leaner while we do all of it. Uh, but yeah, I did that. And then I did one set of band pull aparts at the very end. Uh, and again, the purpose of those making sure the rear delts are worse, good for the shoulder health. Um, I'm not worried about the other parts of the delts beyond that, cause that will work the side delt I'm doing. You know, flat bench and incline. I'm incline benching, you know, the three main full body days every week. My, my, the rest of my delts are getting plenty of work. I think they're good. So, but yeah, we finished up with the band pull apart. Uh, so again, just overall shoulder health rear delts. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time. Bye. Thank you.