Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, it would be greatly appreciated. Um, overall pretty pretty happy with today's work. Um, always minor adjustments on the supplemental work end. Uh, trying to figure out what lifts to keep in and which ones not to to get me where I want to go. But um, the squatting went good. However, I noticed my low back was really crampy at the end of this set of squats. It's kind of one of those cases where it feels fine now. I finished my workout, everything's good. I'm like, man, I should have deadlifted. But it was again a case of these high bar squats do put a lot of fatigue on my low back. One reason I've started adding the reverse hypers back in um because again, I want to make sure that we're good. So, it was a little crampy. So, I skipped the deadlifts. I'm like, you know what? I pulled 500 for six twice this week. Not worried about it. Not worried about it at all. Of course, a lot of times people don't like when I do the high bar squat like this. They don't like my my depth view from the front till we get to the side and realize I'm actually breaking parallel when I do a side camera. I don't care. Not worried about it. It builds my quads and it builds my low bar. Um but again, we're up to doing sets of seven, but I haven't been able to get past that. So those sets of seven, um I feel that I'm at my limit. I've done it couple times now. Like we've worked up to that. It feels like a little bit of I just don't feel like I've got an A threat. So I'm just going to keep working with the 405. I'm going to work on maybe see if I can pause some of them a little more, start sinking on my hair deeper, and just keep mastering that 405 for reps on that high bar. Um, you know, and that easily always puts me at at a 500 squat. I think people are shocked a lot of times when I do rep work with stuff like that. Then I spend a week or two ramping up just, you know, knock down stuff like 500s um pretty easily. I feel like though, again, for me, if I'm I'm able to consistently get that 405 for for six to seven reps like that, I probably could hit a 500 with a couple weeks of prep. Um, easy enough. So, over to the benching again, four reps with the 315. Um, it feels like I've been stuck there a few weeks. Uh, but again, we were doing threes again. Now I'm up to fours consistently, but I'm getting it every single workout. So, I want to do the stuff that I know is going to help. Incline, dips, and and I'm gonna be fair. I don't think I need to isolate my triceps. I think dips are what I need to be be doubling down on, but I like the incline also. So, we're always torn there. And I'm like, why not just do both and keep the volumes in check? U because the incline needs to come up, right? Like that 225 for five was fairly hard, but I feel like again, I don't need to go super heavy on the supplemental work. Um, so instead of trying to grab a second set with 225, I dropped down to 185, got a clean 10 reps. So I feel like on the incline, I need to just build the volume work up. I need to build the rep work up and just get real good at incline again. Build the muscle, build the delts, build the upper chest. Uh, and again, it's it's what I need to do. And I felt obviously a lot of upper chest here. Actually felt a decent amount of tricep on these today, too. So, um, I'm going to continue to obviously do them, right? We're going to obviously do them. They need to be done. They're going to be, uh, a critical part of my training. I feel like, and again, particularly given given the fact that I want to get that overhead press strength back up, I feel like as I get the range of motion restored, the inclines will carry over. Uh, but as far as benching goes, yeah, pressing muscles are going to be priority. So, pretty much, we know this, guys. Uh, my training is going to heavily be built around building up my delts and triceps, right? I feel like delts just need to come up in general. We've discussed this a lot. Um, I don't think that I need to be doing curls right now. Honestly, I feel like shins is enough for my biceps. My arms were were at their biggest on this channel when I didn't do any curls at all. Uh, so at a certain point, I do feel like maybe they just are eating into my recovery. I can do chins. I can do pull-ups. And let's just focus on triceps, right? Focus on triceps and shoulders. Um, but I noticed what was interesting this morning, the morning lighting. When I'm in my bathroom looking like in the mirror, I I look a lot thicker and then leaner leaner. I look thicker up top. Like I feel like my shoulders and stuff are getting wider. And I think we can see it when I do the medball throws, right? That lighting. Um, so I I feel like there's some recomposition happening. I don't always feel like it when I look at this training footage, but I definitely can see it um with a lot of that. But I noticed in the morning um I was surpris I was kind of surprised how I looked during my bathroom, you know, toothbrushing um you know, looking in the mirror. So I feel like we're we're coming along here. Feel like the all the GBP is helping. Feel like keeping the diet dialed in. Feel like we're recmping decently effectively. Uh but the chins again the same thing. It's like I I don't want to go under about 10 reps on most of the supplemental stuff. So, I almost feel like with the the incline, I need to not try to just go real hard on the 225s. We have heavy benching every single workout. Um, I feel like again, not going to be the way to get to 225 or 10 is not going to be to just beat 225 up because I'm already benching heavy. It's going to be to to work with the lighter weights, get the 10 plus reps and just build those up um and then work in dips. So, the thing is, you know, I did extensions last time. I haven't done them in a while and I PR. I can go weeks at a time without doing extensions. And if I push to dips, what happens? I get stronger and PR those extensions. So, what does this tell us? That my dips literally feed the extensions, not the other way around. So, I feel like dips, dips, dips, because they work my pecs, they work my triceps. But that set of dips was really hard after incline benching. So, it felt tough. I stopped at one set, figured let's just do some band press downs, get some blood flow to the tendons. Um, but I feel like again for me if I want to double down on on knee chest and tricep work, I'm just going to push incline and dips for higher reps and then we'll come in and we'll do laterals. So, and I feel like because I'm doing the overhead stuff on the GPP, I'm doing the kettle bells, I'm doing the throws. Um, I don't need to just destroy my my delts on the training day. Let's just isolate them. So, this is kind of the one thing I will isolate other than band work. I feel like my shoulders are probably the only thing worth isolating. Um, my arms got big from dips and closer grip benching before many times. I noted that in old posts I made way back in the day that when I was in my 20s as we grew up, right? So, it's what I need to do, right? Push diff. But if I need some band work, I feel like bands helped with the tendons. Um, and the band work doing the all the the band work helped with my close grip bench when I got it up to 365. I felt like the carryover was really good, you know. So, I feel like a little bit of band work will handle that. But the only thing I probably need to really be isolating is my delts. And like I said, as I get leaner, I think they'll be fine. But I do like to do the band work to finish off triceps. So we did three sets of these today. Um, but I feel I got a rep PR on those plates. I did dumbbells last time and I went back to the plates. I almost feel like I could just do the 25s until I get really really high reps on those and then go up because I don't have 35s to bridge the gap. But I feel like the plates really allow me to just have a really good smooth free range of motion with the center of gravity. I like them. They're very comfortable in my shoulders. Um, but again, three sets of IRA band press downs. I got over 50 on the first two and I I got like 25 or 30 on the third one. So, my triceps were shot. So, again, just getting that blood flow to them, keeping the tendons healthy, but I feel like the pressing and the dips are really what are going to build them. But, this does help with the lockout strength and then the tendons, right? The tendons being a big part of it. Um, but that's its own conversation. It's almost think about when people talk about heavy partials. Well, the heavy band work puts all the tension really on the lockout, but you get large amounts of reps for blood flow. That's why the bands work so well, right? Because you are overloading the easiest part with a lot of tension on the tendon. And maybe not the muscle, but the tendon gets it. All right, guys. So, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.