Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for a full body workout. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. All right, so um it's a PR kind of day. We matched the bench PR at this body weight uh from last Monday. And it actually, looking at the footage, I probably possibly could have had another rep. Uh, but as far as this goes, I just did a quick uh 315 on camera just to kind of check depth because I'm doing high bar. And I always I've pointed this out when I've done demonstrations showing guys high bar versus low bar. Your reference to parallel is going to be different on high bar versus low bar. Like I get a deeper knee angle without even breaking parallel. Um whereas when I do the low bar, the wide stance, all that. Obviously your hips drop lower, but it's less range of motion on the knee. So, right now, because again, I'm wanting to just let my shoulders completely recover from that um overhead press stuff. I'm wanting them to completely recover um and I want to get no inflammation. I'm just sticking with high bar squats. They build my squat, they build my quads, right? So, even here uh from the side. So, watch this is why I did the side angle today, right? Because you can see that the knees I am bending the knee through its full range of motion. it. This is pretty much hamstrings to calves, but it looks on a lot of these reps an inch or two above depth. Like, so my high bar squats here, I would have to try to sink them deeper. Um, but when I I do low bar, it drops way lower. So, just making a note here though. But the quad activation, everything is going to be really good. So, that's the perk of doing this. And I got seven reps with that. I got 405 for seven. So, that's actually going up. that's actually going up. What's interesting though, I feel that deeper quad angle. So, when I do that, I can tell my quads are getting worked really effectively. So, I'm happy with that. Um, but just just to be clear, that is a true high bar. The bar is up on my traps. Um, I'm I'm actually using a toes forward, fairly narrow stance on that. So, again, great for quad activation. Not necessarily ideal for getting below parallel with the heaviest weight, but that's okay. I'm just kind of bodybuilding with it a little bit for now and when I'm ready to really hit some big squat numbers, you guys already know what I'm capable of. So, I feel like at this point that 405 high bar for me represents probably real close to a 500 high bar again for me personally, right? So, pretty happy with that. Uh, benching went really good. So, I that was the 315 for five. Notice it wasn't as grindy as last time. So, I'm gonna keep hammering the triceps. I feel like I need to just work on pause benching and then just double down on that tricep work because for me at this point, I'm a very tricep dominant bencher. Even though, look how wide I grip. I don't think people are realizing till you look at the reference to the J hooks because my arm length, you can't always tell. I've got longer arms. Um, my index finger is on the rings. I'm gripping super super wide here and we're using very very modest arch. Um, so in this case, even with this very chest dominant benching, I tend to be very tricep dominant. I'm not saying I don't feel a ton of chest, but I always feel like it's like right there. Notice kind of where I'll start sticking a little bit. I feel like triceps limit my rep work, right? So, it's still a very tricep dominant exercise for me. Um, so I'm just going to keep doubling down on it because every time my triceps get stronger, my bench goes up. But, uh, same thing, I matched that 275 PR. I got nine reps with it last time. Got nine reps again today. Happy with that. Um, deadlift went good. Um, I didn't go all out on the deadlifts. I just got a good clean five reps. Um, they're all they're all clean. They're all smooth here. And then on the fifth rep, I held it at the top, right? Just to get a little bit of extra grip work there to hold a nice grip for just a brief couple seconds and then set it down. Felt good. I didn't take that to the bleeding edge unlike some of these other movements. um the all a lot of this other stuff we did. So, I went all out on everything else. And really, those squats were pretty hard, too. I don't know that maybe I had one more rep on those that high bar squat. Um this I took all the way to the edge and I got a PR. Okay, notice the foot position. I want this to carry over to that high bar squat because if that high bar squat goes up and then I I once I feel like my shoulders feel good and I can start low bar squatting again and I want to do a real wide stance, it carries over because the other work that the deadlifts and things carry over to my low bar. Um, so again, just wanting to do this. So right there, that last rep was grindy. I had to kind of pull myself up, but I'm like, man, maybe I should I'm going to keep trying to push this up, too. It's going to feed that squat because I mean really if I can get that that high bar up to 405 for 10, I'm in a good place. All right, pull-ups. I went with a little narrower of a grip. Why? Because I can get a little higher up. Um, and I get people who are jumping at me about about half reps on pull-ups. I don't think they understand. I can't I can't touch my chest to a bar even with a lat pull down. I can't do it with a barbell on a overhead press. Just an FYI. So, it's it's not my range of motion, but I have AI have a good back. So, here I squeezed out 10. I managed to get 10. And I'm like, "Hold on, rest, pause. Let's PR this. Let's go to the bleeding edge, right? I'm just going to do one set." I'm like, I don't even need because I get back work from the deadlift. My back grows from the deadlifts. I don't even know if I need multiple sets of pull-ups. Let's just do them three days a week and let's just push really hard work. All right? Because at the end of the day, it is progressive overload that's going to feed hypertrophy. And if I'm able to progressively overload even one set of these big movements three times a week, keep in mind there's overlap. People say it's three sets enough. Well, everything else is getting work with other other movements, right? The benching I'll do a couple sets, but everything else is getting multiple exercises, you know? So, think about it on the squats. While I'm doing the belt squat, and then I've got the deadlift for overlap with all that for the lower body. also do the GBP work. All right, there's overlap. There's overlap. So, the same thing with the pull-ups. My back is getting worked by the deadlifts also, including my lats and traps. Um, and then I'm going to do hammer curls and make sure the biceps get and the grip work gets double down on. Uh, but the extensions, I PR this. I got pretty much a lifetime PR last time. I got 20 reps. I'm like, we need to step it up. I went up 10 more pounds, I got 15. So that's what I mean by I know my bench will go up based on the triceps because around the start of the year what was my 10 rep max was 110 on those. I could get 10 11 reps. All right. I got 20 with that last week. So I went up 10 more pounds and I put five reps. So I am five pounds or 10 pounds heavier and up five reps on that. So the hammer curls, same thing. Because I got way too many reps. I'm like, "Let me go real heavy on these." And I don't care if they're if they're a little sloppy and just take them to failure. Just get really strong at the hammer curls, too. Tension, tension, tension. Quit overtraining my arms with all that volume. I feel like that's kept my arms a bit smaller. My arms were at their biggest when I did almost none of that. So, again, do some hammer curls, one allout set. I'm going to also avoid supine work. again, make sure the shoulder heals because if you guys notice, I do struggle with that elbow lockout and I think a lot of it is still bicep inflammation, all right, from that that overuse. Uh, so the same thing here. I'm like, let's just do two different shoulder movements. I'll do laterals and I'll just take these again to failure. I'm doing these as strict as possible. I've been able to get more reps when I was cheating, but notice now that I'm doing super strict, the rep count is going up. So, I'm trying to not move my torso at all. I'm taking these as high as I can take them. Um, so again, trying to just be as controlled as I can. I got around 18 reps here. Um, and because I got 20 with the front raise last time with a 45. I grabbed a 55 and I think I got like 14 or something. All right. So, again, grab this for the front raise. And I It's cold outside. It's pretty cold. So, notice my skin's looking a little looser, but I'm losing the water in the waist on the lower carbs. So, that's going to be tightening up. I feel like I'm starting to get tighter here. All right. Starting to get tighter. So, again, keeping the carbs low. We're going to trim down leaner and continue to make gains here. And my I feel like I'm responding really well with this to my diet. All right, I've scaled back the cardio. Just going to tighten up the diet and then I'll be able to recover because I'm not just overtraining myself. I'm doing just three modest GPB sessions a week. But very, very, very happy with today's workout. Got PRs again. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.