Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blah Strength and Fitness and today I'm going to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about Jeff Nippard claiming Julian Fitzgerald is natural. Um, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below we greatly appreciate it. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Look, um, I saw all the data he presented. I'm also very very familiar with those old studies and all the stuff on fat free mass index. It's stuff I've been talking about for 10 12 13 years on the tubes and so on. Um so I mean I obviously watched this whole video. Um and this is a lot of what is absolutely wrong with um the fitness circles and particularly the bodybuilding circles online. This is absolutely what's wrong with it. Um, and by the way, on some of the fat free mass index stuff, I think we do need to remember some of those pre-steroid champions, people are are underestimating their body fat percentage in some of those. So, so be a little more realistic when you plug those in. And I really seriously do not personally believe any of those guys are going to be um, you know, over about about 25 if you're really honest and objective with what their body fat percentages are, right? And I and I think that's the point we need to make with that. But let's set that aside. Um let's set that aside because that really doesn't apply to Julian Fitzgerald. Um and he got called out a lot on that. I even saw some of the stuff in the comments of well he just completely ignored the fact that um he took someone like Julian and said well you know because his fat free mass index is here and you can't just go off conditioning. It's like look, yeah, you absolutely can look at someone and tell a certain difference in musculature with certain drugs. Absolutely. It absolutely matters. And I think the problem with this is that he took someone like Julian who doesn't really train effectively at all. And there's your problem when you have someone who you look at them and say, "Wow, they're definitely on gear." That's what your brain screams. and then to use the thing, well, they just have good genetics and they they're gonna maybe train really really hard. And I don't necessarily always have a problem with with that concept, okay? That combination. All right? I want to be clear. There's going to be times when people who absolutely do get called as fake natties, who possibly really are netty, right? I've known some who, yeah, they have a really long training history. This kid doesn't. Um, and they train really hard. They have good genetics and they've put in a decade of really hard, effective training. Like, I've known guys who who are like, "Dude, you're a fake nutty." But I'm like, "One, they're genetically gifted." I'm like, "Two, they started training when they were like 12 years old. Three, look at their lifts. It's like you go watch them lift. Okay, they're calling him a fake natty, but it's like over the course of 20 years, they've built up to where they literally just do rep work with 315. Like I I know a guy like that. Actually helped him many years ago. Um I've watched him do like seven reps of 315 on a bench while lean enough to have abs. I've seen him high bar squat 550. Seen him pull in the 600s as a bodybuilder. Okay. Guy has over 20 years of training experience and obviously you look at his insertion and stuff. It's like okay, you know. Yeah. Yeah. I mean it's a difference. He trained really really hard. He got really strong. Has good exercise selection. Trains hard and is in phenomenal shape in terms of conditioning. All right. These people do exist. the problem. He literally gave a pass to someone who not only you can tell looking as a fake natty. They trained like crap. Bunch of people saw some of that stuff, the stuff with Larry Wheels. The guy is weak and he's out of shape. Okay, that's a problem. When you have a guy who goes in the gym and goofs off, that is not that category. You know, again, a lot of times a really genetically blessed person in terms of of muscle structure, muscle shape, ability to lose body fat easily, who trains super hard for a decade, will get unfairly called a fat. It does happen. this kid is not that person. Obviously, the genetics are there, but the training is not. Let me state again, this is a guy who who has no strength and no conditioning in the gym. So, so again, when you start giving them a pass, this is a problem, Jeff. And I'll call Jeff on this. Jeff, you you lose any credibility. Okay, that level of credibility loss should be as harmful to your career at this point as my whole fake merc fiasco was. We're at that level of screwing up, which by the way, I admitted many years ago that was that was a screw up. I effed up big time and apologized for it almost a decade ago at this point. Um, we're Jeff, we're at that level of embarrassment when you call someone like that who trains like a bee, who's weak and out of shape and trains like crap and you give him a pass. Oh, I think he's probably natural or he's natural or you're giving him credence to natural and endorsing it. You're at that level. We We really It's that bad. And this is the problem with this whole industry. These people will prop up fake natties. And that's the point too, Jeff. If you're going to start lying like that when you know he's not natural, you know he's not. You lose any credibility. You better not even claim you're natural at that point because when you're willing to give obvious fake natties a pass like that, you're pretty much endorsing fake nattyism. So then the obvious assumption is well if you're willing to endorse it then you know clearly you like plenty of gear and like to claim fake claim natty too. You're you're doing this because you believe in being a fake natty. You're clearly endorsing the idea. You love it. You support it. This speaks volume of your own values. I don't think you should be allowed to claim daddy and anyone should believe it if that is the values that you hold. my opinion. Granted, maybe a lot of people don't care about my opinion, but do you see where we're going? And that's going to be true of anyone out there who's doing this whole, "Oh, I'm natty." And then they endorse obvious fake natties, who are weak and out of shape, don't even know how to train and look like that, you know? Don't even try to claim natural yourself at that point to anyone doing that. Just stop. This is what's wrong with this community.