Junk volume probably won't help you gain muscle, but it might help you get a little leaner. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today with a quick reminder. If uh you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. All right, so over to these these topics of volume. Um, and I think something that we have to think about session to session, set to set is junk volume is usually volumes. Um, here's where people define it where it's no longer adding any training stimulus, right? Any sets you do that don't help you gain muscle, they don't help you gain strength, there's no direct adaptative training stimulus. It could be warm-up sets that are too low of intensity, even if you do 10 of them, right? It could be excessive volume after you've reached a fatigue level to where performance declines, right? People have all these different points and people say, "Well, how do I know it's junk volume?" And so, let's go into a little bit of why junk volume, why some people might do it, why they might still choose to do it, what if there's any benefits to it. And I think it really is just calorie burn. Um, and and I'm not saying that's wrong, by the way. So, let's be clear when we discuss that junk volume doesn't cause uh muscle growth. it really isn't anymore. Doesn't mean there aren't benefits or where some people still might not choose to do it and see a benefit from it. So, let's be fair with that, right? So, I want to be perfectly clear. Um, you know, we say this, a lot of people are like, "Yeah, but this person over here does really what everyone's defining as jump volume and and they have a really good physique. How is the junk volume not prevented this?" You know, and it's like, aha. So I think and I think that point has to be raised and then so we have to look at that critically and say well did they get any benefit from it to their physique. So u we have to be fair with that. So with this topic with junk volume I'm usually defining it because warm-up sets are warm-up sets. Nobody here if you're counting your warm-up sets towards volume. I don't know what to tell you. In other words, we all know what a warm-up set is. If I can do eight reps with 275. See where I'm about to go. You think I really care about my 225 sets unless they're like over 10. And notice I didn't even say what movement. I just say if it was a deadlift or a curl, right? It doesn't matter. If I my eight rep max is 275, I'm probably not getting anything out of a 225 set, right? Till we start getting towards about 10 reps. We just we got to be fair about it. We might be getting a little and and to be honest, I I actually think we would get something from it. I think 10 reps of 225, if your allout max is 275 for eight, still has some training response. It may not be a super hard set, but if it's a nice control, deep full range of motion, I think you're still going to get something out of it. Um on a on the warm-up at least, you know, going up, ramping up. Now, that being said, true warm-ups, you know what I mean? True warm-ups, guys, they're not counting for anything. But if that's your your eight rep and let's say you're doing 225 for a double the warm-up, yeah, you're not getting anything. But if it's 10, okay, sure. But other words, true warm-up sets, um, no stimulus. How about volume that you reach a point where you're just not able to perform. In other words, performance has degraded so much that it's a measurable drop off. really measurable drop off. Okay. And and I think we can define that as um more beyond anything well beyond a 10% loss I think is is perfectly reasonable. I think about 10% you're okay. What do I mean with that? From the best that you can do. And how are we defining that? Total intensity. So I'm not saying you're losing reps, not 10% of your reps, but 10% of the bar weight relative to it. So in other words, let's say you can do 100 pounds for 10 and you get to a point where 90 for 10 is getting hard. You're probably still getting training results. What about you get to 80 85. Let's say you get down to 85 pounds on that exercise. when 100 your 10 are rep at max and you're struggling to get struggling with rep nine and 10, you've probably reached such a high level of fatigue that you're you're just simply not gaining muscle from it. You're not stimulating uh the fast switch muscle fibers. Um you're not gaining significant muscle from those sets anymore. You're just not. Now, does that mean zero? Man, now that's the interesting point. The argument we would make is the more advanced we get, the more only the fastest stretch fibers grow. That that's been pretty much determined in the lab. Intermediate fibers grow a lot when you're a novice. They grow less and less and less. The bigger you get, the longer you train, but they may not reach true zero. Now, that gets reset as soon as you do a blast of magical supplements. And I don't need to tell you guys what that means. If you don't know what that's code word for, I'm talking the magic supplements. the the stuff in the syringe, baby. So, that can change that, by the way. Yes, sure. That will cause those intermediate fibers, they'll start growing again, right? They will start growing again. They may start growing even with no training actually, even without even training them. Um, the nature of the beast, at least for a little while, and then that'll cap too. So beyond that, you know, we're we're seeing almost no muscle growth really and it could be a tiny amount maybe in the intermediate fibers, but the fast switch fibers that get the most growth, they're just too exhausted to re-recruit. You're not reaching them again. They need recovery time. Either your sets breaks between sets are too short or you just reach so much fatigue in the workout. And and I don't think it's possible to reach so much that this happens with that junk volume that it never bounces. But you could be at a point where you need 10 or 15 minutes between sets to replicate that performance enough that you know you're hitting those fast twitch fibers. Okay? I mean, but who wants to spend 10 15 minutes between sets? Come on. So, and it also has to do with systemic your whole peripheral nervous system. So, certain exercises will just get weaker because you've done a lot of other stuff first, even for different muscles. So, they do that and people say, "So, why were some people still do it?" How about calorie burn? And that's a case I will make. Where could all the junk volume come in handy? People who don't want to do cardio because what does the research show? I like to do a lot of this these days for fat loss is what I'm currently doing on my cut. I'm these videos here. I'm like six pounds into my cut. I'm going to do a lot more. I'm probably going to drop down 200. I'm 216 now. Probably drop down to 200 and assess assess it how much leaner I need to get from there or want to get. Um but I like to do lots of list cardio. But what if you don't want to do less cardio? Research shows that lifting weights burns just as much body fat and causes just as much fat loss as cardio. So, what about a person who says, "How about I do a bunch of volume of movements that don't beat my joints up so I'm not getting true overuse, but I just want to use weightlifting to do it because maybe there may be a little bit of a hypertrophic response, a tiny one, but at least I know that it's not making me lose muscle. No loss of training stimulus. we're not training other uh endurance factors, it's still going to be muscle. And I just want to burn fat that way. As long as you understand you're probably not gaining muscle from it. Yeah. I I think people can do that. And I think that's the reason some guys with really good physiques do do excessive volume and it's just light pump work for hours every week beyond their real training. Now, is that potentially viable? could that help them lose fat? Um, I think the evidence says yes. Like, so, so if we look at that objectively, we set aside our biases and just look at the scientific literature, I think the answer is yes. In some cases, that may be helping them burn fat. And it's not unreasonable to say that. It's just that it's going to put them at a higher risk of overtraining. They can't just do whatever exercises they want. They can't can't come in and do heavy squatting for 20 sets a week is what we mean. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.