Eating hyper palatable junk food has no place in fitness. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Uh, and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. And let's get over into the topic. And you know, I feel like this is out of control, right? Absolutely out of control. I see it on social media all day. I even see reasonably fit people or people, you know, who look reasonably healthy and they're going through stores and just grabbing junk and eating junk. And I see uh, you know, even fitness related people who who are still eating all this junk. And we've had we're at a point where this is why we have to have initiatives like we have uh with MA, the stuff that RFK has put out. And I'm not saying his his guidelines are absolutely perfect. Um, but they're pretty good. And the whole idea is taking people away from all this uh hyper palatable junk. And this is why we have an obesity problem. This is why we have a cancer problem. This is why we have low testosterone. This is why we have diabetes and heart disease and all these other problems as a society. And I'm going to go so far as to say even your depression, your mental health. Okay? I mean, look at that alone. Are we going to pretend that with what we know about neurotransmitters in the brain, insulin sensitivity in the brain, gut health, the way junk and other stuff disrupts gut biome, and the way that gut biome literally affects depression and anxiety, it's actually a mental health issue. And it's gotten so far that it's become normal to where everyone just thinks it's normal. They're like, "Well, I can't be happy if I don't eat whatever this grabbing some Pringles or junk food or potato chips or candy or whatever just garbage they're grabbing off the shelf for snacks." They're like, "I can't be happy without eating this." Oh, man. What a statement. Really? You tell me you can't be happy without a substance, that's called being a drug addict. Maybe you need to be uh in a 12step program if you really and truly believe that. But here's the other issue. They can't be happy without it, but they're eating foods that we know will cause depression and anxiety. Okay? All these foods that contribute to inflammation, uh, insulin and sensitivity, what does that do to the brain? I mean, the data on this is there. This is not just stuff we're making up. So, when people say that they need it to be happy, but it's like it literally makes you not happy. Sure, you get a temporary dopamine hit, right? You get a little short-term dopamine hit from the good taste and all the flavor receptors, particularly if it's hyper palatable, but what about the next day or the next month or the next year? Okay, [snorts] because what about the the insulin sensitivity? How bad it makes you feel? How how it makes you cranky, depressed emotions? Because again, you have to think in terms of the effect on neurotransmitters. You have to think in terms of the way it affects the way your brain processes glucose. Okay? All this junk is harmful to your actual happiness and mental health. And yet it's touted as just our normal. And that's what's scary, you know, is that it's become our normal. And we're at a point now as a society where all the junk is so normalized that unless we have government initiatives that get kids off all this junk, we have a problem, right? Because now we're over to where all the fitness people, these are these people are the complete shills. These are the people who I look at and say, "You are a shill. You're a fraud." When you start telling people, oh, well, they the you don't have to stop eating the junk food. You can eat, you know, 20% of your calories from this stuff every day, this is not supported by science. Absolutely not supported by science. All the studies show that even in moderation, uh, sugary drinks, refined sugars are harmful. Bacon, stuff like that, it's all harmful even in moderation. All causes cancer, diabetes. This is not my opinion. This is the leading researchers around the world. This is the leading researchers who are conducting meta analysis looking at 15 different countries are all showing, yeah, know this stuff's all bad. And you can't claim conspiracy. Oh, big pharma is just putting out that research uh to to hurt you. Really? Big pharma? Big pharma? You're telling me there's a big pharma conspiracy to tell you that drinking sugary sodas is bad for you and will give you cancer? Do you really think that this is this is how they're going to make money? Oh, yeah, man. We're going to if we get them to stop drinking soda and stop consuming refined sugars and bacon and junk and hyper palatable foods. If we get them to stop consuming all this stuff, then we'll make more money uh selling them drugs for their health. Yeah, that's not how it works. That's a stupid stupid conspiracy. Like if you literally think that all the mainstream researchers on nutrition are there to do that, you're a Cuz all the mainstream metaanalysis around the world is saying, "Hey, all these refined uh sugars are bad for you. Hey, uh bacon's bad for you. Refined red meat, processed red meats bad for you. Refined carbohydrates are bad for you. adding a bunch of extra oils and fats of any type, including butter, oils, everything else, is bad for you. Uh we've got the data to show it. Yeah, I can assure you Fizer is not going to be able to sell you more meds because you quit eating all that junk, you know, and it's and it's it's crazy because then people act like, well, what else are we going to eat? Then they see my food. I post food all the time. I've had new clients who come on who don't really follow nutrition. They're just powerless. You're like, "I don't know single ingredient foods. I don't know how to make it work." And then I show a picture of my food like, "Oh, wow. That looks good." It's like, "All right, this is all single ingredient food. This is just food. Meat, dairy, fruits, nuts, vegetables, grains, uh stuff like this. Just whole foods. Learn to cook. That's all you have to do is learn to cook. And the scary part is it's cheaper." You know, that's the other crazy thing. People act like, "Well, healthy food is more expensive, so I eat the junk." No, it's not. Look at the price on that stuff. It's not cheaper. The only people who fall into this are people who see, "Oh, these organic whatever." Yeah, but organic isn't healthier either. That's a fraud. That is a scam. You don't have evidence that organic food is healthier. So, because you're paying more for it doesn't mean it's healthier. Just stop. In fact, it can even have a worse pesticide load for being organic. That's a whole separate topic. No, just Whole Foods. It costs less money than buying your big thing of potato chips and junk food and pizzas. It costs less. Literally cheaper. You just have to learn to cook. And honestly, most of it's not that difficult to cook. Guys, you're telling me you can't cook some meat, a steak, some chicken. You know how to use a rice maker? Tell me you can't cook some eggs. I mean, like look at what what you guys see me do. You'll see steak, eggs, avocados, piles and piles of vegetables on a plate. You think it's that hard to just grill a steak and to do some over easy eggs and then dice a bunch of vegetables up on it and then, you know, have some milk with it? That's it's not difficult. It's not difficult at all. But again, people don't know what food is. All this garbage has been taught to people in our society that it's food and none of it is food, right? It's not food. It's not fit for human consumption and it has no place in your health or fitness. It's simply going to give you cancer, diabetes, depression, anxiety. It's going to make you unhappy. And again, not my opinion. This is wellstudied. Even psychologists and and neurologists and stuff have looked at the connection between all this junk food and the effect on your brain and your emotions. Let's set aside the cancer. Eat whole foods. Like, it's not that hard. Meat, dairy, fruits, vegetables, nuts, those things. Just eat them. You can mix them together. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.