Most of your problems in fitness can be resolved by just getting stronger. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah's Strength and Fitness. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below um and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. And when I say just get stronger, I do mean that across the board. I'm not saying arch your bench press and bounce it off your chest and lift your butt off the bench with a with a 6 in range of motion on a one rep max. Is not what we mean by getting stronger. When I say stronger, I mean get stronger at everything, right? That also means you obviously need to be focusing on big movements, but guess what? You should be getting stronger at your curls. If you're going to do curls, you need to get stronger at them. And the reason I say this is that most people are like, "Okay, but what about bodybuilding? What about aesthetics? What about all these things?" Well, if you are not trying to compete at the highest levels in bodybuilding or make your living as a fitness model, worrying about all that is going to be a waste of time. It's going to be a waste of time. For most of you, just gaining muscle and then losing fat is going to make you more aesthetic. Okay? The issue is though, for the most part, without getting stronger, you're not getting bigger. Progressive overload is going to be the name of the game. And if we get stronger, what all do we get out of it? Well, obviously we gain muscle. Okay? In other words, um just give you an example. Let's say you can squat 225 for five reps right now, but you build up over time to where you can do 315 for eight reps. Okay, that's a substantial strength increase. You've added a full plate and added some reps. Man, are you going to be bigger? Well, yeah. Like even your upper body is going to get slightly bigger from that. Is your bone density going to improve? Yes. Is your fitness going to improve? Yes. All those things are going to improve. Every single one of your fitness uh modalities, all of your health markers, all these things that we are seeking from the weight room are going to increase from getting stronger. Okay? And we have to understand that. So, when I say stronger, I do mean on your big exercises. And please note, I'm not telling you not to do curls. You see me even doing some curls. See me doing 20 plus rep sets of curls even in this video and some of the clips. So, so again, let's be clear. I'm not telling you not to do some curls. But your focus should be progressive overload on big movements. squats, deadlifts, pull-ups, chin-ups, rows, dips, bench press, incline, overhead pressing, right? Variations of these movements. It doesn't have to be those exact movements. It could be front squats. It could be box squats, be deficit deadlifts, could be a good morning, could be a Romanian deadlift. That's fine. All big movements. You know what? You you don't love the flat bench. We'll get real strong on the incline. Okay, you get your incline up to where you can do, you know, 185 for 10 to 12 reps or something like 225 for 10 reps. Okay, you're going to be in a real good place. So, fine. You You don't want the flat. You're like, I don't like the flat bench. Okay, we'll get real strong at the incline. Get real strong at dips. Okay, if you get strong at these big movements, you will gain muscle. you will gain athleticism because again these big movements train coordination. Okay, they all train bone density. So when we're talking about well-rounded health, what what are we talking about? We got to think about all the weightlifting benefits of what all does it do for cancer? Look at the research on it. It's overwhelming. cardiovascular disease, diabetes. Okay, all these things improve. But if you aren't using a bunch of drugs to make you grow, like how do you get all these things? By getting stronger. You have to get stronger, right? Like even here, I'm doing my my pullovers there. Whatever. I've got 20 something reps with 90 pounds happening there, right? Got two plates pinched together. Start with 25 pounds on that. If you can get 10, 12 reps, add some weight. All right. Build it up. Pull-ups, chin-ups. If you can't do if you can't do them with your body weight yet, use a reverse band. Once you can get more than 10 reps your body weight, start adding weights. Right? Get strong. particularly the weighted body weight movements. And again, I'm always going to give homage to those, okay? Squats, technically deadlifts, weighted body weight, not quite the same way. Pull-ups, dips, chin-ups, hanging leg raises, right? These are all body weight exercises. Get really strong at those movements, but load weight to them. And when I say strong, get strong for a lot of reps. Again, when I'm always talking about getting stronger, strength is displayed with a one rep max. That's how we test our strength. That's how we we display our strength, right? No one cares about my 12 rep sets on that that 405 squat. They want to know what I can put on there for one rep max. But we don't build the one rep max. We don't build it just by maxing out. You got to build muscle. And we build muscle with repetition. Hard repetitions taken close to failure or to failure or in some cases past failure. Most of what I do here is is done like that. Obviously squats, squats and bench pressing I don't like to do to failure. I've done them. But you know, dips, pull-ups, you take that curls, shoulder work like that, you can take all that to failure. Okay? But you'll get stronger because you're going to have progressive overload. And if we're progressively overloading and we just keep getting stronger and stronger and stronger and stronger, it will fix all of your problems, right? And if you're stuck, you're like, "Well, I can't get stronger." Well, you're probably doing too much volume or you're not sleeping enough or you're not getting sufficient nutrition. Something is wrong. you're overtraining or you're undereing or you're undersleeping or you're not managing your stress because we should be getting stronger. Now, I get it. When we cut, we lose body fat. Okay, that's a different story. Guys have watched me do that and cut 25 pounds before my strength drops and then we have to try to build it back up. Sure. But if you're not substantially losing body weight, it shouldn't be an issue. For most of you, I would say just get stronger. Now, if most of you guys just ate clean and eat tons of protein and just got stronger in the gym, most guys would be lean. If you don't have a serious appetite dysregulation issue like I do, I've been over 300 lbs when younger. Most of you guys will get abs eventually just doing that, right? You'll get abs. Just get stronger, though. Focus on getting stronger all the time. And what you need to always ask yourself with what you're doing in the gym, barring, you know, stuff like, "I get it. You want to isolate your biceps. I I get it, guys. I'm in the same boat." Ask yourself, is what I'm doing going to make me stronger? Is this set? Is this Am I going to get stronger from doing this? And that should usually be the position you work from. And if it's going to make you stronger, it's probably a good idea. Let's simplify this. Does it make you stronger? That's what matters. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.