Keto people love to promote the Inuit. It's some sort of positive example because it's a society that lived on basically a keto diet. But the reality is they were horrifically unhealthy. Um, all right. Hey everybody, it's Jason Law here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated if you would subscribe or follow me. If you're not, I would appreciate that also. Thank you so much. and it let me know down in the comments below if you've ever heard this this line being pushed because they love to do it over and over. Okay, the facts. Just because someone had to survive on something because it was the food in the area, say the Arctic Circle, doesn't mean that it's ideal. It's this strange naturalistic fallacy that because they had to eat this that it was somehow optimal. They they ate this way because they literally had no choice. So when people migrated into the the cold arctic regions where it's hard tundra and stuff and there is no plants growing half the year, right? Then you don't have a choice, right? They had to eat it. Now the reality is all of the people are like, "Oh, well they had great health and they had great dental and no cardiovascular disease." Okay, that is the biggest lie. Okay, that one's a massive, massive, massive, massive lie. Provably false with research. Okay, so that one is absolutely a flat lie. And we need to be clear on that. And anyone who goes and spends 10 minutes researching atheroscerosis and inuits or or Inuit mummies will realize it is it is an intentional lie. Okay. There have been a number of mummies found. Mummified remains and mummies of inuits have been found. numerous ones from a couple different regions, right? They've been studied. Obviously, they've been studied. Of course, anthropologists and biologists studied them. They wanted to study them. Why wouldn't they? All right, here's the problem. Guess what they found in every single one of the mummies? They found from these hundreds of years ago who were on these traditional diets of eating all the seals and whales and all the saturated fat and low carb and low fiber. Now granted, seasonally they got the other stuff. So they weren't in that sort of diet year round, just over half the year. All right, atheroscerosis. Every single one of the mummies all had significant atheroscerosis, including the young adults, and I'm talking like early 20s, right? We're talking young adults. All those mummies, they all had significant measurable amounts of atheroscerosis. And and we're talking the levels that you would expect from uh obese Americans. Okay, let's be clear. It was said they're like, "Wow, that we're already finding cardiovascular disease in all these mummies from the ones even in their 20s, young adults, literally heart disease and atheroscerosis and arterial plaque in the mummies." So in other words, when they make this claim, oh, they were healthy with no cardiovascular disease. They all had it. Every one of the mummies that they have found had cardiovascular disease. All of them. So it's literally the opposite. They'll say, "Oh, they had none." No, literally, they all did. As far as the records we have and what we can find, it was pretty ubiquitous. Therefore, we could extrapolate the exact opposite. We could say that at least based on the sample size we have, the vast majority of them most likely had cardiovascular disease at a relatively young age. So, this is a flat lie. This should be enough to look at what they're saying and go, "This is crazy. You guys are promoting something really dangerous." Because the only long-term multigenerational data we have are the inuits and they're all sick and they all have cardiovascular disease. Okay? All the mummies we found, you can't fake that. I mean, this has been found in the remains. No way they had access to modern food. It was hundreds of years ago. All right? You have that problem. Number two, they have an average lifespan of 55. And this is what I've seen some doctors point out. They're like even though a lot of them are now on the more modern diet, American diet and they have problems from that they they actually I've seen at least one doctor right and I have not seen proof of this but I've seen a doctor say this and I'm not again not saying this is proof but we know the others but man we can measure that in the mummies I think he had said they appear to have lower rates of heart disease now even on the horrible you know western diet than they did on their traditional diet and they also live longer now people say well it's due to modern medicine. Okay, but you're not going to try to claim that degenerative diseases that kill you in your 50s and 60s were perfectly fine in a culture that just didn't live that long. We didn't see them killing them. Well, because they died of other medical stuff before that average lifespan of 55. Okay, and here's another big kicker. So, already have the atheroscerosis and you got to think about genetic mutations. Here's the crazy one. Guess what we see in in populations? They have a unique gene. Okay, this ethnic subgroup seems to carry a extremely high rate of a unique gene that makes them resistant to ketosis. So, this is a problem for the people pushing, well, they did just fine on a ketogenic diet. If they did just fine, how come the majority of them, there's such a high prevalence of a gene that literally makes them resistant to ketosis? Why would that occur? Why does a gene like that occur? It occurs when the people who don't have it die off at a higher rate. So that meant that for some reason this relatively rare gene is extremely highly uh pronounced in this population because it somehow helped them survive. So that means that those who didn't carry the gene died at such a high enough rate that this gene became pervasive in the entire group. Which means that for some that means that then that resisting ketosis if you're going to be on a multigenerational ketogenic diet seems to increase survival rates. So ketosis itself was a problem. All right. This is not good for those pushing this. Even worse, the researchers back then, all the the explorers who were studying them and taking all the notes of all this stuff made notes that back then they were particularly rotunded, meaning they were fat and overweight compared to other peoples, including, you know, this is like British explorers and stuff. They were fatter than the British people. Okay? So they were overweight, have cardiovascular disease at a young age according to all the remains we found. They only lived an average lifespan of 55. And they carry a gene to make them actually resistant to ketosis. In what delusional world is this a positive example? If anything, if you looked at this data and you really look at the fact particularly the atheroscerosis and you look at that, a person would conclude that only a madman would endorse this diet. That's what they would conclude. They're an unhealthy population that had degenerative disease and cardiovascular disease from a relatively young age due to the horrific diet. Wow.