It's absolutely amazing how ketogenic people uh and ketozelots completely completely ignore all the research on polyunsaturated fats. Hey everybody, it's Jason Ba here. I thought I would uh chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you will please click uh like down below be greatly appreciate it. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. So, let's get over to this topic. All right. Uh, so this is one of those two where they try to pull this nonsense of, well, whatever. They'll even talk about seed oils. And I'm not even proseed oil. I mean, I tell people not to cook your foods in any sort of added fat, right? Seed oil, butter, tallow. It's it's look guys, this is how you get fat, right? Just stop, you know? But they'll they'll make all these claims and they'll talk about, well, this food is more stable and less oxidative stress, you know, with saturated fats. And it's like, yeah, this doesn't demonstrate in the lab, guys. Sorry. It's you've got some nice theories. Um, but when it's put to the test, sorry, it all has less oxidative stress than saturated fat. And it's just simple reality. But what about when you literally look at studies on keto? So, let's let's set all this aside. Let's set aside they they think that big agriculture, which makes plenty of money beating grains to cattle and pigs, uh, in fact, it probably makes more money doing that. And they also they also seem to ignore that any of the research they have favoring their stuff is almost always sponsored by beef, pork, dairy, right? If you go look at it. So when you'll have a meta analysis that disagrees with the five other ones, go look at the funding, right? So it's always interesting. Same thing. I'm not even going to get into that one meta analysis trying to debunk the lipid hypothesis that disagreed with all the others. Look at who the authors are. people, doctors who literally make their living selling books trying to debunk it. There's there's an enormous financial bias in play. But let's set that aside. Let's talk about the actual studies on ketogenic diets by people who used them therapeutically. Okay? Uh anyone see that study done on epilepsy where they found that there were people whose epsil epilepsy was resistant to ketogenic diets full of saturated fat and then they put them on polyunsaturated fats. What happened? It controlled their epilepsy better. In other words, so even medical keto, right? And I'm sorry, but you you're not going to find a corporate bias towards epilepsy treatment. All right, come on. Just stop. Like you're delusional if you're at a point where you think big agriculture is funding epilepsy and treatment studies with ketogenic diets and that they have uh you know are trying to make sure that particular segment of the population gets more polyunsaturated fats, you're delusional. You need to be you need to be locked up in an insane asylum if you really are going to make that case. But look at those look at those studies. They controlled the epilepsy better. Okay. Controls the epilepsy better. All right. What about studies where different fat sources have been compared and looking at blood work, right? Oh, man. There was a big one done I I've read a while back where and you people can find this pretty easy. You can find it pretty easy. And no, I put this on multiple platforms and I don't site sources because I literally get strikes for it for linking stuff because this goes on multiple platforms. So I'm not going to you guys can easily Google this stuff. All right, look at the one where they compared it. What did they find when a high saturated fat ketogenic diet was given and they all started with, you know, test subjects on keto diets versus one full of polyunsaturated fats and it included seed oils instead. It literally had seed oils thrown in there. Okay. So, when that was compared to high saturated fat, you know, full of full of all your beef and, you know, other stuff thrown in, right? Your really really really high saturated fat foods. Okay. What was the outcome in the blood work? The polyunsaturated fat group that had mostly those in very low saturated fat. When you look at the blood work, they had higher HDL. That's your good cholesterol. The polyunsaturated fat group had higher HDL than the saturated fat group. So, this kind of is a problem for this. Well, you know, it improves HDL. They had higher HDL. They had lower LDL, which is the bad one. This causes aoscerosis. That's not debated anymore. So, again, there's the second you know that someone's a ketoard cultist. The second they start denying that or they they push the large versus small particle size without realizing that even the large particles if you look at the data they still cause atheroscerosis just not as much. It's milder. It still causes it. Right? And by the way, anyone who's metabolically unhealthy, what do the studies show on keto? that if they go on keto with saturated fat, they accumulate atheroscerosis at a pretty fast rate. This has been studied, too. If they're starting metabolically unhealthy, the only people seem to be resistant to that are really lean fit people who are metabolically healthy. So, for you diabetics out there who are not like pretty pretty lean athletes, yeah, you're you're completely screwed if you're doing this. Sorry. I have some friends who do that and they don't like to hear that. Sorry, you're in trouble. You're diabetic. It's going to kill you. So, set that aside. What else? Triglycerides are lower in the polyunsaturated fat group. We all agree triglycerides are bad, right? Everybody does. High carb people, keto people, everyone. We all know this is this is a given. We don't debate this one, right? Triglycerides are lower. What else was improved? insulin sensitivity. The polyunsaturated fat group had better insulin sensitivity, which you would expect, right? Saturated fats tend to induce it. Polyunsaturated fats tend to improve it. And this has been pretty consistent even in high carb diet studies. Pretty consistent across the board. Also, their inflammatory markers were lower. So, all every single health metric, like even the people, they want to argue about LDL. Okay, fine. What about all the others? polyunsaturated fat group had better HDL, better triglycerides, better insulin sensitivity, lower inflammation, and it included seed oils. Literally the worst polyunsaturated fats you could possibly come up with to give a human, right? The worst garbage you can come up with, it was still better than the saturated fat in a ketogenic diet. Anyone see the problem then with this? They're still, oh, you know, no. So, even if you're going to do a keto diet and you're chasing metabolic benefits, health benefits, medical benefits, the high polyunsaturated fat one wins hands down every time. In other words, you should be living on nuts and different different oils, avocado, right? You should still be keeping the saturated fat extremely low. If you're standing around doing really fatty cuts of steak and and bacon, it's not going to work. You're gonna get less benefit even medically. This is what the data shows. Not my opinion. This is the data in ketogenic diets being done by researchers who are pro keto. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.