Recovery is everything in the gym. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. All right, on this topic, you know, so many people stand around worrying about the stimulus side. And I'm not saying stimulus doesn't matter because obviously if we're not stimulating uh muscle growth, if we're not stimulating muscle growth, then we're obviously not growing. But the biggest problem we have is that um again it's about recovery and every single great bodybuilder and coach and athlete and everyone has told you guys for decades this same thing right over and over and over the best of the best have told you repeatedly you know a few exceptions recovery is king recovery is everything but people don't want to listen um you know even guys like Lee Haney in bodybuilding world is like stimulate don't annihilate. Um, everyone points this out. Sleep, nutrition, stress management, all this stuff matters. In fact, half the reason guys use anabolics is to faster recovery. Obviously, they do cause the direct muscle growth, but enhanced recovery. Okay? Do we understand this that especially athletes who who um aren't trying to even get massive, they still use gear. Why? improve work capacity, improve recovery, test, growth hormone, all that stuff's used even by endurance athletes. It enhances recovery, recovery, recovery, recovery. And for some reason, people don't get it. And and what I what I mean by this is a couple things. We're talking intra sets in your training. We're talking session to session. Um we're talking about all these things. So, if you're not recovering from growth stimulus, you're not going to grow. In other words, you can come in and have the most amazing workout possible, right? You can stimulate 100% of everything. You can come in and optimize your sets. Um, but funny enough, why do we get studies that when sets go up in some of those studies, growth goes down? when you look at a lot of those older studies and even in the newer ones, the higher sets, it's almost always when you look at some of the other data appears to be inflammation, not even true muscle growth, but that's a whole different topic, right? So, always remember that with some of those studies, and this is what a lot of the best experts point out, a whole circle out there pushing the ultra high volumes of training, but they're also not willing to look at the inflammation side. Whereas when inflammation goes down and there's time for inflammation to reduce transient storage factors, there isn't extra muscle growth a lot of times from from any of these higher volumes, right? It's just swelling. It's temporary. It's inflammation. And that won't keep going up. People say, "But it's still something." Well, no, because it it won't stay. It's not and it's not like you can just keep adding larger and larger amounts of it over time. It's going to be there and then it's going to be what it what it is. and then in a d-training phase it'll go away and then it'll just retrain that inflammation. But it's not true muscle growth. But any stimulus that you don't recover from, you're just not growing from it. So let's say you do that and then you don't get enough sleep or rest or you try to train again too soon before the growth process is complete and you haven't recovered. And recovery, we don't mean DOMS. We're talking performance recovery is a good way to to judge it. DOMS is not actually in your muscle tissue. That's a whole separate issue. So just because you're sore doesn't mean the muscles aren't recovered. Um or your nervous system or anything else. So what we mean is you're not going to grow as much if your post-workout recovery is not present, right? You're not getting the sufficient protein, sufficient nutrition. even the quality of your diet, reducing inflammation and stuff, it improves recovery, speeds up recovery times, especially if it's happening inside that growth window because muscles don't grow indefinitely from a workout. They're really only probably growing a couple days. Okay, might be some evidence for a little more, but generally that's what you're looking at. So, if that's not there, you're simply not getting the full growth stimulus. You may be getting some of it, but you're not getting all of it. Well, the same thing when we think in terms of of recovery uh session to session. That's a big deal. Okay. So, if you're losing strength, and notice strength, I don't mean one rep max. Let's say your your 10 rep maxes, your 12 rep maxes, right? Let's say that session to session, you know, you were over here able to hit 12 reps on your bench press or your preacher curl or your squat, whatever it happens to be. You're able to hit 12 reps and then all of a sudden it starts dropping down to nine. And we get it occasional a rep or two is is going to be different, but what about over an extended period of time? You know, let's say you've been doing that a while. Well, then you're clearly not recovering and you're not gaining muscle. So, we need to be clear on that. At that point, you are simply trying to hold on to muscle. So, it might be the case of your cutting. It might be the case of of something else happening to where you're not able to progress. So, in that case, that that nine rep set is literally only helping you hold on to the muscle you already have. or if it drops to eight, you know, you start losing like four reps, okay? You're not stimulating more muscle growth anymore. You're just not you're not recovered. And it might be because, hey, you're cutting or something. You've come off of your gear. It could be any number of things, but it means you're not growing. So session to session recovery is a big one. And that's the thing to think about. So, if you're at a point where you can't replicate performance, there's a recovery issue. You're not recovering enough to gain significant muscle anymore from those workouts. Uh, same thing on set to set recovery. Like, if we're losing reps, right, I made a video on that the other day. If we're losing reps, are we gaining muscle? No, we're not. You know, if if you can hit 10 reps, 11 reps, 12 reps on an exercise and it drops to eight or seven, that set is turning into junk volume. All it's doing is beating up recovery with no real stimulus. Because keep in mind, each subsequent set we do has less growth potential. And now we're at a point where you're not recovering enough set to set. And people say, "Well, what can I do about it?" Well, you might need longer breaks. Well, they're like, "I'm resting five minutes between sets." Okay, so then that's no longer the issue. It now means your workloads are just too high in that session. You're doing too many exercises, too many sets, and you're just doing junk volume because you're losing performance, right? We're losing performance because you're no longer able to to get to the highest threshold muscle fibers anymore. If you're losing a bunch of reps or having to take 10% or more of of weight off the bar, the machine or the dumbbell, you are no longer uh stimulating growth on those sets. It's just pure junk volume and all it's doing is beating you up further. So, if we can't replicate performance set to set, our intra session recovery is not good and it could be too much work. We could be too short of breaks if we're not able to replicate performance day to day, session to session. The same thing, we have a recovery issue. And if we're not doing these things, you can come in and train as hard as you you want and think you're training, but you're probably not getting anything out of it other than burning a few calories. And quite frankly, we just don't burn that many calories from lifting. Most of our calorie burn from lifting comes from just carrying around the extra muscle, doing other stuff. All right. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.