Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha strength and fitness and something I've been thinking about lately and again this is just kind of my my own musings and stuff I'm looking at with my own training looking at stuff historically about isolation work but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciated. Um if you're not subscribed or following please do so and if you'll be kind enough to drop me um a comment down below I'd appreciate that so much. So, you know, something I was noting, you know, um I was looking back 20 2018 sometime back. Um you know, I put up that picture saying, "Hey, I mean, I'm quite a bit leaner. I feel like I'm I'm pretty big. I'm only seven pounds difference." And a bunch of people were like, "No, you look way harder, you know, again, on a on a good day like that with a pump, you know, they're like, "But I think your arms are bigger." And a lot of people said that and I'm like, "Man, okay." I went back and was looking at what I was doing and it's like ah I mean I was living on um dips and and pull-ups and lots and lots of pressing back then. I wasn't really doing isolation work and I went back and pulled up um later another picture I had a great picture um that that I had where I was in the one shirt and I'm like man how come my arms look so good relative to even now my arms look really good here just in a t-shirt you know and I'm about 215 there and I went and checked the training during that period of time I hadn't been doing any curls really for years the only footage I can even find that year of me doing any type of curl when I started checking was doing some really really heavy hammer curls with dumbbells. Okay. And I went and looked I was thinking, man, I was only doing pull-ups. I went and check I found footage of me doing weighted chins all the way chin over the bar all the way up with a closed grip. And I was doing tons and tons and tons of pressing, right? Closed grip bench. Lots of heavy incline with a closed grip. Uh push presses, overhead pressing, dips, dips, dips. But it was like outside of just pressing deadlifts, you know, and stuff like that. Um, I'm like, man, I was doing weighted shins and weighted diffs. It was back. Remember, you guys remember when I used to have have the chains way back, I was doing nothing but chains. Okay, same thing back in the UK. My arms were actually not that bad, even my biceps, you know. So, I've been sitting here all this time since then. I've been living on, you know, really been living on uh curls, curls, curls, right? But I look at those periods of time, it was all chins, neutral grip pull-ups, stuff like that. But lots of pressing and lots and lots of dips, you know. And I mean, the closed grip pressing was pretty legit. Like I found one of me doing like, you know, 250 for five on a closed grip incline on a on a regular 45 degree incline. Um, doing some very mild push pressing with like 205 210 for reps. And it's like, okay, this work and then dips. Like I found a lot of dips with chains. So, it's like I look at this and go, how much are we really valuing needing much isolation work? I mean, my arms look pretty decent there. I mean, all things considered. And I look back even at that time, I'm like, even even that uh one with the green in the background, if I had just been leaner, I feel like I would have looked pretty good there, right? I would have looked pretty good there. And I was pretty stronger even on lower body stuff. I found like some stuff of me doing 530 for five reps on a beltless deadlift, you know, all that strength is there. Um, so the stuff I see and then the same thing the other day I saw come through the feet of Minnow Henselman looking at this one study and they compared the Romanian deadlift to a leg curl and they determined no difference right when sets were taken to failure. They were looking at it and measuring with MRI and stuff like there was no difference in the hypertrophy. And it's not like oh you know the one head that we need the knee flexion on was suddenly growing way more on the leg curls. it just wasn't occurring. All right. Same thing we can think about triceps and all that. It's like, but chin-ups and pull-ups. Chin-ups and pull-ups actually hit the long head of the tricep pretty well. Dips really grow well. But even there, my triceps are pretty good. Even in that one side picture, just doing lots of dips, dips and pull-ups, dips and chin-ups. And we have to look at this stuff and go for most of us. Is it a good use of exercise economy? And I get it if you're trying to compete in bodybuilding. And I put up a posting thing on Facebook. I had a few guys post up their stuff. And one of the guys in there goes, "Dude, I had done any arm isolation in 15 years. He had great arms." I saw it on my Facebook, one of the lifters there. Um, he had really good arms. I'm looking I'm like, "Dude, I bet you those are a lean 17, 17 and a half at least, right? Decently big guy, but not like monstrous massive." Had really good arms sitting there in a in a cut off shirt, you know? And I'm like, I'm questioning more of this as we go, right? Because again, look at that one other picture of me shirtless back there. I mean, I'm looking pretty thick. And I wasn't really I wasn't doing any isolation work at all that I could think of during that time. Probably nothing. Maybe a rare once a month set of hammer curls or some dumbbell extensions or something, right? But I did do a lot more overhead pressing and it was very just like my pull-ups. I was rotating different pull-ups, rotating different different presses, dips with chains, but a lot of my overhead pressing was varied. Some of it was push press almost like someone with dumbbells. When I go back and look at all the different stuff, it's like, man, I was hitting just different angles, just pressing, pressing, pressing, pressing all the time, big compounds, big compounds. But I was usually training full body like three days a week back then. And it worked. And how many of the old school guys, I mean, and I've known lots of guys, other people point that out in a lot of these conversations. And I've been saying all these years, no, chin-ups since been pull-ups are not enough. They're not enough. My arms didn't start growing till I did all these curls the last few years. But have they? I mean, objectively speaking, the only curls I did back then at all that I could find anywhere was really heavy hammer curls. I'm talking 50 55 pounders with a little bit of cheat. Probably just helped my forearms. And then we find these other studies and definitely I've seen multiple studies looking showing that isolation work doesn't work muscle anymore than compounds and vice versa, right? The growth is pretty well the same as long as it's the primary mover. And the same thing when we're like, yeah, but we have to work these certain heads, but do we like do we really have to go well this one head of the the hamstring doesn't get fully stimulated on a hamstring uh you know hip hinge? But we're not really seeing it in practice, are we? Like when they go and measure later, it's not like it's underdeveloped from people who just did a hip hedge. So again, we got to wonder, what are we doing? Does the average person really need this stuff or is it a bad use of exercise economy when they could just be getting bigger overall on the big movements? And this is what I question. And I'm not saying never do any isolation or curls or any of that when I say that. But I also wonder since I started doing tons of supine curls, what else has happened? It seems like a lot of that is also correlated particularly also the overuse on shins with my loss of that overhead mobility, really tight biceps and hopefully a lot. I wonder if all that supine work has created a tight bicep situation for me personally. Stuff that I've been having to think about and ponder a lot.