Pretending that big exercises are dangerous is a lazy cope. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. Um, you know, we see this a lot with a lot of these so-called influencers online, these guys who literally have built their entire physique with Tren, right? They they're lazy. They're useless, right? They don't even eat clean. They They eat junk half the time. Work in treats into their macros. They train lazy. All this stuff on machines. And they just use lots and lots of drugs, you know, while staying lean. A little bit of Photoshop, a little bit of lighting, you know, a little bit of AI, right? Touch some stuff up. And they just pen the hell out of their delts. Again, that's where they're putting their gear to make those bigger, too. So, you see this, but then they come in and they'll talk about, well, these movements are dangerous. Or you'll see more guys. I see guys, oh, over 40, a man has no reason to squat or deadlift. Um, you guys imagine that flies really well with me. So, let's talk about dangerous. What have you guys seen me do? What do I have even in this this workout? um 10 to 12 rep sets with 405 on a high bar squat, 15 reps with 45 lb plate on a chin up, doing like 18 reps of 225 on a bench. I do up eight and I have actually hit nine not that long ago with 500 lb on a deadlift. Like we we move big weights, guys. I think I'm up to like 16 17 reps with a 45 pound plate on dips at least at the time this is being recorded. All right. So, we do big movements. Do big movements for a lot of workload on those sets. You know, I'm 49 years old. So, when the guys start talking about over 40, what are what are you lazy worthless people talking about? Because it is it's lazy itis. It's lazy ititis and and it's disgusting. And anyone who's listening to this nonsense, I don't know what to tell you. And I'm not saying, hey, that I have the greatest physique ever. No, I have torn a bicep. I have loose skin from being fat, you know, but that is nothing to do with big compound movements being dangerous. We know they work. Bodybuilders have proven for generations and generations building all their bases off these movements that they work. with their argument. Well, the the juice isn't worth the squeeze, the risk risk versus reward. And it's like, what's what is the risk? Do you use decent form? Like, do you anyone really think when I do a set of squats like this that my back hurts or something? Do you guys really think that just repping out 405 with a high bar like this that it somehow hurts my back? It doesn't. What What risks are you talking about? Just use decent form. Get tight. Brace your core. Learn to bench correctly. Do all your heavy pressing correctly in a way that's safe on your shoulders. Learn to stack your wrists. Just learn basic form on these movements. Ego lifting gets people hurt, but it's not big exercises or, you know, when when you see certain bodybuilders, they use so many drugs that they build such a massive strength base that their frame can't handle that, you know, the tonnage as they're moving on these lifts, especially if they use bad form. I think that's the key there. You know, they do cheat rows with 500 plus pounds. Okay. Right. But normal people aren't going to have to worry about that. Naturals definitely don't have to worry about that. Moderate gear users don't have to worry about that, you know? So, so what do we why do these things even get brought up? But you have to look at this and and and go, why do you think they're dangerous? Like, why do people suddenly think that a squat is more dangerous than a than a curl? Plenty of guys tear biceps on preacher curls. Plenty of you guys get hurt on machines. You're locked in. The more joints the weight and tendons the weight gets distributed across without anything being put in a compromised position, the better. We can make a much higher case for overuse injuries on single joint movements. How many single joint movements do you like, oh, I really like to get my arm or my leg into this angle where it puts the most tension? And that's oftentimes unnatural awkward angles. And had they just done a different movement to failure, they would have still got all those same muscle fibers. They would get the exact same muscle fibers, everything that they were trying to grow. Because ultimately, sure, we could argue about individual leverage is placing more tension at key points with this this isolation movement. Sure. But that's because you're not going to failure and it's not a movement. other movements. We're not using it as primary movers. It's again the lazy way to train because you're just not willing to do big movements and work hard. You have to come up with lazy ways to get around it for lazy people. So trying to then find that perfect angle to at least work the muscle. Okay, fine. But you don't think that has a higher injury risk. When you start putting those tendons and muscles into some of those strange lengthen positions they want to do, if anything goes wrong and you cheat, that's when stuff starts snapping. This is where you get inflammation. This is where you get overuse. Like what causes injuries in the gym? It's overuse. You're less likely to get the overuse on big movements, you know, but people will also argue, well, the stimulus of fatigue. Yeah, but they're making everything grow. It doesn't matter. There's a lot of fatigue. It's irrelevant because the stimulus is enormous. So anytime people use that line too, that stimulus to fatigue, that's just a line for lazy people because the muscle growth stimulus. If any exercise creates a huge amount of fatigue, it's obviously why is it fatigue? Because so many muscles are being used. Okay? You know, same thing people will say, well, it's just a cardiovascular. Really? So, you're telling me my legs aren't going to grow from 10 to 12 rep sets on a on a high bar squat with 405 because you think my cardiovascular system is the limit. I don't know, man. My quads burn pretty hard from it. So, again, this idea though that they're dangerous, people compete in powerlifting up into their 70s all the I go to meet and see 75 year old men and women, married couples and stuff still competing. They're not getting hurt. Where is this idea coming from that with good form and without using the wrong drugs that that big movements are dangerous? Like what what is the origin of this? Because you're moving bigger weights because it's scary. But the same people will think it's perfectly fine to load a machine up with six plates aside and push it or pull it. And then dudes tear stuff doing that also, don't they? Like you're going to have to create the tension somehow or you're not going to get big. So even if you're going to do the machine with all those stabilizers removed, you're going to have to load tremendous amounts of weight. Have you guys ever seen how much weight it takes on a leg press to really build legs? Bro, five 5 600 lb on a leg press machine isn't going to do anything. You're going to have chicken legs. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.