Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about lessons I learned losing over 100 pounds uh two different times in my life. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. All right. So, when I say this, some people are going to be like, "Oh, if you regained weight, then then then that's a problem. What did you do wrong?" It's like, uh, I got really, really, really sick and I got depressed while bedridden pretty much. So, I I went from being, you know, pretty fit, pretty jacked guy, um, you know, we're talking like squatting and deadlifting 600 plus, um, to being sick. So, just an just an FYI, yeah, I regained a lot of weight. I was like maybe 215 and I ballooned up to, you know, like 300, but I lost all all my muscle while doing it. So, I gained over 100 pounds of fat. Uh, but the first time I weighed, you know, approximately 320, um, you know, very very young man, obviously early 20s, um, when I really got serious about fitness. So, keep in mind, I'm 48 now. Um, and I got fit and like I said, approximately 320 because I was terrified to weigh myself. Uh, but I basically a switch flipped, you know, so how did I lose that original weight? I didn't even do it necessarily through the smartest ways. It was just uh sheer determination, right? I realized, well, maybe I should do uh cardio exercise. Like I wasn't even lifting weights. Um, and I did point out I did know a little about lifting weights. at one time hit a personal trainer for a short time, but it was not something I took seriously. So, I started running, right? And as you can imagine, at over 300 lb and out of shape, that first run was not very far. Um, you know, I got 100 yards if I was on the ground panting, but I was a young man, so, you know, we got away with this. Uh, but so I just started running. Um, and then what did I do for diet? I I had no clue what I was doing. So, this is, you know, interesting to me, you know, and a lot of people do struggle with this and I and I identify with the struggle, but at the same time, I don't because it it wasn't a half-hearted effort, you know, it was a case of a complete lifestyle change and it was me realizing I have to do something. Okay? And so then when people do say, "Hey, I I I want to lose weight or get in shape." I'm like, "Well, then you need to take it serious because if you really do, you will find a way." Um, and so I did, and this is the thing I would point out to people. You have to just basically draw a line in the sand and say, "I'm never gonna be fat. I'm not gonna be fat, right? I cannot live like this." So, it was a dramatic lifestyle change. I realized I had to cut out everything that was garbage. Like, that was it. I threw away all the soda, all the junk food. I just got rid of it. Didn't try to do any silly nonsense. Let's count our macros. Let's work it. I had no concept I even needed to count calories. Okay. So, this is what fascinates me when the people they want to tell obese people to uh oh, let's just track macros and still work your treats in. Yeah. No, that's that's not what I did. I cut out all the junk. All of it. Every last bit of it, you know, and I'm not saying I didn't eat a few things that might have been thinking hoping they were healthy. You know, we always tried a bunch of new stuff, but generally I said, "Okay, uh what's healthy to eat?" And I didn't even differentiate between healthy versus, you know, calories. And I didn't have to at that point not to lose over 100 pounds. And so pretty much what I did, I lived on meat, fruits, and vegetables. Okay? I'm like, those are healthy, right? So I made lots of lots of meat, lots of meat salads. I ate lots of vegetables. Just, you know, tons of vegetables. I always if I if I needed a snack, just get a piece of fruit, right? We ate tons of fruit. If I was hungry, eat a peach or two. Eat an apple or two. um you know, just eat some fruit, uh eat some strawberries, you know, in between my meals. So, I snacked on fruit and I I lived on meat and vegetables for main meals. Like, it's really what I ate. I'm just like, um just get a big pile of make a big salad, eat a steak or some chicken breast and some salad, big pile of of of steak and broccoli or make a big chicken salad or a steak salad. And so I would I would put, you know, sirloin steak, flank steak, chicken breast, uh, grilled a lot, barbecued a lot. I ate I ate a lot of leaner meats, a lot of leaner meats, a lot of vegetables, and then if I was hungry and had a sweet tooth, we snacked on fruit and I ran. And I got down to 170 pounds by running. I used to run five miles every morning, okay? And that's all I had to do. That's literally it. We got up and ran before the sun was up every day, no matter what, before work, before school, whatever else is going on. Uh because I did both at the time. Okay. And then I discovered weightlifting. All right. Second go around, I had a lot more muscle even though I had been stuck in bed. I've been stuck in bed for about 10 months. I had a doctor quit working out. I didn't work out for almost three years of any type really. Um and then I just built myself back up. So it was easier. I lost the weight way easier the second time because by then I do stuff like I used to just do a lot of intermittent fasting. I messed with different diet approaches. I did mess with some keto, low carb approaches, uh higher carb approaches, just all very very uh high fiber carbs. So I used different approaches. I used a lot of fasting. I started walking. Um I managed to get a hold of um a family member purchased me. I asked them if they would because I was still sick and rebuilding myself. Uh they they bought me a a set like they bought me a little rack and a really cheap 300 pound barbell set and I acquired a few things here and there. Um just kind of trained from home and walked every day, but I ate a lot better and the the weight came off really fast. So by then I knew more. I had previously been a lifter, you know. I mean I'd already squatted and deadlifted 600 lb. Um, I knew how to train at that point. Uh, but you know, I started with a little bit of stuff that I could do. Started and I didn't even have the rack at first. I literally just had a barbell. So, I just I had to learn really learn to walk again. Just walk. Started doing weight stuff. Uh, I got AI got a chin-up bar, started doing chin-ups. Um, and that's pretty much what I did. And that worked, guys. So, then I got back into shape. And then, of course, the rest is kind of history. Uh we documented the last bit of the losing weight originally with uh the first YouTube, right? I started doing YouTube in 2012 during this rebuilding process. And but the thing is the difference I learned there is I I learned the first time with just sheer grit, you can lose 150 pounds. You don't have to know anything special about diet or exercise. You just have to get out and do tons and tons of work and you just have to cut literally all the garbage out of your diet. If you do that, you'll you'll lose 100 pounds. And that's just a fact. The second one was a more targeted effort where I utilized, you know, more fasted cardio, lifting weights again. And it was actually much much easier. Like I didn't feel like I was dying running, you know, myself into the ground, right? Uh but I also did it coming out of some health issues. Yet I was still more successful at it. So again, I would point out to people even your health issues are not going to stop you. Uh, all right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.