All right, let's destroy the entire fitness industry in one video. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would sit down and do a video for you guys and gals on this. Please click like and drop me a comment down below. It's almost like a summary of of one of the most popular videos I ever made about 13 years ago. Did a little short with this same sort of information. But let's jump into it a little bit more. Here's the problem. Most of the stuff that people are pushing out there in terms of lifting um and everything else is overly complicated and completely useless for the most part. Um people are pointing out things of absolutely no value all the time. Stuff of no value. Literal arguments about which isolation movement produces the most muscle growth in a muscle. I mean think about that for a moment of the stupidity of that biomechanically. how useless that information is, right? Why? Because at the end of the day, if you're largely isolating a muscle, there's nothing else to take the load, right? Muscles don't have a bunch of magical properties. Either you work the primary function of a muscle or you didn't. If you take it to failure, particularly if you've done more than one set, you've reached all the muscle fibers. You're not probably getting any more, right? you're just not getting more muscle fibers in that muscle. Um, this idea that you have to hit every muscle from multiple angles, I get if you're trying to compete at the highest levels in bodybuilding, but for someone who's just trying to get really jacked, there's no there's no need for all that. But this idea that one isolation movement is going to produce significantly different results uh than another similar movement when taken to failure is not true. So all this data that any of these people try to bring up on this in these different techniques are literally just personal preference or my tendons feel better, my joints feel better when I do it this way. Nothing wrong with that. But that is going to be a very individual thing. A preacher curl may really hurt some people's tendons. A straight bar curl may really hurt some people's tendons. In that case, it makes sense. It causes inflammation for you. Pick a different movement. Not a big deal. But to think that they're going to produce vastly different results. Any of those that data looking at it is in subfure sets. Once you've reached muscle failure, you've hit all the upper threshold fibers. And we know that when you look at all the different studies and research even on especially on big compound movements as it gets heavier with really heavy weights and people start going to failure with it. Even the EMG shows that the heads of muscles activate at a very high level that aren't even thought of as the primary movers. Right? It's like you had all those studies that found that the bench press built the lateral head of the triceps more than extensions did and extensions built the long head more because yeah well it works at less but what about the studies on benching that when you get really really heavy and hard on the bench even the long head lights up lights up at 100% activation you know you look at squats and different parts of the quad the glute to quad the adductor ratio and things as the workloads get more intense it all starts lighting up maximally. So we understand this. Well, what does this tell us? It tells us a lot of these arguments about exercise selection are just personal preference. I happen to enjoy this exercise more. I feel it more. Um maybe it hurts my joints or tendons less. Hey, great. That's a wonderful thing. But to act like there are rules for everyone to it, no, absolutely not. And and I would go so far as to say that look, a a [snorts] normal straight bar curl, a preacher curl, a dumbbell incline curl, all great bicep exercises, for example. Do you really and truly believe there's evidence as one is better than another? If you push progressive overload and take them to failure, you're not going to see one shred of difference. There's going to be no visible result whether you picked any one of those to put all your efforts into for a year straight and you pushed the same level of intensity and workload progression going to be the same result. Okay. Same thing on all these volume studies. All this stuff that people were like, well, we need all this large amounts of volume. Yeah. Except that plenty of Mr. Olympias did really low volumes. Plenty of highlevel guys did low volumes. Plenty of guys got crazy jacked when I was coming up on lower volumes. Martin Burkham was right. Martin Burkham was right on all of that and he called it out over a decade ago again. And he built a phenomenal physique. It's not like anyone could say, "Well, blah, you know, you don't look like a great bodybuilder." Yeah, but he had a phenomenal physique doing like five exercises, like three sets a week of each one. Okay? And that's a lot of what sales guys, most of what guys are looking at is just leanness. So, let's let's call that out, too. Most of what dudes are thinking of is, "Oh, really aesthetic physiques?" No, they're just really lean. They're guys who've gained some muscle. They get really lean. For most of you, that's going to give you that look. guys are mostly selling leanness, not knowledge. Because a lot of the guys who you're seeing, unless they're on tons of drugs, they're not even big. They're just really lean. And I've met enough of these guys over the years, I'm telling you, these guys are not even big. So, how is their lifting knowledge useful? Their only useful knowledge for what they're getting is they learned how to get really lean. They have diet knowledge. Okay. But how many of them use lots of drugs to do that? Again, how many of these guys who promote these these various strategies? Well, you can do this and you can do all this flexible diet. You can do this and track your macros. How many of them use drugs to suppress their appetite? I mean, let's set aside the illegal stuff. How many of like, oh, you're on these nicotine patch? Yeah, dude, just stop. So, in other words, find the strategy to get lean. That strategy is going to vary for different people because guess what? Appetites vary a lot. difference between hard gainers and easy gainers. That's appetite's the big difference, right? Guys like me who've been over 300 pounds when younger, we have crazy appetite. Someone who started out at 140 pounds when they started lifting has no appetite, right? Very different strategies, but at the end of the day, supplements aren't helping with any of it. So again, half of this stuff is done just to sell you supplements and nonsense or to sell you very complicated programs. And I'm not saying some complexity isn't useful. I write conjugate programs for some of my clients, but conjugate isn't even that complicated. It's mainly that you're rotating stuff for psychological reasons. And I think that's what people forget with the conjugate method of maxing on all these different movements. Well, it teaches you to strain at different angles. It's great for contact sport. athletes, combat athletes. That's why it works so well for those guys. But most of it's psychological. So even when I program conjugate, I don't think people understand it's done purely for mental reasons. I could just I could get most people jacked and strong on six or seven exercises, five, six, seven movements, right? Most guys would get jacked and strong just fine. But again, most of these guys who are putting out information, they're just selling leanness. They're not even big. So, is their lifting knowledge really that good? And that's the question I would ask if guys like Martin Burkham look just as amazing as any of those guys and he did like five exercises, three sets of of each exercise or these five movements and built that crazy phenomenal physique just by fasting and eating crazy high protein so that he got lean. Does any of their lifting knowledge matter? Probably not. I'm not even going to go. Probably it doesn't. Again, people are pushing nonsense. What they should be pushing is, hey, pick really big movements. Push really hard progressive overload. Use volumes that you can recover from. And remember that at the end of the day, injuries and overuse stay lower if you do less. So, find the amounts of of volumes and take stuff to failure. Work really hard. Take the volumes you can easily recover from and run with it. Because even if you gained 20% less muscle, you're gaining muscle all the time. And you never have to de lo and you never get hurt. This means just continual gains. Just focus on progression. And if you have some muscles that are lagging, feel free to isolate them. Look, if your biceps suck and chin-ups or pull-ups are not giving you big biceps, by all means, do some curls. It isn't that complicated. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.