Lifting weights is extremely therapeutic for anxiety, depression, and PTSD. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here, and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Quick reminder, if you guys would please remember to like my video, it would be greatly appreciated. Uh, if you aren't following or subscribed, please do so and drop me a comment down below. But let's get over to the topic. Um, this is something I promoted a lot. I am myself uh a child abuse survivor. Okay. I've been very very open about that, honest about that for over a decade in my work online. Um, I do have a history of a PTSD diagnosis as a result of that and a history of chronic severe depression. Um, but for me personally, lifting weights has been very therapeutic. Um, I was also over 300 lb when I was 19 20 years old. Um, as a result of of binge eating and other stuff associated with that trauma. Uh but I used exercise um and lifestyle to lose weight and then I got into lifting weights really really seriously once I had lost most of the weight and you know lifting and powerlifting and all these things became an enormous part of my life. Obviously I'm AI'm a coach by profession now but I always did some personal training often on a little bit on the side even in my 20s. So for me, this is something I've I've always tried to push is that um that therapeutic side of it. And what I would say to a lot of people if you suffer from these things, particularly if you have PTSD, uh like lifting weights is absolutely enormous. Um and and I recall when I was at Texas State uh championship or powerlifting a few years ago, gosh, I guess three years ago now. Um I I was at the championship there and I was chatting with a guy and then he had said you know they were part of an organization that had started using uh powerlifting specifically as a form of therapy. part of their therapy for PTSD and this was being run by actual therapists were were doing the program and obviously they were uh giving them other therapy with it but they included it and what they found is that the heavy lifting u and when we're talking powerlifting we we mean heavy lifting powerlifting is a sport that tests your one rep max that is all we care about your true one rep max so when we say heavy lifting people say how heavy we mean 100% 100% of everything you can lift. That's called a one rep max. That's what the sport is. Uh so the heaviest lifting possible, all right, for you as a person. Uh but that that being said, they found that it helped um that the the whole aspect of training specifically for the powerlifting, the the outlet of lifting uh truly heavy weights, again, heavy being relative for you as a person, that it absolutely helped. It helped control the panic attacks. It helped control the flight or fight response. Okay? And that was the interesting thing that people don't think about with that. We learn to take that that response and channel it into the weights to where you learn to be able to turn it on and off at a switch because don't we use that when we go for a max lift? But now you're in control. Now we create an environment where you have direct control of that. Plus then the physical focus, right? The focus of it. But what they noted is with the program they were running uh they started taking sexual uh assault survivors also because a therapist said look this is helping the brains of these veterans but trauma is trauma. In other words, your brain your brain doesn't care what the trauma is. The tra as far as your brain and the chemical processing is concerned and this is what these experts noted you know here your brain doesn't differentiate between the trauma of the horrors of war versus the trauma of being sexually assaulted. Your brain receives them the same way. There's there's no difference. So any of these extreme traumas like this that create PTSD is the same brain chemistry involved. The impact the impact is is the same. All that your brain knows is extreme psychological trauma. Okay? And what what was noted is these survivors got the same thing. They got the exact same benefits. All right? The ability to control that anxiety, the ability to control that flight or fight response. But then we deal with the depression end of it. So this is let me go over and talk about my own personal story there. Then I I could talk at some point. I probably need to talk about the later or I was told by my doctors to quit training for medical reasons for a while and I deteriorated completely. My mental health went basically hit rock bottom when I quit doing that. As someone who had been using it, you know, for a decade therapeutically and powerlifting all those years therapeutically uh for my my PTSD and depression. Uh I didn't do well when I quit. And so here we are again. All right. But for me personally, what I found and this is what I find is true for anyone like that. It starts off as a way to channel your anger. Okay? Because when you have any of that sort of trauma, you are angry. A constructive outlet instead of taking that anger out on other people. Okay? You can take it out on a piece of piece of steel, right? Nobody gets hurt. There's no problems. This is perfect because all that misplaced aggression and anger that you carry, you can put it into that barbell. You're not going to hurt that barbell. And if you do, it can be replaced. It's not a human being. It can be replaced. All right. Perfect. But what ends up happening is you do it, you start to get these other benefits. You start getting all the physical benefits, you know, and you start to get stronger. And what ends up happening is you do this, before long, you're investing hard work into self-improvement. And you know, when we're lifting weights and strength training, there is a quantifiable metric. Did I get stronger or not? Can I lift more weights? Can I do more reps? Okay, you're putting hard work into a quantifiable objective metric. Not, hey, do I look better? Because that could be real subjective. But when we're getting in the weight room, we can quantify that. There's no subjectivity, right? Either you lifted 300 pounds or you didn't. Okay? So, you either did it for eight reps or you didn't. Uh what ends up happening, you put hard work into self-improvement. That starts to program your brain. You see yourself differently. Okay. We also have all the aspects of depression and all the other things that get helped just from the shift in in uh brain chemistry that occurs from being more physically fit. But what ends up happening is that hard work into self-improvement in a quantifiable quantifiable objective manner. It starts to make you feel better about yourself because you are physically putting work into improving yourself in a way that you can measure and before long you start to think that way. I am worth it. I am worth improving. I am worth working on. Okay, this works wonders for your self-esteem. Because what's the big problem when you've been really hurt in those manners? Your self-esteem is destroyed. It's absolutely destroyed. This rebuilds it. In addition to an outlet for the anger, in addition to learning to control the flight or fight response. Hey, it works. It's amazing. I advocate this for everyone in these situations. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. And I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.