Weight training reverses many of the negative effects and risks of aging. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciated. If you are not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that also. Let's get over to the topic. Now I'm not saying weight training will completely reverse aging. And a lot of people say silly nonsense like, "Look, too much body weight or too much muscle will negatively affect longevity." Um, which is insane because I'm not telling anyone to use bodybuilder doses of steroids and growth hormone at age 80. So again, really that's really a super silly actually insane statement for people to make um because nobody's getting too big. Okay? Uh, and that's exactly why we say that we need to be strength training because most of the really serious negative effects from aging that really kill us real fast are sarcopenia related. They're muscle loss related. Uh, they're loss of bone density. So, you get hip fractures and stuff. And once you once you fracture a hip past age 60, it's pretty much a dissonance. Um, and what do we mean by a dissidence? Uh 19 out of 20 people who fracture a hip from age 60 and on are dead in less than 3 years. 19 out of 20. So once you break a hip 95% chance you will not be alive 3 years from now or sooner might be six months. U so again kind of an important deal. So yeah it does matter and I think also people forget on these topics you're going to lose muscle. Okay, Arnold Schwarzenegger is smaller than he used to be. And keep in mind, he used lots of drugs. So when people bring up certain stuff, it's like I'm not telling anybody to get steroid big. I'm telling people to if you're looking at health and longevity, what I'm saying is you should probably gain close to as much muscle as you possibly can drug-free or or on TRT or replacement dose if your goal is longevity. And then just work your best to try to keep as much of it as you can, knowing that at 60 you will have less of it than you had at 50. At 70 you will have less muscle than you did at 60. At 80 you will have less than at 70. That is unavoidable. It is impossible. Okay? It is impossible for that not to happen. You will lose muscle. If you got pretty dang big when younger, you're not going to keep all of it with that age. Okay? So, our goal at that point becomes, can we keep as much of it as we possibly can? Now, does it mean a person who starts at 60 can't gain muscle? No, of course not. But if you became, you know, a natural pro bodybuilder at age 35, I promise you at 60 you're going to be a little smaller. Okay? That's what we're saying. You're you're simply not going to maintain 100% of it. Um, so in that context, there is no concern of, hey man, I'm probably carrying too. It's not good for my heart to be a ripped 195 lbs at 80. Well, you're not going to be. But if you could be a really lean 150 at 80, right? Or 160 pounds with a six-pack, man, you'll be in a good spot, right? Because you won't be overweight. You'll be nice and lean and fit. So, why does this matter? um psychopenia, hip fractures, all this stuff. Major deal. Massive, massive, massive. This is the stuff that gets us really easily outside of heart disease. And we already know what weightlifting does for heart disease, right? This is no longer debated. The best metaanalysis says strength training is slightly better for your heart health than cardio if you only did one. And when they say that, they're talking a very slight. And it doesn't mean you shouldn't do both. There are benefits to both. But if a person were forced to only do one, that is what the data now shows. And it doesn't matter that we started calling it cardio years ago. That doesn't change this the the data, right? We could have just named strength training cardio then. It resolved a bunch of concerns, right? What's in the name? Well, you know, we didn't have the research we had when we picked those names, right? Modern data has shown Yeah, absolutely. Um but but the sarcopenia in the bone density, the preventing bone fractures, osteoporosis, even the loss of height. Notice the people who are all the shrunken old man, the hunched over upper back. That's could all be reversed with strength training, okay? And I'm talking proper strength training. I don't mean that you need to grew crazy grinding maxes, you know, with bad form and knee reps. Nobody's telling you that. Look, literally what I'm doing in this video counts as strength training, right? doing full pause squats, aigrass, you know, so on and so forth, right? This this would count. This sort of training is what we would be talking about. Now, obviously, as an older person, you're not going to be using these weights, and that's okay. All right. So, covering the sarcopenia bone fractures, let's talk cancer. Muscle is protective against cancer at all age. And this is no longer debated. It's not even people say, "Oh, I don't have." Someone say, "I don't believe that." I'm like, "Really? Why don't you believe it? Do you not understand what causes cancer and what fuels tumors to grow? Like it actually, let's step back. If we had no research to prove it, it would still be common sense. If you knew enough biology to know what muscles do when they're trained and you know how cancer grows, uh it's it should actually be a no-brainer. Fortunately for us, we do have data and research on it. But even if we didn't, it would be a very solid hypothesis that would make perfect sense. And the cliffnotes of that muscle competes with tumors for fuel. Okay? So in other words, the fuel that the tumors from cancer need to grow and to get bigger and to spread, all that same fuel, the glucose, the insulin, in some cases even the ketones, your muscles are greedy for it. So they are literally competing with the tumors. While your body's trying to fight the tumor, the muscle is literally trying to starve it. It's competing with it. And the more muscle you have, the more competition the tumor has for resources that it needs to grow. Also, muscle tissue create has high insulin sensitivity. It reduces insulin uh production by the body. Well, if insulin production is lowered because it your muscle tissue disposes of glucose more efficiently with less insulin, less glucose again going to the tumors. This is a good thing. So again, if you don't want cancer, carrying as much muscle as you could possibly have, even at age 50, 60, 70, will help you. Is it going to be a complete cure? No, of course not. It's going to give you a lot better fighting chance, right? So all this stuff that the the really truly horrible negative effects of aging, the stuff that really destroys our quality of life, the loss of strength, the loss of the inability to get up off the ground, you fall over, the hip fractures, the cancer, all this stuff that destroys your quality of life, strength training and muscle is a resistance to this, right? So the really negative effects of of of aging um with the quality of life end lifting weights will help you with it'll help you dramatically. Uh this has been shown repeatedly in studies anecdote everything we we know this and this is before we get into the other stuff. Diabetes, heart disease, any of that. We can throw all that in too but I don't think we need to go there. It's going to be too long of a video. All right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.