Limiting the tools you use in the gym is keeping you small and weak. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. If you would please click like down below, I would greatly appreciate it. Uh subscribe or follow me if you aren't. And please drop me a comment uh below. Even if just to say hello, I would greatly appreciate it. All right, let's get over to this topic. You know, you always get people who um they say really stupid stuff. I only use calisthenics. I only use barbells. I only use low reps. I only use high reps. I only use this or I won't do that. It's like, all right, guys. Okay. If you are limiting the tools that you are willing to use to get bigger and stronger, you are keeping yourself small and weak. This is not the mindset of a successful champion. This is not the mindset of people who want results. Now I and I think it's absolutely absolutely moronic to even have a mindset to where someone says well I prefer to only do this like they'll say something like like moronic I only do bodyweight exercises because it's just the the more natural way to train. It's like the more natural way to stay small and weak and not reach your potential. And I'm saying that as someone who thinks body weightight exercises are fantastic. I love weighted chin-ups, weighted pull-ups, weighted dips. I think they're amazing exercises, but you are limiting yourself. The moment you say something stupid like, "I will not use a machine." Really? You don't use a reverse hyper? Tell me you wouldn't use a reverse hyper. All right. I think that you're eat up with the dumbass. Then that would be my response to someone who tells me I would never use a reverse hyperextension machine. All right. Again, as we say in the South, you're ate up with a dumbass then. Look that up if you don't know what that means. Basically means you're a And you are. All right. I mean, you really are to make such an absurd statement. Um, when it's pretty well documented to be one of the most amazing prehab exercises for your low back ever invented. Okay. You not want to deadlift 600 plus pounds when you're 50. That's what you're telling me. That is what you're telling me. You just want to be you you want to be hurt. All right. I wouldn't use bands or chains. I won't use this. I won't use that. Okay. Then quit crying. You don't get results. And and and here's here's the reason I say that. Do people not understand how hard it is to get strong and jacked? Like do people not understand that this is difficult? Like this takes a lot of work for a long time. Granted, some people are going to have better genetics than others. Of course, some people are going to find it easier faster than others, right? This is a long, arduous, difficult process. It's already hard enough. The moment you start saying things like, "I'm going to limit what I do." Like, you're you're taking something that's already hard to do, right? You're already taking something that most people, the overwhelming majority of people who undertake will fail at it and you're going to just place limitations for no reason. Okay? And maybe you'll get lucky. Maybe you will get good results. I'm not saying some people don't by doing these things, but you're limiting your potential. And I promise you, even if you got great results, you probably could have got better results by willing to use more tools in your toolbox. And you have to think of these tools that way, guys. All right? If you have a whole toolbox available to you, and you say, "I'm only going to use a hammer." Really, you're not going to use a screwdriver, you're not going to ever use a tape measure, you're not going to use uh, you know, an Xacto knife, an end wrench. You're never going to use any of these things, right? No, I want to use a hammer. All right. Well, don't cry when your when your engine doesn't turn out the way that you want it to or the house you're building or the building you're building doesn't turn out exactly how you want. You know, maybe you should use a tape measure and the screwdriver sometimes. Maybe you should try using a torque wrench. So, well, that's for a specific job. Yeah, it's not for the same job as a hammer. And your training is the same way. So, you know, when we get into these things, yes, these are all tools. And I don't care if you're powerlifting or bodybuilding or what it is that you're doing, okay? These are all still potentially valuable tools to you. Yes, one rep maxes are valuable tools. Yes, 10 rep sets are valuable. 20 rep sets are valuable tools. Barbells, dumbbells, specialty bars, cables, machines, bands, chains, they're all valuable tools. Stop limiting the tools that you are willing to use. You know, and if anything, when you start limiting tools, that's when overuse goes up, right? Locked into that same pattern with no variation all the time, over and over, that's when you get hurt. I mean, I see guys all the time. How many guys have we seen that like that max Inda guy still got hurt doing nothing but machines? People say, "How could that possibly be?" Overuse, especially with the wrong drugs. You're locked into a machine. You're doing the just the same machines over and over. You're not changing anything. You're not varying anything, year after year. Do you not understand what overuse is? Do you not understand that even in various industries and jobs they talk about overuse injuries in a shoulder because even in a factory worker, okay, do do you not grasp this? You're just locked in doing the same pattern. You don't think that's ever gonna hurt you or increase injury risk because it's a machine? Like, like, what sort of stupid logic is that? No, really think about that. Why is a machine magically safer? Tell me why a hammer strength machine is safer than deadlifting a barbell. I'm I'm 48. You just watched me do that. I'm 48 years old. I don't ever hurt my back deadlifting. I've never strained my back deadlifting. Not once in my life. Maybe because I know how to train and I use the right machines and and things to strengthen it. Like what stuff you see me doing here repping out 315 on a good morning kind of helps. Um, but what sort of goofball logic is that? Well, I won't get hurt in a machine. Uh, being locked into the same movement pattern. You don't think that will ever possibly injure you? Then you don't know anything about the human body. Again, this is called being a dumbass. who doesn't know what they are talking about and they should probably expand their horizons a bit and that's not mean I mean people don't want to hear that people don't want to be told that they're a dumbass but you are you're you're pretending that you know something about a topic that you clearly don't it's also called the Dunning cougar effect. So, if you literally can't understand how you could possibly get hurt on a machine through overuse, then maybe you don't need to be writing your own programs at this point, maybe you don't know enough about exercise to have an opinion would be my explanation. I'm not being mean. I'm just stating facts. But back over to the point, why are we limiting the tools we're willing to use, you know, that varying your tools actually reduces injury risks on top of it. Let's just not talk about getting bigger and stronger. How about we not get hurt? How about using various tools and varying them and rotating them and having the right time and place for a tool? We do that so we don't get hurt. That would be the intelligent approach. That would be the opposite of being a dumbass. Knowing that every tool has a time and place. Use them appropriately. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.