Aesthetics is mostly just getting lean. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please drop me a comment and a like down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Let's get over into the topic. Um, and no, I'm not saying other factors don't matter. Let me be clear. Let me be clear. Let me be perfectly clear. Other factors matter, but the primary factor is getting leaner. Now, when I say that, people will say, "Oh, so you're saying a person could just be anorexic and diet down to 110 pounds, right?" They'll say something stupid like that. No. And if that's how you interpret that, then you're probably too stupid to tie your own shoelaces. Okay? If you hear a statement like that and think that it doesn't mean build any muscle or not preserve muscle, then you're stupid and you probably shouldn't have an opinion on anything or discuss or debate anything with anyone for the rest of your life. So, can we settle that now? All right. Now, that being said, um it's it's the biggest factor, right? It is the biggest factor. If you just get leaner as someone who works out and is fit, you will get dramatically more aesthetic up to a point. Okay, up to a point. What do you mean up to a point? Contest lean is not aesthetic. So, we also need to be clear on that. If you are absolutely shredded dry to the bone, the way most bodybuilding federations want you to be at contest time, well, no, you're not aesthetic. That super striated, dry, grainy look doesn't look pleasing to the eye to most people. But 10% body fat does. And I and I think that's a great great benchmark or range to tell guys to get to. Usually around that 12% mark, you'll start getting considerably more aesthetic. You get down to about 10 and I would say, you know, about 10% body fat. For most guys, it that's going to be your sweet spot. If you want a beach body, like you want to go to the beach and you want people to say, "Wow, they have an attractive fit physique. They look aesthetic. They look good." Man, 10%'s a good number. And you can get DEXA scans and stuff much below that. So what you don't want, you don't need striated glutes, okay? You don't need striated glutes. Um, but I'll go so far as to say that even in terms of just say attractiveness, like you know, you just want people to say, "Wow, you got an aesthetic body." When they see you shirtless somewhere, you may not even need to go to 10%. Honestly, like 12%. You're going to have good six-pack. you're going to have a full six-pack at 12. Okay, so that's what we're talking about. Um, so in that context, this is this is what we mean. Now, is this dependent upon some other things? Uh, should you have gained some muscle? Yes, obviously. More muscle, let me state that again. More muscle will improve this also. More muscle in the right places will improve this also. Okay, we all understand that. All right, let's be clear on that up to a point. So, we come back over to you probably don't want to be bodybuilder pro bodybuilder open class freakish, but you're generally not going to lose aesthetics by getting bigger, you know, and I'm not even talking necessarily about mate selection. Women generally like a little more muscle. This has been shown in the surveys, and this is I think dudes get upset when they hear the dadbod thing. women like you a little little more with a little more muscle. And when people are thinking of those dadbot surveys, no, I mean, I'm talking even like really big. By and large, grown, I'm not talking about 18year-old girls. We're talking about grown women generally like some muscle on a man. They just don't want you really ripped. They don't necessarily care when they say the dadbot thing. But almost think offseason bodybuilder or healthy body fat power lifter. Yeah, that's that's usually what they were looking at. Um, but to be, you know, attractiveness 2M, yeah, sure, muscle still helps. Not the be all end all, you know, not the be all end all. Uh, but again, looking athletic is a big part of the aesthetics. Just getting leaner, having visible abs, uh, you know, do other things matter? Sure. Wide shoulders, wide back, vtaper. Let's be clear on that. Once the body fat is sorted, what what else really matters? I'm not saying arms and stuff don't matter. I mean, arms matter. Guys care about arms more than even girls do. Like, building arms that are disproportionately large doesn't improve your aesthetics, by the way, at all. Okay, just an FYI. Um, but what muscles are going to tend to lend the most and and obviously you need to build everything. So when we say this, we say this, it doesn't mean, oh, just train those muscles. No, I mean, be proportionate. Like if you want to be more aesthetic, be proportionate. But if you're trying to just get there quicker as a newer guy, where should you put your focus? Shoulders and lats? Why? Vtaper, wide shoulders. Okay. Goes a long way. If you're lean now, other stuff can enhance it, being more proportionate and a better physique, but wider wider delts, wider back. The wider you look up top, and that's what we're talking about with that. Um, also again, legs do matter. People do care. Having some quads and calves, good idea. Do they need to be bodybuilder big? No. But you shouldn't skip leg day. You're not going to be aesthetic with no legs either. It's not going to happen. People will notice, you know. So, I would say yes, you obviously want to gain muscle. Do you don't need to be anywhere near as big as I am, for example, though. Okay. I mean, I have like a 27 plus fat free mass index. Like, no, you don't need to be there. It's not what we're talking about. And I'm not particularly aesthetic at the moment. Uh, other stuff's just going to be genetics, but we're talking only contests like bodybuilding competition. Normal people don't see those things. And I think people forget that in these conversations. Normal people who are not bodybuilding obsessed don't see your insertions. They don't see your perfect proportions. They don't see your perfect symmetry. They don't care. They don't notice it. and they they don't know the difference between a high and a low bicep insertion. People who really follow and obsess over the bodybuilding stuff notice those things. I assure you, no one else knows. They can't tell. They're not judging you uh through the lens of a contest bodybuilder. They're just looking at do they have a nice attractive fit body? And most of that is just going to come by having gained a decent amount of muscle. which is a decent amount. Being lean, you know, 10 to 12% body fat and having a Vtaper like that will get most guys there. That's all you need. But that is generally when we think of aesthetic, body fat is still at the top of the list. You can have a perfect perfect proportionate physique with a wide vtaper, but if you're 21% body fat, nobody's going to think that you look aesthetic.