Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha strength and fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about many guys favorite topic, but it probably shouldn't be testosterone. Uh, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below. Be greatly appreciate it. If you're not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. So, thank you. Let's get over into the topic. Um, I always say this, too many guys obsess over their testosterone. And I'm not even saying it's not important. What I'm saying is testosterone inside the normal range is probably not significantly affecting your gains in the gym. Um, and again, that's what the overwhelming amount of research shows. People are confusing using exogenous amounts, taking you super physiological or having extremely low test and and lack of muscle growth. Um but ironically um again you want to know how unimportant that is in the grand scheme of things. Women gain muscle relative to their frame and muscle starting size. This has been found in more recent studies if they train hard just as fast as men do. Now they tend to have less muscle fibers especially in the upper body. Uh they're smaller, lighter frame. So they just have less muscular potential. But even them with female levels of testosterone because again they also have female levels of estrogen. They gain muscle just as fast as men. So even then, having a slightly lower testosterone is probably not impeding your muscle growth the way you think it is. It's not pounds of muscle. It's literally you might have ounces. You might be gaining one less ounce of muscle per year, if that. All right, this is not significant. So people again, they confuse bodybuilders using uh you know large amounts of these substances. are confusing that with the power of the substance the sub uh the hormone the substance that you produce uh naturally endogenously but when we start looking at testosterone levels here's what people have to remember lower testosterone is largely a product of bad lifestyle and I'm not talking about with age we get that you know people who've done gear when younger they they may have lower levels uh that can cause it faster there are medical conditions that can negatively affect testo testosterone, right? Autoimmune conditions, stuff like that. It affects your whole hormone profile. Okay, I'm not even going to get into my own personal situation there, but uh needless to say, autoimmune diseases and things, but otherwise, it's it's poor health. Low testosterone is is a a marker of poor health. So, what guys need to be looking at who are really worried about their testosterone levels, right? They're really worried about their testosterone levels, but they're not thinking through that that it's a symptom, not a cause, right? So, what happens? What what's the situation? Guys like, I need a test booster. I need to obsess over my testosterone. And it's like, no, the lower testosterone is a symptom of your bad health and your bad lifestyle. Does that make Let me say that again. The low testosterone is largely a symptom of your bad health and your bad lifestyle. It is not the cause. Okay? So curing the testosterone doesn't cure the problems that created the low testosterone. Why are guys having lower testosterone? Uh they're obese. They're too caring too much body fat. Okay, let's put that in perspective. All right. If you're over 20% body fat, I guarantee you that's a factor. Like if you're if you're struggling with your testosterone levels, you feel they're lower, you get them tested and they're on the lower end of the normal range, I guarantee you being fat is part of it. And guys are like, "But 22% is my fat." Yes, it is. How far have we fallen as a society in terms of obesity where we don't realize 22% body fat for a man is fat? That's not normal. That's not healthy. Let me state that again. That's not normal and it's not healthy. Even though 25 maybe 28% is probably the average or common these days in Western men. That's not normal and it's not healthy. You are carrying too much body fat and that is absolutely affecting your testosterone and your estrogen and all these things. All right. So, your body fat possibly probably a factor. So, what's the best thing they could do right there? or maybe optimize their their body fat. Okay. What other factors? Poor sleep. Okay. You don't get enough sleep. Another reason, man, I harp on stuff like like video games. People get upset. Are you up at 1:00 a.m. gaming? You're up when you should be sleeping, losing sleep, and exposing yourself to large amounts of light looking at a screen that's going to disrupt your hormone profile. So, you're up late being exposed to blue light at midnight, 1:00 a.m. You're not in bed at 9 or 10:00. All right? You're not in bed once the sun goes down. You're being exposed to blue light, gaming, doing other stuff. Okay? All right. This is a factor. Poor lifestyle. People don't realize that. They're thinking, "Oh, it's just, you know, the exercise." All right. How about not exercising? Most people who follow me are already going to be training. That's not the factor. Most of you are active. Are you sedentary? That's going to make your your testosterone go down. Your weight training and stuff is going to help it tremendously. Okay? Weight training is going to help it tremendously. All right? Make sure that we understand that. Let's get that out of the way. Diet. Do you have junk in your diet? Too much uh garbage in your diet? refined foods, refined sugars. Are you getting enough fruits and vegetables? Okay. Are you getting enough healthy fats? Like, are you deficient in omega-3 or omega-6 fats? That's going to be a factor. Uh you deficient in any antioxidants, your phytonutrient, like you deficient in any of this stuff. So, you're not eating a good balanced diet. You're not eating a diet that has enough healthy fats, particularly the omega-3. You're not eating a diet that's rich in fruits and vegetables, has any vitamin or mineral deficiencies, and no pill is not going to cure this. All right, here's your solutions. Do you drink alcohol at all? Do you uh partake in cannabis? Cannabis has been linked with lower testosterone. Alcohol absolutely lowers testosterone. Hey, do you get enough sunlight? So let's look at all these factors. Why are guys struggling and having low test? What do they need to fix? They need to fix their health. They don't need to boost their testosterone. They need to fix their health. Your poor health choices are lowering your testosterone. The solution isn't to cure the testosterone. The solution is to cure your poor lifestyle. You need to be lifting weights. You need to be at a healthy body fat. No dietary deficiencies. You need to have good sleep hygiene. Okay? You need to be getting some sunlight. These are the things that you need to do to boost your testosterone. It is a symptom of your poor lifestyle. It's not the cause. Focusing on the testosterone is not the solution. Having the low test is a symptom. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.