Lower body training is the most important for your health and fitness. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys would please click like down below be greatly appreciate it. If you aren't following me or subscribe, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop a comment under my video with your thoughts or just to say hello. I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. All right, let's get over into this topic. Um, for some reason you get a lot of guys who don't want to train their legs. Uh, women this is rarely a problem. A lot of times it's convincing them to train their upper body. Uh, but for men a lot of times they they don't they don't want to do it and it's because they're like, "Well, you know, I walk that's enough for my legs." No, BS. It's not. Absolutely not. Not not not you know. They're like, "Well, also you can't see it in the mirror my legs." Yeah. Yeah, you can. And everybody notices when you don't train legs, bro. Just stop. But let's come over. Let's talk about the fitness and the health end. Um, some of this should be just glaringly obvious. All right. I obviously think you should train everything. I think you should train everything from your biceps to your hamstrings. Okay. Me personally, I'm a strength coach. This is what I do. However, when it comes to the most health benefits per set to set or hours spent in the gym, your lower body training is going to to contribute significantly more to your health and fitness than your upper body training will. And this is this is just a simple reality. Um, and it's for a number of reasons because again, muscle mass is protective. Okay, muscle mass itself improves glucose control. Muscle mass improves insulin sensitivity. Muscle mass is cardiorotrotective. Muscle mass is protective against cancer. The ladder is a big deal. So every pound of muscle that you can add to your body, the more defense your body has against cancer. Like it actually scales. It actually scales. And this is not opinion. This is not conjecture. This is what pretty good research and data is showing at this point. And this is before we get into sarcopenia and all this stuff for longevity uh bone density. All right. So the thing to think about it so people like why is the legs matter? Because there's way more muscle in your legs than your upper body. And I and it's not even close. Like a lot of people are like no no look at the size of your torso. That's bone and organs. That's not muscle. Okay? Like if you were to take right now, take right now and they were to to scan me or or had an autopsy or whatever, I can promise you the the muscle mass in my lower body in spite of the size of my torso is double what's in my upper body. I promise you it's twice as much if it were to be weighed out and measured. Of course, I've had DEXA scans showing this, too. Uh and that's pretty normal. Like that's normal, guys. That's perfect balance. like before you started lifting that was the case. So any of you guys before you started training if you were to go check it and this is done from cadaavvers the total muscle in your glutes, quads, hamstring, calves and everything is at least twice what you have in the entire upper half of your body. And so once you start working out that continues to scale also. So, if we're looking at the the health benefits of saying, "Hey, muscle is protective in all these these areas, see where we're going with this, then obviously the lower body is more important because you're going to have more muscle. Muscle that's twice as many muscle fibers available is going to get twice as big." Okay, make sense? Because your muscles are it's not going to be, well, it started bigger, so therefore it's not going to go. No, it's not how it works. If it's muscle fibers, you have twice as many muscle fibers in your lower body as your upper like available. So it it's the case of it makes up like 60 to 70% of the muscle in your body is going to be your lower body. Your upper body contributes a lot less to this whole equation. And your biceps contribute virtually nothing. They're like 1% 2% of the muscle of your whole body even if you train them religiously, right? They really don't equal that much in terms of the grand scheme of things. But you know what? If every pound matters, if you can add a pound of muscle to your biceps, that's still protective. You know, it's still protective. That's a lot of muscle to add to your biceps, though. That's a lot. Uh you have pretty big arms. But that being said, you guys get the idea here. So, we're looking at all these benefits. So, it's just going to be more more total muscle, way more muscle. Well, this matters a lot. All right. Now, here's where it gets more important. How about the activity of the muscle? So, what about the energy and fuel and the glucose and all this stuff that you burn walking around? What what muscles do you think are burning that? Your lower body. So, when it comes So, we're talking base metabolic rate, base glucose disposal agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent agent, uh all these things. Sure, just resting the legs are still going to it's going to scale evenly in terms of how much they burn per pound, right? So, you're still going to get more out of the lower body, but when you start walking around, which muscles are actually burning through the energy? Well, the legs then take a higher priority. Yeah. I mean, you can swing your arms and stuff. You can have a little bit of swing to your gate and and that's all good. Yeah. I mean, that helps. Sure. But the legs, those quads, your calves, that's really what's going to determine how much energy you're burning through. So again, we're talking about burning calories, energy turnover, all these things that we need to be metabolically healthy. The legs contribute even more. So then that amount that they're burning is a higher percentage when you're up being active. So this is really making the case for it. Really making the case for it. All right. Then what about when it comes to physical activity? What about athleticism? What do you think contributes more to your ability to play sports or do movements or anything really super functional? Your lower body, hip extension, knee extension, all that's going to matter a ton in any sport you play unless it's a really upper dominant one, you know, okay, maybe boxing, right? You not won't tell me throwing a javelin or something though or shot hook because there's a ton of ton of hip extension and everything involved in those enormous amounts. But isn't there to uh that for boxing and stuff too, but setting those aside, look at every other sport. Your leg strength, your leg power, it's going to matter the most. So for all these other fitness related activities, your legs are going to matter more. So I'm not telling you to skip the upper body. I don't think we should. I think we should train everything evenly personally, but don't skip your legs because it's going to contribute to most of these things. And then what about stuff like um osteoporosis, bone density? Yeah, the big structural exercises that really load the body, that load your hips, right? That loads your back, that load your femurss. This is the stuff that's going to give you the bone density that's going to keep you alive. Because the thing that you have to remember, people talk about hip fractures. You need to understand this is well understood in the research. The bone density matters for longevity because hip fractures are deadly. People understand that. They're like, "Oh, you fall down and break a hip." It's well, say it's an injury. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. After age 60, if you fracture a hip, 90 over 90% of people are dead within three years of that hip fracture. It's deadly. Okay, that is the statistic. If you were over the age of 60 and you get a hip fracture, there's a 90 to 95% chance you will be dead in three years or less. This is the statistic. It matters. All right, guys. That's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.