Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about macronutrient recommendations. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment under the video, I would appreciate it so much. Thank you. Let's get over um into this topic. So when it comes to this, I think that we do need to have a discussion of really minimums uh in terms of for lifters, right? Because that's that's really what we care about. Like what are our minimums to optimize muscle growth, optimize recovery, performance, all these things, you know, because I and I I think we get too far into these these extremes. You know, I do have clients and for uh clients who want to lean bulk, sometimes we'll discuss ultra low fat, right? We'll discuss ultra low fat. You know, in the context of if they're even trying to to lean bulk, per se, but I think overall for most people, you don't have to track everything. And I honestly think most guys who just want to be really fit, really strong, have a good physique, I don't think you have to track calories, per se. But I do think you need some some basic loose guidelines if our goals are to, you know, optimize all this stuff, right? Um, and so what I would say when you're looking at your food, I'm going to give a few minimums for carbs, fat, and protein. And largely outside of that, I don't care what else you hit, right? It really and truly is not going to matter so much other than personal preference. I think macros have been overrated. But we do need to think about what we need in our diet and why. Okay. So, right off the top of the bat, and this stuff is going to be based on body weight. I'm going to do it in pounds because most of my audience is American across all my platforms, like over 80%. So, I'm just going to do it in pounds. And this is also at this point 80% of my clients. Uh, so first of all, protein. How much protein do we really need to maximize muscle growth? because that's all we're going to talk about. We're not saying you can't get thermic effect and appetite from going higher metabolic benefits. Muscle growth, you need about 08 grams per pound of body weight. So, we're just going to assume a 200 lb man, right? This is easy for our math purposes. So, how much protein is that? It's 160 grams. If you get that, you are getting all the protein you need to to maximize muscle growth. Okay? You're getting all of it. So, as long as you're hitting that minimum, we're good. No, say just give minimum. So, that's all I would say. If people want to loosely look at what they're eating, this will get you in the ballpark. Okay? Get you in the ballpark. Uh, and that's enough. And, and when we say that, we need to be clear. The research on this is clear. The research on this has been done on serious like competitive natural bodybuilders on [snorts] Olympic lifters people like this right college football players so this has not been done on just the average Joe we come up with these numbers so this is for people who say well I train harder uh therefore I I need more no you don't you don't train harder than uh natural bodybuilding national level competitors you don't train harder than scholarship football players at a D, you know, a D1 university, you don't just stop if you're especially if you're a recreational lifter. All right, so there's your there's kind of your numbers and once you hit that, any protein beyond that is probably not contributing at all. You already have a margin of safety there. Okay, so again, it's not even that point that one gram per pound. Although if you wanted to hit that, that's fine. But again, because some people just they want that number to aim for. Perfectly fine. All right. So, what about dietary fat? Um, really with dietary fat, there's a couple of considerations. There's inflammation control, there's vitamin absorption, there's getting your essential fatty acids. Okay? Right? And then we're looking at things like improving insulin sensitivity. So, when it comes to this, when I give you basic numbers, I want to be clear. Certain foods are not going to be beneficial towards a lot of this. Um, people get mad at me. I'm big on moderating saturated fat. The research on that is clear. Okay? Research on that is is is relatively clear. Um, it's not helpful for the inflammation control. It's not helpful for improving insulin sensitivity. So sources of of fat that are high in saturated fat are probably not really helping you in this. So your milk, so any of your dairy fat is not contributing to this number. So let's just put it that way. So as far as the essential fats go, there's only two essential fatty acids. That's going to be lenic acid and alpha lenic acid. Even those convert into the other like omega-3 you won't downchain. Um, but again, you could eat you could eat fatty fish or whatever and still get the EPA and DHA if you wanted. Um, but as long as we're eating whole food sources for these things, you're going to be okay on the essential fatty acids. Just make sure you're getting nuts, seeds, you know, healthier stuff like that or your fatty fish. But as far as fat goes, what do we really need for optimal? Not talking about to be as lean as possible because we can make a strong case for ultra ultra low fat, but I'm talking 20 grams or less. But you're also not going to get these other benefits just filling it with carbohydrate. Um, but if we really want to maximize these other things, I'm going to say about point4 grams per pound of body weight. So again, 200 lb man, that's about 80 grams of fat with the majority of it coming from healthy fat sources, right? healthy fat sources and that's going to be generally more plant-based nut seeds, almond, almond butter, walnuts, you know, avocados. You could also do guacamole. I'm big on avocados, right? I I eat a lot of them. I buy them by the dozen. Um, avocados, things like that. That's going to be your healthy fats. You want those polyunsaturated and you want poffas and mufas polyunsaturated monounsaturated. So you want the majority of that point4 grams per pound. You want the majority of it coming from those fat sources. Okay? [snorts] I'm not telling you not to eat some stain fat. I I got I'm going to have a a fairly lean uh beef chuck roast I'm going to cook here later today. I have a three pound roast. You know, I'm not telling you not to eat any red meat. Right? It's not what we're saying with any of that. I'm just saying you got to moderate the other. Okay. So, so what do we have left then? But this is what will get you optimized in terms of this stuff. Again, if we're especially we're looking at insulin sensitivity, we're looking at reducing inflammation. Okay? Because these things are not directly anabolic like carbohydrate and protein. We can see a clear line of of response in the body towards anabolism. The fat not so much. But on the other hand, if the dietary fats reducing inflammation, that's improving recovery. If it's improving insulin sensitivity, that's improving recovery and muscle growth. Okay? So, if we're picking the correct fats, and stop listening to quax, I'm sorry, the research is ridiculously overwhelming. Polyunsaturated fats are anti-inflammatory. I'm not telling you to drink seed oils, even though they're actually technically in the data mildly anti-inflammatory every time it's looked at. I'm not telling you to do that. I'm telling you to get whole foods, okay? Not I'm not telling you to add oils and processed fats. I don't think it's the wisest choice. Tell you get it from whole foods, man. Even if it's a natural peanut butter, make sure they're natural ones. Don't add a bunch of sugar, refined sugars and things. So, we'll just leave us carbohydrates. You need enough to train on, you know. Um, what's the minimum you're going to be able to really train hard? Like if you're training hard, like I I do full body workouts three days a week and I run three days a week. Okay? In my workouts, I mean, people know what I mean of full body. I'm squatting, benching, deadlifting, pull-ups, everything. Every time I train, I run a 5K three days a week separately. I also do other cardio sled work stuff. So, so what do we need to fuel something like that? You're all your bare minimum is going to be about a gram per pound. [clears throat] And there have been times for me definitely where I'm eating if my fat's lower, you know, up to three grams per pound. But again, this is going to vary. But again, some people are not going to have these energy outputs. But I would say if you're just trying to make sure you get enough carbohydrate for training fuel because outside of the intense workout, sure your body can go back to burning those healthy fats if it needs to. I a lot of people do really well on much higher carbs though, but kind kind of your baseline, you really need at least at least a gram per pound of body weight, right? As a as a minimum, which is interesting, you know. So, how many minimum calories is this? Because this will be fascinating. I didn't do that when I when I sat down to do this. I'm going to calculate it. So, what is that for fat? Right. 720 fat calories. So, let's assume we even hit these minimums for a 200lb man, right? It's going to be interesting. So, this I came up with 2160. So about 2200 calories if you hit those minimums. Okay, 2200 calories. Almost every 200lb man who lifts and does cardio is hitting at least 3,000 calories. You got plenty of wiggle room for discretionary. Like based on that alone, you have wiggle room to get the other stuff, you know? So, so that's what I mean. You don't have to count exact macros. Those are probably your minimums for performance, muscle growth, recovery. Okay? And all that ties back into health. I would say people say, "Wait, what about health?" Well, if if your diet facilitates amazing recovery, inflammation control, muscle growth, and you're not getting fat, I think your health is mostly covered in terms of those things, right, for your macros. All right, guys? But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.