Why was Martin Burkham's approach over a decade when he came out with it so revolutionary and why do we almost need a return of it today? Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. Uh, and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Now, obviously I run a more strength and performanceoriented channel, not physique. But here was the thing. Um, and for those who are unaware, Kenobody literally ripped off Martin Birkens's work and pussified it. Like when Martin called him on this, he was very adamant about it, very upset about the fact um that Kennobody was one of his students. So people who are unaware, Kennobody was a student of Martin who then took his family money and business and basically watered down and made Martin's approach even easier and then marketed it. Um but for those who weren't aware, Martin Burkham was a guy from Sweden, had a ridiculously good physique, um busy lifestyle, socialite and everything. did modeling and stuff and he's just like, "Look, I don't really live in the gym." And then everyone's like, "Well, this is crazy." So, he put out his stuff, but Martin was really big on extreme intensity and strength in the gym. Okay? So, it's understandable that he had a great physique and he did that with, you know, strict diet adherence. And so, what people need to understand, everyone today, we've seen this massive trend of, oh, more volume, more volume. Oh, more isolation, more machines, more pump work, right? That's the way all of these circles have gone. Yet they forget that, you know, 15 years ago, Martin Burkham came out on the scene on the internet and he got people in phenomenal shape with 30, 40 minute workouts. And this is what would blow people's minds. Um, and they're like, I don't understand how. But when you look at the real data, you understand why big exercises cause just as much muscle as small exercises do. If you go really close to failure, all the muscles get worked. In other words, um, if you're training hard enough, a bench press absolutely works the front delts to some extent, the side delt, the entire chest, the triceps, and so on. See where we're going? Martin had people basically focus on four lifts. And I mean, yeah, it really was like that. So, so a lot of his training approaches were you had a squat, bench, and deadlift day, and then you do some sort of back exercise after. Usually weighted chin. So he pushed weighted chin as a major performance. He's like on some of the days you could do more chins or you could do a barbell row. Uh so and he's like if you really at the end feel like you really have time and energy you can do and he would be like you could do two sets of curls or two sets of calf raises or two sets for your triceps, right? And essentially though his his workouts were like six sets. You came in and did six sets and went home. And I really do mean that. And it and it worked. And people are like, "Yeah, that's that's ridiculous." Till you realize what it was. It was reverse pyramid training to failure on big exercises um with drop sets. And reverse pyramid wasn't the way kenno body and some of these guys are doing with really short breaks. It was long enough breaks to recover, but you would go really heavy on the first set. So, so it was stuff like where you had a squat day, a bench press, and a deadlift day, right? And I think like on the squat day maybe or whatever you did shin some of you could do overhead press. So he basically also pushed that as a fifth lift. All right. And then like another one of the days you could do rows, you know, as a as a secondary exercise, but it was always that primary exercise, but he really pushed a squat bench to 11 weighted chin. And he's like, "Look, that's really all you need to build muscle and build a physique. You don't need anything else. Just get really strong at them." And he did mean that. He meant really strong. People are saying, "Oh, for, you know, 20 sets." know it was it was three sets once a week. Okay. So, and it worked. It worked. And he created quite a big stir because people actually got results doing it. They got results doing it. Coming in doing really almost full body type workouts three days a week, doing the big exercises once a week, but they were drop sets. So, let's say um you know, just give you an example. Let's say you could he wanted you to do about four to five four to six reps or even like a low max one or two reps or whatever your first set really really heavy you would drop the weight down to a reasonable level and you would do like another four to six reps to failure and then you drop weight again and it would be something like you know somewhere seven to 10 reps or whatever to failure or to very very very close to failure. Okay. Now that doesn't take long. you look at that go, wait a minute, how long does it take on a squat? People excessively warm up, too, by the way. I I don't do excessive warm-ups. Um, even if I'm going to deadlift 600 pounds, it's it's five minutes to warm up for that. And that's what he would have people do. So, you would come in, you would, let's give an example. Let's say your four rep max on the squat was 405. You do four reps, you strip down to three plates, do whatever, like six reps, whatever you could do. strip down to two plates and then do do another another set. Then you go to the next exercise. You guys see where we're going? That's only about 10 minutes. It's about 10 12 minutes per exercise. Then you go do the next one. So let's say you did squats and shins that day. You do the same thing on weighted chins. And he wanted you to just get really, really, really strong at that top set. And then the other stuff was lighter back down work. It was still pushed really hard, but it's three sets. And people say, "Well, there's no way he had arm." Well, he did. He would do bench press the same way. He's like, "Well, bench press builds pecs and triceps, builds everything. What's the problem?" And he was always like, "Look, you can you can do some isolation at the end if you have time." But he was only like two sets and go home. He's like, "If you want, you can come behind it and occasionally you could pick something. You could pick curls or tricep press downs or calf raises, right? Do two sets to failure and go home or higher reps. Done. So if you you'd go from like your six sets up to maybe eight sets of you know one isolation for two two sets to failure. You could just pick one or you could rotate them through the week. So I mean the workouts were literally like that and they worked and he got people jacked and strong. But here's the other thing he pushed. We don't need to do uh to get lean. He's like you don't technically need a bunch of cardio and stuff. He like just cut your diet and he had everyone intermittent fast. They did like 186 or or whatever 16 uh 8 where you just have an eight hour feed window every day. And he's like just eat tons and tons and tons of protein. He would have people fast for 16 to 18 hours a day, have a feed window usually in the evening and you would eat huge amounts of protein. He's like, "Yeah, get maybe 50% of your calories from protein." So what does that mean? So if you're eating whatever 2,800 calories, 1,400, that's over 300 grams of protein. He's like, "You just fill in the rest with whatever you want." And it worked. And he got people lean and jacked without living in the gym. And and this threw a lot of people off because this is contrary to what all these influencers with. Oh, we need to isolate everything. Oh, you can't have all these stabilizers. Everything he did was a big movement. He just worked tons of muscle and you took sets to failure and progressively overloaded it. You just got stronger. He's like, "And then the the conditioning or the the body fat in just your diet." He's like, "We just use fasting to control calories and eat lots and lots of protein to control satiety, get a thermic effect." And it was a ridiculously simple approach, the lean gains method, and it worked. It absolutely worked. And that upset a lot of people because think about the fact that he got average Joe's into pretty dang good shape. We're not talking being competitive bodybuilders. We're just talking having the best body in the room. But the thing is, they were all strong, too. So Martin was deadlifting well up into the 600s, right? He was benching like 350 pounds. He was deadlifting like 650 while having ripped abs, okay? And he trained like this and it worked and it worked well for him and he didn't live in the gym. And that's again a lot of people couldn't handle that. And I'm not saying this is great for athleticism because we need conditioning and work capacity. But as far as just getting a really good body, it was extremely effective. And it it got people the bodies that most people absolutely desire who's not super hardcore about being a fitness enthusiast. It got them the bodies they wanted by just training really hard and getting in and out of the gym and just picking the really big exercises, man. And it really upset a lot of people in the industry.