Martin Birkin [clears throat] with Lean Gains was very much an industry disruptor. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, I do like to bring Martin up because he's someone whose work I noted very, very, very early when I started YouTube. Um, he was kind of a prominent figure out there who was rising kind of died off. But what I thought was fascinating is that he gave fitness and physique and strength training uh advice that was just common sense and efficient. And I think that was the beauty of it. He he essentially told people you don't have to live in the gym. Your life doesn't have to fully revolve around fitness to have a top 1% physique in the population. Okay? And because he was a model, he was a busy guy and his clients and stuff tended to be very very very busy people, right? The people that he coached personally tended to be socialites and things, people with businesses. He developed a system for all of that to where people could have a life outside of this. And this this goes in conflict with what, you know, the gym cell culture kind of teaches that we have to, you know, live every aspect of like it's got to be fulltime. And I'm not saying you can't be strict and disciplined and consistent, but that's that's what he was. And the thing that really got people was that the dietary approach and the training approach was so simple, basic that people could follow it. Um, he didn't do a lot of isolation. He didn't do a lot of volume. It was just very, very, very, very hard training based out of some of the heavy duty type stuff with basic exercises. And he put out strength standards. He's like, "Look, you can you can bench double your body weight, deadlift triple your body weight, you know, do at least 50% of your body weight added to a weighted chin up so you're you're going to be big. Period. You're going to be jacked, especially if you're lean." So, we're over talking about those multipliers, and I don't like multipliers, but the point he made, get lean and get really, really strong at big movements. you'll have a better body than almost anybody you know who isn't like a serious bodybuilder. And it worked. It worked for him. It worked for his followers. And the workouts were quick. He's like, "You don't got to live in the gym." He's like, "Quit wasting time being inefficient." He's like, "Look, you want to lose body fat. People will go do an hour of cardio in the morning and then replace it with a post-workout recovery shake of the same calories they just burned doing the cardio." It's like, "Congratulations. You just wasted an entire hour of your day for no net benefit. If your goal was say fat loss make sense. If you're going to try to create a calorie deficit with cardio, adding a bunch of immediate liquid calories in to just replenish the calories you just burnt is completely stupid. That was an example of what he gave. You know, he's like, "Plus, we're not in the gym to burn calories, control calories with your diet. We're in there to build muscle, build as efficiently as possible." Yeah. people working out for 40, 45 minutes three days a week and going home be like two exercises, two big exercises, you know, stuff like uh we'll bench and squat today, right? We'll do an overhead press and a chin-up today. We'll do a deadlift in a row today, right? That' be like your three workouts, three sets of each. Like we're talking but he they weren't even like normal straight sets. They would just be a drop set. Just take them to failure or close to failure, you know, depending on what you have for pins and spotters. Strip weight off, do another set, wait a minute, couple minutes, strip weight off, do another set, done. Go to the next exercise. And if you have any time left, he was like, "Look, you can hit one of your weak points with a couple of sets. It can be some curls, some extensions, or some calf raises, right? If you need a third small exercise." And it worked. It worked. He had a phenomenal physique and that's all that they did. Just push progressive overload and getting really really really strong for reps these movements. What did he do on the diet and he's like look quit focusing all your time around eating. He's like fast doing have a eight hour feed window. He promoted like uh usually like 168 intermittent fasting. He goes, "You go 16 hours with no food, no calories, you know, eat fairly balanced within your feed window." He was big on even flexible dieting. You could fit junk in. I don't like that that idea, especially for the overeaters. But he's like, "Get 50% of your calories from protein." Okay? No matter what you eat. So, let's say you're you're eating roughly 3,000 calories, 1500 calories of protein. People start doing the math on that. They're like, "That's like at least 350 grams. It's over 350 grams of protein, right? Protein overfeeding." Protein overfeeding causes fat loss in most studies that look at it. So, if you're fasting and then during your feed window, you're eating normal foods and your vegetables and stuff and then you're hammering down huge amounts of protein. Again, like he's talking about 50% or more from your of your calories from protein. So, a lot of you can be eating 300, 350, 400 grams of protein. He's like, "You will gain muscle and lose fat." And that's the other thing. Because of the thermic effect of the protein, the satiety effect, and then the limited feed window, you're going to be full. You're not going to get hungry once you get used to fasting. See where we're going with this? It works. Anybody can do it. And again, for people who are busy, if you're not worried about getting snacks and breakfast and other stuff and you just have a feed window, right? Maybe it starts at your lunch break, but you don't even bother with breakfast or whatever. It's easier to manage calories, and if protein is really high and you're pushing progressive overload, you're going to gain muscle even if you're getting leaner. So it was the combination of extremely efficient, extremely hard training focused entirely on progressive overload on big movements and only a tiny bit of other if you need it with volumes that are easy to recover from. So then overuse goes way down. Periodization isn't necessary. D loads aren't necessary. None of this becomes necessary. He just decomplexed it and people go, "Well, you might only get 90% or 85% of your possible growth, but who cares? As long as it's consistent, and that was the point. It doesn't matter. You're going to get there anyways. This is for people who don't want to live their life in the gym." And it worked. And here's the issue. Almost everyone who's following fitness content online falls into those categories. No one's over here following social media influencers who's trying to be a professional bodybuilder. Just stop. You know, and I get it's different with a lot of mine because I do coach powerlifters and stuff too and done a lot of powerlifting, but outside of these competitive endeavors, people don't need anything complex at all. They need to be able to get on with their lives and just be the strongest, fittest person they know. And that's it. that strategy worked for it. He disrupted the industry. It basically essentially makes the industry itself useless. And it really is useless. It's all smoke and mirrors. And he was just like, just train really, really, really hard with big movements. Get strong for reps, progressive overload fast to help keep your body composition in check and eat ridiculous amounts of protein. You'll get leaner. Done.