You have to master the basics before you move on to any sort of uh advanced bodybuilding training. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, and this is something I see a lot of uh problems with. And I think what we see is a lot of influencers who use a bunch of gear. They try to use a lot of these advanced methods like they'll go over to all machines, tons of isolation, and they still get hurt, by the way, and they're just using drugs to grow just like pro bodybuilders do. Um, but we see this and we still see them getting hurt and injured and things on machines. Um, and I've seen this with clients and other people. I've had um at least one client who I did have to fire who um the same sort of problem. Never learned the basics, never mastered the basics, didn't know basic movement patterns, had good genetics for for bodybuilding, but just couldn't get the results he wanted. And he kept wanting to run massive amounts of gear. And he couldn't perform the most basic Romanian. He couldn't perform an RDL without specific coaching. He had no clue how to do even the most basic of movement patterns and he already had tons and tons of injuries and pain was just insanely weak. Um so this is examples of of what I mean guys. If you do not build a base with the basics and you try to go over all these other things um and you're like well I'm going to do these different higher volume approaches. I'm going to use these intensity techniques. I'm going to try to isolate weak points just like you know I've made some recent videos like for things like the front raise. I've got some front raises in here. You know what? From a bodybuilding perspective, I think a front raise is a fantastic exercise. Okay. I think it's a fantastic exercise. I think it's very underrated. I think a lot of people crap on it, but that's an example of what we mean. So, when I say, hey, look, a front race can really help, you know, build that upper chest, side delt, front delt, all that area. It's a really good exercise for that as you know, bit of a finisher if you really need that area to come up, right? It doesn't mean that you need it as as a novice. Like what I'm saying is stuff like that is a waste of time. If if you can't bench one plate per side for 10 reps, right? It's a 135 or 60 kg. If you can't do sets of 10 with that with perfect clean form and you start worrying about smaller movements like that, there's a problem. All right? You can't add weight to a dip like you you or you can't even do 10 body weight dips if you're really skinny, you know, 15. You can't do that stuff and you start worrying about movements like that. Uh we we have a problem. You have to master the basics. And what I'm saying is these things are not going to build you up the way that people think they are. Sure, they will with enough drugs, but generally speaking, uh, majoring in the minors, it's called majoring in the minors. And people will not learn the basics and then they want to go over to all these things instead of building their base with big basic movements, with basic programming, and just putting in the work, you know. And it's like I've said, look how many guys got jacked back in the day on the super squats program. Basically, super squats is four four exercises training really really hard and then dudes would drink, you know, whatever the whole gallon of milk thing to get to get jacked. But I'm not necessarily advocating that gallon of whole milk thing, but it did work and dudes got crazy jacking. A lot of that came out of like the football programs and stuff that they did down here in Texas where I'm at, you know, decades ago, right? So, I mean, programs like that, it worked and dudes got jacked. It's just doing Widowmaker squats, like breathing squats, taking pretty much to failure, then rest, pausing, and getting more reps and trying trying to take your 10 rep max so you get up to 20 reps. Okay? You'll get big doing that. And then right afterwards, as soon as you finish the Widowmaker, it was doing a high rep set of pullovers. Okay? That's what we mean by mastering the basics. Basic stuff like that will get most guys jacked. In fact, think about that. If you just did that part as a workout compared to, you know, what a lot of these guys do, you probably gain more muscle and strength and be fitter than a lot of these more advanced programs people to do. get those two exercises done that way, especially with the pullover because then you're going to work the, you know, the chest, lats, triceps, delts, all that stuff. Especially when you're still breathing from doing the squats, put that stretch on all that area. Works perfect. And then what do people do after that? They would super set chin-ups and dips back and forth to failure. How many people got jacked like, and I mean jacked as in made their nuke gains on that? tons of guys. It was a timeroven program. It was famous back in the day. 30 years ago, 25 years ago, that program was famous for getting dudes big real quick who are fairly new to lifting. Okay? But instead, everyone thinks that they need to to be looking at all these different planes and angles, finding the perfect exercise, finding the perfect tricep extension angle with a cable. It's like, really? Have you tried just getting really strong at weighted dips? And again, let us be clear. We're not saying these things can't be helpful. Just like the front raise. Look, I'm doing a front raise there. Yeah, it's great. Yeah, I'm also doing really high reps dumbbell curls here. Sure, great. But can you do weighted chin-ups? Can you do weighted pull-ups? Like, did you master those things? Did you master your basic movement patterns? And even even these advanced techniques, you know, all the intensity stuff, and I'm not saying they're not useful. I do some of you guys see me doing some rest pause and other stuff in here, right? Weighted pull-ups to failure, letting go of the bar, doing two more reps, letting go, doing two more reps, you know, that 45 pound plate. All right, but is do you need that early on? No, you none of that is useful when you're early on. Just get in and train hard sets with progressive overload taking close to failure or to failure. Do you master your big exercises? Stop worrying about all these more advanced things. Even Arnold Schwarzenegger told you guys that. Do you guys remember what was Arnold Schwarzenegger famous for saying? And he was the goat. All right? And without all the drugs guys have today, nobody'd be rivaling him if they only had the drugs he had. So, let's just stop what guys are better today. No, it's all drugs. That is the only reason. All right. by any other standard he was phenomenal. And what did he always say? You can't chisel a pebble. Okay, that's what Ar that was a line Arnold Schwarzenegger said. He wrote it in his book. That book was like for the younger guys when I was coming up was almost like a Bible, like a lifting Bible. Um, you can't chisel a pebble. In other words, people are worrying about these details. They can't see the forest for the trees. They're worrying about these details when they don't have the bigger picture and the basics mastered. Okay? And until you spend some years mastering the basics, you really have no business messing with any of this other stuff. It's really and truly just a waste of your time. And the problem is you have dudes who try to bypass the basics completely and go straight to only these advanced things and they still don't do the basics. And then they wonder why they don't grow without any drugs. And then they wonder why they're always hurt, why they lack thickness, all these other things. That's why. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.