

=== FILE: Animal Protein & Vegetables Should Be Our Foundation [QrqCkm9Yxu8].txt ===

 animal proteins and vegetables should be the foundation of your diet. Hey, everybody, it's Jason Blah. I thought I would chat with you guys about this today, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it so much. Over to the topic, we could argue a lot. We could argue a lot about where we should be filling our calories, how many calories to consume, whether we want fats, what type of fats, carbohydrates. These are points of contention. They're points of individuality, individual preference, what you were doing, how you handled these things. Those things are usually the areas that we debate and argue. The stuff that we should not be arguing, and I would always point out, that I would always point out is the foundation of your diet, especially if you're trying to be fit. I'm not just talking about, hey, I just want basic health. No, if you want to actually be fit. And healthy. Those need to be your foundation. And it's because of a couple of things. As far as, and what I mean the foundation, you should be eating significant amounts of these. They should be kind of your baseline. And you need to have a minimum baseline every day of that, and then you would fill in with other stuff, as far as fats and carbohydrates, or maybe bias towards one or the other. These days I do very high fat, very low carb diet. But it's not zero carb, because a lot of my protein sources have trace amounts of carbs. But that being said, I've also done chicken and rice type diets. So here's the thing with it. With the animal proteins, what you have to remember, the bioavailability is dramatically higher. And when we look at this and we look at things like muscle protein synthesis, and if we're talking muscle protein synthesis, what about all the other synthesis? Anyone notice how frequently vegans get injured? Vegan athletes are notorious for a high injury rate. Vegan lifters notorious for a high injury rate. Way higher than normal people. Why do you think that is? Lower collagen synthesis for one. And when people compare this stuff, this is the issue that we run into. It's like, OK, but they will point out that certain soy protein supplements can equal animal products or get very close to in terms of muscle protein synthesis, right? So which we've been found in studies. But notice it's only a synthetic product. In other words, you literally have to take a soy protein, isolate it certain ways, sometimes to add some extra amino acids, and create an artificial protein source in the form of a shake to equal a steak or a piece of chicken to get it close within close enough distance to be considered roughly equal. You have to engineer a product. Well, here's my point. Vegans aren't standing around slamming 150 grams of protein from these shakes every day. Are they? They're not. That's you're drinking like six or seven of those shakes every day instead of just eating food. Well, then we run into the, so this is, they're already at a lot. Like we know that this is the best they can do. These are engineered protein powders to get in range. Everything else, including your other soy, right? It's going to be lower. And those shakes, by the way, tend to be full of heavy metals, contaminants, lead. The testing has come back horrific on them. Animal source proteins are going to give you the highest bioavailability. That doesn't just matter to muscles. Clearly, and it is measurable in muscles. So again, a normal plant-based diet is simply not going to be in the same ballpark. This has been studied, it's been tested. We've got pretty good data showing you. It really isn't. Not for a serious athlete or lifter, but that's just the muscle, then the injury rate. And it makes sense that that protein synthesis is lower. Collagen synthesis intended to things is even harder to get. So that's where we are. And then on top of that, a lot of things, a lot of nutrients only are coming from animals, for stuff in the amount that we want, things like B12, some types of iron, so on and so forth. Absolutely superior in a foundation, your diet. And in any argument otherwise, it is quite frankly moronic. You're working 10 times harder trying to get normal results, it's stupid. All right, same thing, vegetables. Let us be clear. That insoluble fiber in those vegetables. We're not talking about soluble fiber. That insoluble fiber in those vegetables, just to keep your gut modality moving with maybe all the meat and other stuff you're eating, is critical. It's critical for your health, critical for your recovery, critical for your brain neurotransmitters immune system. This isn't even subject to debate. Like this is so well observed in the data that again, we're over to, just like we could laugh at the vegans, anyone who's saying you don't need a large amounts of vegetables for optimal health and performance? Notice I didn't say vegetables, I said large amounts. Again, this is laughable. The same thing, antioxidant status, phytonutrients, all of this stuff that we need to impact our recovery, our health. We talk about a lot of these antioxidants in there and then people say, well, I don't necessarily need all this variety of them. What you do to fight cancer and heart disease? A lot of people on the lower carb diets when you look their atherosclerosis is accumulating. They just eat more vegetables, significantly more. Triple the amount of vegetables they were eating that might not even have this issue. Because again, what you're looking at is accumulation of atherosclerosis through elevated LDL. Is an inflammatory process. See where we're going with this? All these, this massive amount of variety of antioxidants. And you can't do this by supplementing. I get tired of explaining that. Again, supplementing single source antioxidants is a great way to give yourself cancer. It doesn't work. We're talking a plant with 157 different antioxidants, not just vitamin C or vitamin E. And they work in tandem. They work with synergistic effects with each other. So having a higher diversity of them works extremely well. And even a lot of these things, this newest term, anti-nutrients. A lot of these anti-nutrients have profiled health benefits. So the term itself is a problem. Like lectin or whatever. There's large amounts of health benefits and anti-inflammatory properties found in lectin. What are you talking about? And if you're like, well, it slows the absorption of certain things that you might want. We'll just eat more whole foods. Okay, you get reduced absorption. Your absorption is down 20% but you're eating triple the amount you need. Well, you could have A-50% reduction and be great. Eat more plants, problem solved. So again, animal proteins and vegetables are the foundation of any healthy diet. And we need to be eating significant amounts of them. You can fill in the rest of your calories with other things depending upon the nature of what you're doing. But this must be your foundation. All right, guys, with that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.

=== FILE: Exercises That Move The Body Through Space Are Invaluable [8CJYXkBOO24].txt ===

 exercises that move the body through space are invaluable. Hey, everybody, it's Jason Blah here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop a comment down below. I'd appreciate it so much. All right, so when we think about these different movements that move the body through space, body weight exercises, I don't mean body weight exercises though, because you need to add weight, right? It's not about the ability to move your body weight, because if you're only moving your body weight, you're a weak-ass mobo. Sorry, that's reality. Then I'm not trying to be mean, but if you can only do one chin up or one dip, with just your body weight or 20 air squats, you're weak. Like you're really weak. And that's okay, we can get stronger. So I'm not talking about that nonsense. Oh, you need to have the ability to move your body weight. Well, I'm 210 pounds. If I put 210 on the bar and struggle to squat it, we got a problem. That's not the point. So when we talk about body weight exercises, we're talking about adding weight to them. Like everything else, we need progressive overload. All right, we need progressive overload. And I do a lot of body weight exercises, weighted for 20 plus reps. But the idea here is not because it's your body weight, it's because it moves the body itself through space. And we need to have a discussion about that of why that's invaluable. And people miss the mark on that. And a lot of it is about stabilizer muscles. And when I say stabilizers, I don't mean when people make fun of others who use that term. What do you mean by stabilizers? Do you think there's little tiny mystical magical muscles? No. All the major muscles in your body are stabilizers for various movements. Okay, we all get that. Your lats can be a stabilizer. Your biceps can be a stabilizer. Your abdominals, your intercostals, your hamstrings, right? These muscles are all stabilizers in different movements. And so when I say stabilizer muscles, I do mean the actual stabilizer muscles. And particularly a lot of muscles of the trunk. So a lot of exercises that move our body through space put a large amount of stress on stabilizers on one opposing muscle groups, trying to balance all of it. Your biceps are gonna get worse on your dips as stabilizers. Your triceps are gonna be used on pull-ups, but so are all the other muscles of the trunk. Okay, so for me, examples of body weight exercises I get big on doing, or we'll call them exercises again that move the body through space. Squats, deadlifts, pull-ups, chin-ups, right? Dips. I mean, in theory, if you could do muscle-ups, but I'm not big on muscle-ups, we're muscle building for a lot of obvious reasons. It's a multi-movement pattern, which means something is gonna be your limit, and that's the thing that's gonna get the growth stimulus more. But I mean, sure, and I kind of exclude stuff like handstand push-ups just because they're too awkward to set up and they limit range of motion to some extent, unless you have special bars, but sure, they could fall in that category. They could fall in that category. But why do the stabilizers matter? Because it adds extra easy training volume. In other words, when we start thinking about minimum volumes to get a good training response, this adds to it. In other words, you don't have to do as much training if you do exercises that move your body because you get more stabilization involved. And when people argue that these stabilizers do not grow from training, I'm gonna say that's a profoundly ignorant statement because it's only been 57 studies that have found they have. So when people make that argument, they use it as an excuse to get on the machine, I'm sorry, that's not evidence-based. You're not over to machine dogma, isolation dogma. It is absolutely not science, it's not research. Because again, the problem is if you claim stabilizers and things don't grow, then we shouldn't have studies showing that they do. And we clearly do. We clearly do. So the other thing to think about is not just the efficiency of hypertrophy. That's a big one. What about the neural drive? What about the coordination? So think about that. Particularly, I'll say the squats, the pull-ups, the dips, especially when they're weighted. There's a lot of coordination happening through the body here. You are moving your whole body with a weight added and having to balance it, having to stabilize it. Those are awkward situations. You're training yourself to get really, really strong in awkward situations where you're having to balance your body. In the case of some of it, use your whole body as a unit. Obviously, it's only the upper body with the other two, but with squats, you're having to use your whole body and coordinate a movement pattern under a heavy load repeatedly. Well, what does that do for athletic ability? It does a lot. The reason back squats are so popular, you know, among elite athletes around the world and strength coaching programs for them, okay? Brings a lot to the table. So all these movements that do this, they improve coordination. They also improve neural drive because again, and that's a big part of the neural drive thing when we think of getting stronger. So by doing these movements, our whole body gets stronger. We learn to use large portions of our body at the same time. So the neurological benefits are high. So that's gonna improve just your overall performance across the board, all right? It's gonna help you in any sport you wanna do or in real world activities, right? Absolutely counts. And particularly the fact that all this stuff works all the muscles of the trunk. Like that becomes very important in any type of sport, right? It becomes critical because we're building all those muscles and we're training ourself to brace and use all those things, right? Almost every sport you can think of, that's invaluable. I'm sure people will come up with exceptions, but they don't matter because the exception doesn't make the rule, all right? So when you look at these movements, they have the highest growth potential because of all the other secondary muscles involved that will get some growth stimulus, okay? They're gonna help us with our coordination and athleticism. They also even help with conditioning on the reps go up, all right? Start doing 12 to 20 reps sets of squats, which is everything you see. I think I did 12 here before a five and I think I did 20 with 315 in here. And tell me that your conditioning doesn't go up, right? Because you're having to brace your core and those deep breaths on every single rep for those high reps and then move the weight, which has a huge amount of exertion. It will get you into shape, right? Because the more muscles involved, it starts having a cardiovascular taxing effect as well. All right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time. Thank you.

=== FILE: Isolating Muscles Does NOT Cause More Growth [Qv98FuCroqw].txt ===

 Isolating a muscle does not cause more muscle growth. Hey, everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click a like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Now, I'm doing curls right there at the start of the video. So when I make that statement, it's important to note, I am not saying to never isolate a muscle. We'd be clear on that. That's not what the statement means. Statement means there's no evidence that isolating a muscle causes more muscle growth, right? Because otherwise people wouldn't be massive who do just big compounds and they are. Big compounds are always the basis for bodybuilding and they have been for decades and the guys who use machines are not necessarily any bigger. And I think the point I'm making here is to take something I say often and kind of frame it differently to put it into perspective. If isolating muscles doesn't cause more muscle growth, and that means not isolating them will probably cause more growth to other places in the body. Also, one of the reasons that I do say, you probably don't need to focus on isolating anything that's not your weakest link, right? Because if you're doing lots of big compounds, everything is gonna grow. Are you gonna be balanced and proportionate? Not necessarily. If you have the genetics to be you will be, right? If you have the genetics to be really balanced and proportionate, you will be without isolating anything. Still doesn't mean you're gonna be a high level bodybuilder, but that's not what we're talking about. No one who follows fitness is a high level bodybuilder. So we need to keep that in mind. Those arguments are completely irrelevant. They're not enough professional bodybuilders in the entire planet to support any fitness influencer who puts out information. If every single pro bodybuilder subscribed to their channel, they're not gonna make very much money if that's their whole audience. So we shouldn't be catering to them. So just stop. So that being said, there's no evidence that isolating does anything, okay? Other than take other muscles out. This has been studied ad nauseam. And here's the other thing. You've seen really jacked people. I mean, I'll name someone who used to joke about that a lot. All right, you guys know the Boogs, Eric Boog and Hagen. You know, is anyone gonna claim he's not jacked or doesn't have great arms? Okay, is anyone gonna claim he doesn't know what he's doing in the real world? I don't think that's a fair criticism. Remember when I, you guys, I'm saying, look, there's no point in trying to isolate a muscle down strictly. He's like, if you want big biceps, do weighted chin ups and do some big, big barbell curls. He says, you even do some cheek curls, you'll be fine, they'll grow. Did he have any trouble growing those muscles doing that? No, what did he say? A concentration curl is a waste of time. He's like, you're gonna gain less muscle from a concentration curl. That's the point we're making. When people try to get down to the fine minutia of saying, okay, I do have a weak body part. It could use a little bit of extra, extra direct work. And there's nothing wrong with that, right? That is a reasonable thought process and a reasonable strategy. Look, your weakest muscle group probably needs a smaller exercise. It does need something that focuses on it directly. It probably does. If it's truly your weakest, if you're just like, oh, I want bigger arms, but your back is tiny and your chest is tiny, well, you need to grow everything. Now, if you're like me and your biceps are legitimately lagging due to some genetics, injuries, things like that, okay, it makes a little more sense, right? That's what we're talking about. Sure, everyone's probably got a weak leg, but trying to go from, well, a barbell curl or a dumbbell curl, it doesn't isolate it enough. Really, how is it a Chris's that? Because people haven't built amazing massive biceps with those exercises. There are people who build massive biceps off nothing but weighted chin-ups and pull-ups. Are they the norm? They're the exception. They're probably not the average person. So we don't necessarily want to use those, right? Most guys to build really massive arms are probably gonna need to do some curls. If they actually care about massive arms, they might just be nice and proportionate without them. Plenty of guys out there just do calisthenics and have pretty, pretty great upper bodies when they get lean. But the point is that he made is you're not doing yourself any favors and you're probably gonna get more growth from the slightly bigger exercise, the little more loading potential, it's easier than to progress on and they work other stuff. So think about that with a barbell curl. We say, yeah, that's obviously a great bicep exercise. We're locked into that supine position and as long as your forearms aren't a problem, they're not getting inflamed or cramping. It's great, right? It puts a tremendous tension on the biceps. You can build great biceps off just that exercise easily. But it works some other muscles. It's actually a nice big, it's almost a compound movement. I don't even think of a standing barbell curl. It's not really an isolation movement because it's gonna work different muscles in the shoulders and stuff, your low back. It's technically a good big movement, really. But that's kind of the point. And so then when people say, well, I need this machine to isolate the chest, really because your chest isn't failing with a dumbbell or a barbell? No, really, I want you to think about it. Done correctly, flat incline or decline barbell or dumbbell press. Are you really telling me that those are not gonna hammer your chest into the ground? I like weighted dips a lot. But let's just talk about these others. Let's just talk about barbells and dumbbells. Do you really think you're putting more tension on the, well, no, but we're isolating it more. But there's no evidence that causes more growth. That's been studied ad nauseam. Not only that, but some of the greatest chest historically were built off nothing but free weights also. They didn't even use chest machines. Arnold didn't do any of that. Steve Reeves didn't do any of that. Reg Park didn't do any of those. Those guys had great back specs then. You know, relative to their proportions. They didn't do any of that. Wasn't necessary. Okay. And I'm not saying machines don't work. All I'm saying is the efforts to isolate muscles probably isn't doing anything special. Yes, the argument that tension is tension holds true, but all you're doing is removing additional tension. And to even try to isolate a muscle like then doesn't make a lot of sense from a training economy unless it's lagging a little bit. Like if it's your weak link, okay. But otherwise it's probably not even a good use of your training resources unless you just have limitless time. But even then the point I would make, if you say you do a nice single joint exercise, do you really need to try to isolate it insanely strict? That's never been necessary. We know that even on lateral raises, guys who cheat on lateral raises still build massive delts all the time. All right guys, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.

=== FILE: Jason Blaha Biceps Training Vlog - 2-24-2026! [eolBSydYe-M].txt ===

 All right, hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Once again, it's time for a bicep workout, and did something a little different today on this. You know, kind of when I look at the footage, one of the things that I don't like is because my range of motion in my left versus right elbow is a little different. I'm a little worried that with the barbell, sometimes it does make it slightly catawampus to use a phrase we use here in Texas. Everyone might not know what catawampus means, you can figure it out. So I'm like, let's just use dumbbells for a bit. And I wanna take these up a little harder. I feel like, look, if I can just do some sets of dumbbells to failure, we'll push a little more work here. I'm not gonna do the sort of volumes we saw on the shoulders yesterday, did it just because I didn't wanna do the other upper body stuff. I'm still gonna do a little bit of shoulder work, but again, I still think the biceps need to take over all priorities, so again, by doing it this way, we are bicep specializing. I can do over 10 sets for biceps a week. I don't think that's insane given the size of the muscle overall recovery. So again, I did five sets of dumbbells today to failure. I got 12 to 13 reps on all of them. The thing is though, the lack of losing reps is because I did these 10 or 15 minutes apart. Because I'm doing, I'm at home, I'm doing other work. Notice the sunlight changes in the background. These were spaced out over, like it over, definitely over an hour, right? An hour or more kind of just spaced out, just came in and just did the sets to failure while working on other projects between, I can just walk over and leave the camera set up. As I go in to get coffee or walk to the kitchen, I could just run over and do a set of curls. And that's the beauty of a set up like that. So because of that, it's not like they were a little two minute, three minute breaks where we're losing reps. So I didn't lose any reps. In fact, I gained reps as I went. Cause I guess I'm not quite used to doing the dumbbells. So I kind of got in the groove a little bit more. So I got like 12, 13, 13, 13, something like that. And then I tried two on the last set. I'm like, I bet I can get more. Let me try and I failed. I could not get a 14th rep. So I did a little rest pause, got a 13th, did a little pause and then thought, okay, listen, I failed to get the 14th rep at all. So we know that those 13s were limit sets because I had plenty of time to recover. It's not like these were just a couple of minutes apart. They were spaced way out. And even with that, when I tried to rest pause, I could not complete another rep. So we know that these dumbbells are pretty much my 13 rep max at this point. And again, so again, the idea here, just use dumbbells for a little bit. Because again, I'm just, I'm concerned with a little bit of the uneven loading because I do have some asymmetry because again, also part of my bicep is missing. It was removed by the doctor. And then that one elbow doesn't have the same range of motion. So I do get concerned that it's loading the bar a little funny sometimes. So with dumbbells, everything can move independently. And I would say for normal people under normal circumstances, I think the straight bar is absolutely amazing. But in this case, I'm like, I'll just do the dumbbells and they can work independently. Now, obviously my dumbbells are a little long. So I've got to come out slightly wide at the bottom, but that's also okay because I can't really put my arms down. That's my lats. I get a few people try to say, oh, there's whatever invisible lats syndrome till you see me from the back and then I do anything and you realize, no, that I literally, my lats literally are in the way. It is physically very uncomfortable for me to force my hands down to my sides, just a side note. I can do it, but I can't breathe. So for me to touch my hands to my sides tightly, I have to exhale all my air and squeeze, right? It's not actually that easy to do. It requires effort. And the second I relax, they'll pop back out. So this is what it is. So by that same token, the dumbbells being forced to be that wide, not really a big deal. It's gonna kind of be my normal movement pattern anyways. So no issue, but yeah. So a little more bicep volume that we're used to messing with the dumbbells today. And the main thing is exercise is an exercise. I don't actually think a barbell versus a dumbbell, especially on something this small creates more tension. There's no best exercise, but these work great just because of what I have going on with my own asymmetry and stuff. So yeah, decided to just do it. And I may continue to just do that. I ran for gosh, 15 workouts or so, whatever, or whoever, I lost count, right? I lost count over 10, well over 10 workouts in a row. We did the straight bar. So I'm just running dumbbells for a while and see if we can progress on it. Just keep pushing them forward. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time. Thank you.

=== FILE: Jason Blaha Full Body Training Vlog - 2-23-2026! [n6SlsT6-IVo].txt ===

 Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here, and it's time for another full body workout with a quick reminder. If you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it. I wanted to just go a lot heavier on the squats. I went ahead and went 475. I wanted to see how many reps I could get. I got four. I was a little unhappy with the depth on the first rep, but the next three I was. First one, I didn't hit parallel. The other three based upon my normal side footage on high bar, this would break parallel. So happy with that. I was almost hoping when I got the second rep, I'm like, can I get five? No, I did the fourth rep, and I'm like, I don't think I have a fifth rep. I don't think I've got it. If I do, it's going to be super ugly. I'm like, and it was a little cold still out lately. This is the last cold day for the week. I just have been crazy sensitive to temperature. I don't enjoy being cold. And it's not even that cold. It's just been strange lately. It's something I've noticed. But I'm like, I need to get in. I want to do some real training. So I just did some shoulder work. And I had said the other day, I wanted to start adding a little more shoulder work back in. I want to do my basics and make sure I do a little bit of biceps. I want to start adding more shoulders in because as I drop a little bit of boof and body fat again, I'm still feeling a little boofy, but it'll come off. So I feel like a little more shoulder wouldn't hurt, you know, to go with everything, even though my focus is strength, I still want to look a little better. So again, lose body fat, bring up the biceps, shoulders a little. So I'm like, let's just do some shoulder work. Plus if the squat, that is enough for me to grow on. And I don't think people over the grass that I've never needed a lot of lower body volume to blow my legs, I think lose way up. Never had to. So when I looked at it, I'm like, yeah, what's the biggest muscle in the upper body? Well, it's going to be the delts. And I feel like some of these shoulder exercises work a lot of other muscles. Like front raises for me, I feel a massive amount of pec activation. All right, so I did three sets of the plate lateral. So I just like how they feel. I did them just a momentary failure. So with the body just kind of stuck at the bottom on each set. And then I did two sets of front raises. And I kind of didn't even count reps. I just did them till they burned. So again, did five sets for my shoulders. Now keeping in mind, you have really good squat bench deadlift, weighted dips, you know, last week. So again, I've got plenty of growth stimulus there. So I'm like, yeah, let's just come in and make sure that my upper body grows, right? It gets a little bit of growth to go with the squats. And so I wanted to just do some shoulder work. Right. So, so three sets of that, then two sets of the front raises, just basically to momentary muscle failure, nothing crazy. But five sets, that's that's more volume than I normally do for a muscle. But I'm like, yeah, I mean, the shoulders could probably use it at this point, because I can only do so much for biceps and biceps are only going to get so much. I'm like, yeah, I do feel like a little bit of extra shoulder will help with my bench. It's kind of kind of stagnant at the moment. You know, now granted, I'm on lower carbs. I'm going to be losing some body fat, but it feels kind of stagnant. So some extra shoulder wouldn't hurt because I don't even feel my triceps now. I always felt like triceps were weakling, but I've got my triceps really strong on dips, on extensions, other stuff like my triceps. Are stronger than when I was benching 365 with a with a pause. My triceps feel stronger than when I close grip 365 just when I look at other lifts. So it really is just, you know, chest and shoulders, get that bench back up, you know. So because I don't I've noticed lately, I don't even feel my triceps on my bench. That's been the interesting point for me. They burn like hell when I hit 18, 19 reps of 225. But when I do rep work with 315, it's interesting. Like my triceps don't even feel like they're being used. So, you know, worth, worth noting. So some extra dealt wouldn't be a bad thing. You know, just for overall look. So yeah, just did some delts and again, biggest muscle in the upper body. You're still going to be splash over my whole body will probably grow some of this. So again, we don't need as much as we think we do. We don't always need as much as we think we do, but I'm going to just for the rest of it. I'll just repeat the squat set. Like I said, the first rep. My first rep is always like that on rep work on the squats. Right. It's interesting. I don't really get red lighted. It meets people like your squad high and it's like it's kind of funny. In one of my little clips I shared to a group, the actual head judge who passed my last state record on the squat. When I was doing the really high rip stuff, he's like, Jason, come on. I know that you know how to squat deeper. Why aren't you squatting to death for that 12 rep set? Like he called me in the hilarious, like in one of the actual lifting groups as I uploaded the real there. Like when I did that 12 reps, someone that split my shorts or whatever, he called me on it because he has passed a state record for me. As a head judge in a competition. So he's like, I know that you know how to squat to death. So it's just kind of funny. But for muscle building, this works. Works just fine. And I was the next three were definitely there. Again, it's the size of my quads, the way it looks from the front because I filmed it from the side and stuff comparisons and all boxes. But yeah, the first one definitely high, but happy with the set of squats. So again, I almost feel like man, I can grow off of that. Right. I can literally grow off of that. And I don't know that I've hit 475 for four every one camera because keep in mind I wasn't doing this sort of work. When I was hitting those really crazy heavy. Camber bar squats and I was like 30 pounds heavier years ago. Right. But I'm sitting the 600 and stuff on that. So with just normal straight bar, I don't think I've ever hit. I think I'm in territory. I've never done on camera, you know, like these, these last few sets of rep work with 455 or 65 or 75. I'm barely sure I've not not hit this because even when I was doing Bulgarian, I remember I was only hitting at most 485 for a single even on that. So yeah, it's just coming along, you know, so I feel like as long as I continue to squat heavy, my strength overall is good. I can just kind of body build a lot of the upper body, still do some heavy benching and just just roll with it. But you know, a lot of this training, it's short, it's brief, it's enjoyable. Most of my workouts are like 30, 40 minutes, you know, these whole bodies even, even with those five exercises. So I think I'm going to start adding some shoulder work at the end of those because it's pretty easy to come in and do one really hard set of five compounds. It's not what's not easy, but it's quick. It just, it doesn't take that long. It's not that much training time. I actually literally come post stuff online in between. But yeah, happy with the squats. Like I feel like my squats strength, especially at this kind of body weight is doing pretty good. I'm happy with it. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys next time. Thank you.

=== FILE: More Vegetables For Health & Fitness [N4ZOk-FRDL8].txt ===

 Vegetables are critical for fitness. Hey, everybody, it's Jason Blah. I here thought I would chat with you guys about this today, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it. And this shouldn't need to be said, but we're now in a situation to where so many people have gone to the crazy end of the carnivore diet. And so on, this actually has to be discussed. This is insane that we even have to have this conversation now, but apparently we do and I'm someone, I eat a minimum of two pounds of vegetables every single day. Like that's my minimum baseline that I kind of work with sometimes it's more, but I try to get at least a couple pounds. And I'm not promoting veganism. I think everyone knows I'm not pro-vegan. I eat meat every day. I probably eat at least two pounds of meat every day also. But that being said, when we start talking about vegetables, we need to understand that it's critical for your health, your recovery for everything. And it doesn't matter that there's a few pro body builders out there who are like, I didn't really eat vegetables like Ronnie Coleman did, but he ate a bunch of potatoes, which are a vegetable loaded with vitamin C and some fiber. So it was fascinating. But again, genetic freak on huge amounts of drugs. And does anyone really think Ronnie Coleman is now healthy today? Which is the whole point. We could talk about body composition. We could talk about training. We could talk about recovery. But yeah, sure, maybe in the case of genetic freaks on huge amounts of drugs, they don't need the recovery as much. Sure, they can get crazy jacked, but they're still gonna shave more years off their life. Okay, so in this context, there's a lot of things we have to think about as a value of vegetables. The number one on the list, the antioxidant status. So again, same thing we see all the time. We'll see people in some of these quite extreme carnivore circles talking about oxidation and various foods, oxidation of fatty acids, you know, putlas, right? Without factoring in that, you know what? Oxidative stress in general is reduced by antioxidants. Okay? Vegetables are your number one source of antioxidants. They're an amazing source. Obviously there's other things, fruits and different plants. But generally speaking, plants and particularly vegetables are gonna be your sources and the more the better. You know, and this is from data all around the world. This is not a case of there being any bias in one country or economic system. This has been noted all around the world, right? Generally speaking, higher vegetable intakes are associated with lower all-cause mortality, longer lifespan, okay? Reduced oxidative stress in the body, reduced cancer rates, everything else, which makes sense. And when we say this, we don't mean supplementation. Supplementing antioxidants, particularly single antioxidants, like just taking a bunch of vitamins, he is actually associated with cancer, right? So we're talking about the wide variety of them. Yeah, just lowering inflammation, lowering oxidative stress in your body. That affects everything from health markers as far as lipid profiles, the accumulation of atherosclerosis, various pain inflammation in the body, recovery from training, right? This lowers just your general oxidative stress throughout the whole body, right? So to eat large amounts of vegetables, you're getting all these things, these phytonutrients, all these various antioxidants, these polyphenols, all these things that we know produce all these phenomenal health benefits. And this is ubiquitous in nutrition research around the world. What gets scary though is that when people want to bring up, well, that's just big pharma in America wanting you to eat whatever to hurt you. No, that would be pushing junk food to hurt you, right? Right, french fries, potato chips, pizza, ice cream, butter, bacon, table sugar, refined sugars, all these things. These are all bad. And I know people will take offense with some certain things on the list. I'm sorry, you're wrong. Data shows all that. Whole foods great. I mean, you want to eat meat, vegetables, fruit, milk, nuts, perfect. Data's overwhelmingly positive, right? It's whole foods. So, again, this is ubiquitous. Like there's almost no disagreement because it's study after study after study, decade after decade after decade. Keep just finding, yeah, lots of vegetables are healthy for you in terms of all those things. The other thing you've got to think about too, the fiber content, right? And every time this comes up again, people want to argue, and I do a lower carb diet, so just stop. They want to argue about, well, that only matters for controlling blood sugar. No, it absolutely does not. And in that case, you're thinking soluble fiber, not insoluble. Vegetables are an enormous source of insoluble fiber. Do you understand how important that is for gut health? How important it is for cleaning out, scraping out your gut lining, feeding your gut bacteria, right? And the wider variety of fiber we eat, so eating a few different types of vegetables and fruits and other stuff, tends to give us a healthier, more diverse gut floor. And please note here, I'm not talking about even eating a grain or whatever at this point, and in terms of all the insoluble fiber and stuff there, we're talking about vegetables, right? Or that soluble fiber. We're talking about all this insoluble fiber, the roughage, okay? It improves your metabolic rate. It improves your immune system. Again, it reduces all types of cancers, reduces colon cancer, bowel cancer, right? Because it clears junk out. It clears stuff and waste products that are in your gut, potentially rotting. It clears stuff out, scrapes everything out, gets everything clean. It's also been noted that it improves. And again, people want to argue this, who damaged your gut through other things, having problem with it. Well, you shouldn't have done the other stuff that damaged your gut. If you had skipped all that nonsense, it wouldn't be an issue. But for people who have a healthy gut, it improves your absorption of nutrients, right? Everyone's worried about anti-nutrients, but what it does is the way that it helps change the shape of the villi, they become more effective at absorbing nutrients that we want, right? All that protein, all those vitamins. Then we even have the mental health aspects, right? Fiber is low fiber dietary associated with poor mental health and cognition, because your gut, and again, a healthy gut flora, affects your neurotransmitters or your brain. All right, so a lot of mental illness that we even have, we're not just talking cancers, heart disease, obesity, diabetes. A lot of mental health issues that people have is partially rooted there in nutrition, right? Higher inflammation rates, insulin resistance, but then neurotransmitters from the gut. So again, vegetables massively improve and impact gut health. And again, I'm not talking to the number of people who have damaged your gut and have to heal them because they've had really bad lifestyle practices that have caused it. We're talking about being healthier and how to do it. And I would suggest that those people, they need to get their gut health fixed, right? Fix whatever damage they have, and then start eating their vegetables again. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time. Thank you.

=== FILE: Squat Heavy Once A Week For 10 Years You Will Get Strong! [zgEqWVyMZM0].txt ===

 the hack to getting strong is to squat heavy once a week for 10 years straight. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here and I want to talk to you guys about this today, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like, drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. I love this analogy or this particular line and you guys already know I've said before, I stole it. I stole it from a group of coaches having a podcast. I think it was Wendler with a bunch of like the hardcore CrossFit games coaches. You know, they were having that conversation and I had to listen in. Like, that's great. And I'll go into it a little further and it's not meant to sound trite, it's not meant to sound condescending, it's the reality. And I think what it is is because people don't understand, there is something about consistency, there's something about long term heavy lifting. It creates a very dense musculature, higher strength and myofabular growth. Because we're not getting at that point in the game, it's no longer about transient storage factors. Well, we got some extra water and inflammation and glycogen storage in the muscles. You train heavy for a decade and you're going to, if you just do it consistently year after year, even if you only get in once a week on the heavy squats and that's the point. Didn't say, hey, you need a perfect program or you've got to have a high squat frequency or that all your squat sessions need to be heavy. But the idea here is a multi-fold in nature. And one it is that consistency. Because even if you split up and do multiple leg days or other things or maybe you, even someone who goes and they do a bunch of high rep leg presses for most of their legwork, but let's say every Friday, they come in and do a really heavy set of squats, at least one really heavy set of back squats. Okay. And they try, they get it in almost every single week for a decade straight. In terms of just the sheer slow accumulation of myofabular growth that's kind of put through most of your body, but particularly those big movers, you know, primary movers like the quads, the glutes, you're going to build an enormous base for strength. And people have to understand that consistency. All right. And it's just the act of the squatting itself, and particularly if you're changing it over time, you guys have seen me squat well past 500, high bar, low bar, safety bar, straight bar, squat bar, cambered bar. See where we're going with this? I've done good mornings over 500 pounds. Get strong. Just get strong. And what you're going to find, and that's what I mean by getting strong. Okay. So you've got one perfect technique down. And well, can you do with all that stuff? Man, can you grab any barbell and squat a really big weight? Can you go wide stance? Can you go narrow stance? And that's kind of the point of what we mean with strength. Because when you've been training for years and years like that, a decade, and you've been squatting heavy every week, you've probably tried a lot of different positions, different footings, different bar placements, different stances, different approaches. Like you've probably done some box squatting. And that's the point. You've accumulated strength in the ability to push through probably at, you know, five or six different squat angles. And if you've done that on squats, you've probably done that on different movements, different sort of pressing, pulling. Okay. You are going to have accumulated a very large amount of knowledge and proficiency with just moving big weights. Okay. And there is, there is something to be said for that experience. Can you just grab stuff and be strong at any angle? And that's kind of, for me, I used to do a lot of conjugate stuff. You guys have seen me do 600 plus pound deficit pulls, block pulls, regular pulls, stiff bar, deadlift bar. All right. I benched 365 clothes grip. I've done it wide grip, flat back, you know, so on and so forth. You know, even when I could overhead press, I used to do 225 overhead presses all the time. You know, you just get strong. And when you've been doing it a long time, you hit a lot of angles, you experiment with a lot of stuff. You learn things and you learn to move bigger weight, but more importantly, the consistency of it. And I'm not saying you have to lift heavy all the time. Once a week. And that's why I love the beauty of that because that heavy lifting, that heavy squat, as long as you get it in once a week, I don't care one set, but you do it for a decade. And when we say heavy, I mean a truly challenging heavy set. I don't care if it's one rep, six reps, challenging set every week for a decade. Again, you will accumulate large amounts of myofibrillar growth. You will accumulate a lot of tissue protein, a lot of bone density, because those things keep going over time. They just chip away and chip away over over long periods. And so there's going to be a point where you're going to get stronger. Even if you lose that strength, it comes back. What happens if you die it down? What if you quit squatting or whatever? Okay, but then in three months, you can be back where you were. Right. Once it's been there and that's the thing that people forget with advanced lifters like that. Once you have previously hit certain levels, you can detrain on those things. You can lose muscle and you can get it back. I've seen dudes use pretty hefty amounts of gear, get super strong for a long time and then come off all their drugs. And just do some TRT and it tanks and then they rebuild it back up and they end up being bigger and stronger than they even would have been natural. Because they've been there before. There is something about muscle memory, whether it's enhanced. And that's what I tell guys. Once you've cashed in your natty card for any period of time, it's permanent. There is no, hey, I came off. There's going to be some changes. And we have studies showing how that works. We've seen what the changes are under the microscope. But it's the same with the heavies lifting. It's literally the same thing. Once you've had that myofibrilar growth, all those muscle fiber nuclei accumulate, you've been doing it a decade. Dude, you could take two years off from lifting. And if you spend a decade getting your squat up to 550 like that, you could take two years off from the gym and come back in six months. You might have to start with 135 squatting. In six months, you'll be squatting 500. A year, you'll be squatting 550. Even if you took two years off. Just the nature of it. It's the nature of the beast. And it's those long term changes. It's changes in your muscle fibers, in the actual contractile proteins, changes in your bone density, changes in your nervous system, changes in your skills and coordination. And especially a barbell squat. It takes a lot to coordinate a barbell squat. And that's the point. Alright guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys in GALISON next time.

=== FILE: The Bench Press Builds Massive Chests [PyH1G_5AEMs].txt ===

 The Bench Press is one of the absolute best chest exercises you can do. The research and history shows this. Hey, everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you about this today, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop a comment down below. I'd appreciate it. What I always find interesting is the counterarguments against this, because you absolutely have to ignore history, and people will say, well, you know, the bench just makes the bottom half of the chest a lot bigger, and it neglects the upper half and so on and so forth. That's not true in the real world or scientifically. And I'll survey what we've seen for 60, 70 years, let alone in the lab. So we need to be clear on some of that, or when people say, well, dumbbells work the chest harder. Oh, there's evidence of it. There's no evidence of it. What are you talking about? Like, I've seen people say that they're like, well, dumbbells are proven to stimulate the pecs more. Really? No, not really. If you've looked at the sum total of data, even EMG and different data, it's not the case. Right? You'd argue dumbbells might work the front delts more. Like, you could make a case for that scientifically, but not the pectorals. So stop and think about the real world. Go back historically and look at some of the people who had big, round full chest. And here's the other thing. Since when has big lower pecs, which usually goes with big upper pecs, ever been considered unesthetic? That's what I don't get. Arnold Schwarzenegger. Surgeon who, so let's go back and look. Those guys all had massive chests. Right? They had massive, massive chests. Before we got into as many drugs as they do today. Reg Park, when all they had was D-Ball, they didn't have the whole variety of drugs. Look at his chest. It's built from bench pressing. And did anybody look at that and say, wow, that's an unesthetic? Tell me Arnold is Surgeon who Bray that you look at and say, oh yeah, their chest, this looks terrible. It's just super bottom heavy. Well, they all built it with bench pressing as a primary. Like Surgeon who Bray was noted for being able to bench 405 pretty easily. He also was noted for doing tons and tons of really high reps of like 225. Right? That's what I had always read that Surgeon's main, he loved building his chest to do in like sets of 20 with 225. That he did quite a few of those. He did a lot of them. Look at his chest. That whole error of guys and what do they do? Wide grip bench pressing. Wide grip bench pressing. A lot of them did incline and stuff too, but they did put a very heavy focus on the flat bench. Because like Reg Park, they had great chest. Steve Reeves. Like where are these horrible chest from the era when bench press was considered king? No, they had great chest. Maybe people don't know how to bench press. Right? Then we go into the more modern era, Ronnie Coleman. It was always, yep, bench press, my favorite chest exercise. And I'm not saying bench is the only thing you ever need. But where are people getting this idea historically? Because some modern bodybuilders, because of the way they stack their drugs and other stuff get injured too easily, because they ego lift and they're dumb. Because seriously, when people say, oh, it's a dangerous lift, you watch how they perform it. Well, if you flopped around like an ass clown bouncing the bar and stuff the way that you guys do on any lift, you would get hurt. Have you considered that the only reason these guys are claiming it's dangerous is because people lift like complete ass clowns? Like a complete ignoramus? Well, if you did any exercise like that, wouldn't you expect to get hurt? You softly touch the chest or you pause on every rep. That's how you bench press. It's how you're supposed to do it. And competition, you have to pause it. It doesn't count someone who says I benched whatever. If you didn't pause it for at least a second on your chest, no, you didn't. You did not bench press that. Just shut up. Not to any real standard. This is the way people train it. But then here's the thing, you know, you look at studies, we show the bench press works the entire pec major. And everyone said, what about the pec minor? Do you know how small the pec minor is? People act like the pec minors like half or a third of the chest. The pec minor is about as thick as your thumb. It's a little muscle that runs under the top. All right, like when you see me doing the curls there, notice, see that little bit of a split? That's still the pec major, the pec minor is above that little split. It's higher up. It's a pretty small muscle under there. Okay, very small muscle. So again, it's not as big of a deal as people make it out to be. And the whole pec major is over 90% of the chest, including the upper chest. It's the overwhelming majority of the upper chest too. And dips work it, decline work it, everything works it. You know, and that's the problem. People say, well, what about dumbbells? If you looked at even the studies, so on, what's the reasoning, a deeper stretch? But it's not a stretch in the pec anymore. Did you know when they compared, they wanted to see in some studies I looked at, they wanted to see what would happen when they analyze and scan what was going on inside. You know, both EMG and then running like scans watching to see what the muscle did internally. On a cambered bar, so you go deeper, right? On the cambered bars, because I have a couple of them, you can get a much deeper stretch in theory. Deeper stretch in theory, so it must be more range of motion on the pec itself. Other than, no, it turned out not to be. What they found is that the pec doesn't really stretch any significantly deeper than what a normal barbell will let you do. What they found was the tendon in the pec stretched after that. So the same thing with the dumbbell is you're going deeper with it, you're stretching the tendon. And you know what the EMG showed? No, it didn't show more pectoral activation. If anything, it was a hair lower, the interior deltoid went up. So in other words, it turned it into a better shoulder exercise. So just because the joint moves further doesn't mean that the muscle always does. In that case, they found it just stretches the tendon. The tendon stretches a little further there. The muscle has pretty much reached its maximum length in position. For most people, pretty close to where the barbell touches your chest. So this idea of that is flawed. The same people will argue, oh, stabilizers detract, which is not true. So then you're going to pick an exercise with more stabilizers. Way more stabilization required. They're so inconsistent in their logic. It's ridiculous. But no, when you look at the real world, you look at studies, the bench press is one of the best checks. Chest exercises that I've seen plenty about. I saw Mike Isriatelle say that. I saw Jeff Nippard say that. These evidence-based goovers who are actually pretty big. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.

=== FILE: Training Is Only As Complex As You Need It To Be [l4GbeQGWsq4].txt ===

 Training is only as complicated as you need it to be. Hey, everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would shout with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it so much. When it comes to the topic of training complexity, we do need to be clear. All training complexity is for psychological reasons. Now, am I saying that doesn't matter? No, it doesn't matter. Humans aren't machines, right? Humans are not machines. We have motivation issues. We can have boredom issues. We can have psychological stleness and everything with our training, okay? Understand that. But by and large, training itself from a physiological level is not complicated. And I see coaches even trying to claim, oh yeah, if you just do the Cernium exercises, you'll stagnate eventually. They'll stop working, progressive overload stops working. Yeah, there's not one single shred of evidence for that. Okay? Let me state that again. There is not one single shred of evidence for that. You wanna know how they pass that lie off? Cause it slows down. Cause it slows down. And in your head, if it slowed down, it's zero, but it's not. Are you taking sets close to failure or to failure? Well, yeah. All the muscles being worked correctly? Well, yeah, then you're stimulating. Because we gain slower and slower and slower the longer we train, or the longer you stay on the same amount of stuff, which could be zero, it could be 500 milligrams, it could be a thousand. I'm gonna assume obviously for most people it's zero. But even then, you eventually start to slow. Okay, we get to a point where the various intermediate fibers virtually stop growing. Only your fastest, which fibers are growing at a certain point. Yeah, again, understand this. Okay, understand this. It's just going slower, but in your head, it's nothing. And a lot of times complexity is needed to make you feel like you're making progress again. Okay, it's needed to make you feel like you're making progress again. But the reality is, let's say, I don't know, you're stuck at 15 reps or 315 on a squat. You've been stuck there for six months. If you keep going, you'll eventually get to 16. Like we understand this, right? You don't necessarily need more. You don't necessarily need to change things up to shock the body. Then none of this is necessary. Muscle growth is actually a very linear thing. And people can argue, well, progress is a lot. Yeah, progress is linear. If it's not, there's something going on. We shouldn't be backing down. If you lost a bunch of weight, that makes sense. If you went on a cut, okay, fine. But if you have a person who is staying, you're pretty much the same body weight or making extremely excessively slow gains in body weight for lean gains, you shouldn't be falling back. If you are, there's something happening with your overall recovery. Okay, that's it. But this idea that we have to continually change exercises, no, we do this for boredom purposes. We do it for psychological reasons. Even at Westside Barbell, if you listen closely, because Louis Simmons, what the rotating the max is all the time, do you understand he would make cases for the physiology of it? But when you really listened to lectures and he's talking to other coaches, notice if that goes out the door. When he's talking to an audience of lifters, physical reasons. When he starts talking to a group of coaches, particularly who are even coaching non-strength athletes, giving the lectures at universities to the athletic department, it always went back to the psychology. Why? Because changing exercises is for mental reasons. Now am I saying there can't be overuse? Yeah, there'll be overuse. But you're doing too much volume if that's happening. Let's be clear. If you're having overuse injuries, on a free weight exercise, I get on machines. It's easier to get overuse on machines because you're locked into the same pattern. But on free weight movements, weighted body weight exercises, no, not really. Shouldn't be getting overuse. And the normal variations will change that enough. Okay, your footing, your grip, different stuff is gonna be a hair different unless you were perfectly lining stuff up with marks all the time. Okay, on free weight exercises, it's far harder to get overuse problems because you're not locked in and there's gonna be a little variation. Something as simple as your footing a little different week to week, your grip a hair different week to week is enough to keep those overuse much lower. And again, again, how much volume are you really doing? Overuse is a product of excessive volume, sometimes combined with bad form with it. It's never one cause of injuries in lifting. People train too much. Okay. Now for someone who's new and then hasn't started the gym, that's not really the case. I'm talking about long timers. People are really putting in the work. But, and that's who we're talking about here. Training doesn't need to be complex. And look, I am well versed in every form of periodization. I've been discussing the different types of periodization for 12, 13 years in videos. I'm fully aware of how all of them work. The whole history of how mesocycles were developed, but I'm telling you, none of it is necessary. You can literally just do something like set rep goes, double progression. And double progression doesn't even have to be true. Double progression. You can literally go, every time I reach this target rep, I'm gonna add two and a half pounds of a small movement, five pounds on a big movement. Okay, that's it. 10 pounds on some exercises, right? Five to 10 on big movements, two and a half on isolation work. You can do that forever. Now you can choose to change those rep ranges you wanna work in, but it works just as well. Man, if people don't wanna hear that, and I can tell you as a coach, most of what I do is fatigue management. It's getting people to buy in. And I'm quite frankly, as a coach, I'm just tired of selling complexity to try to get people to buy in. Either they know I can get them jacked and stronger, they don't. And if they're not willing to buy in, I just don't need it. I don't need to sell them complex because it doesn't work any better. It's a selling tactic. I would rather coach than be a salesman. And it's the same for the information I put out. People need to understand how easy this is. You could take six, seven, eight exercises. Long as they cover everything you need, you could literally do double progression type approaches for 10 years straight. And you'll continue to make progress, assuming recovery, fatigue management, nutrition is there. All right guys, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time. Thank you.

=== FILE: You Don't Need To Lift More Than 3-4 Days A Week [39wUxf9oUkg].txt ===

 you shouldn't be training more than three or four days a week. Hey, everybody, it's Jason Blaha here, and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like, and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Now, that being said, when I make that statement, to general rule, there are obviously exceptions. So, again, let me be clear, when I give general advice, I am not saying 3% of lifters are not the exception to the rule, okay? Because what could we count also, and by training I mean weight training, I'm not talking about doing some cardio, I'm not talking about dragging a sled, any of this stuff that doesn't beat you up the same way in terms of your joints, right? I'm not even saying you can't work on, a weakest body part on some of your off days. If your calves suck, and you wanna do some calf raises on your nonlifting days in between your cardio, perfectly fine, no issue there. But you're working a single weak point, probably on very, very high reps. You're not doing any real work, okay? You're not creating large systemic fatigue, you're not beating your joints up. Will the other exception possibly be some very elite athletes, of course. Particularly when anabolic's coming to the mix, okay? So let me be clear on that as a coach. When I say that I do have some clients who love ultra high volumes and frequencies, they're extremely conditioned to it, they're competitive, and I put them on that, I'm not saying there hasn't been one, I said there's been one exception, but generally they're on anabolic's, okay? So again, let me make that point clear also, but I've also had clients on anabolic's who are elite power lifters who still only train four days a week, okay? So that's not even a hey, oh, let's just automatically go there. And keep in mind, there have been guys who won the Mr. Olympia training three or four days a week. They've existed, there are people who have sent world records in the squat who only train three days a week, they exist. I've certainly met elite power lifters who only train three days a week, even on gear. So let's set aside the fact, though, that yeah, sure, there can be exceptions, but for the majority of you, the juice isn't worth the squeeze. And I know people will say, well, the recovery is about total volume, and if I just did half the work, the problem is you're not giving your joints downtime. So when you're thinking in terms of muscle recovery, when you're thinking in terms of muscle recovery, you could make a point for that. But your joints are a different animal. If your joints are being beat every day, and this is why I look at stuff like a push, pull, legs six days a week. I'm like, man, that's hell on your shoulders, possibly hell on your lumbar. Other things, depending on how you do it, you're doing some really big movements in there. That's the problem, though, is that when people start doing that then, it's like, well, see, I do all these machines so I can get away with it. But you're not doing the machines because they're better. You're doing the machines so that you can get away with it because of systemic fatigue and those joints getting beat from those big exercises when you're training six days a week turns into a problem. You're doing it so that you can get away with the high frequency training. Okay? You're not still not making more gains for it. And that's what I think people forget with some of that through life. Well, but okay, I do that so that I can get away with it and get more growth. You're training a muscle more than two or three times a week. It's an insanely question of why you're getting any extra growth from it. Like, I think we can make a good case for frequency and muscle protein synthesis. Okay? We can make a strong case for training a muscle group up to three days a week. I don't have an issue with that. But beyond a lot of that, not really. I don't think you can make a case for that frequency at all in terms of biology or anything else. And, if anybody's successful, even really trained that way. I mean, really, very, very, very, very few. Absolute top level champion bodybuilders or power lifters or strong men are actually lifting six days a week. Okay? And that's even guys on drugs. You take that out of the equation. You know, quite frankly, drug free, which you're worried you're gonna do just, can do great on three. You could push it to four with certain things like upper lowers or conjugate. Absolutely. But anything beyond some of that, and the same thing with volumes, you start doing 20 plus sets a week. I've just never observed anybody, anybody who's not on a significant amount of gear who really makes good progress on those sort of volumes. I've never seen it. I've seen a hell of a lot of good progress from guys doing eight, 10, 12 sets a week, drug free, day, year after year after year, training three or four days a week. Again, seems to be the norm. And we're talking lifting. We're talking lifting. We're not talking doing your cardio and conditioning. We can make a case if someone's super fit. I mean, they can get away with cardio pretty much daily, you know, within reason. Without it impacting their gains in the gym. If they're conditioned to it, and they build it up very slowly, and they're in good shape. But by and large, the lifting probably not. And again, we can make exceptions. Could we say some lower impact stuff that's really conditioning based, like a sled or your GVP, okay, fine. You know, if your calves or your biceps are weak-linking, you wanna do some really high reps for them. You know, particularly for the extra frequency doing on pressure, we can make a case for that. You know, I've done my share of that stuff in the past. In some cases, the present. But outside of that, there's simply no reason. All you are doing is beating up your recovery, costing yourself potential gains as well, potential higher injuries, creating extra fatigue. It's probably not giving you anything at all. And I think that's the point that guys don't understand. They're convinced that if they come in and add those extra days, that it's gonna pay off. When in reality, all training workload is diminished return. Every single set, every extra day that you add is a dramatic, it's diminished return. Okay, it's not scaling. It's not like if you go from three sets to six sets, you could get double the muscle growth. Okay, we have to understand that the same thing with frequency. More doesn't equal better, better equals better, and then recovery. And at the end of the day, recovery is king. I would say to a lot of guys, instead of adding that extra day of training, why don't you add an extra hour of sleep? Which one of those, if you're training already hard three or four days a week, which one's gonna get you more gains? The extra hour of sleep, every single time.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.434983Z ===
