more drugs has been the only the only change in bodybuilding that explains the differences in modern bodybuilders. Uh, hey everybody. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals about this today, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, and and the reason I say this is outside of some minor nutrition stuff and understanding health and nutrition, uh, knowledge hasn't particularly improved. In other words, uh, when you see these modern bodybuilders even talking about Arnold and these older guys, and they'll say, "Oh, Arnold couldn't make it today." Well, no, if Arnold had access to all the stuff you guys take, and the approaches he would still be more jacked and better physique than all of you, like the vast majority of them, right? Um, and that's what they're forgetting when you see these modern bodybuilders who try to clown on Arnold. Um, and I'm not a fan of modern bodybuilding, by the they don't care about it. But this needs to be addressed because this comes up and I get questions because I do do fitness content. Uh people do ask about this and they bring up uh what these modern bodybuilders will say who will dog on people like Arnold and the older school guys. The reality is there's literally nothing better. It is purely drugs. That's it. And if you don't understand that then people say, "Well, what about the exercise science?" If we really look at a lot of the science, has it particularly improved training knowledge? I don't know that it has. Not not to enough degree to make 10 pounds of muscle difference. Would I say that optimizing what we know a little bit with science maybe could reduce injuries a little bit? U could it do things like that, right? Could it maybe help you get through your new gains a little faster? Sure. But if people think that this is is really substantial, like they think really substantial differences, no. In fact, most of the research, what you're seeing, the best modern research is kind of saying a lot of what the old school guys kind of realized. Okay? Showing what they kind of realized. Um, and even then you look at a lot of people say, "Well, we have better machines and and but machines don't build more muscle." There's no evidence for that. The same people who try to claim machines are are justified that machines are like, "No, data shows that tension on a muscle is tension and it doesn't care except that we have data showing that support muscles do grow um from bigger movements and free weight movements." No, your only argument then is that machines could have the same potential for muscle growth as barbells and dumbbells. That's that's the argument. What do we find with modern programming? It's always in conflict. The research looking at that stuff is in conflict. In other words, the knowledge hasn't really increased. Okay, the knowledge hasn't increased. Are we really going to tr claim that the guys who are winning the Mr. Universe, the Mr. America and the Mr. Europe even in the 50s and 60s didn't know how to train. We really want to claim that you know Arnold and uh Mike Menser and any of those people didn't know how to train. Okay. How many people have used both of their type of approaches that were quite different very successful even in the modern world? How many drug-free guys do? Plenty plenty of guys have used some of those approaches. Knowledge hasn't increased. Knowledge hasn't increased. Not enough to make a real difference. Not to the degree that people think. I'm not saying it doesn't matter. We haven't found a few useful tidbits as far as optimizing, but sure. I can't say that it's really improved. Is nutrition improved? Well, for cutting, no, because it's really just getting calories in a calorie deficit, enough protein under control. Vince Garanda got people absolutely shredded. But at that time they didn't want people as shredded by the way. So you go to the older school bodybuilding, they didn't want you shredded in the bone. But Vince Gonda showed that they had all the knowledge to do it back then. Steak, eggs, and vegetables and water. He got people shredded. He got shredded. So is the nutrition really improved? And here's the thing, the nutrition is really only improved as it pertains to drugs. And I think that's what people forget. It's the fact that during say the 60s they had one drug. Arnold era they had about five. That's it. And they were all anabolics. They didn't have access to all these wider range of things. And that's the difference. All the sight enhancement, by the way, that you see, which is ridiculous. Think about it. We have at least five times as many different types of steroids today. Then we have all these peptide drugs, growth hormone, insulin, IGF-1, thyroid hormone, stimulants. The list goes on and on and on. The average NPC competitor who doesn't have a pro card uses at least three or four times as many different drugs as guys even in the 70s even had access to. Then you look at the amounts these people have just used more and more and more and more and more. Right? pro bodybuilding has turned into a a case of let's just see you can use the most drugs without dying and they haven't even improved like like honestly speaking you go back to even the Dorian Yates up through Ronnie Coleman eras has bodybuilding improved no they've gotten worse they're they're sloppier more bloated looking in a lot of ways all this stupid looking sight enhancement they haven't even improved in spite of all the extra drugs. So I think even then in terms of that we kind of reached reached that peak and you have some genetic freaks like Ronnie Coleman who optimized on it. I mean and and that's now been over 20 years. Like it's not improved. People act like it's gotten better. No, it's just more and more and more drugs. That's it. That's it. guys had great physiques and maximized muscle growth and got plenty lean 50 years ago and a lot of what they did. Sure, we could fine-tune it a little bit, but it wasn't broke and it worked. Knowledge has not increased, only knowledge of how to use drugs. And even that, it's not even knowledge. It's just a shotgun approach with a lot of mysticism with a dozen different rumors and different approaches, but really that's all you're seeing in bodybuilding. It is just a massive it's a mass massive death cult of let's abuse excessive amounts of drugs, let's diet down excessively lean, dehydrate ourselves, okay, for for you know for something that's not even attractive to anyone outside of that particular little niche. Like it wouldn't have even been attractive in bodybuilding to be the the lean that they get to and the drive that they get to wouldn't have even been attractive 40 years ago in bodybuilding. It's just turned into a drug death cult. And it's very unfortunate. It's sad to see it. I don't personally support it. If you do, that's your business. Um I'm not going to endorse it. You know, I feel like bodybuilding probably reached its peak in the in the 70s up to early 80s and it just degenerated from there, right? It's just more and more drugs. That's it. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.