Modern bodybuilding is basically a death cult. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals about this today. Um, this is something I used to discuss years ago. Um, and it's something that I think we have to talk about again. I used to make a lot of videos on this way back in the day, 11, 12 years ago. Um, I actually predicted the unfortunate demise of a number of serious bodybuilders ahead of time, six months, a year ahead of time. Um, and people were like, "Wow, it's scary how often you called them." And you know, this is where I'm going to have to agree with guys like Scooby, um, who used to say professional bodybuilding is basically, uh, a contest to see who can take the most drugs without dying. And, you know, we see all these these health issues around it. And it's kind of one of those things where I'm like, you know, I I'm just not going to support it. Um, and and I think it's saddening because a lot of us who grew up, we saw a different era. I mean, I'm not a bodybuilder. I'm a strength athlete, but I am working on my uh physique more. But, you know, even then, I'm not inspired by anything I see even in the the men's physique divisions or the classic bodybuilding. You know, it's not what any of us from my generation growing up saw as even even bodybuilders. You know, we saw the silver era, the golden era, you know, everything from Steve Reeves up to Reg Park. You know, those were ideals. and then uh you know then later up into the 70s guys like Arnold and Franco and um you know and so on and Frank Zayn but even then and those guys were obviously on stuff but the physiques were just so much more obtainable and they looked good and people were fit and athletic you know and I'm not saying some of them haven't had their set of health problems but a lot of them live to be you know to an old age right and can we say that for any of this crop of bodybuilders you know and I' I've seen a lot of discuss discussion from that I've seen Arnold be critical of what they're seeing now. I've seen Lee Haney, you know, who was one of the greats. Uh, you know, they're critical of what they're seeing now and it seems like they're not rewarding health or anything else. And it's so it's it's the um even in the lighter divisions. So, here's what I'm going to say. Men's physique type divisions, it's not only the unhealthy levels of body fat they want to. It's stuff like the excessive delts, the excessive side enhancement in the delts. And I'm seeing tons of that, you know, to where it's not even necessarily muscle there, right? So, you're seeing in those guys because the guys are using tons of stuff higher up are um, you know, using so much stuff that their delts are massive. I saw Ken Waller in an interview saying, "Well, they look like a water buffalo." The way he described it, he was, you know, in Pumping Iron, one of the greats back in the day. uh you know, he kind of said that, but then because that aesthetic is now being pushed, you're even seeing these smaller, lighter guys who in theory shouldn't have these issues, huge amounts of sight enhancement in their shoulders. You know, their delts are full of oil and scar tissue from all the stuff they're putting in there, you know. So, you see all this stuff, but then we see the the health complications. We see the men and the women both uh dying all the time. It's getting really common, you know, from from the diuretic use. And I think that's another thing too. They want them so dry and so shredded today even in some of the natural bodybuilding that, you know, you're seeing uh this diuretic abuse. And so we're seeing people have heart attacks from it. Uh you know, we're seeing people damage their kidneys from it. And I've even seen some of some serious bodybuilders are like, you know, the other stuff can be bad enough, but the diuretics might actually be the deadliest thing because they want them so shredded, you know. And how much are we seeing the same thing just due to bodybuilding carrying over to influencers and stuff, you know, that trickles into that? How many of them are like, "Oh man, I have to look a certain way when I'm shirtless on the camera." So they're unless they're perfect and dialed in and dry, they don't even want to be shirtless and then they're doing diuretics and stuff, you know, a little editing for the photo shoots. Instead of presenting and saying, you know, why aren't we presenting something that's that's obtainable? In other words, I'm not saying, oh, that they should just like the look like the average Joe. even in in that context for the influencers in people, but you know, more of hey, why don't we, you know, present something that can be sustainable, right? And and it's I almost feel like because the bodybuilding world has taken it that extreme, even people now online who put out fitness content, I mean, my god, if any of them were at my current body fat or whatever, they'd be terrified to be shirtless, you know, and but the reality is a lot of them are there 50% of the year already, you know, and and and yet they a lot of them feel like they have to have a diuretic or whatever just to have their shirt off because of that other image. It's like the question we have to ask even for that is why are we putting up with that? Why why is that becoming our our norm to where it has to be unobtainable, right? Why do we have to be at an unobtainable level that literally is harming your health every time you want to appear shirtless where you're having to take a diuretic? Come on, guys. But then we see the girls, too. How many of them are are are losing their lives? We're seeing some of these young women are passing away at the contest or the day of a competition or the day after with with the crazy diuretic stuff and causing heart attacks, you know, but then so we look at all that that leanness is crazy. The amount of sight enhancement they allow is crazy. But then if we're going to talk about physique culture, remember we used to be well-rounded, right? Everyone was well-rounded back in the day. They were all athletes. They, you know, again, same thing. they would have scored them down for a bunch of sight enhancement and they don't now. It's even you're even seeing in the the the physique divisions for men. Their shoulders are full of stuff. Tons of them. Like almost every one of them I see, you know, and it's like they if they scored that down that would resolve a lot of issues because then the guys would have to use less stuff because they can't they don't have unlimited injection sites since they can't put it everywhere where you can see it. You know, that would cut it down. How about they require a vacuum pose again on everything? Right now, a lot of this stuff in the earlier days of the physique stuff and the bodybuilding type things, they had to do certain displays of athleticism. None of these guys, most of them are not athletic anymore. They're not healthy. And I'm not saying powerlifting doesn't need work there, too. So, we're not even talking about my sport that I'm coming from. Um, that's its own that's its own video, right? And but I think we can make some there. Um, so again, for anyone says, you know, I'm casting stones here. Um, no, no, there's there there's issues that need to be addressed there, too. Uh, but we come over with this thing in bodybuilding and they're dropping dead. It's and it's not just the anabolics. It's all the insulin, all the IGF-1, all the other crazy stuff that they've added on top of ridiculous amounts of anabolics, you know. And I think the only way that's going to change is when people who are following fitness call for it to change. When they demand it, they quit following that and they start saying, "Hey, maybe we want to see stuff like this silver era or golden era and they follow that and they quit following the freak show." That's the only way it changes because as of right now, it's it's a death cult and they're dying. And people have been saying this for over. It's not just now. People were saying it 10 years ago, 15 years ago, 20 years ago. We're dying for this. And the bodybuilders were saying that little anonymous interviews from they were like, "Yeah, this was a pro bodybuilder talking to us." He was, you know, at the Olympia contender and he says, "You know, we're we're dying for We're dying for it." And that was 20 years ago. My god, how much worse is it now? You know, and it's not bodybuilding anymore. It's not aesthetic. It's not attractive. It's become hideous. It's a freak show, you know. It's a circus act. There's no longer an art. There's no longer a beauty. There's no longer health. It has just become a freak show, a circus act, and a death cult. And it's very, very sad to see from where what it was at one time into what it has become. And even a lot of the greatest of all time are calling it out more. They're calling it out. Arnold, Ali, Haney, all these people are saying, "Yeah, this is this isn't good.