Moderating training volume reduces injuries. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys would please click like down below, I would appreciate it. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment down below the video, whether it's to give your thoughts or to just say hello, I would appreciate that also. Thank you so much. All right, this is a topic that we have to discuss in these volume debates. Um, when we look at the evidence, the majority of the evidence like major studies done on weightlifting injuries, yes, bad form matters, yes, people trying to lift weights, it's ego lifting that they can't handle matters. We we know this, right? But those are actually not the biggest factor. The biggest factor in injuries tends to be overuse. Overuse injuries. And this is what uh the majority of the research shows. And I mean, and I know I know people who even back this uh out there. Like I've even seen the barbell medicine guys back this. These guys are medical doctors who compete in powerlifting. Okay, so these aren't, you know, necessarily, oh yeah, there's just some nerds who don't train. No, these guys are strong as hell, actually. I mean, we're talking 6700lb deadlifters. And even they're saying, yeah, this is this is what the evidence shows. It is overuse. Overuse is the number one cause of injuries um in the gym. And this is why you still see bodybuilders get hurt sometimes who are not lifting, you know, really low reps. You'll see them get hurt, guys who do mostly machines and dumbbells, cables, they still get hurt sometimes. And it's because of the extremely high volumes. It's a factor like overuse of the same movement patterns, overuse of the same tendons, the joints, uh pushing through pain when you have inflammation. All right, this is this is what gets us hurt. Now, I've always told people I made another video that should be out, might be out the same day, it might be out yesterday. I'm in the rotation discussing, you know, rotating movement patterns to help with overuse. Absolutely helpful. But realistically, what's the best way to avoid uh overuse is to moderate your volume. And this is something when we've seen these big volume debates, we've seen these uh we've seen the researchers, we've seen the evidence-based people argue this stuff. And what's strange is that you see kind of the really the nerd nerds are pushing the ultra high volume. And I'm talking a lot of the guys who, and I'm sorry, you know, all things considered, they're not really big. These are not guys with much muscle who are literally the ones saying, "Oh, you know, 20, 30, 40 sets of muscle group." And it's just like, you know, you guys, you know who all I'm talking about. And like only one of them is actually big. there only like one of them, maybe two of them who who have enough muscle mass that anyone would take it seriously on the anecdote. Um, you know, yet these people are pushing these volumes. And when I saw Lyall McDonald chime in, I know people will say, "Gee, Jason, he doesn't look like a lifter." Yep, fair. Smart guy with a lot of super strong clients, though. Um, so again, great coach. He just is not not necessarily having the strength or physique, but his clients speak for for the knowledge. They get results. Lots of people who follow his books. I know some crazy jacked and strong people who agree with his books and stuff like this stuff always seems to work. So, let's give credit where credit is due. He brought up in these debates that he's like, look, so let's assume that if we're going to all this junk volume that all things are equal. It's like if if the debate is well, you know, maybe we might get more out of it because again, the data on these really high volume studies that are backing it, not all of them do, by the way. It's a major point of debate. Exercise science is a problematic field in general. We know this. It's not the most best evidence-based field in terms of the quality of studies u or the quality of minds but but realistically so some of these studies were showing that maybe it might be a half a percent more muscle growth per year to go from whatever 15 sets to 35 crazy stuff like this right and as ly kind of pointed out so realistically if if they're the same because they're like well maybe not but it might be it's just an insurance policy. Then it's like, yeah, but what about he he pointed out also the time commitment, but what about the injury risk? Junk volume causes injuries. Just like for runners, we know that junk miles causes injuries. Doing training that is not benefiting you in terms of stimulus anymore does raise injury rates. So, if you're going in and just doing junk volume in the gym, 10 more sets than you need for optimal growth, and now it's just junk volume, the tendons and stuff are still getting beat up. They're still getting overused. You're still getting inflammation. And in fact, you know, this has been pointed out by numerous people. Numerous people have pointed out with a lot of these studies, you have to they're not doing the studies correctly when they're looking at these high volumes and showing things because you have to let all the inflammation go down. And when you take nine or 10 days off, all of a sudden any of the extra muscle growth from the higher volumes does tend to disappear. Why? Because a lot of it's inflammation. So you're you're detecting lean tissue, but it's inflammation from the excessive training. is causing inflammation in the muscles and they're swelling from that. It's not actual true muscle growth. And people say, "Yeah, but that inflammation will make you bigger." Not noticeably. No. And it's only temporary. Okay? It's not actual muscle growth. It's just swelling from inflammation. And the problem is that inflammation has its own negative effects. So if the muscles are getting inflamed from it, how about the tendons? And that's a problem because it's the same thing. Do inflamed muscles tear easier? Muscles that are have extremely elevated inflammatory markers, they're inflamed. They're swelling to protect them? Your body is doing that to try to protect them from injury. Keeping in mind, muscle damage is not an actual stimulus for muscle growth. that used an old hypothesis. It's been debunked. Okay, muscle damage is not a driver of muscle growth. It's not. So, this is a case of your body is trying to protect those muscles. So, if we're getting all this extra inflammation in the muscles, what then are we doing to our injury risk? It's going up. This is how muscles get pulled. So again, tendons and ruptures of tendons is a major concern, you know, but tendon ruptures are are tremendous, but those come from overuse. That's a flat overuse issue. Even if you have a bad form on a heavy lift that tears it, it's usually combined with the overuse that made it weaker. Okay? So the same thing when we start having this inflammation muscles, this is when muscle pulls and stuff occur. This is how we get hurt. If you want more activity, go for a walk. There's a certain point where you go, you don't need that much. And people say, "Wait, how much you mean?" For most people, 10 to 12 sets of muscle group a week, I'm going to tell you straight up, is probably all most people are going to recover from. All right? And a lot of people don't want to hear that. But if you are recovering from more than 12 and you don't have a perfect lifestyle, you're not training hard. You are flat not training hard with those 12 sets. But yeah, 10 to 12, most people can get massive on 10 to 12 sets. And there was old research before this newest stuff that used to show that muscle growth for most people started capping around 10 sets a week. Now, does it make sense why you've seen some pro bodybuilders, some of the best in the world, are doing 14, 15 sets a week, 16, and are on the Olympia stage? I'm just saying most jacked people in the world, maybe because they trained hard. Granted, there's drugs and genetics, but just throwing that out there, guys. So, think about that in terms of your injuries and you come in and let's just do endless sets. Well, why don't you focus on quality? You're going to get hurt less. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.