Vegetables are critical for fitness. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. And this shouldn't need to be said, but we're now in a situation to where so many people have gone to the the crazy end of the carnivore diet um and so on that this actually has to be discussed. This is insane that we even have to have this conversation now. Uh but apparently we do and I'm someone I I eat a minimum of two pounds of vegetables every single day. Like that's that's my minimum uh baseline that I kind of work with. Sometimes it's more, but I try to get at least a couple pounds. Um and and I'm not promoting veganism. I think everyone knows I'm not prove vegan. Um I eat meat every day. I probably eat at least two pounds of meat every day also. Uh but that being said, when we start talking about vegetables, uh we need to understand that it's it's critical for your health, your recovery, for for everything. And it doesn't matter that there's a few pro bodybuilders out there like I didn't really eat vegetables like Ronnie Coleman does, but he ate a bunch of potatoes, which are a vegetable loaded with vitamin C and some fiber, which I always thought was fascinating. Uh but you know again genetic freak on huge amounts of drugs and is anyone really think Ronnie Coleman is now healthy today which is is the whole point. Uh we could talk about body composition we could talk about training. We could talk about recovery. Um but yeah sure maybe in the case of of genetic freaks on huge amounts of drugs they they don't need the recovery as much. Sure they can get crazy jacked but they're still going to shave more years off their life. Okay. So in this context there's a lot of things we have to think about as a value of vegetables. Uh the number one on the list the antioxidant status. Uh so again same thing we see all the time. We'll see people in in some of these these quite extreme carnivore circles talking about oxidation and various foods, oxidation of fatty acids, uh, you know, PUFAs, right? Without factoring in that, you know what, oxidative stress in general is reduced by antioxidants. Okay, vegetables are your number one source of antioxidants. They're an amazing source. Obviously there's other things, fruits and different plants, but generally speaking, plants and particularly vegetables are going to be your sources and the more the better. Um, you know, and this is from data all around the world. This is not a case of of there being any bias in one country or economic system. This has been noted all around the world. Right? Generally speaking, higher vegetable intakes are associated with lower all cause mortality, longer lifespan. Okay? reduced oxidative stress in the body, reduced cancer rates, everything else, which makes sense. And when we say this, we don't mean supplementation. Supplementing antioxidants, uh, particularly single antioxidants, like just taking a bunch of vitamin C is actually associated with cancer, right? So, we're talking about the wide variety of them. Yeah. just lowering inflammation, lowering oxidative stress in your body. That affects everything from health markers as far as lipid profiles, the accumulation of atheroscerosis, uh various pain, inflammation in the body, ret uh recovery from training, right? This lowers just your general oxidative stress throughout the whole body, right? So to eat large amounts of vegetables, you're getting all these things, these phytonutrients, all these various antioxidants, these polyphenols, all these things that we know produce all these phenomenal health benefits. And this is ubiquitous in nutrition research around the world. Um, what's gets scary though is that when people want to bring up, well, that's just big pharma in America wanting you to eat whatever to to hurt you. U no, that would be pushing junk food to hurt you, right? Right? French fries, potato chips, pizza, ice cream, butter, bacon, table sugar, refined sugars, all these things. These are all all bad. And I know people will take offense with some certain things on the list. I'm sorry, you're wrong. Data shows all that. Whole foods, great. I mean you want to eat meat, vegetables, fruit, milk, nuts, perfect data is overwhelmingly positive, right? As whole foods. So um again this is ubiquitous like there's there's almost no disagreement because study after study after study decade after decade after decade keep just finding yeah lots of vegetables are healthy for you in terms of all those things. The other thing you've got to think about too, uh, the fiber content. All right? And every time this comes up again, people want to argue, and I do a lower carb diet, so just stop. They want to argue about, well, that only matters for controlling blood sugar. No, it absolutely does not. And in that case, you're thinking soluble fiber, not insoluble. Vegetables are an enormous source of insoluble fiber. Okay? Do you understand how important that is for gut health? how important it is for cleaning out, scraping out your gut lining, okay? Feeding your gut bacteria. All right? And the wider variety of fiber we eat, so eating a few different types of vegetables and fruits and other stuff tends to give us a healthier, more diverse gut flora. Okay? And please note here, I'm not talking about about even eating grains or whatever at this point. Uh and in terms of that all the insoluble fiber and stuff there we're talking about vegetables right or that soluble fiber we're talking about all this insoluble fiber the roughage okay it improves your metabolic rate it improves your immune system again reduces all types of cancers reduces colon cancer bowel cancer right because it clears junk out clears stuff and waste products that are in your gut potentially rotting. It clears stuff out, scrapes everything out, gets everything clean. Um, it's also been noted that it improves uh and again, people want to argue this who damage their gut through other things, having problem with it. Well, you shouldn't have done the other stuff that damaged your gut. If you had skipped all that nonsense, it wouldn't be an issue. But for people who have have a healthy gut, uh it improves your absorption of nutrients, right? Everyone's worried about antiutrients, but what it does is is the way that it helps change the shape of the villi, they become more effective at absorbing uh nutrients that we want, right? All that protein, all those vitamins. U then we even have the mental health aspects, right? fiber is is low fiber diets are associated with poor mental health and cognition because your gut and again a healthy gut flora affects your neurotransmitters of your brain right so a lot of mental illness that we even have we're not just talking cancers heart disease obesity diabetes a lot of mental health issues that people have is partially rooted there in nutrition right inflammation rates, insulin resistance, but then neurotransmitters from the gut. So again, vegetables massively improve and impact gut health. And again, I'm not talking to the number of people who have damaged their gut and have to heal them because they've had really bad lifestyle practices that have caused it. We're talking about being healthy here and how to do it. And I would suggest to those people, they need to get their their gut health fixed, right? fix whatever damage they have and then start eating their vegetables again. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.