Increasing your fruit and vegetable intake is a gamecher. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, drop me a comment, I would appreciate it. Let's get over into this. So, look, when we're talking about health and fitness, I'm not necessarily even telling you for getting ripped or your physique or anything else. Now, it can obviously help that uh because it's easier to be much leaner. it's easier to recover from your training, right? But when when we're talking about this, I am talking mainly about the health and fitness side uh with the fruits and vegetables. Um and and again pointing out there have been plenty of pro bodybuilders who just use lots and lots and lots and lots of drugs who said, "I don't really eat vegetables." You know, and they still had uh insanely jacked physiques, but they weren't healthy. They weren't fit. Um, so when it comes to this topic, I I don't really care what dietary approach you take because this holds universally true. Uh, no matter what you do, I don't care if you're eating a bro diet, you're trying to do some sort of flexible dieting, which I'm not a big fan of. you're doing a keto diet, a paleo diet, whatever sort of dietary approach you want to do, you know, high high carb, low fat, moderate carb and fat, highfat, low carb, whatever it is that you're working with, what you will universally find is that more fruits and vegetables will always improve your health markers. Okay? And and we need to understand the mechanisms why. When I say that, um, this is what all the leading experts note around the world. This is this is pretty much backed by by plenty of of data, by plenty of research all around the world. It's not specific to any one country. And I do hate that when you start looking at research across 17 18 different countries. When people use the the moronic line of, well, big pharma wants you to believe that. Yeah, I because big pharma wants you to consume less soda. Like I will bring up these studies and they're like um really because if you look at the most advanced data it's always hey fruits and vegetables good, refined sugars bad, refined red meats bad, alcohol bad. Okay? You know, so so essentially if people don't believe in the research, then they actually really and truly believe nonsense like you know what, big pharma would go bankrupt if we all just lived on whiskey, bacon, and table sugar. Like if you think that all the leading nutrition researchers around the world, then that is the conclusion you would have to draw. Okay? If it's all just a big conspiracy, then you should be living on whiskey, bacon, and spoonfuls of sugar. You just be eating refined sugar by the spoonful, just drinking it, and chasing it down with bacon and whiskey. And you would avoid all fruits and vegetables like the plague if you really believed that nonsense. Because that's what the science says. Science says, "Hey, bacon sausage bad, refined sugar bad, all these sugary drinks bad, alcohol bad." Okay, lean protein good, healthy fats good, fruits, vegetables, good, starchy carbohydrates, good. Um, but in but in any event, when we look at data, it's open-ended. In other words, the higher your vegetable and fruit intake goes, the overall slight improvements you see with health markers. And it's not, hey, massive difference. Like if you eat a significant amount and you double it, it's not going to be this enormous mind-blowing difference, but it is going to be a difference. But when we say eat a large amount, most people are not. Very, very few people actually are consuming, you know, anywhere near the amounts that are reasonable. And I tell people like you should be eating pounds of fruits and vegetables a day. I don't mean a little handful. If you're not eating a couple pounds, if you're not eating at least a kilogram for those who don't use freedom units, um you're not eating enough. Not anywhere near for optimal health. And what we find is that interestingly enough, these foods offset and give you more wiggle room on the on the the worst things. It's like I point out to people, yeah, a lot of a lot of saturated fat. Um, with the exception being kind of whole food, dairy, not so much, but any other red meat, coconut oil, all this stuff, right? Um, there is definitely measurable health negatives to it in a quantitative manner, okay? But it's not any, it's too much. But what happens when vegetable intake goes up? What happens when antioxidants go up? What happens when our fiber intake goes up from these foods? It actually offsets that. We can make the case for even refined sugars. And I I don't think we should be eating refined sugars at all. But as fruit and vegetable intake goes up, does it offset some of the negatives? Absolutely. Because the reasons we're we're seeing that is one, the fiber. Fiber itself, it's not just about helping you poop. People come up with this silly nonsense. Well, it's only about carbohydrate absorption and well, it does. It affects all that very positively in an extremely positive manner. You're right. Uh but again, gut health, better bowel emptying, better immune system, better gut biome, and gut biome regulates all these things. So getting your fiber from these foods has enormous health benefits particularly for things like immune health, gut biome, right? What about all the antioxidants from these foods? The large spectrum because I'm not talking about supplementing. Every time this comes up, people say, "Well, I'll just take some vitamin C." That's not what we said. Like I I hate that sort of response because it's not what we're talking about. You're not consuming 87 different antioxidants in large amounts when you take vitamin C. Do you know how much you would have to pay just to avoid eating vegetables? You would be spending $1,000 a month on magical supplement blends trying to recommend just to replicate what you get from vegetables. No, that's not what we're saying. It's the matrix of them. The higher the diversity of antioxidants that work together, the larger the response. So, what does that do? offsets a lot of these negatives. Okay. Offsets cardiovascular risk, offsets uh accumulating atheroscerosis through oxidization of the LDLC. Okay. Reduces cancer rates, speeds up recovery from training. So again, lowering oxidative stress through your body is not necessarily about avoiding oxidative foods. It's about consuming a wide variety of antioxidants that regulates it. Okay? So we have to understand that difference. So in that in this case, simply pounding down more fruits and vegetables and you guys see of what I eat. I put up a lot my pictures of my food on social media. Um, I go hard in in the vegetables. Even if I'm doing lower carb, fruit is still I get it from avocado. So, I eat tons of that. Piles of spinach. Uh, lots of peppers, my avocados, sometimes a lot of broccoli. All right, we go hard in these things because of the health benefits, right? You should be consuming enormous amounts, at least a couple pounds a day, uh, says me. And that's also what the research shows. And there's no there's no upper limit to where the health benefits stop at these things. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.