More isn't better. Better is better. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. U so when it comes to training, I think we need to understand it really is about quality over quantity. Um because ultimately when we think in terms of what is stimulating muscle growth, what is stimulating adaptation, it's about effective reps, right? Effective reps. Reps that legitimately challenge the muscles and recruit the upper threshold muscle fibers. Okay? And that doesn't mean just endless work, but we like to think that way, don't we? Right? We like to think in terms of if we just put in more work, we will get more results. Uh the problem is when we're dealing with muscle fibers, it doesn't doesn't scale that way. The quality of the work matters. Okay? And you can't sustain a high quality of work for very long. You just simply can't. You can only do so much of it. Uh and and I think people don't understand if you think in terms of, you know, if you go over and you're trying to, you know, shovel a bunch of rocks, small rocks with a shovel out of a out of a big pile, coming in and just doing more work isn't going to necessarily move more rocks. Just working harder and doing it faster up front's going to do it. And you're only going to be able to move so many rocks no matter what you do. Okay? So, think of it in the [clears throat] terms of when we're trying to recruit muscle fibers. Uh, and think in terms of quality reps, effective reps that get the upper threshold muscle fibers, right? The fastest switch fibers because that's where most of our growth is going to occur. Um, and hopefully people understand that the longer you train, the less and less and less that you get from uh more intermediate type fibers. When you're a novice, they grow a lot. The longer you train, we come down to, you know, once you've been training a few years, pretty much nearly 100%. It's not 100%, but it's it's well past 90%. All your muscle growth is only coming from those those fast twitch fibers. And so really, the only thing that stimulates those is reps really close to failure or truly maximum effort work. All right? and they can only be recruited so many times so often. So in other words, you know, people will use stuff like effective reps. It's like, well, if you leave three reps in reserve, you got two effective reps, but if you did two sets to failure, you got 10. That's working off the concept that the last five, which is not a proven theory, um that the last five or so out of each set before failure are the effective reps. Well, if you're getting 10 of them from two sets to failure and maybe a little more if you try to do a hair rest pause or something, but that's, you know, we could debate how much that is, right? Versus uh well, if I just left three reps in the tank, I'd need five sets to get them. See where we're going with that? The problem is is that we can only recruit them so often. Okay? You can only recruit them so often. So if you just keep adding more and more work, people are like, "Well, I get weaker and weaker. I can't perform later with the same muscles, with the same performance that I performed with uh early in the workout, right? Because you're not getting all those those fast twitch fibers anymore. They're too fatigued." Okay? They're [snorts] too fatigued. This is why even if we're going to train sometimes multiple muscle groups, it makes a little sense to space stuff to get a little higher quality sets. Like let's say you're doing, you know, even even if it's not a full body, you're doing your chest and your back in the same workout, right? You may want to do a chest exercise, then a back exercise before your next chest exercise. Why? Well, because you're going to get a little higher quality work because you've kind of worked those opposing muscle groups. You've given longer to rest. All right? And when we just stack more and more volume, we're just simply not getting enough rest. I'm not saying it doesn't cause any growth, but we're what I'm saying is it's it's very very little potentially compared to the the beating up your recovery. So when you think of it in terms of this, especially if you think in terms of the effective reps, um it makes more sense that hey, leaving a few reps in the tank, you will need five total sets to get the same stimulus that you would have got from two sets to failure. And if you start just taking numerous sets to failure and you're not able to replicate performance very effectively, you're not getting any effective reps. You know, again, we're back over to are some maybe a few of those intermediate fibers maybe growing a little. Sure, but they're very, very little growth stimulus again. And they're going to eventually kind of cap out more and more anyways over the years. So, ultimately, our focus if you're really trying to maximize your gains needs to be to get the muscle fibers that are going to have the most growth potential. So, we come back over to more isn't necessarily better. better is better, right? Quality work, get your work done, get in, get out, you know, and the really long workouts, um, at the end of the day, they really just become conditioning. And, and I think people need to understand that. I'm not saying that's a bad approach. Let me be clear. If you really just need the conditioning and you don't want to do cardio, you know what? Coming in and doing a bunch of 15, 20 rep sets for for a couple hours absolutely has a conditioning component, but understand it for what it is. Understand that you were doing it almost as interval training like uh highintensity interval training type cardio. You're not really stimulating muscle growth from it, right? So it's it's not what we are thinking of, hey, the benefits of weight training. Am I gaining muscle? Well, no. You're just doing some some higher intensity burst of cardio, which don't get me wrong, has its place. Not saying it can't be useful, you know, just for getting in shape. But it's also a hell of a lot harder to recover from when you're doing everything that way. So if you're going to do stuff like that, your recovery has to be even more on point because otherwise it starts interfering with your growth, starts interfering with your strength, interfering with your quality of life. But again, the thing I will always point out, it's about the the total amount of quality work that you have done in a session, in a week, in a month that matters, not how much work you did. Okay? It's not how much work you did, it's how much of it was actually high quality that was challenging to all the muscle fibers, right? Particularly the ones that we are trying to grow, which is ultimately going to be mostly the fast twitch at the end of the day. And that will become every year that you train that is going to skew more and more and more in that direction. Okay? And that's just the way that it is. So again, focus on quality over quantity. You don't have to. I mean, all roads lead to Rome ultimately. So, you're free to do it the other way. Simply providing an alternative hypothesis to get in and get your work done and get out and get the same results by working harder, not more. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.