Most people could be really fit without counting calories if they simply ate clean. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about bit about this today. Uh but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below, drop me a comment, I would appreciate it. Um, and I mean realistically, uh, going back 25 years when I first got into this, I was over 300 pounds when I first got into serious about working out and into fitness. And I lost 150 lbs running and just eating clean. I lost 150 lbs without counting anything. I didn't even know I was supposed to be counting calories. Um, and this is something I will note and people need to understand. I know plenty of people out there who've been in the fitness game a long time who don't actually count calories who are healthy and fit, but they focus upon healthy eating patterns and they work out, they do cardio. Okay? And like I said, I am maybe not the best example to use because I have a ridiculous appetite and I've been uh you know, I've been well over 300 pounds before, but by and large, I find the majority of people, if they're not in the pursuit of exact body weight goals and they just want to continually improve body composition, don't have to count calories. And I mean, I would say the same even for a morbidly obese person who needs to lose 100 pounds. They don't necessarily need to count calories to get there. They don't have to actually count as long as they're eating really clean whole foods. And by whole foods, um, you guys know my definitions of whole foods. No, it doesn't include stupid stuff like butter. Just stop. Like people throw that in. Look, that's that's a refined really fat food, right? There's any fat source that's really high in fat, it doesn't have fiber, that's that's not a whole food, just stop. So oils, butter, all that junk. Um, you know, even processed red meat, bacon, bacon, sausage, that's all junk food. That's what we mean by junk food. Refined sugars are junk food. Okay? I'm talking meat, leaner meats, uh, minimally refined dairy. We're not talking about butter, you know, about yogurts, milk, things like that. Whether you choose to do whole ones or fat-ree, I'm not even bothered. I'm still going to count that in there. Um, fruits, vegetables, nuts, legumes. In other words, guys, look, chicken, rice, and broccoli, right? No, nobody's getting fat on chicken, rice, and broccoli. Just stop. People say, "What if you add butter to it?" Yeah, quit adding the butter and 10 cups of oil to it. Just stop. Okay. All right. You guys know what we mean by by eating clean eating whole foods, minimally processed foods. Making sure your protein and fiber are high. Okay. If protein and fiber are pretty dang high, right? And and by high, we mean at least, you know, 0.8 grams per pound of body weight on the uh protein. You're avoiding refined fat sources. You're avoiding refined sugars. just avoiding all the hyper palatable junk. If you're just eating whole foods, mostly single ingredient foods. You look at it, there's one ingredient, that's a whole food, right? You flip the container over. If there's four ingredients, it's not a whole food. There's 10, it's definitely not. This is very straightforward, right? Rice is a whole food. Chicken is a whole food. So on a banana is a whole food. This is not difficult to grasp. If you're eating this way, you're lifting weights and doing any cardio or conditioning, most people are going to continue to get leaner over time. If you're lifting weights at any serious level, look at the research we have that weight lifting alone tends to uh promote fat loss. There's been some recent studies on that. We know obviously we gain muscle from it. But what's generally found is because your body composition improves over time from weightlifting, right? So let's say someone was at a given weight. Let's say you didn't even lose any weight. Your body composition is going to improve as you gain 10 15 pounds of muscle at the same body weight. So generally if people are not gaining weight and they're lifting weights, they're losing body fat. Okay? they're losing body fat and eventually people who who are eating really clean are going to tend to start losing weight eventually um no matter what with this because the muscle mass itself increases energy turnover. It increases u energy with everything you do. People say, "Well, it only increases base metabolic rate a small amount, but no, but it increases how many calories you burn walking and running and doing all your stuff." It starts to accumulate. It's small at first, but once you've gained 10, 15, 20 pounds of muscle, this this goes up. It goes up a lot. Like, it's not uncommon for a lot of my my younger lifters who were gaining weight to to see even who do track calories, their maintenance calories going up 1,00 1200,500 over time. Okay. So in that context, yeah, if you're gaining muscle from lifting weights, you're going to tend to lose body fat. Your energy turnover is going to go up and up and up. So if you're on a higher protein whole foods diet, you are going to tend to improve your body composition. Okay? And the same thing people say, what if you need to gain muscle? Are you skinny? Are you underweight? We're like, well, well, no. People overdo the bulking thing. If you're not on anabolics or you're not a really skinny novice, the idea of needing to purposefully bulk has been largely over represented. And I'm saying this as someone who's observed this as a coach, someone who's read all the scientific literature, all the current research, and even talking to other coaches, we've all kind of figured out and based upon research, unless you're really lean, a calorie surplus is not required to gain muscle. maintenance calories seem to cause just as good of muscle growth. For people who are have any significant body fat to spare, okay? And it doesn't mean fat people. It means you could be at, you know, 15 16% body fat. Your maintenance calories is going to give you the same muscle growth that bulking is. And even in a small deficit, people are going to gain muscle if the training is good and the protein is good. So, I would say that's the main key. As long as your protein is sufficient and you're not super ripped already and your training is on point, you're going to gain muscle anyway, right? This is going to happen by default. Um, so we don't necessarily need the calorie surplus. And people who are gaining muscle and active and eating really clean are oftent times going to find themselves into calorie deficits quite easily. So the whole idea here is that if people are eating legitimately clean, not not healthy TM, they're lifting weights, they're doing conditioning, right? You see me doing the GPP and stuff there, your your body composition is going to improve month after month, year after year after year after year. So, no, unless you're really obese or you're really underweight, uh the idea of having to count calories just to be really fit or to have a good physique by normal standards, it's just not realistic. We're not talking about by Instagram standards or any of that. But by real world standards, not really. just eating a balanced whole foods diet, training pretty hard, good good good training, uh good conditioning work, you will just continue to refine and improve even if you're not tracking anything. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.