You probably only need to isolate about one muscle group. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And I thought I would sit down and chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, I'd appreciate it so much to get into this topic. And I'm not saying there aren't exceptions to this rule. Um, you know, we have these conversations and you bring things up like this and people will say, "Well, what about what about?" Well, we're not concerned with what about isms, right? We're giving general basic guidelines that are going to help most people. And here's the thing that I'm gonna say. Um, we should probably all be training for just general strength, fitness, all that stuff. You're going to be better off for it. And I've kind of pointed that out. It's that ironically most natural bodybuilders don't look really any different from natural athletes who don't even care so much about bodybuilding. They just get in and do GBP and lift and do their stuff. There's usually very little aesthetic differences to them. once body fats in check. And I think people are forgetting a lot of that. Most of what the average person, not talking about being at the the high levels to where you're going to actually be successful as a fitness influencer or a fitness model, win bodybuilding shows, you know, we're not talking about at that level. But for most people to just have a really good physique, they just need to make their noob gains and get lean, right? be 10 to 12% body fat after you've put on 20 pounds of muscle from your starting point. You're going to have probably the ve best physique in the room, you know, realistically speaking most of the time, you know, when you just go somewhere. Um, and the the aesthetics is mostly just having decent amount of muscle, decent proportions, and being pretty lean, lean enough to have a six-pack. So, that aside, uh, when we're talking about these proportions though, they don't matter that much like as far as squeezing out the last inch of of everything. Like, so what I would say to guys, if you're needing to isolate more than one muscle, something's probably wrong with your programming. And I get it. We all have uh, you know, that one muscle group that you maybe really care about. So, for me right now, biceps have always kind of been a problem. I'm I do [snorts] curls like I'm isolating my biceps. All right, but that's pretty much it for like for me currently. Um, you know, it's all I really isolate. Everything else is covered by my big movements. For someone else, it might be delts. Hell, for someone else, it might be calves. And I get it. You know, you're all we are all going to have a weak muscle group that maybe visually we don't like. we feel like it needs extra work, but I do feel like two people throwing just excessive volume and stuff doesn't work. I did that for a long time with the biceps um you know and arms and they didn't get any bigger. 20 sets of curls a week uh you know for prolonged periods of time but mine I feel like they almost got smaller. Uh but I digress. It's the whole point of overtraining. So but over over to that other point I get it. you know, you're going to have a muscle group you really care about. And if you really care about it, it makes sense. Okay? If you're obsessed with your triceps and you feel like they're never big enough and you want to come in and do extensions and things, go for it. It's It's not a bad idea. And I get it. Most people, even if you're not even training, particularly for looks, you're going to have that one muscle. For guys, a lot of times it is arms. It's either pecs or or biceps, though. Um, my case it tends to be the biceps, you know. So, uh, I get that. But what we have to understand with your training, if your training is efficient and built correctly around big movements, which are going to put the most muscle on you, you're not going to have a lot of lagging muscles, okay? You're going to be within proportion for for your what your genetics allow. And and that's the take-home when we come to these topics. And your genetics means you're just going to have certain muscles that are going to grow more than others. And it's not just even the muscle. It's the structure they're built across. It's like silly. I've seen people try to say, "Well, does it mean torso dominant or arm dominant?" No, not in your muscles, your your bone structure. Look, if you have a big rib cage, you just have way more frame to stretch your pec across and more growth potential. You probably have bigger pecs to start with because you grew grew up and went through puberty with that and you probably have more muscle fibers involved in everything else. So yeah, you know um you know your frame size is going to matter absolutely going to matter you know because that's what's what we're talking about with oftentimes that genetic potential insertions only give appearance. They don't actually make muscles bigger and I think people don't get that either. Yeah, insertion points and stuff can create illusion. You know, when you're lean for bodybuilding purposes, but they don't actually really mean a muscle that is bigger. It's just proportionally going to look bigger due to the shape and the way it's laid out. Um, it's illusion. But your bone structures will absolutely affect your muscle growth, your potential, all that stuff. But think about it. If your training is balanced, you shouldn't have many muscle muscle imbalances. You know, I've kind of said before, look, four exercises could build most of your muscle, you know, up to the fourth. Weighted dip, weighted chin up, squat, deadlift. Um, most of your muscles are going to be pretty good. And I I generally like to do more than just four. Like at the moment, I'm doing I'll do five different big compounds, you know, every workout. Um but but when you you look at that uh you're probably going to be reasonably balanced with that. So then you might look at it and say, "Well, what else what else do I need?" Because you might be doing some other you might be doing some overhead pressing or benching or rows or other stuff. So that's going to affect some of that a little bit. But, you know, you're going to be overall decently balanced there. Especially if you throw in some sort of shoulder exercise, you're definitely good. So, then what do you need? Well, it's just going to depend on what you're really obsessed with. What muscle do you have that you're really worried about? And it might be your biceps, it might be your side delts, might be your calves. Um, but here's the the thing. You can only benefit from so much volume in a workout. You can only benefit from so much volume per week. So, if you're having major lagging muscles and it's it's not just due to genetic structure or previous injuries, uh you may just not be training certain big movements hard enough. But if you're training all of them hard, you're training all of them with sufficient volumes, uh you know, workloads, intensity, uh again, and that's that varies a lot person to person, everything is going to be growing. Okay? So then if we're talking isolation, you're just filling in the gaps. And yeah, maybe for you it is more than one muscle, but for most people who just want to look good, probably not. And I would say even the other stuff's not even necessary. Right? Even with the biceps, like you're getting really good at weighted chin-ups, your biceps probably aren't lagging relative to the rest of your body given normal proportions, okay? And you other people may not even notice if you start adding the curls in, but you know, you just really really want more bicep. So, you want to throw in a barbell curl or a preacher curl or incline curl and progress on it. Sure. And that's okay because you're understanding that look, I just want a little bit more because I care about this muscle a lot. And if I can squeeze out 5% more growth in that one muscle from doing it, I'm going to do it. And I would say to that, hey, if it's important to you, do that. But if you're needing to do it for multiple muscles, the if you have multiple muscles that can even grow an extra 5% by isolating them, something is wrong with your big movement selection or intensity, and you probably need to fix that. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.