The overwhelming majority of top bodybuilders and powerlifters around the world do less than 20 sets a week. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please like my video, then follow or subscribe to me if you have not already and drop me a comment below, I would greatly appreciate it. All right, let's get over to the topic. Um it's it's such a strange thing because this is something that we've seen a lot of come up um come up a lot with all this uh the research evidence-based circles with certain circles only pushing to really high volume. What we need to be clear on is this is not agreed upon. So when people say well this is what the science is showing. No, you're seeing one circle of researchers and there's a lot of political bias within that circle. Um, I'm not going to go into all that. Again, that's been covered by me, by other people out there, uh, with Dr. Brad and his circle and the grants and stuff involved. But there are other circles that say, look, like 10 to 20 is still the sweet spot. This is where pretty much all the gains happen, and you'll probably regress or get less gains going beyond that. Um, all right. And what we need to remember is that historically, this has always been the sweet spot. what most top bodybuilders, for example, found like the guys who were winning in bodybuilding, really winning, you know, those sort of volumes like that that about that 15 up to about 20 sets of muscle groups. Some some of them did a little less. Really is where they found their sweet spot as full-time professional bodybuilders who are making their living at it, who don't even have other jobs. Okay? And so, you know, you see this, right? And this is what people have always done. I've ventured above that. And you know what? It didn't make me any stronger or any better than when I used less than that. Um, like I personally I personally have always found for me, I'm usually the strongest right around 12 sets. Strongest meaning like when I've had the biggest squats, the biggest deadlifts, when I'm in that 600 plus range on both. Um, even in my 40s, it's not when I was doing 30 sets for some of this stuff. That's when I did like 12 about 12 sets total. And it's kind of hard to factor your max and speed work into that, but we'll just call it around there. I always got great results there. Okay. And the muscles that I've tried to personally do the really high volumes with, they're ones that are still lagging, right? Because I didn't do much train my biceps much. They were always lagging for my powerlifting days and then I've come in and done these 20 30 sets a week of of curls and it honestly didn't work that well. So that's why the reason I've scaled back, train them with the same volumes I trained my quads and my hamstrings, you know, the stuff that's massive, my lats. It's what I need to be doing. And and even I've had to step back and say, "Look, these evidence-based guys, they're flat wrong. This is this is ridiculous." And I've seen guys like Lou McDonald rip this apart of saying, "Look, look, if you look at their data, it doesn't even show what their conclusions are with some of these really high set studies. If you actually look at the data, it doesn't even support like the 50 sets produced more muscle than the 20. It doesn't really support that when he broke the data down um and and looked at it. So, I I think people have to to think about that from this perspective that if you're training really hard, you're not going to be progressing. You're not going to be recovering when you start going above about 20 sets. And I'd say even 20 sets, you better kind of have your everything dialed in. You better really have everything dialed in. And I've seen people make great gains on six to 10, right? On like six to 10 sets. So, here's the thing, though. Step back and look at how some of these great bodybuilders, and I'm talking the absolute great, um, not necessarily Arnold because Arnold even admitted he overtrained. his was crazy. Uh, but look all through the 80s. Look at Dorian Yates. Um, all right. Look at some of these guys. Phil Heath, Jay Cutler, and I know they're all on drugs, but here's the thing, guys. They're on lots of drugs. Therefore, they should probably be able to handle more volumes, but they didn't. So, if the volumes were were that critical, then these guys would have would have done it and been better. But they weren't. I mean, Lee Haney, Lee Haney did about 20 for only some muscle groups and most of them like 15 to 16. Okay, so look at these volumes. It works. Look at some of the top powerliffters in the world. I'm talking guys who are squatting 900,000 pounds and that requires a lot of muscle. Guys benching 500 plus. Most of these guys are not doing the sets you think they're doing. They're doing moderately high volumes. But, you know, here's here's what's crazy. that was considered high volume. Like like guys, doing 15 sets a body part was considered to be high volume forever. Very few people tried to go way above that. And a few did, but they were the exceptions. And they didn't always win. Like Arnold was one of the exceptions. And even he said later, he goes, "I probably was because I was overtraining. I didn't even need to do all the stuff I was doing." But here's the thing I've noticed with all this too. The guys who try to do these crazy high volumes stagnate. I've taken more lifters who were doing 25 plus sets, four muscle groups and were completely stagnated and taking them down to like 10 to 12 and all of a sudden they start making gains again. Okay, people who were stagnating and not just always advanced lifters, sometimes novice lifters. All right. And yet, and the same thing, we have to step over and look at all of these really, really great bodybuilders. The majority and powerlifterss, the majority are just not doing 20 plus sets. And again, these are guys who are on drugs that will let them recover. So, again, if it was purely even a recovery issue and there was just limitless uh muscle fiber recruitment, they would get more benefit. And here's what people are forgetting. Um, if you're doing any volume that is not hitting the fast twitch fibers and you're not a novice lifter anymore, you're probably not growing from that volume. It falls into the category of junk volume. Okay, it's junk volume. And is it going to guarantee cause you to make less gains? No. It may just be the same amount of gains and you're doing more work. But in a lot of cases for people who don't have a great lifestyle, whose lifestyle and stress isn't dialed in, yes, it causes stagnation. And I've seen it plenty of times. And I've had lifters, that's the only thing I changed and they made progress. So, it's so strange that we have these certain circles who are pushing these crazy high volumes as if you're going to benefit from it. Um, you're just you're simply not. You're simply not. Uh, and I choose to do myself like six days a week of training because I have everything spread out and I'm trying to isolate a ton of stuff. But even then really it's still about 12 sets a week total. Even even though I do six days because I'm coming in and isolating a lot of little smaller stuff, right? You know, all the heads of my delts, uh, you know, my biceps, things like that. So again, insanity. Insanity. And but all these people are convinced of it, you know, that it's the way to go. And when you look at the data some of these researchers are putting out, the guys who are even promoting it most of the time are not even big. They're not even big. It's weird. They have PhDs and gains and promote these volumes and they're not big. You look at the data and it really doesn't show it as much as you would think it does. And then there's been other older studies that showed it literally cause less growth. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.