Muscle mass is protective against diabetes and cancer. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you aren't following or subscribe, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment down below, I would also greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. Uh so let's get over to the topic. For some reason, this is something a memo that a lot of people missed. I've noticed a lot of general population people miss this. Um, people who don't know much about exercise, lifting, these things are are completely oblivious to this, but your doctors know it. Um, and that's the fact that muscle mass is protective against diabetes and cancers. Now, the diabetes one, we only mean obviously type two. We're not talking necessarily about type one because type one, you don't produce insulin. uh but more the case of type two uh a lot of it it's it's kind of the same reasons it's it's useful for cancer it's because of glucose disposal agent insulin sensitivity uh generally speaking becoming insulin resistant is uh you know the early stages of of pre-diabetes right when we can no longer effectively utilize insulin efficiently what happens uh we tend to get higher blood sugar our body has to crank insulin up more and we have to have larger and larger amounts of insulin insulin in order to drive uh glucose blood sugar into cells, right? Because we're not efficient at using the insulin. So again, this creates all sorts of problems, makes your pancreas work harder. Um again, a lot of issues happen as a result of this. It affects appetite, affects energy. Um so again, the the cascade of effects is that eventually this is what leads to type 2 diabetes. All right. What we have to understand is that muscle tissue does the opposite. Lifting weights and gaining muscle improves insulin sensitivity. In fact, even lifting weights produces a a short-term much higher need for glucose and insulin and in fact a very small insulin response post-workout. Uh once you're a bit glycogen depleted is actually very very effective for driving uh glucose into those cells. So we have all of that. We have the fact that we're exercising and training. So then we're burning through more glucose, keeping blood sugar, you know, more stable. But we also have the fact that the muscle tissue itself, particularly trained muscle tissue, right? I mean, we're talking all muscle tissue, but once muscle tissue has been trained, it's used to working out, um, it's very insulin sensitive. And if you put on 10, 15, 20 pounds of muscle, your body has a full-time glucose disposal agent. So, think of it almost like a a storage or disposal place for for glucose. Like your muscles are extremely blood sugar hungry. Okay? Uh they're also very insulin sensitive. Is some of the most insulin sensitive tissue in the body. So, what happens? Well, your body uh doesn't need much insulin to shuttle blood sugar and glucose and carbs and things that we eat into our muscle tissue. And the more muscle you have, the more of it we need. So what ends up happening is that your body doesn't need to produce very much insulin. When you have a lot of muscle tissue, and yes, this scales scales with the amount you have. And I'm not going to go into why some really really massive bodybuilders are insulin resistant um because of certain drugs they may be using and it's not steroids uh because again the really really really big guys. So people will point some of that but some of them have those issues. Yeah, but that's drug induced. It is counteracting the benefits of the muscle. Okay, this is what extreme amounts of certain drugs can do to your body. But the muscle tissue itself, yeah, it the more muscle you have, the easier your body processes carbohydrates and insulin. Okay? So if you got a bunch of muscle, your pancreas kind of just chills. It doesn't have to work that hard. your body doesn't need to make a lot of insulin. Your muscle tissue is very very very sensitive to it. So, it tends to just kind of suck up the blood sugar like without a lot of insulin needed to shuttle it in. Now, anytime you have more insulin, obviously it's going to drive it to the muscle tissue first. Uh so, what's the the result there? Well, if you got a bunch of muscle, it is extremely protective against diabetes. In fact, u some of the early research noted like gosh, 15, 20 years ago, people who lift weights twice a week and make no other lifestyle changes, even if they're still eating garbage have a 70% lower rate of type 2 diabetes, okay? When they're eating the same junk food and garbage and whatever the other people are eating, it cuts it by like it cut it by like 70% just that one change. Okay. Now, if you actually live a healthy lifestyle and you lift weights, you're not going to become type diabetic. It's just simply not going to happen. People who eat a healthy diet, they lift weights, they have plenty of muscle are at zero chance. They're at zero chance of becoming type two diabetic. It's virtually zero. Um, so stop and think about the cancer thing. So people say, "So why the cancer?" Literally through the same pathway. All right. Cancer cells love blood sugar. They love insulin. Okay? You see where we're going with this? Just like muscle tissue does. So, if you don't have anything else to compete with the cancer, the tumors tend to suck up the insulin and the glucose, right? So, the skinnier you are, the more devastating it is. So this is also a problem. You guys notice the people who get really serious cancer, they get skinnier and skinnier. This is because the cancer is getting the the fuel. And yeah, once we get to that point to where you're losing muscle tissue, if you have cancer developing and you start losing a lot of muscle, you are in serious trouble. We've all seen it. We've all seen it in a loved one or someone we know in the past. If you've lived long enough, as they get skinnier, it gets worse. Like that. When they start losing all the muscle and they start getting real skinny, that's it. It's over. 95% of the time, they're done. Unless they get super lucky. So, here's the thing. The muscle competes with the tumors for the same blood sugar, for the same insulin, and it scales with size. Okay? So the more muscle you have, the more competition the tumors have for resources. Okay? Your muscles will fight with the tumors for those resources. Not literally fight, you know what I mean? The resources are there. The muscle's going to try to gobble it up, leaving less of it for the tumors. So really, it's in the tumor's best interest for you to lose muscle. But gaining muscle and and we know this. People who lift weights get cancer at a much lower rate. Here's the other thing. People with a lot of muscle, this been studied. People who lift weights all the way through their chemo, their other treatments, they survive at double the rate. They have double the chance of surviving. Why? Because not only they have drugs fighting fighting the uh tumors, they have more muscle tissue that's competing for the same blood sugar, for the same insulin that the tumors are competing for. Okay? It gives you a much better fighting chance. It's very, very protective. So, one of the best things you can do if you want to avoid these two types of situations, gain muscle. Go to the gym, lift weights, gain some muscle. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.