Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here and today I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about my supplement stack of what I currently use and why. If you guys would be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I'd greatly appreciate it. Um, if you are not following or subscribe, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment, um, I would also appreciate that so much. Mainly, uh, let me know if you use any supplements at all. You guys know I am relatively antisupplement. I'm actually on the most supplements right now that I've been on in many, many, many years. Uh, so as you guys see from the stack, I actually use four supplements. And again, for me, that's that's pretty rare. U, and part of the reason I'm doing is because I started cutting again. Plus, I'm getting older and I'm looking at longevity data. So, that's a big factor. So, before people jump in and go, you know, is this about your gains? uh really just the pre the protein is like none of this has to do with uh particularly performance or muscle mass directly as I don't think supplements help with that. The same with fat loss. It is however about longevity, oxidative stress, brain function, inflammation. Uh so that that is literally the entirety of it. So let's kind of start with the big one, the multi before I jump into the others. Um, as far as the multivitamin goes, why I've always said for years off and on that sometimes multivitamins could be a risk. I've gone back and forth. Like people accuse me of ever flip-flopping. There's one I flip-flop on. Why? Because all the best researchers and doctors and dieticians in the world flip-flop. Literally, the most brilliant minds in these fields flip-flop on multivitamins all the time. Um, in my case, I'm not even looking at, oh, can I fill the nutritional gaps? Because my diet is very complete. Like, if I plug all my stuff of like what I've eaten this weekend, I pretty much hit the RDA on literally every vitamin and mineral. Okay. So, why do I kind of have that uh, you know, Neutri Coast, they're decent company. It's a little more expensive than what you're getting at the grocery store is a normal cheap one. Um, and it's a company has pretty good lab testing. So, I tend to use their their uh single ingredient type products. So, when it comes to the multivitamin, um, kind of the deciding factor for me is every time I hear longevity experts, and when I say experts, I don't mean guys like Leo and longevity. I mean people who do their PhDs in the field of of longevity. They specialize in it. They research human longevity. Um, and what I note almost every one of them are like, yeah, there's a few supplements that I personally use. A lot of them tend to use whey actually. Uh, but you almost always see a multivitamin, you see creatin, and you see an omega-3 supplement. Like, like almost every single time when they say, "What do they personally take and have their families take?" And I'm not trying to appeal to authority, but let's be realistic when it comes to knowledge of longevity in general. The people who who literally spend their lives and get do doctorates and researching it probably have a little better idea than the rest of us do. They probably are more likely to be right. And when they're all saying, "Look, these are things that I personally use as an insurance policy." Plus, what's been noted, some studies do note that especially more older populations, if they give them a multivitamin, even if they seem to have pretty pretty normal diets, decent diets, they see less oxidative stress in their body um as a result and they measure it. So, what I'm looking at it is, okay, as long as I'm not overdosing on anything, right? Long as you're not overdosing on on any metals, um you know, I think it's going to be relatively safe. And I'm looking at it as an insurance policy towards towards longevity. Plus, particularly I'm I'm cutting right now. I'm dieting pretty hard. I've been losing at the time this video is made, been losing two pounds a week. Uh I do have to think in terms of hey, total oxidative stress recovery on the body. And so for me, even though my diet is extremely rich in vegetables, um I'm also looking at going, let's just double down, make sure that we're getting u sufficient amounts of everything. And keeping in mind a multi like that's relatively cheap. I mean I'm it's I'm costing like $15 a month, you know. Um towards something that may be a significant insurance policy. Okay. And particularly when all these longevity experts like I personally use one, it's like okay again as long as it's a good formula from a reputable company. Um then again companies like Neutri Coast are not selling there. They sell a lot of single ingredient things with high with good lab testing when people look into it. So I tend to do them. Uh so that's what's going on with the multivitamin. It's literally just saying okay insurance policy. All right. Creatin. I've had that come up when I put this up on on Facebook. They're like someone says, "Didn't you say you don't respond to creatin?" Yeah. I I don't seem to respond to creatin personally. I've done loading doses and gain no weights on no performance improvement. seem to be in that 30% of people who were nonresponders. The thing is, I'm not taking it for gains. I'm also taking it for um again longevity. My grandfather, I watched him deteriorate with Alzheimer's. He was my mentor. Um that scares me. Uh so for me, it's an issue of cognition. There's still good data showing possible cognition, possible memory improvement, slowing Alzheimer's, um improving brain function. So setting aside whatever potential gains when we're looking at some of the the again potential cognition benefits, cognitive benefits. I'm interested in that. And I had that one tub of even that tub I had there I bought a couple years back. back in. So, I started using it again and it just my normal five grams a day and and again, it's the one tiny supplement that does show any promise for muscle growth. Even though it's a tiny tiny tiny amount, turned out to be less than we thought, is still there. All right. Um, then we obviously have the protein, uh, whey protein, high quality protein, super bioavailable. Again, I throw in some protein here or there if I get more of it. Um, so again, my Amazon wish list is up everywhere for people to see if anyone wants to send me more protein. I haven't bought any. I just have that one container right now. Um, I may I may go to doing some immediately at the end of breaking my fasting more often. But right now, I just kind of use it a little bit as fillers, right? Um, I just mix it with my Greek yogurt and stuff just to add a little more high quality protein. Although, you know, again, a post-workout and all that might not be terrible for someone like me who does uh, you know, 186 intermittent fasting. So there is that and then we come to the fish oil. I do the extra strength. Why uh cardiovascular disease in my family I take an amount that is what would be prescribed. I'm not doing normal fish oil. I do three of the extra strength. And the reason two grams of BPA and DHA is the amount that shows any benefit. People who take much smaller amounts research generally shows no benefits of any type. But cardiologist absolutely note people with hydro triglycerides and certain lipid issues. They will literally prescribe somewhere between two and four on a prescription which would be an extra strength uh one like that to where they're getting anywhere between two and four grams of EPA and DHA a day. That's a large that's a massive amount. Keeping in mind that's like taking like whatever 10 or 12 of the normal fish oils. Um that does seem to improve that. And so that I'm looking at total inflammation in the body and uh improving a lipid profile as much as possible because the cardiovascular disease that runs in my family. Okay. So I take a lot of that really serious with my diet and everything. So for those curious, this is why I take the supplements that I take.