Pre-aggricultural humans did not have access to large amounts of saturated fat. Hey everybody, it's Jason Law here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. This is one of those things. It's just it's it's funny when you really look at it. But if you guys would please give me a like down below, please follow or subscribe if you haven't yet. And please leave me a comment down below. So, this is one of these things I see people claim all the time. And let me be perfectly clear, um, I am not anti-meat. I'm I'm big on red meat. I'm big on dairy, all these things. But there's a point where we have to step back and go, uh, you know, a lie is a lie. And we can't base our reality upon complete fabricated nonsense. That cannot possibly be true. It's just not good practice. And on top of that, um, again, this is the appeal to nature that happens when people make this claim. our ancestors did this or they'll even refer back to, you know, whatever a completely different species that had an average life expectancy of 35 and were too stupid to even speak. Okay? And they'll make references, but don't don't even get me started on that one. So, we're talking purely about homo sapien, right? We're talking about humans, the species that we are today across the world. Um, you know, people make that claim that, well, in the pre aggricultural era, because again, going back more than a few thousand years, like we ate tons of saturated fat and it didn't harm us. Okay. All right. My question is, where did they get it? Where did they get it? People say, well, what do you mean? Obviously from animals. No, they didn't have agriculture. They had to hunt their animals. Okay. So again, we come over to that point. If you don't have grains and pastures and all this stuff to feed herds of animals, they're very lean. Like, and people don't get this, you know, the only reference they'll jump back and talk about the Inuit. Well, 99.99% of humans have no Inuit ancestry. So, that doesn't work. You can't talk about a tiny tiny number of people in the Arctic Circle who had access to seals and whales. Okay? We're talking about humans in Africa, in Europe, uh, Central Asia, East Asia, uh, the Americas, North and South America, right? Talking about people in these regions. Where do they get all this saturated fat? Wild game. That's it. So, how lean is that? And people say, "Well, what about dairy?" Well, not everyone had access to large amounts of dairy, and that's post agriculture. Like, you're not going to have goats and cows that you can milk unless you have a herd that you can tend and feed somewhere. That wasn't happening 20,000, 30,000, 100,000 years ago, according to what we have. So, you didn't have all that dairy. So, just that doesn't work unless you think that they were chasing wild mammoths and milking them. Um, again, nonsense. They were hunting animals, but again, anyone out here who's a hunter or looks at the nutrition profile of wild game, you're going to realize real quickly, wild animals don't have a lot of fat on them. See, they're not sitting around being grainfed in a pasture or a feed lot. They're lean. They're very, very lean. In fact, they're usually less than 10% body fat. So, you start doing the math, it's like, "Oh, wait a minute. What do you mean?" So, it's like, yeah, a pound of wild gain usually has less than 10 grams of total fat, okay? Usually less than maybe two grams, two to three grams at the absolute most extreme of saturated. Okay, three grams of saturated fat is is a ridiculously tiny amount. Almost every one of us eat more than that. I assure you, 99% of the population eat more than that. Way more than that, even on a on a low-fat diet. So to even get like 10 grams, you're looking at three to four pounds of wild game. Anyone out there think 10 grams of saturated fats a lot? And do you really think your ancestors ate three or four pounds of wild game every single day? No, they got it where they could get it. Wasn't even every day. They certainly didn't get meat every day. And they weren't eating three pounds of it a day. All right. So a ludicrous idea. They didn't have access to a bunch of saturated fat. They got a few grams, right? Your ancestors lived on whatever they could scavenge, whatever animals they could get, whatever fish they could catch, animals they could hunt, nuts, berries, seeds, tubers, grains. Okay, that's what your ancestors ate. Bugs, right? And again, for someone jumped in, oh my god, they're going to be conspiracy people. You're only going to eat bugs. No, I didn't tell you to eat bugs. I'm not telling you I don't eat bugs. I don't like bugs. I don't want to stand around eating crickets or meal worms personally. But your ancestors did. You know why? Because it was protein. They ate whatever they could get. So yes, they ate a significant amount of insects for hundreds of thousands of years. So again, we we come over to this question, where were they getting all this saturated fat? This is a delusion. This is a delusion that people use to push things like a carnivore or caveman type diet. It's not based on reality. Even your ancestors who lived in the regions where they got plenty of game, okay? Even if they got some meat every single day, and most of them didn't, but the ones that did, it was a tiny amount of fat on that those animals, right? unless they lived in the Arctic Circle, which again less than 1% of the population, far less than 1% has ever done so. All right? So then you got all the seals and whales, but you know, so for the most part, you're looking at your sources would be fish. It would be, you know, whatever red meat or whatever you could get. But again, wild game is super super lean, right? They weren't eating something that's been pasture-raised. Even grass-fed cattle out in the pasture are fattier. They have more fat than wild game do. Even if we don't grain feed them, they're they're still considerably fatter because they have access to plenty of grass and roughage year round. They have food year round and they don't have to move and run a lot. Okay? They just chill in a in a pasture and eat grass. They are way bigger, way fatter than wild animals. All right? This is complete nonsense. that didn't exist. And quite frankly, unless your ancestors had access to a lot of nuts and seeds at any given time, they didn't have a lot of fat in their diet. Now, in regions where they did or times of year where they did, sure, they they had plenty of those things, right? Nut seed, certain legumes, okay? But that's that was their sources of fat. So, now we're back over to polyunsaturated fats. If they had a lot of fat, that's what they had. They just didn't have access to a lot of saturated fat until we started raising our own, particularly dairy animals. Now, I'm not making any claims about the health or the unhealth of it. We're simply talking about dispelling nonsense myths that cannot biologically be true. They're not based in reality. It's complete fiction. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.