Natural lifters should just focus on getting stronger. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, you know, and and I do really do mean this. You know, everyone has these ideas, you know, because they've been tricked into the fake natty thing that they think this whole look um that they're going to get from all the bodybuilding work is is obtainable, natural, and it's just not. So, when you're seeing lots of these techniques and methods and trying to hammer every plane and angle, quite frankly, it's probably not going to do a lot for you. Uh, as a natural lifter, I'm not saying it don't do anything. It's just going to be very, very, very, very, very little, you know. And I get it. If you are trying to compete as a get a pro card in natural bodybuilding, that's not what we're talking about, you know. If you're going to do that, if you're like, "No, dude. I really want to go do that and I want to compete at the national level, uh, you know, in drug tested uh, bodybuilding, then then by all means, you probably you might need to work every plane and angle. You may need to really put some super serious attention into your rear delts and other things." You know, absolutely. Uh, people outside the body building world aren't going to notice any of that if you do it, though. They're not going to see a difference. And that's what people forget, you know, when normal people just see you. And by and large, um, I'm telling you that just getting stronger, progressive overload. And when I say getting stronger, you know, I'm not necessarily just talking about one rep maxes, like you see me doing rep work with 500 on a deadlift. You see me doing 10, 12 reps with 405 on a high bar squat. You know, that's that's getting stronger. I mean, you can do 15 plus reps of 225 on the flat bench, you're you're pretty reasonably strong, okay? No one's going to call you weak. So, notice I didn't say, "Oh, just hammer your one rep maxes." No, I said get stronger. You know, your five rep maxes, your 10 rep maxes, your 15 rep maxes on your big movements are going to go a real long way. If you're going to do some incline curls, you should probably get progressively stronger at them. is what I'm saying. Like look, if if if you can only do 15 pounds with the seven and a half pound dumbbells, you're probably going to need to get those up to the 10 pounders and the 12 and a halfs eventually. You see where I'm going with this? Get stronger. But generally, it's going to be the get stronger on the big movements. Okay? That is what is going to give you the most benefit because we know all the studies out there that really look at this and we look at when inflammation goes down from volume and swelling and pump, it really is just increased mechanical tension throughout the body across a wide variety of muscles. That's going to give you real muscle growth, lasting muscle growth. Okay? When we say lasting muscle growth, we don't mean, hey, it trains you to store more carbohydrate and glycogen in the muscle, some extra swelling and inflammation because that can last a week or 10 days. I mean, your muscles are inflamed from training and they keep part almost like a pump type effect from that like seven to 10 days after the last time you train them. But it's not muscle growth, okay? That's not muscle growth when we're talking about lasting muscle growth. Right? Actual contractal proteins, the muscle fibers themselves getting thicker. It is through more tension over time, right? It's progressive overload. So, just focus on getting stronger. That is where your results are going to be. Now, am I telling you don't ever do any pump work? No, I didn't say that. What I'm saying is it may not be giving you significant muscle growth. may not, but we know the progressive overload and the strength will. But here's the thing. Look, if you're triceps suck, right? You're like, "Man, my triceps suck. They just never respond. I don't feel them when I train." And you feel like you really benefit and enjoy some some pump work for your triceps, go for it. Not telling you not to do it. Not even. I'm not even saying you're stupid for doing it. Do you enjoy it? Do you feel like it contributes? Okay. See, see how simple that is? When it comes to adding an extra training modality, especially at the end, like, all right, you've already done your your your benching and other stuff and you want to get a tricep pump. You're like, "Man, I really like, dude, I like just pumping out 27 reps to failure with a rope press down. It just burns. I love that pump. My My triceps get so swollen. I can't move my arms." It's like, "Okay, but you've already done the real work. You've done the heavy work. You've done the progressive overload." Yeah, that's the important stuff. Good. And if you want to do that, and here's a question I would ask you. Do you enjoy it? You say, "Well, yeah. I like the way that feels." Okay. So, you get a positive reinforcement for it. Right. Do you personally feel like it helps? You say, "Yeah." Well, then then as long as it doesn't seem to be interfering with your recovery, then do it. you know, is it giving you probably, you know, may not be giving you the direct training response you think it will, especially if it's not progressively overloaded. And metabolic fatigue has been found to not be a factor at all in muscle growth, but are you getting some blood flow to it? Yeah. Could be giving you some extra active recovery to it. Could be helping you learn to connect with that muscle better, you know. And I think that's something that that we discount with some of that pump work to where we're kind of chasing that mind muscle connection. Is it helping you to learn to contract that muscle harder? Yeah. So, might it help you contract that muscle harder on the big movement? Something I've thought about a lot in powerlifting because we know chasing the supra a lot of the pump work just with fatigue especially with no progressive overload may not be adding real direct growth yet helps their triceps get bigger helps them with those lockouts you know is it teaching you better neural drive and to contract that muscle harder when you really need it on the bench or the weighted dip. Well, if it's doing that, it probably is helping because if you're now more efficiently utilizing that muscle and contracting it harder against the heavy weight on the big movement with the progressive overload, well, you know, again, this is a side tangent. Uh there may be some benefit to that. I would not throw it away in that case, especially if you feel like it's helping and you enjoy it. Right. Okay, by all means car. Don't let me tell you not to do it. But understand the getting stronger is where the actual real lasting myofiar hypertrophy is going to occur. Not a temporary pump, not inflammation, not holding extra water in the muscle. the actual proteins getting thicker, which is a structural change, not just some liquid. Yeah, that comes from getting stronger. And that's where your focus should be. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I will talk to you guys and gals uh next time.