 N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N-aroma, N Am I saying these hormones don't matter? No. No, I'm not saying that at all. And I'll play a role here. But barring medical intervention, in other words, are you taking drugs? Okay. Are you injecting a drug into your body? Are you taking a pill that directly affects these hormones, positively or negatively? The answer is no. Then you don't need to concern yourself with these. And there's some reasons that I say that. This was studied quite a few years ago. And again, a lot of people worry about these things because, you know, drugs bodybuilders and athletes use. They're like, well, I mean, look at bodybuilders, inject testosterone and growth hormone and look at them. That's clearly the key. Except that people are forgetting. They're usually using extremely large amounts of these 5, 10, 20, 50 times what your body can even produce. So do you understand it's not the same thing? Like when you're looking at the difference, you know, between adding something versus what your body produces, it's not remotely close. And if you want to understand what I mean, you guys remember all those studies done on testosterone here in the U.S. with young men and lifters and stuff. And they looked at growth rates and here's what they found. They found that muscle growth was pretty much doubled, you know, pretty much doubled versus just lifting weights by having your testosterone levels four times higher than normal. Not a 10% increase, not a 20% increase, a 400% increase. Okay. And that's what it took, you know, in the form of synthetic androgens. And so when you understand that and you realize that minor fluctuations in testosterone level, a 20, 30% shift up or down is going to affect your muscle growth, you know, probably less than 1%. I'm not saying that doesn't matter, but in the grand scheme of things, worrying about it isn't helpful. Growth hormone definitely has some various benefits, you know, fat burning, tendons. But when it's even taken by itself, studies found no muscle growth. And I'm talking large amounts. Okay. We're talking doses that are more, that are like 10, 12 times what the human body can even produce. Didn't really cause muscle growth. People got a little leaner. You know, the tendons probably got a little stronger. Skin got a little tighter, but actual muscle growth, no. So again, there's a synergistic effect these things have, you know, and then you look at that big meta-analysis that was done on hormone release after training. Right. They did a large, large study looking at every study. This was, gosh, I talked about this about eight or nine years ago. You know, exercise scientists tried to look at this. And what they found is that the amount of these hormones produced during training, like at the end of a workout, they found no correlation other than cortisol. And it was the opposite of what people expected. Right. Right. So the amount of testosterone that your body was producing post-workout didn't seem to be any factor at all. Right. So the amount of testosterone boost you got from it didn't seem to affect muscle growth at all. There was no correlation between the amounts. Meaning, meaning some workouts produce more testosterone, some produce more growth hormone and so on. But when they studied it, there was no direct relationship between the amounts that anything went up. Now, these hormones all boost a little bit during training and at the end. So we all have to understand that. But the amount that they went up didn't seem to correlate at all. The only one that they found that affected it was cortisol. And what they found is that in the workouts that over time produced slightly more muscle growth in those test subjects, they also had higher cortisol levels at the end of the workout produced right afterwards. But again, the point here is correlation versus causation. You know, a lot of them speculated, look, this is there's a relationship, but it's not the cortisol causing muscle growth. Cortisol shouldn't cause muscle growth. But think about what does elevated cortisol at the end of a workout mean? It means you probably trained harder. The harder and more intense or even longer that you train, the larger the cortisol response is going to be because it's a stress hormone. The more stress that you induce in a workout. In other words, you trained harder. It's like flat out one way or another. You trained harder. Produces more cortisol. Okay. So wouldn't you expect harder training to produce slightly more gains than less hard training over time? Like if they plotted it over 12 weeks and they measured the intensity levels and how much effort and work people put into the workouts. And they found that those who worked harder gained a little more muscle. See where we're going? But working harder will make you produce a little more cortisol is a response to it. So it wasn't even believed that the cortisol itself was causing muscle growth. It was just a side effect of training really hard. Which, again, makes sense. Biologically, that's exactly what you would expect. The harder or more that you train, the more stress your body is subjected to. Therefore, you're going to release more cortisol, your stress hormone. Makes perfect sense. So in this way, these things don't matter. So when people start saying, oh, well, we do this with our training because if we do it this way, testosterone goes down. And so therefore, we need to fix our training based around that. No, that's dumb. There's no evidence of that. Or this type of training makes your body produce more growth hormone. Therefore, you're going to grow more. Well, no, there's no actual evidence of that. Right? They're leading people down the wrong path. Or we've got to do this to blunt cortisol. Except that that was the one thing that was most correlated with more muscle growth. No, it doesn't matter. It's a waste of time. What stimulates muscle growth? Training intensive. Training hard. There's no technical tension on the muscle fibers. Right? And I don't mean that necessarily just through more weight. Right? A harder set. A set taken to failure versus one with four reps in reserve creates more mechanical tension at the muscle fiber level. Adding more weight also does the same thing. But if you can add more reps with the same weight, well, you're going to produce more mechanical tension. At the level of more total individual muscle fibers. And that's what we mean. Sure. Okay. There you go. That's it. And then recovery afterwards. And fuel and nutrition. All right, guys. That's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. And I'll talk to you guys and gals next time. All right.