Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here representing Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals about a couple of methods that just don't work that well for natural lifters that work pretty dang well for uh heavily enhanced lifters. Uh but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribe, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Thank you. All right. Um, you know, and again, this is something I'm saying as someone who keeps up with all the scientific literature, whether it's it's good or not. I can always be a subject of debate. Um, I've been in this game 25 years, talked to a lot of coaches, make a lot of observations, coach a lot, coach full-time. Some things that I've noted, a few things that I've noted, um, methods that seem to work great for a lot of really serious hardcore enhanced bodybuilders and things that just don't work that well for even even drug-free young men. Um, and that's going to be intensity techniques and really high volumes of training. Um, and if anything, I've made numerous videos saying, "Look, I've had clients who hired me as noviceses who were literally stuck, who were trying to do 25 sets of muscle group, 25, 26, and we're making absolutely zero progress." Okay, I took them down to 10 sets and then all of a sudden they're hitting PRs. And when I say no progress, um, I don't think people understand what we mean. Uh, what I mean is like let's say they're stuck benching 135. That's one plate aside. So like 60 kg for my non-Americans, all right, for five reps, they're stuck there for for two months straight. Okay, that's what we mean by they're just not making any progress. And I had one like that was a perfect example. And I look and he was he was literally doing um twice a week something like three sets of bench, three sets of dips, three sets of incline, three sets of flies, and some other stuff or might have been even like four or five sets of flies. So I counted it up and I'm like, "You're doing 26 sets for your chest a week." It's like, "Yeah." And he was making zero progress, you know. I took him down to just working bench press and band press downs and some overhead pressing, right? And then all of a sudden we had him before long putting another 30 pounds on that. So, you know, 135 where he was doing sets of five like 165, 170, you know, within within two to three months. All right. And he got bigger. His squats went up, his deadlifts went up, but he was trying to train like that. Uh, and it's just I've observed it over and over and I've seen plenty of the guys who buy into this evidence-based thing and I' I've know of some who they're still novice small and they're trying to do these 30 40 sets a week per muscle group and they're just they're not getting results. And I've seen people who do it for years and and it's I've made many observations of this. Um, these ultra high volumes of training just don't work. And what I I personally find for most drug free lifters 15 to 20 sets seems to be the cut off. And I personally find that when they start exceeding this they start stagnating. Okay. Um and I I find pretty much everybody makes good gains on about 10. Everyone makes good gains on about 10. And even if I take people over to a full body, you know, three sets of bench three times a week or or three sets of anything, chest three times a week, their chest and bench go up, right? Same thing like they literally just squat three sets three times a week. Their quads grow and it doesn't matter where people are at. So, you know, in that case, you're talking about nine sets, not counting any splash over. But keep in mind, other movements are going to have carryover. your overhead pressing, any dips, you're going to hit those same muscles. Um, obviously deadlifts are still going to contribute to your your legs. Um, but I think people forget all that. You know, they start adding volume up and they don't realize how much it starts adding up, especially if you're doing conditioning work. You know, you don't need that much volume. If you're doing box jumps and sleds and things, your legs just do not need a lot of volume to maximize their size at that point because you're getting extra training effect there. You know, just throwing that out there. And I find that really if we start adding all that in that that 10 to 20 tends to be your optimal. And I I get guys who make good gains on as low as six sets per muscle group. That's only my really really busy guys. And that that's again my observation. So if you get guys out here doing 25 sets, making no progress and I have guys who are bigger than you, drug-free, squatting 400, deadlifting 500, who do six sets, it's time to rethink what you're doing, you know. Uh same thing though, we go over to the other extreme, the intensity techniques. It's like, okay, well, let's just train really, really hard. Intensity techniques don't really work that well for drug-free lifters. And the reason I've covered this a lot, uh, it just beats up your recovery. I get guys, I've had guys come in live streams, right? They're explaining what they do. Well, I'm doing all these sets to failure that I'm doing drop sets. And it's like, and I can't recover workout to workout. It's like, well, that's why, right? Training one rep in reserve, training to failure. Those are your sweet spots right around there. Like that is like your optimal set. You either reach momentary failure like just where you can't do a full range of motion, complete proper rep anymore, or you have about one rep in reserve. Somewhere in that range is your sweet spot on a set to set basis. And when you start exceeding that, um, you're not hitting the deep fibers anymore. You know, people are like, "Oh, I'm trying to get to those deeper fibers, whatever is left." And it's like you you already reached those when you hit failure. In fact, they failed to recruit. That's why you reached muscle failure. You couldn't get to those fibers anymore. Okay? When you go take a really short break and just do rest, pause, or you do some of these other things, right? You may not always be getting uh those fibers again. You may be back to intermediate fibers. Those intermediate fibers just don't grow that much, okay? They just they provide very very minimal growth unless you've introduced a new anabolic. They grow early on and the longer you train, those fibers grow less and less and a larger and larger percentage of your muscle growth with no drugs tends to come from the really fast twitch fibers. Well, if your sets are no longer reaching those fast twitch fibers because they're too fatigued to recruit again because you you reached muscle failure, it could take up to two minutes before you can recruit them again at all. So, you see where we're going with the intensity techniques. You're actually just using the same muscle fibers on a lot of those intensity techniques that you use for the first three or four reps on a 10 rep set. Okay. Well, again, the growth stimulus tends to be minimal. Not saying zero, but it tends to be minimal. And if you train this way, you're not going to be able to do very much volume. Okay? And that's the problem. Dudes will train in this manner and think they're going to try to do 15 sets for a muscle group. It's not going to happen. You're just not going to recover week to week. So, again, these are the methods that I tell people just don't work that well for for drug-free guys.