All right, metabolic fatigue and pump work just simply don't seem to be contributors to muscle growth. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, you know, this is stuff I always keep up with. I was actually reading um a big meta analysis review on Minnow Hansselman's page the other day and it's something that again he was he was noting in it in that review and a lot of what researchers are finding is that this whole Brad Showfeld circle is really leading everyone astray even even with the science that's out there because what's been noted more and more uh when a lot of these studies are done all this muscle growth that the guys are getting from the the volume training training appears to to be not so much muscle growth as it is just inflammation and water weight. Um, and so it's like a lot of us will say when you look at this things like the pump feel good, that burn feels good. I mean, we we we enjoy it sometimes, right? A lot of times when we get a good pump, uh, you know, and and I get that even if I do really high rep weighted pull-ups and the high rep dips, like if I'm hitting like 10 plus reps, you know, on those on on the slightly lighter weight ones and stuff like that, sure, we get a good pump. Sure, I get a good pump, you know, with with barbell curls or sometimes with my u bell squat machine. But the reality is none of the the pump is just not correlated with muscle growth. Um, and the same thing when you look at all this this metabolic fatigue, and I'm not telling guys not to do high reps. Like, um, let me be clear on that. You guys see me doing 10 plus reps all the time, even on big movements, right? I do squats. Like, I do 10 plus reps of 405 on a back squat. Uh, so I'm not telling you not to do reps. What we're saying is when guys start talking about chasing all this pump and they're just doing endless sets instead of focusing on progression, it just doesn't seem to contribute to muscle growth. And the problem is, you know, guys will say, "But this guy over here on on this bodybuilder does it." But I'm like, "But plenty of bodybuilders don't do it." And I think that's the problem with it. Um, so just because a bunch of some bodybuilders do it, doesn't mean that it's causing muscle growth because there have been guys who beat those same guys sometimes who didn't do a lot of it. Okay? And I think what people have to remember when drug doses go up, you're going to grow from any type of training. And and anyone who's going to dispute that when we're looking at a lot of these bodybuilding champions is simply not keeping up with the available research. It's been documented numerous times in the lab uh that you don't have to train at all to gain muscle on on anabolics once the doses get high enough. You're going to gain muscle no matter what. And what we also note is these guys who are doing any training. The mere fact that they're just getting a pump and blood flow to the muscles when they're using copious amounts matters, you know, and and I think people have lost sight of that in the conversation also. They're not understanding because people who are not part of that world, they don't understand how much some guys are willing to use. Like I'm hearing stories like I got I got a guy I'm doing consults with and other people who he's got a friend who trains really lazy um and the guy's big and jacked but the guy is using grams and grams of gear. Okay, I don't mean he's just using oh you know 500 or,000 milligrams. The guy uses three, four grams a week, uh 10 plus units of growth hormone every single day, oftentimes more. And so, yeah, he just comes in and chases a little bit of pump and some metabolic work and doesn't even take sense even to failure and is and is massive. But you can also see the difference in the in the quality. So, I think people they need to understand this. When you see the guys who are just chasing all this pump work, it doesn't work. you know, and how many of the evidence-based guys did we see uh who follow this? There's there's people I've noted because I' I've been friends with them and stuff on Facebook and stuff who are personal trainers who buy into this stuff. And I've watched some of them, the ones who buy into this crazy high volume, but they're actually drug-free. They're not jacked, but they're doing 40 sets of muscle group a week. So, do we have So, I need people to understand that for a moment. Like if you've been do training for 12 plus years and you're doing 40 sets of muscle group claiming it's optimal for hypertrophy as a trainer, you better be, you know, close to to what you would think of as a natty limit, right? I would expect a guy like that, like let's say their average height, they've been doing that 12 years. I'd expect them to be 180 pounds, semi-lean, right? Maybe maybe 180 at 15% body fat or at least something like that. No, I've seen guys who do this stuff like that and they're literally trainers and they train that way for years and years and years and they're 160 pounds at 15% body fat. 155 lbs at 15 percentage. Like it's people would say, "Well, that would be if they're really ripped, that body weight's okay." But they're not. They're at a a nice decently lean athletic body fat, but they're not even big. and they're training to get big and claiming this is optimal. And it and it's true. It doesn't work. And that is kind of what you're seeing some of these researchers pointing out, guys. A lot of this is just inflammation. It's transient storage factors. Like it's not actual muscle growth. And as soon as you stop doing it, it goes away. And this is why people keep saying, look, in a lot of these studies these guys are trying to do, uh, they need to be double blinded and the test subjects need to have stopped the program for two weeks. Okay, that's what we need to understand. So, you're seeing a few of these where the guys are doing the crazy high volumes and they're like, "Oh, they gained a tiny amount more muscle." But the fact of the matter is they really aren't because the tiny amount extra they got when you start extrapolating it when the swelling goes down they usually end up gaining less. What what because they're overtraining and we see it repeatedly right we see this repeatedly with guys who do this or train this way and then they stay small. And that's I think that's the point that has to be made here. all this metabolic work and all the crazy amounts of pump work. If there if it's not high tension, it's not progressive overload, it is simply not only not causing muscle growth, it could be interfering with your recovery to the point where you're gaining less muscle. And we used to have studies looking at it that showed that that were like, oh yeah, you do more than 10 sets a week for a muscle group, you actually gain less. Doesn't mean, oh, oh, you it's useless. It meant in some of those studies they found it to be counterproductive because at the end of the day mechanical tension is the driver of hypertrophy. Mechanical tension is the driver of hypertrophy. Um intensity is the drivers of hypertrophy. Okay? And what ends up happening they're just simply not getting it. So and that's what's been found. Muscle damage, metabolic fatigue, none of these things actually produce muscle growth themselves. Okay, they're not they don't actually cause extra muscle growth. They can feel nice. They can make us feel productive. And and I'm not saying, hey, it's not a good thing. Like, look, dude, if if if you you get a good pump on your your some of your high rep work in your workout and it feels good and it made you feel like you had a good workout, hey, that's a great thing. Just understand that that fatigue, that metabolic work is not necessarily causing any muscle growth. It was your top sets that did it. It was your work sets where you progressed on them on the work sets where you took sets to failure. And it was your earlier sets that caused pretty pretty much the muscle growth. Okay? It wasn't that 12th set you did for your biceps or or your pecs or your calves in that workout. Okay? It just wasn't. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.