Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. Um, today I'm going to ask a question. Nice body, but what can it do? Um, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. So, thank you. Um, you know, this is one of these things that, you know, I do ask the guys, particularly these younger guys who chase purely a look. And don't get me wrong, I understand the desire to look good. I get it, man. You want to look good naked. I totally understand. I get it, dude. I get it. I'm not hating on you for that. Let me be clear. I am absolutely not hating on you for that or even being critical of that. What I am going to point out to people is it's, how do I put it? Um, I heard Jim Wendler say that one time. It's like having a great physique with no performance is like having a big dick that won't get hard. And I think that's a great analogy and a lot of dudes have to think about it that way. And you have to remember there was a previous generation and this this carried on for generations. But you go back 40s, 50s, even the 30s, the 60s, all those bodybuilders and many of them had foot absolutely phenomenal physiques, phenomenal natural physiques, too. They were all athletic. They were all strong. We need a context for this. So when dudes are over here like, well, you know, I just want to look good. It's like, you don't care about your performance at all. You don't want to be athletic. You don't want to be strong. Well, why not? You want to be healthy? You know, and the healthy, I think, is a is a big deal that we have to talk about. You guys are not going to be young forever. Okay? You're not going to be young forever. I'm telling you, I'm turning 49 later this year. Not that far from 50. All right, guys? You're not going to be young forever. And that time is going to pass faster than you think. Now, that being said, obviously, if you're eating well and you're lifting weights and working out and you're lean, you're you're not in a bad spot either. So, don't get me wrong. I'm not saying, "Oh, you're just unhealthy." But, you know, you do need to be thinking about these things and think about the blood work and health markers and stuff from what you eat, your lifestyle. You know, it's not just about being lean and having muscle. But I will again, let me be clear, you're way ahead of the curve there if you're in that situation. But just remember that the other part, you know. So, it's like, but but can you guys perform? You know, I mean, I'll see guys who have a good physique, but then you're like, you look at them, they can't they can't bench anything. Like, they're benching 225 for a double. It's like, come on, guys. You got a good physique. They can't even squat 315. It's like, guys, come on. You're watching me do like 500 as an old man. Um, you know what I'm saying? They can't They're not in shape. They're not conditioned. They don't do any cardio. Right. And and I think we need to look at all these things and I would say the same thing even to I know a lot of powerlifters. So my powerlifting bros because that's my background. Uh you know they're they're not in shape. They can't go up a flight of stairs without being out of breath. They couldn't they couldn't run a 100 yards if their life depended on it. Okay. That's that's uh you know we're back over to hey man nice strength but what else can you do? You know and I would say to people these things matter. They're important, you know, and and particularly if you're going to present yourself as a fit person because because why? Think about that. When you understand of why there's an aesthetic look and why having muscle and having visible abs and all that, do you understand why that's attractive to people? I want people to really think about the core of it because it it gives the impression you're fit. It gives the impression you're strong. It gives the impression you're athletic. All right? So guys, you you need to understand that. I mean, if you got you got nice shoulders, you got nice round delts, you got good abs, right? You're lean, you're fit. The general assumption is that you're strong and athletic and fit. Okay? Do you understand that even that's that's why women are attracted to that? It's not because of the look. Like they're not attracted to you because of your perfect round belts. There's an attraction there because instinctively they think this is a strong, fit, capable, athletic man who can take care as a business, right? That's what they're thinking. That's there's where that appeal is. It's also that discipline, right? Discipline appeals to people. They see that discipline. Okay? But you need to understand it's if you're not able to perform at all, you're just creating an illusion. It's fake, you know? And so I would say to to a lot of people, we need to be looking at being well-rounded. Like really, if you really care about being fit and you care about really being what you are presenting, you know, and if you really want to be be capable, you need to be strong. You need to be athletic, right? And and the the thing is you're at the gym, right? You're at the gym already. And that's kind of the point I make when these topics come up. People say, "Well, you got to train to do all those things." But you're already at the gym. You're already showing up. Why not get stronger? Like literally, why don't you do some back squats instead of just chilling on that machine? Do some deadlifts. Do bigger movements. The same thing. Do some cardio. Do some sled work. Do some jumping. Okay, you're already there with all the equipment, right? Get in. Get in and make it work. Because that's the other thing too that we have to think about and and a lot of people point that out. It's like if you can't do any of these things, it's a fake. And if you go back and you look at the history, you go back to those earlier eras, you know, um and that's been brought up by some of the old school bodybuilders is even bodybuilding and stuff turned into purely um you know, an image and an illusion. More of them were like this this isn't bodybuilding, right? This isn't bodybuilding. Why aren't you guys fit? Why aren't you strong? Why can't you jump? Why can't you run? Why aren't you athletic? You know, that's that's what bodybuilding was supposed to be, you know. And again, it's kind of that whole point of it's peacocking otherwise. You know, if you can't perform, you're just creating an illusion. It's fakery. And people say they're like, "Well, bodybuilding is an illusion." Well, it is an illusion today, but it wasn't always. And so, even if you go back and you look at the the purity of that culture, it wasn't built on illusion. It was built on being athletic and and healthy, right? You go back and listen to guys like Steve Reeves and he was like, "What do you mean bodybuilding is about not just aesthetics and and having a beautiful body?" He goes, "That's part of it. That's only part of it." He's like, "It's about being healthy. It's about living a long life. Quality of life, performance, athleticism, the ability to run, the ability to lift a heavy weight." He's like, "That's that's what bodybuilding is, you know, and at one time he was he was crowned pretty much the best bodybuilder in the world. He went on to be a Hollywood actor because of all of it, you know, like Arnold did actually kind of Arnold followed that same template, but took it another degree further, of course, right? Became a real superstar, not just a couple movies. But, you know, that was the whole point. And it's like, what's the point of doing it, of looking this way if you can't perform, right? It's fake. And we need to be real, guys. We need to keep it real all the time. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.