Without progressive overload, you will not see muscle growth. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, I know it's a topic we cover a lot, but it's one of those that people absolutely do need to understand. Hey, it is it is critical uh that you understand this, but we also have to understand what progressive overload even means. you know, based upon what we know about the human body, how it responds. Um, and and it's the same thing when you see drop off in in subsequent sets, they cause less growth. Um, so that's kind of the interesting thing if you dig a little bit into the literature, you know, it kind of confirms what everybody always knew. Like we we knew this for generations. This only became a point of contention when larger and larger amounts of drugs came into the situation. Okay? but without heavy amounts of drugs. In other words, please note I said heavy amounts of drugs. I didn't say natural. We need to make that distinction. Um, progressive overload is the only mechanism by growth and it doesn't mean what we used to think with better work density. We used to say until newer data kind of emerged saying, "Yeah, that's not not true at all." All right. used to mean that you're either adding weight to the bar, you are adding reps per set, and we used to say, and better work density, right? If you could do the same work with with shorter breaks between sets, which we know you really can't, then it'll produce more muscle growth. Well, here's the problem with the ladder. That's irrelevant, too. In other words, all you did was waste time. You didn't gain more muscle because you took a three minute break versus a a five minute break between sets if you replicated. All that really seems to matter is the workload. But what we do note, and this was noted in in a study that looked really close, shorter rest times that cost performance on subsequent sets. Like let's say they did three total sets and they did short enough breaks that they either started losing reps or they had to reduce the weight. They saw less muscle growth than the longer breaks of three minutes or so where they were able to replicate performance, the same reps each time, okay, when supposedly going to failure. Well, that group across the board saw more muscle growth and it was it was statistically significant. Which comes back to the point of yes, progressive overload and workload itself are king because if it was not and if it was just about reaching failure, okay, then the really short breaks would produce just as much muscle growth even though performance was diminished. So it that ultimately shows us what we've always known, okay? Which is performance, right? Progressive overload is king for muscle growth. Okay. Now, uh some things we could say about that and I think people need to understand. Can your technique be a form of progression? Sure. Absolutely. Sure. It can absolutely be a form of progression. Uh but you also have to think in terms of of joint angles, right? We have to think in terms of joint angles. I will say that if you can add an inch of deeper stretch at the bottom of the range of motion on an exercise for the same performance, is is that a form of progressive overload? Biomechanically speaking, it is. If you can take a cheat exercise and make it a hair more stricter with the same weight, is that progression? Sure. But keep in mind, cheating has been found to to not affect muscle growth at all as long as the same uh exertion is reached. In other words, if you go to muscle failure on a cheat exercise, guess what? Get the same muscle growth. get the same muscle growth from what we can tell, but progressive overload still has to be present. Okay? If you are not progressing over time, you're not you're not gaining anything. Um, and I know this is a frustrating thing for a lot of people. It's a frustrating thing for a lot of people because when we say progressive overload, really, what are our only three mechanisms? adding weight, adding reps, or finding a way to add joint angle range of motion. And I think the problem with that though too is that you have to think in terms of what joint angles, right? Man, that's a good one. So, think about something like a squat. So, I don't mean you go from, let's say, you do a really close stance toes forward high bar to where you're an inch above parallel when you hit rock bottom, but that's your hip angle. Oh, this is this is an interesting point on by articulated and multi- joint movements. You even have to think in terms of that. But let's say you can get an inch below parallel with a toes out wide stance low bar, but your your knee angle is is still five degrees less bend, but your hip angle is deeper because you get deeper. Which one's going to cause more quad growth? Well, the high bar, right? Why? Because you got more more knee range of motion. The low bar in that case may cause more glute and hip extensor because you have to think in terms of the joint. So when we talk range of motion, we don't mean range of motion arbitrarily like how much distance you move. We mean what did your specific joint do? Okay, that's that's what we're looking at because at certain times an exercise that may not look as complete as a different variation still took uh the desired joint through the longest range of motion. But if we can add range of motion there, sure, more growth potential. Now, the frustrating part for a lot of people as they get more advanced are like, you understand how hard it is to progress. It's like, I've been training 25 years, 25 plus, gosh, who knows at this point. Do I understand how hard it is to make progress? Yes. I always laugh occasionally when people will say stuff like, "Oh, you haven't made progress that I cut, get leaner, lighter, and then start go back and remake some of the progress." Um, yeah, guys, I'm 40. I've been training 25 years. It is excruciatingly difficult to progress. We accept that. We know that. It is what it is. Welcome to reality. But it doesn't mean we don't try. And that's the the take-home point here. That's the take-home point. And I would always point out to people, a lot of exercises, body fat lends itself to performance. So, if you get leaner, it can build back up to your old performance. You will be bigger. Like squats and bench is a perfect example. You lose 20 pounds of body fat. If you can get your squat and bench back to where they were, you will have more muscle. Does that make sense? Because you get external mechanical leverage advantage. So you're still progressively overloading the muscle fibers more in that case. So we can think of those things in terms of progressive overload too. If you have certain exercises that are documented to move more weight when you're carrying fat, you get leaner and then go back and even reach your old performance. That will be more tension on the muscle as well. But at the end of the day, guys, tension is king.