The key to getting really strong is to not lift heavy all the time. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would uh chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not uh subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. Let's get over into the topic. Um, and you guys have seen, it's not just about my strength. You guys have seen a lot of my clients over the years. You guys have seen me put up uh sub 200lb clients who squat 500 plus. Some of them are pulling up close to 600, right? Some of my guys in the 180s and stuff have done that. You guys have seen me put up guys like in the the 220 class clients squatting and pulling over 600, benching over 400. Um you know, again, raw raw like no nobody with wraps, things like that. Uh same thing even some of my bigger dudes. Um, you guys have seen it's 700 plus deadlifts, 400 mid 400 squats for some of my guys who are, you know, 250, 260. This is stuff I've put up a number of years back when I was coaching a lot more powerlifters and less uh dadbot transformation guys. And the thing is with that, and again, I'm lifting decent weights here, still at 48 in all these clips. Um, the thing is when it comes to lifting really heavy, if you really want to make it for the long game, you don't lift heavy all the time. Like realistically, even when you guys have seen me do uh you know high 500s on squats or like when I did 605 on that Camber bar a number of years back, I was obviously bigger and heavier. Um you know the 600 plus deadlifts, the 600 plus deficit deadlifts, all that stuff, right? When you look at that or even you look at the the time periods where I was doing those lifts right there, I wasn't doing a lot of heavy lifting. It's just it's not necessary. People have this idea that if they want to get strong, they just need to be heavy, heavy, heavy all the time. What was I doing at any of those times? Like two heavy lifts a week, dude. Like two heavy lifts, guys. Two heavy lifts. One upper body, one lower body. It' be a squat, a deadlift, a good morning of some type. Or then some type of press, bench variation. There were times where it might have been an overhead press or an incline, but you know, bench variation, floor press variations. You'll see you'll do one heavy lift and it's the same thing even if I'm doing more classic lifts and not rotating conjugate variations like that. Um although I'm usually at my strongest when I'm doing the lift rotations and you're just strong all the way around. And that's kind of the point too. Um really getting strong. You don't always have to do the exact lift you want to do to get the neural drive uh and all that stuff that you want. And you don't need to do it all the time. And a lot of my clients, we go literally walk into meets or we hit those big lifts doing a couple of heavy lifts and then they're doing speed work and then hypertrophy work or they're doing just a couple heavy lifts and then all hypertrophy work. And I want to make that clear. That is how you play the long game with this. And I'm not saying you can't lift heavy every day and still get strong. What I'm saying is you'll get beat up faster. You'll burn out faster. Right? I honestly say that for most people out there, if you want to get really strong, 95% of your work needs to be five plus reps. And notice I didn't say five reps. I'm like five plus. You don't want to do endless sets of five either. You know, I like a lot of six to eights on big movements, right? I like a lot of six to eights or five to eights on on squats, pull-ups, uh barbell rows, deadlift, deadlift variations, right? all these things, good mornings, a lot of your big compounds, really doing a lot of five to eight rep work just to get bigger because you get enough volume with moderately. It's not heavy weight, it's moderately heavy weight, moderately heavy. Uh obviously, if you're doing speed work, that can then be lower rep, but that's very very light. Speed work is like 50% of your maxes. Um or then you're doing higher rep stuff, you know. So some of the stuff you'll see me doing some 8 to 10, 8 to 12, sometimes more. And and the idea with a lot of that, you just come in and and hypertrophy things, especially isolation work. Okay? Get bigger, get bigger, and it doesn't beat you up. And I think guys don't grasp this. They have this idea, well, how come these bodybuilders over here big and they're they're not strong, but they are strong. Anytime they go train for strength, they're suddenly strong. And people also forget looking bigger doesn't mean bigger. A lot of times they have tons of side enhancement and the show muscles are oftentimes very short with certain proportions. And then you go stand them next to the the power lifter who is squatting and dead lifting seven and 800 and they're not bigger than him. They're leaner but they're smaller and lighter still. So again, what does that tell you? They're not necessarily bigger. And what happens if that same powerlifter you just saw dieted down and and uh does all the oil and stuff in his biceps that they're they're putting in there and everything? You know, it's he's going to look just as big, especially next to them, if not bigger. So again, it's and they are strong though. So you take any bodybuilder who's who's a lean 230, lean 240, and you have him just train for the big lifts for a little bit, really heavy, he'll be monstrously strong. And then how many of them did you see that really are Franco Columbo, Arnold was strong, right? Ronnie Coleman, come on. Because they did lift some heavy weights periodically. Sometimes it was only once a week, sometimes only a couple times a month they would go really heavy, but they did go heavy. And that is really the key, right? The key is to build muscle. The key is to build muscle. Hypertrophy work. moderately heavy weight for a lot of reps. Work different muscles. Work different angles. Don't just keep coming in and just benching heavy over and over and over. Okay? You're just coming in benching heavy over and over. You're just going to beat your joints up. No, bench heavy maybe once a week at most. And and if you're going to go heavy, then go really heavy. You know, there's no point playing around with too many 3x3s all the time and stuff like that. I understand a lot of guys do it. it is going to beat you up. And so ultimately, come in and do volume work. Do some dips. Do some tricep extensions. Do some delt work. Do them for higher reps. Build muscle. This is the key to getting strong because why? Because muscle equals more force production. A bigger muscle always has more force potential, right? And when you're locked into isolation, they find it correlates directly. So when you take someone and you lock them into something and you isolate them on a machine and you strap them down to where they can't cheat, they can only bend the one limb, use the one muscle, it scales very, very, very closely with its size, right? Scales very closely. So what does that tell you? Get bigger, gain muscle, spend less time just beating yourself into the ground, going heavy, heavy, heavy all the time. There's no need for it. You only need a little bit of heavy work to get the neural drive up to learn the technique and all that stuff, right? Spend the rest of your time just gaining muscle, building tendons, building bone density, building the structures to support the heavy weight. You're going to be a lot better in the long term. So again, I'm telling guys, the key is to not lift heavy all the time. You will burn out sooner if you do. Lifting heavy is not inherently dangerous. You're not going to burn out just because you lift heavy. you're gonna burn out and break because you lift too heavy too often. Too much frequency, too much volume of heavy lifting instead of going, you know what, maybe I should do a bunch of sixes, sevens, eights, maybe some tens and twelves on some isolation. Build everything up and only do enough heavy work to get the job done to really get you stronger. Then that will feed into the other also. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.