None of the foods that we eat today are natural and that's okay. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here and thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you would be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that. You know, this is stuff that comes up. You always hear people who who say the silly things like uh you know, they talk about natural foods and these things and I normally just talk about whole foods, right? I talk about whole foods. Uh but the thing that I think people fail to realize almost nothing that we eat and I'm not talking about processed foods, right? I am talking about the foods that your ancestors ate 100 years ago, 200 years ago. Okay? All of it, almost every last bit of it has been selectively bred, cultivated, um all these things like these are these foods do not appear in nature. We domesticate our animals. um that we raise them, they're actually going to be much fatter, for example. And that can be a downside. That's a that's actually one of the negatives we have. Uh you know, people bring that up and they don't realize wild game is extremely lean. Like you you would have been if you were eating all of your protein from wild game or animals that you had hunted, uh you know, like we did before pre-aggriculture, you would be getting almost no fat in your diet. Like it would be and saturated fat would be near zero, right? So we've but we've selectively bred and domesticated these animals. Um you know the same thing with all of our crops and and that's been the most fascinating thing you know uh keeping in mind the vitamin industry created this whole propaganda thing like a hundred years ago right to where like oh the soil is so depleted there's no no vitamins in our food anymore and and therefore you need to take these vitamins right that was propaganda. Not saying there's not some soil depletion, but all it does is it grows less food. Like, and people don't seem to grasp that. It it doesn't reduce the vitamin content per unit of tomato. It just simply makes smaller tomatoes. Does that make sense? Like the nutrition profile of it pretty much, you know, stays consistent for a given species, right? selective bred artificial species that we have created because that's that's what almost all of our crops are, right? So, so they pushed all this this nonsense. But the reality is uh we have superfoods, right? That's the beauty of all of this. What we did, we selectively bred all these crops to be more nutritious, right? They are more nutritious uh than what we found in nature. And and it's interesting how many people will spin that in a negative direction, but you know, then they'll eat other stuff. Um it's it's it's truly fascinating, you know, like you'll see people who will say, "Well, these bananas here that has way more sugar in it than what have been found in nature." Yeah, but but that's okay, right? Because we're not really worried about fruit sugars, right? Are we? It's really going to just be glucose for you. It's not like it's a refined sugar. So, we we bred these things to have more nutrition. That's giving it more nutritional value. We're giving it more uh quality calories, carbohydrates. carbohydrates being our our primary fuel sources of species. So, so yeah, we have that the the same people will go on to eat um you know, selectively bred domesticated animals that are much much much much much fatter due to the environment we raised them in, right? And that includes grass-fed. Like people have this strange idea that because it's grass-fed in a pasture that it's somehow ultra lean. No, it's still super fat. It's a fat as hell animal. It's just not as fat as if your grain finish it, right? It's still nothing like anything we would have found in the wild, you know, uh at least in most parts of the world, you know, barring the Arctic Circle. But yeah, our so our foods have more nutritional value, more calories, a lot of them, more vitamins, more minerals. So, and and some of these foods don't exist at all. It's not even that we've we've bred bananas to be different. We've created entire new foods. uh you know broccoli, cauliflower, like all these superfoods, right? So you take all these foods that a lot of us think of as superfoods because their their nutritional content is so high, right? Their their vitamin content is so high. In fact, their vitamin content is so high that the idea of even needing a vitamin supplement should be ludicrous. Right? If you if you were eating sufficient amounts of these modern bread superfoods, the idea that you would even need a vitamin supplement would was kind of ludicrous, right? If you're not getting enough of most of this stuff you need, it's a malabsorption issue. Like, and so adding more in the form of a vitamin is not necessarily going to help. It may make it worse, right? Because the vitamin content is so high. Start looking at all these foods. Look at look at broccoli. Look at spinach. Even our modern potatoes and stuff. Look at modern sweet potato or modern white potato. Look at the nutrition profile. It's absolutely ludicrous. You know, you'll get but you'll get people who do that. They'll act like a potato is some sort of junk food. Have you not looked at what's in it? My god. The vitamin C, the potassium. Like potatoes are are phenomenal, right? And they're one of the best best weight loss foods in the world too because the satiety's high. really hard to overeat potatoes, but you still get a great nutrition load, right? Uh so so it's it's funny though that people act like then that this is natural. It's like so this is not we're worried about we're not worried about if foods are natural. We're worried about what's in them. We're worried about what's either been taken out or what's been added. So we we're discuss processed foods and ultrarocessed foods. We're looking at it going, what's been removed? What's been concentrated? You know, has there been any any chemicals we don't want? Added nitrates, preservatives, you know. But still, what's funny is that many of the people who harp on the other stuff will still eat those foods, you know. I mean, that's a perfect example. Take something like bacon. Bacon or butter, right? Stuff some of these strange keto tarts uh love to eat. They're just concentrated fat where in the case of butter, all the protein and minerals almost all been removed and then they've just emulsified the remaining fat that they skimmed off. It's just junk food. Um bacon, my god, it's loaded full of nitrates, these preservatives. Like this is something that actually is linked to cancer. So really, when you look at these studies on on red meat and processed red meat, it's the processed red meat that's the cancer risk. like we know that it's it's all the the nitrates stuff that they put in it to preserve it to make these cured meats, right? It's a problem. So, that's what we're talking about with processing. You're removing good stuff. In the case of bacon, you're stripping almost any of the protein down of this super fatty cut and then you're adding preservatives to it. Like, that's that counts as a really refined food and it's also coming from an animal that's been fattened up in a way that would never be found. Uh but in that case it's it's potentially bad, right? It's potentially bad. But by that same token, we also have access to large amounts of animal protein we wouldn't have had in most environments. So there's a big perk there, particularly body composition, right? We have access to all this lean animal protein if we choose to eat the lean cuts. Um, same thing with all these these vegetables. You know, we have access to all these ridiculous superfoods just loaded full of amazing vitamins and minerals that are higher than we would have found in in natural species. Um, so understand the difference and it's it's not a bad thing. In fact, it's helped civilization thrive. Without this, we would not exist and have cities, let alone an internet.