Heavy work followed by pump work is a timeroven method. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click uh like down below, I would appreciate it. If you aren't following or subscribe, please do so. And if you guys would be so kind, drop me a comment down below with your thoughts or just to say hello under the video, I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. Let's get over to the topic at hand. All right. This is the single most effective old school method um that everybody did back in the day. It produced tons and tons of extremely jacked, extremely aesthetic, extremely strong guys before uh the drug use got to the level that it's at today, you know, and I think people have to remember that. They have to remember a lot of what you see in in modern bodybuilding and things like that is very heavily based on the amounts of things they use and even the types and and that is a big factor. But when you go further back and this still applies today like you still see in powerlifting for example, you see plenty of the top guys still training this way in spite of whatever they're using. Uh but we saw this in bodybuilding too even in the modern era. So we can't even say well you know none of the top guys do that today but they did. Ronnie Coleman did. Um, we saw the same thing with with guys like what Michael Hearn still does stuff like that. So yeah, I mean essentially the whole concept of of power building is what older school bodybuilding was like. And those guys were all strong. They were all jacked. I mean, technically, how many of you guys go back to the 50s and 60s? Like, go back look at the top physiques in the 60s and compare how those guys looked aesthetically and everything else compared to modern bodybuilding. Even the men's physique or the classic physique, those guys had better bodies. They technically looked better. All right. They looked better than even the guys winning uh the men's physique today or the classic bodybuilding at the Olympia level. They had great physiques, but that's how they all trained. And if you look at modern science, it's been largely confirmed. What do I mean? What do I mean? Uh look at data on there's been studies done on doing a heavy single at 90% or higher of your one rep max followed by doing 10 rep sets. Okay, with weight that was around a 10 rep max afterwards. What did they find in those studies? That it primed the nervous system. So when you do a heavy single before you do your your pump work, because 10 is pump work. I don't care what lift it is. I don't care if it's a bench press or a curl or tricep extension. You get to 10 plus reps. We're doing pump work, which I like to do plenty of. You'll watch you be right here in this thing doing sets of 10 with weighted dips with 90 pounds of plates. All right. I I like that sort of work. I think it's great even even for powerlifting. But back over to the point, it's pump work. But what did they find in the in the data? They got more efficient muscle fiber recruitment on the 10 rep sets. What? Because their nervous system was already pre- primed. They found that those faster twitch fibers did what they recruited earlier in the set. This has been found in some studies. So it's essent essentially we are priming the nervous system. You're attenuating those motor units with the heavier work plus you're already hitting them first. You know what what are we looking at in terms of muscle growth? What really causes muscle growth? Recruiting the fast switch fibers. Like if if you're not a novice, if you've been training a few years, almost all of your muscle growth is coming from the fast switch fibers. Sets that do not recruit them, reps that do not recruit them, are not really giving you any muscle growth. Don't let anybody convince you otherwise unless you just upped the dose, bro. Because drugs can make all those intermediate fibers start growing again. Um, but lifting won't noviceses. Sure, you'll get tons of it. It's why they grow so fast, right? It's not that they're they're fast, which fibers grow slower. It's that that's the only thing that's growing the more you the more advanced you get. So, the heavy work attenuates that. So, and it also fatigues it. So because those fibers have been recruited maximally, right? All those muscle fibers are recruited on a really heavy set or a heavy single. Well, guess what? They're already partially fatigued. Well, you need them fatigued. That is how they grow. So then you get over to your pump work and man, those fibers have already been hit once. They've been hit really hard. So now we're going to come through and hit them again with some volume, right? We're going to make sure we hit them with multiple reps, five or more reps on every set. get those fibers again. That's the idea. You get in and you work them. And that's what makes us bigger. Okay? But we have to remember too, all the heavy work had spillover effects. And everybody seems to forget about that. Doing big, big, big, heavy work on big barbell movements, big weighted exercises, you know, weighted chin-ups, weighted pull-up, squat, bench, deadlift, standing presses with a barbell, all this stuff. you're getting enormous amounts of spillover to other muscles and they are getting a growth stimulus. We know this from the lab. They do grow some from this. So, doing these big movements is just so efficient and it prepares you for the other work uh to to grow. And I'm not saying you can't get plenty big doing the other. Um I'm not saying you can't. I mean, my god, I would even consider it someday myself if I just quit caring about strength or powerlifting at all. But I would still be strong because I could come back and powerlift and in six weeks be putting up big numbers again. It wouldn't even matter at that point. But, you know, I don't think there's anything wrong with the other. I'm not telling you a person can't spend their whole time in, you know, the 10 to 15 rep range on good exercises, right? I'm not telling you or 8 to 15 that you can't do that and get phenomenal results. What I'm telling you is there's other fringe benefits and there's a good efficiency to doing some really heavy work first. That's what I'm saying. Okay. Um and the only the only downside I think people forget that the only downside of the really heavy work is that it can beat your your joints up and stuff up a little bit, but you don't have to do tons of it. That's kind of the point. That doesn't happen when the volumes are moderated at the really heavy work. It's only when you do too much. Okay? So that's the point. There's no real downside other than then it can be join some things up. Sure. But we come back over. What are we promoting in this video? What are we promoting? The exact opposite. We're promoting, hey, do some heavy work and then follow it up with the pump work. Okay, you'll get the best of both worlds. Okay, you will get the best of both worlds. You'll get the benefits of the big strength training, the extra muscle density, the better uh bone density and tendons and all that, but then you can go to the lighter pump work afterwards so that you don't just keep beating your body up and then we continue to recruit muscle fibers, continue to create some some fatigue in those those fast twitch fibers, get some extra muscle growth behind it. Okay? And it's it works and it's always worked. It is a timeproven old school method that has worked for generations and produced phenomenal physiques before most of us were even born, long before for many of you. And it works and it's never going to stop working. So don't let people convince you otherwise. It is again a timeroven old school method that is still carried all the way into the modern era to still produce some of the greatest champions. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.