Old school bodybuilders did almost every set to failure. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, greatly appreciate it. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you guys train to failure or not, let me know in the comments. So again, something that um I started messing with again recently more and more of just going to failure even on big exercises for me. Um, I used to do this when I was younger, like when I was in my 20s and I was pretty big and pretty strong. Uh, only had one major injury and it wasn't from training to failure. So, interestingly enough, it was from too much workload on deadlifts with too much frequency, ended up tearing a bicep. Um, you know, well over 20 years ago. So, you know, in that case, I used to do just fine. And it's something I've realized that back when I was younger, pretty much all a guy, everyone just trained to failure or they just use spotters for everything, right? Even their benching. So they could do every set to failure. But everyone just trained everything to failure way back in the day. And when you go further back, you start looking at the guys in the 50s, the 60s, the 70s, and you talk to any of those guys, that's just how they trained. You know, it's like even if they were doing three sets of 10, they picked a weight that they'd fail around rep 10. they all did, you know, u a lot of dual like progression, double progression, but with that double progression, it it was oftent times everything to failure. So, it's like, let's say they were trying to do whatever uh eight to 10 reps, right? They would pick a weight that was around their eight rep max, but they would do sets of eight to failure, right? And then they would oftentimes add reps and when they could get to 10 on all the sets, they would add weight again or whatever. And so, they would do progressions like that. But guys weren't just doing, hey, let's just add weight and non-failure sets. Everything was done to failure by most of those guys. That's just how they trained. And they used to believe muscle failure. A lot of them was the only way to grow. Um, then you had guys like Mener who came out later with absolute failure, going beyond failure. But generally speaking, you go look a lot of the old school guys, they did their sets to momentary failure. That's just how everyone trained. They didn't do reps in reserve. And you know the ironic thing when you bring this up now everyone talks about fatigue and everyone gets so fatigued so much easier. Um and this I think it's a generational thing and I'm not saying younger guys are softer today. It's I think people have grown up more sedentary. Okay. And I think this is a a problem with a lot of this in fatigue. All right. When you go back to previous generations everyone played sports and was active as kids. People weren't sedentary. They weren't sitting around just playing video games and and sitting inside all day. They were active, athletic, and a lot of your lifters all did sports when younger, right? So, they all had a were used to high physical activity. People also oftentimes had more physically demanding jobs. They were just in better shape. And one of the things I've noticed, a lot of people who get into lifting now, they don't have a history of anything athletic and they just simply cannot handle certain amounts of fatigue until they've been training a long time. Okay. So, I want to make a point with a lot of people. They're like, they just burn out so easily. So, everyone brings up the point, well, if you just train to failure, you don't recover. But how much of it is one this current generation of people? two, it's also being told that they'll burn out instead of adapting um to it. I think this is a factor, and I'm saying this as a coach. I've noticed this with a lot a lot of my younger guys. U is definitely definitely an issue, but they also don't have athletic backgrounds and they can't replicate performance. Like a lot of this stuff I'm doing here, I'm replicating performance to failure. And I get people, oh, you can't do that. I'm like, really? I do it. And I always did it when younger. That's why I started doing it again. Um, I realized I was able to replicate sets. Okay, maybe you lose a rep here or there, but you're just not taking a long enough break then between sets. Um, yeah, if you're rested 90 seconds, but if you're resting three, four minutes, and why wouldn't you be if you're going really hard on a compound movement, why wouldn't you rest four or five minutes between squats or benching? You know, get it done. Uh, dedicate your your set aside the time for your training session. You know, it's going to be more productive. Um, and I think that's the thing that we have to think about. And I've said in the past, well, the rep we fail on doesn't have a training response, but does it if there's any centric? In other words, you can't do a concentric rep. Okay, the failed concentric sure has no stimulus. But let's say even on the, you know, the bench or the squat, what about that last eccentric rep? Is there any training response at the amount of fatigue where we can barely control that last eccentric and then we missed? Uh, there probably is. So I I think that we have to think in those terms of effective reps, right? Because we always say that well within five reps of failure is probably probably where all the growth stimulus happens and the closer we get. Well, if we're doing our sets there, then you know you got all the upper threshold fibers were fatigued. And I think that's the other thing too. We talk about different regions of muscles and and different ratios. Okay. But what do we know when we look at one maxes? the neural activity goes way up on every exercise. The same thing right at failure. So in other words, oh the ratio of tricep versus pec on whatever or delt or whatever on this movement, but when you take it to failure and a weaker muscle gives out, the others have to compensate on the failed rep. You're probably going to get a little more complete development even on these big particularly some of your compounds, right? So in other words, let's say a dip like you take a dip to failure. Is it really going to be an issue of well this is a way more b tricep or a way more peg dominant? Well, not really because once you're doing if you're doing a full range of motion like you see me doing there and you're taking that to failure and everything's giving out, you've reached really good stimulus in every muscle. So I think we have to factor that in. But then we come over to what about recovery? Well, everyone says, "Well, yeah, guys on lots of drugs." But what about all those guys from the 50s and 60s? Were they on tons of drugs? How about the 40s? I don't know that they were they a lot of them had really good physiques and were really strong. So, again, we can make that argument of well, you know, training that way um you know, it doesn't improve strength. But yet, those guys were strong. They were big and they were strong and they didn't have all the drugs people have today. Yet they did just fine. So again, I start to question this this idea that training to failure somehow is is makes it too hard to recover. Do we have empirical data to support that? Because we have a whole lot of studies of training to failure showing these amazing results. So, how many of those studies you look back at seeing these amazing hypertrophy studies are more moderate volumes? Okay. How many of those do you see where they just had the the people trained to momentary failure even on squats? A lot of them. So when you have all these hypertrophy studies like those women's studies comparing hip thrusts and squats to failure, they all made really good muscle growth particularly women squatting to failure. So where's all this underreovery in the data? I'm not seeing scientific evidence yet. When we look back historically in the preheavy steroid era, plenty of guys, everyone just trained to failure all the time and they were big and strong. My generation of lifters, I go back and look, dudes trained really hard and they were big and strong. The average gym rat in the hardcore gyms I came up with was bigger and stronger than the average gym rat I see even now using gear. Just going to point that out. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.