Both starchy carbohydrates and healthy fats can be used as primary calories. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, uh, if you guys will please click like down below, I would greatly appreciate it. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would greatly appreciate that also. Thank you so much. Uh let's get over to the topic, you know, and I I bring this up sometimes and I do get people who who are like, "Well, you sometimes seem dogmatic." And I laugh and they're like, "I seem dogmatic at all." Or they'll accuse me then of flip-flopping on diet. And I'm like, "No, the reason I come across as as that is because I believe there's multiple approaches that work." But I don't think there are too many approaches that are ideal. What I generally generally tell people um if you're shooting for overall fitness, you want muscle, you want body composition, strength, performance, health, all these things, good insulin sensitivity, your primary calories really only have a couple of true options and it's going to tend to be healthy fats or starchy carbs. And and I think we have to understand that context if we're understanding things like controlling inflammation, we're understanding things like insulin sensitivity. And I think you can do both. So even if if you come over and let's say healthy fats, if a person wants to do a lower carb approach, um keep in mind I'm not talking the truly deep ketosis type approach some people are taking with low carbs with lots of meat. I'm talking about fairly low carb, meaning a lot of your your sources fat sources would be plants. you're still going to get enough carbohydrates to at least train on. Okay? And then you you would be looking at taking that um taking in mostly healthy fats for your calories, your non-protein because guys out there, honestly, most of you aren't going to be eating more more than about a gram of of protein per pound of body weight. Very few people are going to benefit from that unless you're looking at protein overfeeding. So realistically, you know, what I mean is let's say you're a 200lb man, you know, with 3,200 calories, right? Let's say that's that's your maintenance and you're looking at 200 gram of protein. That's only 800 calories. That's only a third of your total calories. You have 2/3 of your other calories to to fill in with other stuff. And so then the question becomes, you know, do you fill it with carbs or fat? Okay. And I think uh both approaches can work. And I noticed anytime I even tried to do dairy fat on a lower carb approach, I'm on higher carbs right now. A lower carb approach, I tended to gain body fat fairly easily, even though, you know, dairy fat doesn't always have the same negatives as other saturated fat. Still not a healthy fat, and I tend I tend to plump up if I'm not careful. Um so again, just making that note, even though it's it's more benign in terms of health, it's not a truly healthy fat. So, here's here's where I'm going to go with this. So, or you could go very low fat and you could go ultra high carb. You could go extremely low fat and do very very well in certain kinds, especially if you're trying to cut on that. Like, let's say you're trying to to lose as much body fat as possible while retaining muscle, but you don't care about maybe water weight. So, you're not doing a lower carb approach. It totally works. So, literally a chicken, brown rice, and broccoli type diet. Absolutely timeroven method for getting really lean. Okay. So, we need to have this context. Okay, those are your two extremes, but you could also have a middle ground. And I don't think that that's bad either. Um, I think usually here's what I'm going to say to people. Where we usually find the two extremes are either for purposes of keeping water rate extremely low. So such as the the healthy fat approach or purely for the cutting body fat because of the extra satiety of let's say you're getting all your calories from brown rice and sweet potatoes and keeping fat really low um for purposes of satiety you know all the anabolic benefits and muscle retention of the carbs. Okay. So understand that that's what you'd be looking at for someone who's say maintaining though you could have a a better mix of the two. Right? If a person is trying to maintain, um, I think it go with a better mix of the two and be just fine if that's their goal. Or you could do either of the two extremes. Okay, they all can work in the right context for the right person with their tolerances, their preferences, their appetite, you know, how their GI tract comfort. Okay, you have all those these different approaches and I think either extreme or a mix of the two in between can work. Okay. So, what do I mean by examples? Well, I just gave an example of of that approach. And that works really well because again, you're going to have almost no capacity to regain body fat from the food you are eating because we're not storing carbohydrates as fat, at least not subcutaneously. So, if a person's trying to get ripped and they're going to go into a deficit and they want the most satiety, most anabolic response, it's a very effective approach. And so, we're literally talking about a bro type diet. you know, you're talking a chicken rice, broccoli or chicken brown rice, broccoli type diet. Not saying other stuff couldn't be worked in, but it works and it works extremely well for those reasons, okay? You're going to have good antioxidant profile with all of it. You're going to have good insulin sensitivity, right? You're going to have good muscle fullness, good glycogen stores, still even when in a deficit, it it works very, very well. Okay? Your other approach would be healthier fats. And so I'm not telling people if if they did a a ketoish type diet, not saying all steak and eggs here necessarily, guys. I'm saying leaner animal proteins, lean cuts of steak, chicken breast, turkey breast, right? These sort of foods, uh, fat-ree dairy like lowfat or fat-free Greek yogurts and things, stuff like this. And then you could eat lots of of healthy fats. What do you mean by healthy fats? Focus on polyunsaturated, monounsaturated. Keep saturated fat low. Why? Saturated fat causes more inflammation, causes more insulin resistance. That part is not subject to debate. Let's even set aside the LDL and lipids. But we don't we don't need to go there cuz, you know, having a heart attack in 20 years may not actually technically be relevant to your body composition and gains right now. Okay? And people can make a point for that. So the question becomes, what literally becomes better? The healthier fats do better. you're going to have better insulin control, better insulin sensitivity, lower inflammation. That has been found in studies. So, so when you look at ketogenic diet studies by people who love keto, researchers who love keto enough to research it, they like it. That's still what they find. Okay, so what do we mean? I'm not telling you to drink a bunch of seed oil, but some of those studies did find the seed oils still literally did better. Okay, we do need to be clear on that. But what do I what do we mean? Looking at more Mediterranean type roast, say olive oil, olives. But here's here's the other stuff. How about avocados, natural peanut butters, walnuts, so nuts, seeds, avocados, things like that. Literally filling your calories is your is your staple calorie source. So why would someone do that? Um, they improve insulin sensitivity very effectively. So again, we get a slightly more anabolic potential response from the the insulinogenic effect of the little carbs they eat, the protein protein they eat, lower inflammation. Okay, all those healthy fats reduce inflammation on top of it. And because if we have lower inflammation, better insulin sensitivity, and then we're not getting the all the carbohydrate load, we could lose water. So a person could follow that approach and have a more full slow digesting GI tract, have good satiety eating those type of fats because they still have fiber and stuff while losing water weight in their in their in their GI tract. So lower water weight, lower water retention, looking leaner even though it's through a little bit of water manipulation. Great great in inflammation control. So that sort of approach can work also and it's still very anabolic because you're getting all the improved insulin sensitivity. So those are kind of the options that work or anywhere in between.