 Hey everybody, chastatin, tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar tar I thought I paused for like two little seconds. There's like almost no pause. So I'll keep working on it. Keep working on it. I'm going to just work with those high bar beltless pause squats though, because they're so dang hard for me right now. And I feel my abs and low back. So I'm going to push the reverse hyper a little bit. I'm going to push those and just use some of the supplemental stuff to build that up. I mean, I could just do them and it would all build up on its own too. That's pretty much what I've done before. But I feel like since I'm not pulling while I'm letting that hand heal, right? I want that skin to heal. I don't want it to re-rip open. I want to let it heal up for a few days. And I'm going to focus on my squatting muscles and my benching muscles, right? I can skip out even, because even curls, I've noticed anything that's going to pull down on that hand, not good. Again, I don't want to break it open. And I can avoid that with benching because it's way up in the palm, right? Or rip that callus. And again, that happened from deadlifting every day, two weeks, 500 pounds for work sets. But the bench went good, right? So the second day in a row of benching. Then the incline went good too. I'll talk about that in a minute. The bench felt good. The nice, good pauses on the triples. I feel like they're getting stronger at those lockouts at the end. So the tricep work is paying off. So what I decided to do after that before, so that I got a little bit of break from my benching muscles, because I wanted a really good top set of incline. And we didn't get a PR, but we're matching PRs. So I matched PRs last time on it with 10 reps of 225, but I went to 245 and matched my previous PR. So the reverse hypers just coming in, trying to do them super strict and controlled, and I supersetted those with belt squats. I haven't done the belt squat in a while. So I'm like, let's replicate that same sort of high bar stance. I want to get toes forward, right? So I'm trying to take a narrow stance like my squat, toes forward, and trying to get as deep as possible. Now the first set, I did eight reps with 225. And I'm like, I want to put another plate on it. I managed to get six with it. The eight was good though. So I'm almost wondering if for some of this, I could do two or three sets of this. So again, doing a little bit of slightly more traditional hypertrophy work to go with all the big stuff, but this is very similar. Think about how I used to do. We used to have a more free form flow like this with the full body. So let's just work on what we need to work on. Let's go really heavy on the big lifts, which we do, right? You guys haven't seen me touch more than about four reps on any squat, bench, or deadlift variation, right? We go real heavy, and then we just kind of hypertrophy everything around it. But today, definitely, you know, I wanted to work on some quads, some lower back, right? And definitely triceps. And the tricep strength is coming up. We're getting stronger on triceps. And so again, that will help keep the shoulders safe with the amount of benching I'm doing, the incline and everything. So I just did supersets on these. So we ended up doing three sets of the reverse hypers. I'm trying to control these as much as possible, which again, for people who've never used a reverse hyper, I will point out if someone says, well, there's still some swing, you can't not. It's impossible. It's not the sort of swinging you guys see me do with five, six, 700 pounds, but you can't. It's on roller. So you notice that it keeps swinging. It's on roller bearings. You see that grease gun in the background for the Zerk fittings? I actually keep the bearings greased. Again, it's humid. I'm in southeast half part of Texas. It's super hot, super humid, right? There's not that far from a coastline. So again, stuff rusts. Like some of my bars I've had to go through, like even that bar I've been deadlifting with, it was rusting over there. So I scrubbed it all down, oiled it up, nylon brushed it, you know, oiled it up, you know, so that it was nice and good. And of course it ended up ripping my hand yesterday. But, and it tore it pretty good. Like you guys saw on the camera, you can't see quite how deep it ripped it. But it's going to take it a couple of days. But here the six reps felt pretty good. So again, I can work these in, work in a little bit of belt squatting and keep hammering those reverse hypers so that that low back and core gets really strong to do the beltless squatting again. And, and do I necessarily need that quad work? Probably not. I could just squat my way to it and do the reverse hyper, but I have it. I have the recovery. So it's not, not a big deal. We'll just build everything. Just get jacked, get strong. So again, what we're seeing is, you know, days where depending on what I'm doing, I don't necessarily squat every day. I don't necessarily flat bench every day. I tried to deadlift every day, but till the hand tore. But yeah, so the variations of those early on, we go heavy and then we just fill in with our various supplemental hypertrophy work and try to keep stuff from overtraining and focus on a general upward trend and progressive overload on this stuff. Now the incline, like I said, last time the other day, I got 225 for 10. Super happy with that all pause. I'm like, I wonder if I can get, so I got six last time I tried this because this set me up last time to do the 225 for 10 again, which I haven't hit in over a year. And I got back up to it. But I did this not that long ago for six. These are nice and pretty and clean, good, good, solid pauses. The last rep was hard. I didn't, I didn't know if I'd get that six rep. And it looks good on camera, but man, grinding it. I'm shaking a little bit there, right? I didn't know if I was going to get it. I didn't have a seventh. I knew I didn't have a seventh rep, but I'm happy with it. And my chest was on fire again. Again, that really high, it's not, it is a high end. It's 45. That high touch point, because I'm touching really high on the chest with that pause and that wide grip, there's just, it just fries my chest, right? It's just so unique. So the triceps, I went up on this. And these, obviously, later in, I'm letting it stretch me as far as it'll go. So we get a pullover effect. And I'm just letting it take me as deep as it'll go. And then using that stretch reflex to slingshot it back up with the long head of the tricep. Ooh, these burn. Especially that long head, right? That long head of my tricep is getting torched on these. This is a PR doing it all the way down like this. But we got, because we got 10 yesterday with 115. I went up five pounds and I grabbed 11. I was sitting there getting to eight. I'm like, I know I'm going to get 10. And then I got to 10, I'm like, I think I can do one more. And I did. And we got 11. And then we did set of plate lateral raises, did like 15. And then I did two sets of band press downs to failure, right? Which was interesting because I got, I got at least 50 reps on the first one. The next one was, I don't know, mid 30s, 35-ish, maybe close to 40. But I got at least 50 reps on the first set. So just burning those triceps. But it's interesting, it's feeding my extensions. And those extensions are going to feed my bench and my incline lockout. Because same thing with that incline. It's the lockout where it feels the hardest for me, right? So if I can get that lockout strength up on the incline of the bench, it all goes up because that incline builds my bench off the chest. The stronger I get at incline, the faster I get off the chest on the bench. On both of them, though, I notice I slow at the lockout again. So this stuff, building the triceps and then doing the band press downs with that hard lockout on these, it's very difficult. With that, again, the strength curve on the bands. Build that bench up. I'm going to build a big bench again, right? We're going to build a big bench while getting leaner and fitter, right? But pretty happy with the workout today, right? Happy with the workout. Happy with the incline. Happy with that tricep, right? I'll take a PR on an arm muscle like a tricep any day. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. And I'll talk to you guys and gals next time. Thank you.