 km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km km high bar, but making these feel right, especially without the belt, it's going to take me just a minute. But once I dial it in to where it feels right for me, and I kind of looking at the footage and knowing where my strong points are, my levers won't take me long to figure it out. A few workouts, but we'll get there. And you guys know how that goes when I get there. Doesn't take long for me to get real strong at that. So deadlifts going great. Now consistently getting four reps with the stiff bar completely beltless with 500. So again, and that's doing it every day. So that's been coming up because again, one rep when I when I went to the stiff bar and pulled the belt off one rep felt hard, right? Because I only did even a triple with the belt when I switched over to this bar went from doing fives down to three. Again, deadlift bar versus that big difference. Big difference. But I get stronger when I do that. And again, notice everything is going to be raw. There's going to be a lot of pausing on stuff. Everything's going to be raw, no belt, no wrist wraps. We're going back to kind of my old school type of roots with a lot of this high frequency full body mixing, you know, higher reps with really low reps. So again, mostly heavy stuff on my big three, obviously. And then the other stuff, you know, we're doing anywhere from eight up to about 12 reps. Right? If I can do more than about 12 reps, though, time to add some weight to those other movements. But the benching is doing pretty good. Went back to the wider grip feels good and strong getting good triples and good pauses. Good triples and good pauses. So again, goal here is going to be get stronger, bring up some of my weak links, get a little leaner. But happy with the training. Here's one thing, again, I will say I'm really enjoying this. So one of the things people will notice, you know, now that I've gone over to the full body every day again, I'm gonna sound happier about it. Like I'm just enjoying my training, because I'm not listening to anybody. No feedback. I don't care what anybody thinks. I don't care what anybody says. Not even going to address things people don't like. I don't care because I'm not looking at anything. And it's making my training enjoyable. Now we're just getting back to kind of the roots of my training. Same thing with the pull ups. I did get the pauses at the bottom that time. I can't get my chin to the bar with that grip. I got to go really close. Like that shoulder width. I got to go really close to get my chin up over the bar. And then I struggle at the bottom because of the positions. But I might mess with some of that too. I might do some of that too, just to change it up. Incline really happy with these I'm getting nine, I almost felt like I had a 10th rep. That's my lifetime PR on the channel is 10 reps paused with this. Right. But notice there's no touch and go like we're giving nice clean little pauses. Nine reps. Happy with that. My chest though. Here's what I'm going to say. I love the flat bench. And I always say, you know, flat bench is kind of king for chest, but man, the burn on this wide grip incline. Feels like someone's taking a blow torch to my chest. Like it's on fire for like five minutes. So I do that set. Right. And I swear, I almost only, I don't even want to touch the row for a few minutes because my chest is just burning. Feels like someone took a blow torch to it. Again, man, there's just something about that incline, especially paused incline. The rows trying to touch these down a hair softer is again, I'm just going to start calling it a pinlay for reals because people, they don't understand. It's like, okay, I'll just call it a pinlay. You know, a pinlay row is a barbell row. Or even Glenn Pendlay was always confused. He's like, I'm just doing a traditional, I just call it a barbell row. That's what it was called in the fifties and sixties. What are you guys talking about? But you know, that is a barbell row. That's what Pendlay does. So we'll do that. All good. I'm 12 to 225. These laying extensions, I'm trying to stretch on these. Notice I'm stretching deep enough on these that a lot of the reps, my butt comes off the bench. And it's because I'm just, I'm stretching far enough that it's just like, man, we're getting as deep as I can get. But that's going to give me the pullover effect because I want these to replace my pullovers while letting me hammer those triceps. Because again, I need, I need, if I'm going to be walking around a t-shirt again here, I'm going to film in a t-shirt and I need my arms to look big. My arms and legs are what we're seeing. So they need to look big. So I'm going to hit the triceps hard. Even though I feel like right now, the triceps are not my limit on my benching. I don't even feel them on my bench. My bench, I feel nothing but chest and front delts. Right? My triceps are like, eh, we're just kind of there. But I'm going to hammer them because again, you want your arms to look big in a shirt. Hit triceps. I'm going to keep you hitting curls though. But I got a PR there for that deep stretch with that little bit of pause. I got 12. So those are coming up. Those are coming up. Curls. I'm just trying to do these strict full range of motion. I got a lighter weight on, but I don't care because as long as I'm going to failure and I'm doing the full range of motion, I'm trying to pause at the bottom on a lot of the reps. I'm trying to lock out my elbows. My left elbow doesn't lock, by the way. Nothing I can do about that. And it feels like it's hard locked. You just, when you see certain angles, you can tell it's not. But it feels, the joint feels like it locks. And I think it has to do partially with where the tendon's been reattached. But full range of motion, bringing it all the way to the face and just getting that. Because we're already getting the heavy work. Do I need this to turn into a super heavy compound? No, I just, I need it to go to failure, which we did. Muscle failure right there. 12 good reps. And then we failed. Got a good arm pump there. My arms are looking pretty pumped in that shirt. And then I'm like, yeah, today, so those are my eight exercises, right? And then I'm like, I can always add something else independent of how I feel. Yesterday it was plate laterals and barbell wrist curls. Today I did a really high rep. I got 50 plus reps here. Just do the band press downs, right? Just burn my triceps out and hit that tendon. Because we do, we have a lot of tricep work in here because of all the pressing and then those, those laying, laying extensions. So getting a little bit of this blood flow for the tendons, not a bad thing. Yeah. Other than just the squats feeling kind of cattywompus to the way I'm doing them. And I may just stick with that. It doesn't matter. I'm a little weaker now. You guys have seen that when I get that dialed in, I hit big weights eventually. So the belt, the beltless makes it harder. I'm just going to, I'm going to keep playing with it. As long as I'm squatting, it won't matter. Squat, squat, squat. All right. The, everything else, super happy. I'm super happy with the entire workout except the squats, but they happen to be at the front. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time. more than what I want.