Overuse and overreaching can reduce your gains. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. I thought I would uh chat with you guys about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it. And again, when I say this, I am not telling people not to train hard. I train to failure on most of my stuff or within one to zero reps and reserve on things like squat, bench, and deadlift. But, you know, everything else is mostly to failure. All right. It's how I train. Um everything hard. focus on progressive overload is usually what I recommend. But when it comes to the amount of training that we do, I think something that has to always be kept in mind in terms of both overuse and overreaching. If you can largely avoid these things, you're going to end up making better progress. And I know people are like, but if I push this volume or this workload up, I might get a little more growth. This expert said so or that. But that's still subject to a lot of debate, isn't it? Um, you know, it's always that idea that, well, maybe I can make 1% better gains if I just push this extra limit all the time. Well, and then when happens when you start overreaching, uh, you have to take D loads. So, do the math on that. Do the math on that. Do you gain muscle in your D load weeks? No, I don't think you generally do like whole weeks where you don't really do any significant training stimulus for a week. Uh, no. The muscle growth is not really going to be there. You're just recovering. So, if you're pushing so hard that you need four D load weeks every year, well, how much of your gains is that? It's a decent amount. It's a whole month worth of muscle growth lost. So, if you're only gaining, and I'm not saying you will, one or two or 3% more gains per week, but then you're losing a whole month of training, is that really a net positive? I don't I don't think that it is. Had you just done a low enough volume, reduced it back below your recoverable volume just a hair, what would have happened? You wouldn't have had to have de lo weeks and you could have just made gains all the way through. So if we see the problem here, this is going to produce slightly less muscle growth. I mean, just mathematically speaking, you know, is it going to be a massive difference? No, it's just going to be a little bit. But the problem is you did something that you thought was going to give you a few percentages more muscle growth and the net result is is ends up being a few percentages less. Like if we are pushing so hard that we need to de lo that we're almost forced to de lo it's a problem and I feel like for my say competitive lifters my clients who compete in powerlifting strongman I don't have to worry about this because most of them want to compete two or three times a year well they're going to peak for those events and they're going to be forced to take time off anyways because of competition. I can tell you right now, the week after you compete, most people don't want to do regular training. They they're going to want half a week off if not more sometimes because they push the limit. So, in that case, we definitely don't want to be taking overreaching and getting D loads, right? We don't want D loads in the middle of our training cycles in between competitions, right? So it for even for the competitor, this is is problematic because you're already losing, you know, a couple weeks of training pretty much every year um when you're competing. So problematic. This is even more so problematic for the competitive bodybuilder, right? Because look how their contest prep is interfering with gains near the end. So if they're pushing so hard they need to de load, they're really losing losing progress, you know. So I I don't recommend that people do this. And the same thing when it comes to the overuse. And I get this the same thing with clients. I get clients who they want to run wide open throttle, you know, and they want to do extra volume that I didn't prescribe. Well, what do you think happens? They start pulling stuff in the areas they want to do extra. You know, I've have a client who younger guy, great athlete, who always wants to do extra quad work. It's like, and I'll prescribe stuff and then all of a sudden I look, he's like, "Well, even though you didn't prescribe it, I've been doing three sets of 20 on both my lower days on the belt squat. He has a history of pulling adductors. He's pulled two adductors since I've been coaching him." When he is doing that stuff and then I have to tell him, "Stop doing it." you know, you're adding six extra sets of 20 reps a week when I have everything right where we want it. You know, and that's what we mean by overuse. You're doing too much. If you start getting little nagging injuries, you get tendons that are hurting. Okay, that's overuse. Well, what does that do to your training? It's going to reduce force output. If you have tendons that are hurting or little minor pulls, you're losing force production for weeks. We're losing gains. Why? because you felt like you needed more work than you really needed. Now you're getting little minor injuries that if we don't pull back become major injuries. And what's the net result? We're losing several weeks of quality training because of this. And why? Because people want to do more than they can recover from. Okay? And that's what I'm trying to say. Don't do that. I mean, this is stuff I've learned the hard way. Remember when I did this stupidity? I had my volumes at stupidly high levels for a while because I thought I could handle it. I was sleeping 10 hours a night, eating 5,000 calories a day, was gaining muscle, gaining weight, and I thought I could get away with this a number of years ago. And then I decided I was going to do a 100 chin-ups every day. And then I had shoulder impingments in both sides. And now I can no longer lock out an overhead press. Years later, I still haven't rehabbed it to be able to do that. All from doing something that caused some overreaching and I've still never fully restored that range of motion all these years later. It's in So again, I'm not immune to this. What I'm saying is you could use me as a perfect example. Perfect example of why it's a problem. Now, I've since learned my lessons from that and as a coach, I apply that to my lifters, but I thought for a whole host of reasons and things I was doing that I could get away with it. I mean, it got me to like a over a 600 lb squat and deadlift at the time. I was weighing up 240. you know, all that sort of training style pushed me up into that sort of area. But look at the results. But I was also eating a ton. Okay? And I've never fully due to my age, I've never fully recovered to that in spite of trying all sorts of approaches to restore it. So again, perfect example. You know, you don't do a bunch of high volume and then think a two a man over 200 pounds is going to do a 100 chin-ups a day. And I was doing 10 sets of 10 all through the day. Yeah, perfect example. Overuse, don't do it. It's no need to take ourselves to these extremes with junk volume. All it does is create potential for injury, right? We don't want to do that. It's not good. Getting hurt is not good. It can have long-term effects on the rest of your training career if you're not careful. All right? So, be aware of that. Um, be aware of those things, guys, and don't make those mistakes. Learn from mine. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.