Middle-aged men, what you mostly need to do in the gym is to just get stronger and eat more protein. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but a quick reminder if you drop me a like and a comment down below. I'd appreciate it so much. And uh you know, again, for for perspective, you see me here early in the video at the age of 49 uh doing 10 reps of 405 on a high bar squat. with no sleeves, no wraps. Right? This is what I mean by getting stronger. I'm not I'm not telling you guys that you need to max out all the time. I'm not telling you you have to lift bone crushing weights. Now, I get that for a lot of dudes. They're like 405 is pretty heavy. But if I'm doing 10 reps with it, it's not that heavy, right? Not that heavy. Same thing you'll see me do in here. 225 for 18 reps. I mean, again, I get it. but uh just get stronger, you know, and and when I say this, it's because by and large, once you're getting a little older, I think too much obsession over trying to just bodybuild for most guys is not going to get you everywhere you want to be. It's not going to give you the the overall fitness that you want. And I'm not telling you not to do some curls, okay? You're I even do curls, right? I have to do curls. I have probably the worst bicep genetics known to me. So, I have to curl, you know. So, I I get it though, guys. I get it. But here's the thing. For most of you guys, as you're getting older, you've got to focus on bone density, keeping the neural drive up, and just overall balanced muscle and strength through the body. And by strength training, this is how you get there. And again, let me be clear. When I say that, I mean just focus on progressive overload with good form on big movements, okay? Just get stronger, right? Turn those five rep maxes into eight and 10 rep maxes. Like that's a good start. That's a perfect example, right? Build up until you can do that. And you don't even have to have to go that heavy. Look, a lot of you guys could start with a weight you could do eight reps with. When you can get it up to 12 or 15, add some weight. But focus on on your big exercises. Focus on progressive overload. Okay? And sure, if you need to do some curls or some laterals, by all means, do them. and understand that again keeping your total fitness level higher having no real imbalances which will keep the injuries lower will keep your metabolic rate higher because again that's a big concern as we get older um keeping our energy turnover high enough is harder. So if we're not careful we do tend to get that belly you get that dad bod beer belly and everything going. So again, focus on getting stronger so that you build the biggest muscles in the body, which will keep your energy turnover higher. So when you do all other activities, like if you've built the quads and the glutes and all that stuff up, right? If you've built that stuff up and built the big muscles, especially stuff you're going to need to move around, you're going to burn through more calories at work. You're going to burn through more calories if you go do cardio or run or do any sports that you do. and even in the bedroom, you know, just calling it like it is. All right. The same thing with with the protein. Sure, we could argue all day long about different dietary approaches, high carb, low carb, higher fat, lower fat, healthy fats versus unhealthy fats. We we could argue about various fat diets, flexible diet. Sure. Okay. Whatever. Here's the real thing. As you get older, protein because what starts happening and this is happening by your 40s. We absorb protein a little less efficiently. Okay? We absorb protein a little less efficiently and that's going to continue all through your life. Every decade it's going to go down a little and it's been noted in studies. 40 year olds absorb a little less protein than people in their 20s. People in their 50s abs absorb even less. In their 60s even less. your efficiency at protein absorption goes down a little bit. We don't utilize it quite as effectively. Knocking in some extra protein will go a long way. All right, but let's talk about this other stuff, too. How about the energy turnover? Because again, the thermic effect of protein. Okay, as you get older, it gets a little harder to get leaner, to stay leaner. It requires more discipline, more work. If you force down more protein, it's easier to do those things for a number of reasons. Obviously, the satiety, all right, the satiety aspect. Protein's very filling. Eating 300 grams of protein in a day for most guys is going to really fill you up. Like you combine that with fasting, you're going to lose body fat almost no matter what's going on. And and and that's the other point, too. um higher protein intakes also associated with body recomposition. So we need just for maximum muscle growth we need a little more of it. But then when we start talking fat loss uh all those things protein overfeeding has been found in studies to to cause fat loss even when people are trying to force feed and create a surplus. And protein overfeeding I do mean large amounts over 300 grams. That's what those studies are looking at. They weren't looking at 200 grams. They were looking at like 300 400. But that does happen. And again, so we talk about this situation of your middle age, you get a little older, that extra protein goes a long way for satiety, for building muscle because we absorb less, but also then thermic effect and energy turnover. Okay, this is a very big deal. But then what else? Now all these discussions have these conversations about muscle growth. It actually doesn't take that much protein to build more muscle at maximum efficiency, guys. It's like maybe for most of you 140, 150 grams. But that's only for gaining muscle. What about things like connective tissue? That's the other thing. This is what you have to pay attention to in your 40s, your 50s, and on. Our tendons and our collagen synthesis goes down a little bit. See where I'm going? Well, what drives that? protein primary driver of it. We absorb a little less protein and there have been studies that found much higher protein intakes do improve tendon health, tendon repair, tendon recovery. So you factor in that that extra protein going beyond those numbers you need for muscle growth. Absolutely helps with that. Absolutely helps with that. We absorb less of it with age and we're less efficient with our tendons with age. Okay? Double down on your protein intake. Again, this is not the advice we give to a 20-year-old hard gainer who's trying to bulk up. They need to be eating the protein at way less than that. They need to be down at the the levels they need. You know, for a lot of them is going to be 120 grams. They'll be just fine because it blunts appetite, increases energy turnover. you're 45, it's a different animal. Okay. Well, the same thing also then with the tendon thing. If we're focusing on the exercises that real build our structures of our body, our bone density, our tendons, and things better, we get our tendons healthier from the extra protein, we get hurt less. We get hurt less. This game gets a lot easier with age. So, let me be clear on that. This is this is the stuff that we need to be looking at. And so again, let me reiterate, no matter what else you are doing, if you're a middle-aged guy over 40, focusing on on building strength and eating more protein is always going to be an effective strategy. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.