Lifters over 40 need to stay on top of the big exercises. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Uh so over to this topic. I see a lot of this um I see a lot of other coaches out there over 40 coaches and people say I don't see them. Well, I see them every day in in my uh social media feed. I see the reels. I see the shorts. I see the stuff even friends of mine who are coaches on my my Facebook and stuff. I see a lot of these guys who are like, "No, we need to focus on machines and don't don't chase the big lifts." And and I see so much of it for men over 40, men over 50. Um, and the reality is, um, as someone here who you guys see with with no real injuries at this point, right, who is staying in good shape, strong, and fit at the age of 49. I'm going to make the exact opposite claim. I'm going to go so far as to say that you don't need to be doing machines and small exercises as you get older, unless you have a couple vanity muscles. You know, I get it. So, so let me be clear on that. If you have a muscle you really care about, you're like, I just really need delts to look good, and you want to do a bunch of laterals and front raises, hey, knock it out. Knock yourself out. No problem. If it's your biceps, you're like, man, I just, you know, I just don't get enough from pull-ups, chin-ups, rows, and you feel like you need to do some curls, then man, get in and do those curls. This is this is not a problem. I'm not telling people not to do this. Let me be clear, and I'm saying that as you guys see me doing curls with dumbbells for really high reps, um cuz I personally kind of need them. All right, but the thing is with that, outside of those maybe those minor show muscles that you personally really really care about, and I get it, you know, I get it. It's always going to be arms or shoulders, right? That's generally going to be one of those two uh that that older dudes are going to feel like a bit of a weak link. and you want to hit those and go for it. Really, no, really knock it out. But as far as everything else goes, the big structural exercises are the ones that we get the most benefit from. The ones that you cannot afford to sleep on are the ones that use your entire body. Okay, let me be clear. Things like squats, things like deadlifts, things like weighted pull-ups, right? Standing presses. So the question becomes why they're like why is that so important? Um and it's it's not about that you need elite lifts. I'm not telling any of you guys you need to lift what I do. People are like do you're doing like 12 reps with 405 on a squat. We're seeing you do like eight reps sometimes and 500 on a deadlift. I'm I'm not telling you you need to do that. Okay? Let me be clear. But what I am telling you is these big structural exercises are what's going to keep you younger. So when dudes are over here doing this, and I see a lot of these guys, they're beat up and banged up who are saying this, but if you look at it is because they didn't know how to train. And I'm not trying to be mean, but if a little bit because I see some of these guys out there, these coaches like, well, I mean, I used to squat whatever 415 and then I busted my knee. It's like, you see where I'm going with this? You just watched me do 12 reps on a high bar with 405 at the age of 49. So, when some dude's talking about they hurt themselves at 415 at the age of 40 and they're a coach, you kind you as you see where where I'm going with this. I'm like, really, bro? Maybe you just didn't know how to lift. And you know, people can give me a hard time and they're like, "Well, they don't like my form. They don't like my technique. They don't like anything I do. I'm not hurt. I wake up with no pain. I have not had to have any s The last time I had to have any any surgery uh was well over 20 years ago. And and I've already covered in detail what happened with that that bicep tear. Uh these these are not problems. These people don't know how to train. They use bad form, incorrect loading, and they're probably volume junkies. And that's almost always with the issue. It's always overuse with bad form. Okay? It's always overuse of bad form. All right? or following what the crowd is telling them to do instead of what they know is biomechanically correct for them or their clients and other stuff. But guys, you've got to do these big movements. This is what keeps your bone density. This is what keeps your neural drive. And we people need to understand this. It's not the muscle that's that big of a deal because quite frankly, if you've been training 10, 15, 20 years, especially the guys who are older, because a lot of these guys are they're going to be on TRT, they're not going to have a hormonal loss of muscle tissue. they've been training a really long time. You know, you you're not it's not the issue of keeping enough muscle. The issue is going to be things like the bone density. It's going to be the tendon. It's going to be the neural drive. Your neural drive is critical because this is one of the things that we start losing with age. We start losing the ability to recruit the fastest switch fibers. This is one of the things that starts happening up into your 50s. It can happen as early as your 50s. keeping that neural drive high, the big movements that use everything. Uh bone density, connective tissue through the body, making sure that the entire musculature of of the core and trunk is strong. Okay. Right. And that's the other issue too, man. I see so many of these guys who are promoting this stuff and they all have the big growth hormone guts and stuff and it's just like instead of just building the muscle through strength and doing the proper movements, you know, I've noticed a ton of them. Those distended abdominal walls. I see tons of it. I I I can think of about seven guys like that before anyone tries a single one out, you know, and and they promote all the machine nonsense. It's like, bro, you guys are pushing all these crazy peptides too hard. you're growing your organs and you're still not training all those muscles, you know, they're not training them by doing the big structural movements that strengthen all of that. You need that structural integrity through your core. You need the bone density. You need to strengthen your back and those big big exercises to where we are either loaded standing or that move your whole body through space. This is the stuff that does that. And again, let me be clear. I I know I'm an outlier. I'm not telling people they need to lift what I lift. No, you don't need to do 20 reps with a pullover with 90 pounds like I did there. You don't have to do that. But you need to do the big movements. And this cannot be stressed enough that they have to be a priority if you really care about your fitness and health as as you get towards middle age and up. Okay. They have to they have to be your priority. Keeping your hips strong, keeping your bone strong, keeping your back all your bone density, keeping your neural drive high, keeping your coordination high. This is a priority. And I'm not saying you can't do some curls. Again, note I'm doing curls. Not telling you you can't do that, but the other stuff needs to absolutely be your biggest focus. And stay off the damn machines. That's not what you need as you get older. You need the big exercises that work your entire body. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.