Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about uh the fact that Paleolithic humans are believed to have eaten on average 100 to 150 grams of fiber a day, which to us today sounds crazy. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. Um if you're not subscribed or following, uh please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it. so much. Thank you. So, let's um kind of get over to this topic and I think this has to be highlighted both from a health perspective and then looking at you know when you see a lot of people in various uh diet zealot circles who try to pretend that fiber is horrible and humans lived on only meat and and let me be clear with this statement. I am not trying to make an appeal to nature. I'm not saying um that necessarily the way your ancestors ate at any given time uh was was optimal or perfect or anything else or that you know natural is always better. So let me be clear. I am not making uh an appeal to nature with any of this. It's not what we're trying to do. That's not what we want to do. That's not obviously not the intended goal um you know of this topic. Uh so again over over to the point um in terms of of looking at health benefits uh something I'll discuss in just a minute but definitely when we think of in terms of just historical or or scientific accuracy when you have a lot of the carnivore some of the really low carb people who who say this nonsense um oh you know we shouldn't be eating fiber at all and our ancestors all lived on nothing but meat there there's like zero true. Absolutely zero evidence for this, you know, and it's like um you know, when people say that, then they'll say, well, you know, scientists don't know everything. And it's like, well, I think they probably know more than you do, the ones who've looked at the remains and done carbon testing and dig this stuff up. They probably do know a a little bit more than you do about what these people probably ate. Um, you know, and but their argument will then be, well, it's common sense. There's nothing to eat. I'm like, really? That's go look at at tribes all over the world still. They dig up roots, berries, nuts. They dig up tons and tons of roots and tubers. And I and I think that's a point that gets missed in all this. Like root vegetables and tubers um have historically, as far as we know, if you're looking at the data and any grains that they could just find were enormous stables. If anything, for most humans in huntergatherer tribes, um, this comprises an enormous chunk of their calories, okay? It's an enormous chunk of their calories because they can only get so much meat. It's like they're not people were not were not out here hunting down raw game all the big game all day. And when they did, it was lean other, you know, setting aside the Arctic regions, which I'm not going to go into that whole argument. Almost none of your ancestors came from there. So, just stop. Um, animals are pretty lean. They're just protein. And what happens when you protein overfeed? What do we know from studies in humans? You protein overfeed, you try to eat 400 grams of protein a day, which is still only 1,600 calories. You start losing weight and body fat. The thermic effect and everything is so high that you can't maintain your weight most of the time if you're active. Like, you can't. So, this should be the first dead giveaway. Just metabolically. All of us who observe this realize, yeah, this this is who who've gotten into serious training or nutrition. You've ever done extreme protein overfeeding, you understand what we're saying. You start losing body weight sometimes, generally almost always. Okay. When you started hitting that, so how much protein do you really think they were getting? Come on. Um, so again, common sense looking at the type of animals like grass-fed beef is not indicative of wild game. It's still super super fatty. It's a sedentary animal eating all day, not out running and trying to escape predators and foraging. Okay, totally different. Wild game is absurdly lean. Um, it's not generally a viable source of primary calories even if you're able to get pounds of it a day. Okay? And they weren't. Uh, so what we we do find it was ultra high fiber. So if you go look paleolithic humans when we dig up any any remains and we still find remains mummified remains you know not just fossils and when we find this stuff what do we find in their stomachs full of any grains that they could harvest lots of roots vegetables it's loaded full of fiber they eat lots and lots of vegetables plants they cook everything stewed stuff so they get better nutrition um but you always see tubers and grains okay when we look a lot of this we realized um that most experts think that yeah through through tens of thousands of years so paleolithic even pre-aggricultural right which is most of most of uh the time of our species right we weren't raising animals we didn't have milk and cows and goats out in the field you know yeah you could hunt that was it so it was all this stuff so when we they look at they're like yeah they ate like 100 to 150 grams of fiber was pretty average around the world in those regions. So, this also tells us that, hey, we're genetically the same as them. Like there's there's been minimal changes, right? Minor shifts in gene flow, but by and large, we're genetically still the same, right? Same species. They handled all that fiber just fine. That tells us that if once you adapt to it, you handle that fiber just fine. Okay? So then this is what we know based upon on data. So then it's like what happens if we look at at real research in humans and fiber. Well, this does actually match. This is a case of instead of appeal to nature, we say well they were able to do it and survive and thrive, right? They were able to survive, so it clearly wasn't excessively harmful. But then when we look at at modern data, the more fiber people eat in general from whole foods, we're not talking a fiber supplement, that doesn't seem to produce the same benefits. The more fiber we eat, the healthier we tend to be, okay? And that includes even the people who with extreme longevity, when you really go look at their diets, man, they ate a lot of fiber, usually very high fiber diets. All right? The more fiber we eat, the more resistant we are to cancers. Okay, the more resistant we are to diabetes, okay, more resistant we are to cardiovascular disease, right? We have less obesity. We have a better immune systems and that's a big one too. We know that gut health is critical for our immune system and we know that fiber and a wide variety of fiber, right? Getting fiber from multiple sources. So, I hate it when people say, "Hey, what's what is the best form of fiber?" to get three or four types every day. That's the best type. Okay, again, that's another reason that even supplementing gets silly. Uh, we know that the more diverse your fiber intake and fiber sources, the better your gut health tends to be, the better your immune system tends to be, and then that trickles into all sorts of other benefits. So again, our physiology historically, we ate way more fiber than even most high-fiber people eat today, right? This is just a fact. And then we know that the more fiber we eat, the healthier we are. So if anyone wanted to look at something uh you know at what's technically natural ultra high fiber