Influencers who push supplements don't actually care about fitness. Uh they simply care about profits. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and with Jason Bla strength and fitness and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um you know this is a point I've made clear many times and people who look at the actual laws in the United States and this is where the whole supplement industry is based out of. Um, even supplement companies in other countries are still generally concerned with getting American consumers. They're still concerned with their ability to import into the US. And so, they're going to tend to follow our guidelines by and large. And the the simple fact of the matter is any supplement that is proven to help you build muscle, lose fat, replicate any sort of prescription drug is going to get restricted or outlawed eventually in the United States. Right? So, you have to understand this. Hey, they are mostly scammed. And I'm not saying a handful of single-use supplements aren't beneficial, but you know, we we see this with um both the the healthosphere and with the the fitness people because if you look um before we even get into the the bodybuilding type personalities, you go look at all the healthosphere. And I think people forget when I when I rag on supplements, I'm not just talking about uh the ones for for bodybuilding or athletic type purposes. I'm talking about even the bigger scam because that's a smaller industry. And I think people forget that. I bet you the muscle building in all the the body composition stuff is probably only 20% of supplement sales if that. Okay. The health stuff massive. all these people with various chronic health problems and I see all these little minor influencers in the health sphere all online on social media. So I think a lot of people who watch my videos are thinking I'm only talking about you know the the bodybuilding guys. I'm not I'm talking about these people who are who are out here telling you that this supplement over here will help you with your alcoholism. That's a whole one. I have AI have a friend right now struggling with his own drinking and he knows, you know, I'm obviously a fitness guy, too, and he linked me something the other day saying, "Hey, man. This whole little proprietary mix they're saying can help me replace alcohol. I'm just worried that it might be addictive also, you know, and I know I need to I need to get my drinking under control, but they're selling this product. I just don't want to get addicted to this blend also of whatever a kaiberries and whatever crap was in it." Okay, that company is literally trying to do that and there were influencers pushing it who he saw saying, "Hey, this will help you with your your your drinking." Do we understand how evil that is? Do you understand how evil those are marketing that? Like for me, as someone who is almost seven years sober, I look at that and go, there's a special place in hell for those A special place in hell. people selling you their supplements. This will help with your irritable bowel syndrome. This will this will help with your Crohn's disease. This will help with your, you know, whatever various medical issues. Do we understand the level of scam? And I mean, they still push the same scams that have been debunked all the time, too. We still to this day, oh, if you just mega dose all this vitamin C and we got this whole vitamin C bear supplement, it'll do. Do we not understand that? What did what did the best doctors been saying forever? I've heard doctors saying over 20 years ago before there was a little more research, they're like, uh, mega dose in a single antioxidant by itself could actually cause cancer. Let's be clear. I've heard medical doctors propose this over 20 years ago who were like, um, no, that that in in a worst case that could cause cancerous tumors to start growing. That was their medical opinion. That's been research. Do we not realize that that high supplementing individual antioxidants outside of a matrix of of you know 30 of them together different ones creates imbalance in that whole system and yeah certain ones of them are linked to higher types of cancer of different type it'll usually be specific cancers like a lung cancer for vitamin E and so on do we understand this yet these people will still push this nonsense This is not based on actual science. And people say, "Well, you can't believe science." Really? The science that isolated this vitamin and is making it in a lab? Are you stupid? Because you have to be. You wouldn't even know what an antioxidant is without science. You wouldn't even know what a tumor is without science. Let let's just call it like it is, guys. Let's be realistic here. What are we talking about? What are we talking about? Think about this for a minute. But all these people, they push all this stuff. They're scam artists. Every last one of them. And again, I'll say the same thing with all these guys pushing the supplements and selling them. They're fake. They're all on drugs. Just they all use. So we go to the bodybuilding guys. They're all on steroids. All of them. And then they're telling you, "Oh, here are the supplement helpful, you know, just stop." And now a lot of them are getting into weird selling you weird expensive devices, chest expanders and stuff. No, man. How about you just admit it was uh Tren and Anadrol that did that? Selling you a chest expander. Now, this is really what you need right here. Some expensive goofball device. It's all just to sell you crap. I mean, we're at a point where, oh, we need this advanced programming app. I'm going to sell you this app at this right. And it's for really advanced program, not even an individualized based on completely unproven crazy theories on periodization. People selling you devices you don't need. I get it. I know some people feel that way about the reverse hyper, but I don't never made a penny off of them. I simply found it to be absurdly useful for myself and my clients, and I have bought one. It's at least a real piece of training equipment with real history behind it. Um, and I get that not everyone agrees with that. Fine. But setting those aside, there's a there's a lot of garbage being sold. And the supplements is the tip of the iceberg. Again, how many of these guys Oh, I just count my macros. I just get shredded and they're literally working in and pinning their stupid Quest bars. Do you not understand? That's garbage junk food. That's just junk food. Look at the ingredients [clears throat] list. That's just junk food. Are you really going to promote that as as fitness? Well, I got lean doing it because you have a low appetite and you use fat burning drugs. Yeah, it's because you eat the the Quest cookie bars and you count your macros. It's totally nothing to do with the cle, the trend, the nicotine. It has nothing to do with any of that. No. No. As you count your macros and then you pimp these Quest cookie bars that you're then sponsored by. Do we do we grasp that these people are all scum? They're literally scum. They're selling you garbage. You'd be one thing if it was a service that you actually benefited from, but it's not. And in many cases, it's actually harmful. I'm just going to call it like it is. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.