Most people do not train hard enough. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, and again, when I make that statement, I'm not saying train and get injured. Not what we're saying. Um, but I mean, if we look at various uh bodybuilders in the past, everyone from Mensor to Dorian Yates, they would tell you the same thing. Martin Burkham used to say the same thing who got people amazing results in like 30 45 minutes three times a week had a phenomenal physique himself got people jacked doing that stuff and shredded because of his dietary approaches uh all the way up to I've even seen I've even seen Greg Ducet um a couple years ago saying look just train harder actually it was more than that was probably like five years ago I heard him say that in a conversation it's like people just don't train hard enough they don't go to failure Um, and I'm not saying we need to go to failure on a squat always, but I think that's that's a dead giveaway. You ever taken a set of squats to failure? And I mean a heavy set of squats, I don't mean, oh, you did, you know, uh, 135. I'm talking about some actual weight on the bar and actually taking it till you get stapled to the pins. Okay? If you've never done that, you've never trained hard. You ever done a set of Widowmaker squats? And I think that's the big difference. One of the things I've seen um younger generations versus uh OG guys and and I think people need to remember the OG guys use less stuff and and I think a lot of what we see today does come down to uh guys just relying too heavily on drugs for everything using way more drugs than previous generations and just training lazy. And and I'm talking even guys who don't compete. I've seen guys out there who don't compete who use uh drug doses that exceed what pro bodybuilders were using say in the 80s and 90s. Like the the pro bodybuilders use milder stacks than guys I see sometimes who don't even compete. They're just taking a few pictures for Instagram. Okay. Talking IFBB pros up on the Olympia stage using less drugs than some of these guys. Um, so, so that's a difference. So, guys trained harder in some previous generations and we saw we saw a lot of it and I observed that difference too. And I think part of it though is not that a certain hardcore segment of the community doesn't train hard. It's that training has become normalized. Meaning 25 years ago, say when I was new to the game, there weren't many people who worked out. So if you were there, it was already hardcore. Only people with a fairly hardcore mindset were even showing up trying to get jacked and everyone who who was around you kind of motivated you and pushed you to train harder, right? It was just an expectation. Um, now it's become more normalized. Gyms are extremely popular. Health is very popular. Fitness is very popular, right? It's been normalized. probably a hundred times as many people in the US probably go to a gym regularly and and work out and have a gym membership than say when I started. So it's more mainstream and so accordingly people just don't train as hard and I've noticed again a lot of these people uh they promote not training art right a lot of evidence-based people uh and so on because they can market that oh you don't need to go to failure you don't need to to do all these limit says we can leave three reps in reserve and you'll get all your possible gains just do more volume right um and the same thing like if you guys notice one of my testimonials Calvin There was a screenshot I put up on all my platforms some time back. He came to me and he was one of those guys. He thought he was training hard and he wasn't. And and I told him flat out, "You're simply not training hard enough." Okay? He was wondering why he was stuck. And then all of a sudden, he starts gaining muscle. Then he cut a little later, got leaner, ripped, and got the best physique of his life after being stalled for quite some time. But I mean, it was the case of his training was was lazy. And he admitted that. I can say that specifically and it's not making fun of him because I told him straight up, you're you're training like a You're you're training like a And he took it to heart and we corrected it and I got him in some some calls while he was working out and talked him through it and start he started finding out he had five, six reps still in the tank when he thought he had nothing left. Okay? And he had been training like that for years and little goofball stuff. Well, you know, instead of building it, he couldn't even get his calves to grow. So, instead of doing some heavy barbell calf raises, he was just doing a one leg dumbbell with no real weight, you know, just getting a pump, everything. He was just getting a pump. Nothing was being taken that hard. And so, he was wasn't getting stronger, wasn't getting bigger. And and that's what I mean by not training hard. Dudes, dudes are leaving way too many reps in the tank. Way too many reps. And it would be fine if they were moving real big weight and getting stronger. You know, there's a point we could go, okay, so maybe you had some reps in the tank, but you know, you're benching three plates for reps and squatting four plates for reps. Okay, pro probably. Does it matter though? As long as you're progressing to that point, you're going to be pretty big. Nobody's small who's doing that sort of weight on those big movements, especially for rep work. So, you know, but when you're you're not strong, you know that you're just not training hard. You know, you're just you're not training hard. And I see it all the time. B Martin Martin Berkin called it too, not that that many years ago. Back when I was early in doing this with the efferonditis, I see weak people, men or Dorian, Dante Trudeell, they all called it and they're like, "Guys, you have to get strong on your rep work. You got to get sets very close to failure, taken to failure." And I'm not saying everything has to be to failure, okay? I get it. squats and deadlifts. You may not always wanting to be taking those to failure, but you need to be close. You know, be within a rep. Be within a rep. But other stuff, you know, like you see me doing some plate front raises here, right? We do a little rest pause. He gets really tired burning. Rest a couple seconds and keep going. Rest a second. Get a breather. Keep grinding through. You know, again, guys would be shocked how many more reps they have with just a little bit of breather sometimes. Sometimes just stopping for a moment. Take one deep breath. There are times when guys are like, "Oh, I'm at failure." They stop. Take one deep breath. Half second, one second rest. Grind out three more reps. Think they've reached failure. Take another breath. They grind out another rep. Right? It's kind of like you see happening there, right? I took a breather. Felt like it was at failure. And I cranked out like six, seven more reps. That's what we're talking about. Sometimes it's that matter of just taking that breath. Thinking, "Oh, that's it. I don't have any more. Another deep breath. Half second pause." And then you have five more reps. Again, maybe that's not going to happen on a squat, but on all your your other stuff on a machine, on a single joint movement, yeah, it can every single time. And if you're not going to do those movements to fail your smaller stuff like that, there's no point in even doing it. Like, you're you're wasting your time. Just go do a weighted chin-up. Go do an overhead press. Stop. Just quit wasting your time with small movements at all if you're not going to push them out hard. It's a waste of time. So, people just don't train hard enough. And again, I'm not saying to use really bad form and jerk and swing and to get overused from excessive volume with it, but people need to train harder and they don't train hard enough. And I see it every day. I've been watching it every day for over a decade, especially now that training has become more and more normalized. People are not pushing progression always, and they're not pushing hard sets. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next