People built impressive physiques and incredible amounts of strength just fine before machines existed. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would uh chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you'd be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would also appreciate that so much. Let's get over to the topic here. Um, and I'm not saying some machines can't be useful. I mean, I own a reverse hyper. I like it. I have a belt squat machine. Not that I've been using my belt squat machine lately, but I have one, you know. But the thing is with this um this topic comes up and a lot of people act like and I've met people who are like, "Oh man, my favorite machine isn't isn't available." And and realistically, there is no machine that is going to hit any particular muscle more than free weights. Okay? Unless it's doing something unique like putting traction on the back like we get with a reverse hyper. So you have that instead of doing like a normal hyperextension, but barring something to where it is is creating some unique response. Um, you know, people have these strange ideas. Well, this machine just feels good. But I'm like, you could replicate that exact same thing with a dumbbell or a barbell or a body weight exercise, you know, whatever it is they're looking at. And don't get me wrong, I happen to like uh the hammer strength machines. like the hammer strength line of machines, I actually have always found them fairly comfortable. Um, when I used them and stuff in the past, I haven't used any in a really, really, really long time, but I I used them back in the day. I found that line of machines decent. I liked the dip machine and stuff, but I also loved weighted dips, weighted dips with chains, weighted dips with plates. So when we get to those topics, you know, the thing that we have to think about is can do do these machines really do anything that we can't achieve with a freeway? The answer is no. So then we ask, well, why did they exist? Well, they got popularized by author Jones who created whole systems of training to sell his machines and he he created problems that didn't exist. Well, you know, I do this CAM because the strength curve is uneven. Well, all that's happened with that is that we know that since the strength curve is uneven uh due to the moment arms oftent times on free weights, that usually means that the most muscle is built in the bottom, but it doesn't mean you're not building muscle at the top once you start getting close to failure and you're still um you know achieving that tension at the bottom, you know. So, again, this idea that if you don't have that a pull-up here, for example, is not going to build really big lats. You saw my lats right there as I'm walking up to it. You saw my lats as I'm walking up to a pull-up. Really, a weighted pull-up builds lats perfectly well. And there's nothing special about any type of machine or pull down machine or row machine that's going to do anything in terms of the development. You can't do with a pull-up or a barbell row. So, you go over though and you you look at stuff like Author Jones, he did it for marketing. He was a businessman. all his stuff that he wrote, his principles, they were about business. He wasn't a bodybuilder. Like he didn't even look like he lifted. So he he promoted a lot of stuff as a business. And you know what? When he sold his company later for a profit, this whole Nautilus company, he walked away from it. He just kind of walked away. And he kind of almost rejected some of the nonsense. He didn't continue to promote all his stuff that he promoted. He's like, "Ah, I made my money." It was business for him. It wasn't about any of that. Now, I'm not saying he didn't have some pretty well-designed machines, okay? Pretty well engineered, pretty well designed to really look at some curves and stuff. I mean, he built some pretty good machines, all things considered. Uh, some of them are still popular to this day, some of his old school stuff, but they didn't bring anything. There's no strength curve. You're not getting somewhere with a free weight. Okay? And the same thing people get get into the idea that, well, machines have less injury. Well, no, they have less of a learning curve, but it's not necessarily less injury. Haven't we watched a bunch of influencers get hurt on machines? Haven't we seen a bunch of them pull pecs, injure their shoulders, all sorts of stuff still on machines? Right. Even locked in that that plane of motion. Okay. Have we seen Smith machines cause the death of a few people? Have we seen people pretty much decapitated and stuff by Smith machines? Yeah. We just going to really pretend machines are just automatically safe because they're in a fixed track. I don't think so. You can make the case that they're they may put you into some bad angles that are not good. All right. Now, the only argument, well, the easier learning curve older people and stuff, uh, but you know, are we trying to going to pretend that older people are incompetent and they can't use a dumbbell or a barbell or can't be taught to even if they have to start lighter? We've seen elderly people get taught how to do back squats. We've seen 50some year old people be taught to do back squats and then get over and do barbell back squats and they're doing them proficiently and adding weight to a bar within a matter of weeks or months. I mean, they're competent to do this. Okay? I mean, realistically, I've met plenty of people who can train with good form and can learn exercises just fine. Um, and I've seen coaches and other people point this out who are who are not functioning at an average level cognitively. Okay? There are people who have special needs whose maybe their cognitive ability and stuff isn't at a at a normal average level, who are still taught how to perform these basic exercises correctly. These these movements are not so difficult that a person has to be, you know, extremely intelligent to be taught them quickly. Okay? They're relatively easy to learn. I get some movements are more difficult. Obviously, something like learning to do your triple extension on a clean or a snatch, but we're not telling people to do most of this stuff. But even then, have people who are not necessarily super bright certainly become proficient at those movements? They have. So again, this idea, well, it's just an easier but it's not that difficult, guys. It's not that difficult to learn some basic principles and learn to lift weights. And here's the thing. If that was our excuse, then no one who knows how to lift would even be messing with them. They wouldn't say, "Well, I need this special machine." But you don't. Okay? There's no head or function of any muscle that you have that can't be worked with these things. And people proved it way back in the day. You go back and you look even at the the 50s and 60s and 70s, we saw tons of impressive physiques from people who literally had nothing but barbells, dumbbells, racks, dipping bars, pull-up bars, sometimes maybe a couple other little minor stuff. And they all managed to get great results. They learned to just use the equipment they had. Now, people say, "But it's available, so you might as well." Well, if you think you need it, I'm not going to tell you, hey, you know, if you really like that machine to not use it. But to pretend, and a lot of people do this, I can't get by without these machines. Or they want to write programs for people to have all these machines or they're they're an influencer with followers and they want to teach. And it's like, so pretty much only people who go to a fully equipped gym with the machines you use are really going to follow what you do. Come on, just stop. Right? People got great results on barbells and dumbbells and bodyweight exercises for generations. Many of them far better than the people putting out information. Far better than many of you listening achieved. They did it just fine. Right? And that's the point I'm making that none of this stuff is is a requirement. Even if you do like an occasional school, okay, fair. I'm not going to knock that. But let's not pretend that it's doing anything you couldn't already do with free weights. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.