People want more exercises out of boredom. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop a comment down below. I'd appreciate it so much. Um, people love to pretend that they pick all these different exercises and new exercises uh because they believe there's there's evidence or reason or physiology that it's going to make a muscle grow more effectively. And the reality is it's it's just not true. People are bored. That's it. That is the only reason. And I would suggest that um maybe you're training for the wrong reasons. You know, if that's the issue, I'm going to go into this briefly, but here's what I'm going to say. Like if you want excitement, you can go to the movies. Like go watch an action movie. Go watch an action movie. I don't get excited when I squat 500 pounds. Like, it's it's we're just lifting weights, guys. This becomes your lifestyle. And I don't know why people don't grasp this. And it's usually because they're kids. Like, you're 23 years old and and and have whims and everything else. That's fine. I get it. I get it. But you're also being stupid. Okay. Training is is a way of life, right? Training is a way of life. And I'm saying that as a guy who well deep into his late 40s, you you guys have watched me squat and deadlift in 600 pound range depending on what I weigh, right? You see me bench 365 as an old man. Like I I train hard like it's not it's not like um you know I don't train hard. I definitely do. But this is a way of life. Okay. It's a way of life and people get so caught up in the excitement and the new because they need novelty. It's we we have a society we have a society today to where everything's about that dopamine hit and so they need the you know I'll get that with younger clients man clients in their 20s. Hey coach I've been on the same routine for months. Um, bro, you can run the same routine for 17 years if you want to. Okay. And that's part of the the the benefits of conjugate. You know, one of the things I will give conjugate credit for and Louis Simmons always said that for the people who need excitement and new all the time, there's it's psychological and we need to understand that most of conjugate is not is not even necessarily physical benefits. It's psychological and I realized that a long time ago for people who need that psychology. But you could do the same supplemental list for 17 years straight on conjugate and just rotate your max work and then guess what? There's all your excitement. There's all your psychology. But what I would suggest to people who are not that personality type who you're not doing a system like that because you're trying to be at at the world level in strength sports or something. You just want to get jacked and strong. Okay? You you don't you don't need all that. You need to learn to just come in and do the basic stuff and understand that's a way of life. And that's the funny thing. Boredom works, doesn't it? the mo and you'll see some of the best coaches out there say this all the time. They're like, "Sorry guys, the most effective fitness strategies are boring and repetitive." Like, repetitive works. Do you come in and do the same six or seven exercises for years on end and just keep growing year after year after year, right? You can eat the same basic foods and get super super fit. you know, as I'm getting leaner now and people noticing, I'm I'm a mostly steak and other meat, you know, eggs, avocados, piles of vegetables, dairy. That's what I live on right now. Um, but it and and it's not boring to me, but it's the same with food. Chicken, rice, broccoli. Oh, that's boring. But it does it work? Yeah. Works extremely well. Works extremely well. basic programs get really strong at about six exercises. Will you be jacked? Yeah, if you put in enough work, but that's the thing people don't understand. It's about patience. It's about lifestyle. It's about putting in the work. Okay? And I always tell people, get really strong at all these basic movements. Put in the work for 10 years and you'll be jacked. Be jacked, you'll be dense everything else, right? That's reality. And anything you're seeing beyond that is just drugs and genetics in people. Really is like most of what what people are observing in these people they adore is drugs and genetics. Their training is not anything special right often times is it's it's pretty subpar you know all things considered. Not saying there there aren't clues found in success but it's it's not their exercise selection. It's the, you know, six grams of steroids plus growth hormone and insulin and IGF-1 here. Just saying. But I digress back over to that point. Boring works. And here's here's what I'm going to say. Does anybody really think that dips don't build your pecs? Like no, no, really. Biomechanically, it's a full range of motion dip with a stretch at the bottom and a forward lean or a wide grip bench press not build the entire chest. Like, did anyone ever historically struggle to build a great chest? Even in the pre-steroid era, the 50s, 60s, you go look at those guys. That's stuff they did. Did they build massive chests? Yeah. Did they build massive shoulders off overhead pressing? Yeah. Could they just come in and do a barbell curl or an incline curl? Did they and have great biceps? Yes. In fact, those were were the two two biggest exercises done, right? In those older eras, plenty of guys with the best biceps, that's that was what they built them with, barbell curls and the dumbbell incline curls, And and that's the point we're going to make. Does anyone out there really think just a normal barbell curl done correctly to failure isn't going to maximize biceps? Like, I mean, really and truly, do you really and truly think that some part of your bicep is not being stimulated fully by that? If you really think that, you're a clown. No. People like variety because they're bored. Okay, they're bored. That's it. It's not because it's more effective. And that's the point I would make. It's not always beneficial to change these things. And I get people like, "But I'm getting stale." Well, who cares? Just come in and put in the work. Anyways, I mean, sure, we can do stuff to make it more exciting. But you need to understand you're only changing stuff because you're bored. You may be reducing effectiveness by doing it. And I think that's the problem I've always pointed out. Basic exercises on normal full body programs have always worked. They've always worked. The only problem some people get bored with it. But the the question I would ask and I've known people who for 10 years now I know someone right now for 10 years and they have a phenomenal physique but they like to do they're a very boring person in their own way. They like pattern. They like uh repetition. They're like, "I'm going to just do the same exercises every workout. I I just eat healthy, clean foods. I don't change my meals much." They have a phenomenal physique and made a phenomenal transformation. Why? Because they've realized they don't need exciting. You don't need exciting. You need repetition. You need consistency. That's it.