You're going to regret lifting all that heavy weight one day. I'm 48 now. Here's my best lifts at the start of the video from this year at the age of 48. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below. Be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that so much. Thank you. So you guys see through here you see a pretty much a flat back uh two second pause bench with flat heels uh with 335. You see a 500 back squat with just a belt and shorts on and then a 585 nice raw deadlift again just a belt. Now is this the greatest lifts in the world? No. Am I like the greatest lifter ever of all time? No, of course not. But I'm 48 years old doing these. I'm cutting now. So, I'm going to be obviously lighter and lighter. Um, I don't regret this. There's a lot of things I regret in life, but lifting heavy has never been one of them. You know, it's funny like, dude, I could make a list of things that I have regretted. And most of it, a big pretty big chunk of it is stuff I've done online on YouTube and other stuff actually. Like some of my worst mistakes ever in my entire life were just dumb stuff I did on YouTube or on video, you know, those are actually most of my greatest regrets and mistakes in life. Um, but there's other things, personal things, maybe women I shouldn't have gotten involved with. You know, certain people or friends I shouldn't have had in my circle. Yeah, there have been things I regret, right? I I regret spending too much time playing video games sometimes when I was younger. Okay, there's a regret. I regret playing too many video games. I regret couple girls I should not have got involved in relationships with. I regret some of those things. But never have I regretted lifting heavy, you know, and people have these strange strange ludicrous ideas. Well, you know, because you're just going to get hurt. Well, why is there some assumption that you're going to get hurt? I mean, I get it. If you're lifting 800, 900, 1,000 lbs, right? Crazy, crazy numbers. You guys have never seen me bench, at least here in my 40s, I've never benched over 365. The heaviest I've deadlifted is 635. Heaviest I've ever had on my back for any type of squat was the Cambridge bar, which was 605. They're big numbers, you know, but it's not the crazy the most extreme stuff you see, and a lot of those guys don't get hurt. So, why is there this this strange assumption people are like, "You're going to get hurt." You know, and here's what I'm going to say. Maybe this is cuz people need to hire me. I'm just going to throw it out there. Yeah, people need to hire me then. Like, if guys are out here going, "Well, this guy or my trainer got hurt." Really? The guy who's training you got hurt lifting those sort of weights? Like permanently injured? He got permanently injured with a 315 bench. I'm not gonna name names, but you guys remember at least one tuber who had a massive following who got hurt with a 315 bench. Tore both of his pecs. It's like, are you guys kidding me? He was younger than I am when he did that. Tore this backs. Had a big audience people listening to this guy, you know? So, it's like seen people get hurt with machines or putting out information. You know what, guys? Maybe you're getting bad advice. And the people who are like, "Well, I got hurt lifting less." Well, maybe your programming was bad. Maybe your technique was bad. Maybe maybe you didn't build up your connective tissue and muscles correctly. Because guys, lifting heavy, moderately heavy weight like this, that's, you know, with good form is not that dangerous. You know what's dangerous is ego lifting. What's dangerous is wearing knee wraps. You know what's dangerous is is again putting anything on to where it lets you cheat and you can't feel stuff. Super tight elbow sleeve, super tight knee sleeves. sometimes of definitely knee wraps, elbow wraps. Yeah, that's dangerous. Like if you're lifting crazy heavy weights all wrapped up like a mummy, I think that that's dangerous. But just lifting heavy weights, right? And I may not even hit those those big lifts again. Like where you see I just seen me hit here because I'm cutting now. I may never pass those weights again. It's possible that those may be it. I might not ever pull more than 585 again. I might never pull more than 500 again. squat more than 500. I might not bench more than 330, 340 again. We It may not happen, especially if I keep trimming down super ripped, right? Okay. But so what? I'll still lift big weights. And I'm never going to regret it. Why would we regret it? We don't get hurt. Like, you guys don't see me getting hurt doing that stuff. None of those lifts that I did there felt like injuries. Nothing hurt. Everything felt good. They felt tight. And that's the thing. Notice there's no ego lifting. They're all smooth, right? Even the bench press, two count pauses, no bouncing, good control, had a good decent grip, you know, just inside the rings. So, nothing excessive, no big arch. You know guys, just use good form, smooth lifts, train correctly, program correctly, watch your fatigue management, eat good so that you have better inflammation control in your body. Like lifting heavy is not as dangerous as people make it out to be. lifting like a clown is. Okay. Ego lifting, slinging around big weights with bad form. Sure. Particularly if they're really drug induced weights. Like, you know, if it's 200 lbs more on the bar than you would ever be able to lift without taking anything and then you're using bad form on top of it, that's a recipe for disaster. And how often though are these injuries guys are getting due to this the specific substances they're using? Come on, guys. Let's not pretend that's not a factor, but lifting heavy is not inherently dangerous and it is not on the list of things that I regret. And again, if I have people, if you're out here and you are worried that you're going to get hurt lifting heavy, you should probably get coaching then. Like if you if it's a real concern, you really think it's something you're going to get hurt doing, you probably don't know enough to train yourself, then this is why I offer my services. Hire me. I'll sort you out. will keep you in a better place if you'll listen. I occasionally get clients who they won't listen. I'll tell them to do stuff. I'll tell them to change something with their form, tell them not to do something. They'll do it anyways and they'll pull something. But then it it almost always comes back to they were doing the thing that I specifically told them not to do. And someone says, "Well, you could get no because I told them not to do it." And that's in writing. It's usually in text and it's in messenger. Yeah. You see, that wouldn't fly. I literally told them not to do it. And I told him to stop doing it three times. Okay. Train correctly. Train with intent. Avoid overuse. Take care of your health, your tendons. Eat a good diet. Get rest. You're doing these things. Lifting heavy within your limitations is not dangerous. And people say, "Well, just random stuff happens." Very rarely. Very rarely. There's almost always warning signs. And I and I have some friends who say that like, "Well, this" and I'm like, "Yeah, but you use knee wraps." That is in in and of itself way more dangerous. It's not the heavy lifting entirely that got you. It's those knee wraps. And I tell guys this, but that's not They're not hurt because they're lifting heavy within their means. All right? There's an enormous difference. Enormous difference. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.