Have you tried everything to lose weight and failed? Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Uh but a quick reminder if you guys would click like down below, I would appreciate it. Uh please follow me or subscribe if you aren't already and drop me a comment down below. I would appreciate that. Thank you so much. All right. When I make these statements, um I'm going to be harsh, but I'm also coming from a place of love and experience. You guys will see some of my loose skin a little bit in here. I lost 150 pounds when I was younger. Yes, I know I'm this almost 50 year old dude throwing around 5 600 lb all the time, you know, at a at a healthy body fat. Um, but that's not where I was when I was younger. When I was 20 years old, I was over 300 lb. So, just an FYI, I have been through this. I do know the struggles. Um, yes, I'm a coach now, but I wasn't a coach back then. And I had to learn a lot of it the hard way. Um, and yeah, it was hard. Was hard, especially with no guidance. Here's the thing that I'm going to say to people. This is why they run into problems. Like, I know it's a red flag right up front when someone says, "I've tried everything." Like, dude, you're you're only 32 years old. You see what I'm about to say? Really? you tried every single effective approach for three years straight. You're only 32. Mathematically, this is not possible. And where people are going to laugh and go, "Yeah, okay. You you got me." All right. Yeah, you didn't try everything. Um, what you didn't try, what you didn't try was doing what actually works and sticking it out for three to five years straight with no deviation. Because that would be trying something. Plenty of people have successfully lost 100 pounds, 150, 200 pounds. I have clients who have. I have. Oh, it's it's possible. Here's the thing. You didn't do what we did or else you would have been successful. So, you can't say you tried everything because if you had done what any of us had done, you would be there. So, you didn't actually try any of that. Here's what people mean by trying everything. And this is this is where they go wrong. They tried a fat diet for a month. Then they tried another fat diet for a month. They did this crash day. They did this quick weight loss method that someone sold number some quack put in a book. Instead of looking at the science of fat loss, looking at the actual methods of people who have been successful, right, and who have maintained uh lower body fats, I mean like straight up, take me for example. Gee, guys, I work out five, six days a week still. I eat a really clean diet. I don't eat a fat diet. I mean, you could look at my food. It's like, this dude eats a lot of lot of chicken, brown rice, and sweet potatoes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I do. Um, but I eat a lot of them. I have a really high energy needs. I'm 220 pounds right now. I've been 170 after I lost weight when I was younger. Um, I've put on some muscle since then. Uh, but yeah, 25 years I put on a little muscle. Uh, but but back over to the point, we lift weights, we do a bit of cardio, we eat super clean, we eat high protein, we don't eat junk food. Okay, I can tell you right now flexible dieting and returning to your old patterns after you do a crash diet. If you've ever been really really overweight like I have and a lot of other people like really overweight, what do we mean by that? Women topping 220 plus, men 300 plus, that's what we mean. You you've been in that category, you've been breathed that rare air, less rare these days in America. Uh you can't do stuff like that. Sorry, you can't flexible dieting and fit your macros and not balloon back up 50 pounds. I'm sorry. It's not going to happen. Don't let any clown convince you. You have to eat clean. All right. And clean doesn't mean a crash diet. I followed the the carnaptor all steak and butter diet. Okay. Well, now you just ruined your GI tract and your arteries and uh your gut flora. I did whatever crash that had to stop. If it's got a name other than we call it then of a bro diet, maybe all these bodybuilding bros live on chicken and chicken, rice, and vegetables. Yeah. Okay. Or similar type foods. Okay. Unless it's a diet called like the bro diet, which is used successfully to get people down to emaciated level body fats where you can see every muscle and tendon in their body for a bodybuilding show. Yeah. Then if it's got a name, it's a fat diet. Okay? Carnivore, certain keto can be. I'm not saying low carb can't be effective, but when we start giving specific names, vegan, South Beach, zone, you know, all these different diets, right? If it has a name, it's a fat diet. Just stop. You need to be living on whole foods, balanced foods. You need to track your calories probably. Okay, that's the other thing too when we say tracking your calories. I tried counting my calories. It didn't work. What do you mean it didn't work? Because you ate garbage and you ate junk food instead of a whole healthy foods diet and you got really, really, really hungry because 1,800 calories of junk food will fit in like one bowl for the whole day. That's everything you can have. Had you done brown rice and chicken and sweet potatoes. I'm just saying using those as examples, you'd have been eating about 10 times as much food. You wouldn't have been as hungry. You wouldn't have failed. You would have felt better. Okay? And that's what we mean. People try fat diets for a month or crash very rapid weight loss method. They regain the weight. What they're they're not doing is maybe I should just change my lifestyle habits and focus on eating healthy whole foods. Okay, that doesn't mean stuff that comes in a box that's listed and marketed as healthy. Single ingredient foods, right? Comes in a box, it's not a whole food. Brown rice is a whole food. Chicken's whole food. Steak's a whole food. Eggs are a whole food. Broccoli's a whole food. See where we're going with these are really easy. Bread is not a whole food. Cereal is not a whole food. Butter is not a whole food. Just any any actual just processed fat of any type. Just added fats. butters, oils. I don't care how healthy olive oil is. Dumping olive oil all over your food is going to keep you fat. Hey, you're going to get some great polyphenols and antioxidants, but you're still going to get a ton of hyper palatable fat calories. You're still going to be overweight, but you'll be a little healthier. All right, whole foods, guys. Lots of protein. Lift weights. Increase your activity level. Do it for the next three to five years. Don't miss workouts. Quit cheating on your diet. Eat healthy foods. Eat clean foods. Notice I said whole foods. Doesn't mean healthy TM was been marketed to you by some company, right? Only one company makes this specific food. This cereal. Yeah, that's a problem. Go. So, go get some oats and add some fruit and protein powder to it or some Greek yogurt done. All right, guys. That's that's what works. Tracking your intake, eating whole foods, lifting weights, being consistent for years. That's how you lose 100 pounds and keep it off. That is what works. And if you didn't try that, then you didn't try everything. Right, guys? But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.