Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about why it makes sense to focus on around five big exercises and to put most of your efforts into those. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. Um, all right, a few things to think about here. uh and I think this is when we look closely at the data, we look closely at the way humans respond to hypertrophy training. I think the the answer is pretty overwhelmingly obvious that progressive overload. Uh progressive overload is the primary driver and mechanical tension is the primary driver of hypertrophy. There's a reason why even in very low volume studies when people train to failure they get phenomenal muscle growth like this has been seen repeatedly you know and I don't know why people are in denial of this data uh like like studies that we've looked at even on trained women right have the highest volume tolerance uh again slowest growth and if they're already re trained already and they're squatting like a 100 kilos we've seen studies on this where we saw really robust muscle growth and doing six sets of squats a week to failure like tremendous muscle growth in women doing that. So we need to understand that progressive overload is the primary driver of hypertrophy. And I think this has been confused because of such massive drug use in the modern era. so many people able to train really lazy and still get phenomenal results that people will say things like well you know there's different pathways to do this but there there really isn't because at a certain threshold all more volume does is beat you up and and I've seen countless examples this is why I reject these schools of thought and some of these strange evidence-based circles to where um they will say things like well look we have all these studies 20 30 40 uh sets per muscle group and and they made the most results and it's like well here's two problems with that nonsense. Number one, what happens when we do this in the real world? Nobody gets jacked without steroids doing this. Literally nobody. It's almost non-existent. We see tons of really, really small guys who struggle. And I've seen this as a coach repeatedly. Number two, we have entire circles of research on the other end that show, yeah, doing more than about 10 sets a week reduced muscle growth. Have we not had multiple studies on trained lifters that found that exceeding 10 sets a week caused a less muscle growth? Have we not? Is anyone in denial of this fact? Multiple studies that 15 causes less muscle growth than 10. 20 caused less than 15. And in some studies, as few as five sets a week on some muscle groups and lifters caused the most muscle growth if they were taken to failure. All right? So, you see where we're going with this and it's and it's understood progressive overload is king. So, that being said, the thing is with progressive overload, uh, what creates that? Well, a lot of it has to do with neural drive. It has to do with technique. So, here's what I'm saying. [snorts] And I'm not saying you have to pick the same five exercises. You're going to see through this video. I'm personally, this is just what I'm focusing on at the moment. Um, high bar squats, conventional deadlifts, wide grip bench press, weighted pull-ups with a closed grip, and weighted dips. Right? That's my five at the moment. That's my five. Okay? And it's not saying that's the only thing I do. I obviously do some curls and laterals and reverse hypers and and you know sometimes my belt squat like I do other stuff sometimes some tricep extensions I still do other things but my focus is on these and obviously some type of curl all the time but I'll change the curl up but you see the thing that we have to think about of why it makes sense to stick to this is progressive overload has also a neural drive and a motor unit learning component. And if we are focused really heavily on a handful of lifts and most of our efforts go into those lifts, we're going to maximize our technique. We're going to maximize our motor unit learning towards those lifts. And it that might seem like a minor thing, but it adds up over time. And again, I'm not saying you couldn't change these every 12 weeks. So, let me be clear. I'm not saying it has to be this way year round. You can be, it can be the exact same movements year round, but what I'm saying is it makes sense for an extended period of time, 10, 12 weeks or so, to put your efforts into very similar movements. And am I saying you can't occasionally have a workout where you change it? No, of course not. If you want to go closer grip bench one day instead of wider grip, by all means, you know, but in my case, I do these three days a week, you know. Um, I do full body three day a week. And so I do the I start my workouts tends to be with these exercises. Okay? And again, if you're worried about overuse, that's always our our counterargument here is going to be the overuse. Well, you could change them every 10 or 12 weeks, right? So So if you're concerned and you're having overuse, change your pull-up grip. If you're doing a closed grip, do wide grip. Go to a neutral grip. Do whatever. You see where we're going with that? You can change the movement and then progress on a new variation. But the thing is, if you spend a considerable period of time doing this, you're going to get better carryover. And why does that matter? Well, because if we're doing bigger exercises, and we need to be clear, bigger exercises are going to have the most hypertrophic potential. And people say, "Well, what about if I need a little more and I don't I want to cut some others out?" Well, you could do a finisher. Let me be clear. So, if you feel like the pull-up or the chin-up isn't giving the biceps enough and you want to do a preacher curl or an incline curl or a barbell curl, well, go do so. There's no problem there. Okay? Not saying you can't do a finisher. Not saying you can't do a leg press or a belt squat after your back squats if you need a little more, but the point here is these big movements add the most muscle. And people want to argue that stabilizers don't grow. I'm going to disagree. You know, here's the crazy thing. The same people who will argue with you that stabilizers don't grow from these movements are the same people who want you to do endless chunk volume. Their argument that the biceps don't get because I give you a biceps a perfect example. Biceps are a stabilizer on all your presses, right? Your bench press, particularly a wide grip, your dips, like the biceps are a critical stabilizer. the rear delts, a lot of the upper back, those are all stabilizers there. You know, the argument that that they don't grow from it because they're not going to failure. You know, these same the same people will argue to do junk volume, not to failure for muscles claiming it's going to make it grow. I'm going to argue and say no, it's just adding additional work volume to them. There is going to be a little splashover. And I'm not saying it's going to be a primary. I'm not saying you're going to grow amazing biceps from bench pressing or dips, but you telling me it doesn't help. Telling me on your chin-ups and pull-ups that long head and upper chest activation that happens very powerfully on EMGs isn't contributing at all. I think it does to secondary stress. And I think it it does cause more overall muscle growth. And I think that's the point um of why it makes sense to focus on these big movements and to get proficient at them and build all the stabilizers also because it will make you bigger. Okay? It will make you bigger. All right? Particularly as you get strong at them. And I think this is what people forget with lighter weights. Maybe not. But what happens when you start getting really strong at these movements? Yeah, those muscles do get some extra stress and it probably is enough to elicit some muscle growth. So again, if we're focused on doing all, you know, five big movements, you know, pick five. I'm not saying you have to do the exact ones I pick. You know what? Maybe you want to do a zer squat or a front squat, um, you know, or something else. But I'm saying pick five big compounds. And when I say big compounds, I don't mean on a machine. Okay? care if it's a box squat, a back squat, a front squat. Okay, fine. But do a big heavy squat pattern movement. You should be doing some sort of heavy hip hinge. Should be doing some sort of pull up or row, you know, and if it's a row, in that case, a big movement, then it should be one standing. But the whole point here is that if you focus on about five, you can focus upon the learning the movement, which is going to give you better progression. That better progression is what's going to work everything, including all those stabilizers. But at the end of the day, our strength and our ability to continue to load movements to a respectable range of motion to high intensity levels either very close to muscle failure, to muscle failure, or even occasional extended sets like you see me doing on a few of these things, absolutely is absolutely going to give you the most bang for your buck in your training. And I think what people forget, you know, they want to they talk about all this endless volume, but if you train in this way, people like, but you can't do as much volume. If you're doing those five big exercises with any volume, you're not going to have energy for you don't have recovery for much left doing them really hard. Well, why do you care? Right? Why do you care? Let me put it this way, and this is going to throw people off and and give you an analogy. So, what if you had the ability at a job, but it really fatigued you and burned you out to make $500 an hour, $500 per hour at your job, but the work was so exhausting that you weren't able to do any real work afterwards other than something that paid almost nothing. And you say, "Well, I mean, that's well and good, but I could do a lot more work with this other job, this other work for $50 an hour. I could work more hours. You see where we're going with that? Okay. Sure. So, you could work more hours, but in in the three hours, you made $1,500 at the 500 an hour. I mean, realistically, to even make that same money at the $50 an hour, you couldn't do it in a whole day. There's not enough hours in the day. It doesn't make sense. People should be looking at this and saying, "Oh, well, yeah, we [snorts] got got the most possible benefit in a relatively short period of time." And it's not that it limited our ability. It's that it limits our ability to do more. We could maximize our gains and our progress in less time and just get it done and get in and train really hard on these big movements and then fill in the gaps, right? And the only reason the alternative even exists is because everyone uses ridiculous amounts of drugs today. All right? That is the only reason the other philosophy even has any any traction at all because otherwise everyone would be tiny who did it. They wouldn't be comparable. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.