Power lifters should train more like bodybuilders. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. If you guys would please give me a like down below, that would be greatly appreciated. If you aren't following or subscribed yet, please do so and drop me a comment down below. Um, and I have said this stuff many many times over the years. Uh, the same the same thing both directions. I've said a lot of bodybuilders, not all of them because a lot of them do already. a lot of the best in the world should train a little more like powerlters, meaning they should do some some heavy barbell work. Um, it'll improve their density and neural drive and everything. And I've also said that most powerlifters would do better to do most of their training like a bodybuilder. And let's let's look into a little bit of why. And I know sometimes this sounds like a broken record, but a lot of new people chime in here. They don't know this. Um, a lot of powerlters who focus almost entirely on their their heavy work with only a small amount of of say assistance type work, not even true accessory because we start talking u bodybuilding type training. We're talking about a lot of accessory work. Okay? A lot of high rep accessory work. We're talking eight plus reps, 10 plus reps. I mean, like if you watch this video here, everything I'm doing is 10 to 15 reps. You're going to see some good mornings. some belt squats, weighted dips, weighted pull-ups, all right, some tricep extensions, right? Every single thing here is 10 to 15 reps. So, this is this is literally what I'm talking about. And yes, there's even isolation work. Um, and and here's the thing. When you see the powerlters, people are like, but many powerlters have been successful on the other. They are, but they also get hurt. Okay? They get hurt and they also oftentimes don't look as jacked. They don't look as good and they have a higher injury rates. And I mean that injury rate, let's say you don't care about the other. All right, fine. But the injury rates is kind of a big deal. And it's not because lifting heavy is inherently dangerous. It's that lifting heavy too often with too much volume is dangerous. Okay, does that make sense? like that. There's nothing inherently dangerous about maxing out on a deadlift variation every week. If your form is good, you're not having overuse issues. Okay? And and that's what we mean. A max deadlift done correctly is not an inherently dangerous thing. The injury risk is really low. Okay? The injury risk is low. You know, you'll get people who will say nonsense like, "Well, I've seen even even a power lifter rip his biceps doing double overhand uh with straps on deadlift, which is also why I laugh at the mix grip being blamed. Elbow bend is to blame." It's like, "Yeah, but he didn't do a a deadlift correctly." Let me state that again. If he used correct technique, it would be impossible to rip a bicep in that scenario. It would be biomechanically impossible. Yet it still happens because he doesn't know what he's doing. He doesn't know how to deadlift. But he was pulling 700 pounds incorrectly. He doesn't know how to deadlift. Strength level still doesn't mean that you know how to do a lift correctly. It just means you're really really really really really strong. All right. So in in that in that context, let's let's look at a lot of that though. It's it's not dangerous. It's overuse. And maybe that could be a factor there also. It's overuse. It's beating your recovery up. And those lifters tend to break. And this is I've seen Louis Simmons point this out many, many times over the years that that western linear periodization, particularly the ultra high specificity, it breaks lifters. Like it injures them eventually. And and didn't we see that? Look how many people even on the tubes, other people can't can't even powerlift anymore who were really strong 10 years ago, 12 years ago. Now they can't bench 315. They can't squat 450. Are we serious? And they're younger than me, right? It's kind of a big deal. Kind of a big deal. It's a really big deal. So, so when we say training like a bodybuilder, what do we mean? We mean working multiple angles. We mean doing various rep ranges, right? Doing most of your work in the eight plus rep range, okay? And higher meaning like we don't mean just eight or nine. I'm saying eight is kind of like down to the the low end of that. I don't do a lot of stuff there these days. Um I do mostly 10 plus. uh you know so even for me outside of my max effort and dynamic effort work which is the barbell stuff almost all my training is 10 plus reps okay 10 to 12 is kind of my baseline where I'd like to spend most of my time uh with some stuff higher I do some 20 plus all right but I digress back over to the point u by doing so we build tissue we build support musculature right this is kind of a big deal also keeping in Mind guys, muscle mass increases strength. All right? Yes, fat can also, but muscle will increase strength way more than fat. Fat will not increase your deadlift by the way. It will increase your squat and your bench press through leverage advantage. Provable fact. But muscle tissue will always increase it. Like you increase primary movers, your lift goes up. You increase stabilizers, the lift becomes safer, more stable, more secure. Okay, that matters. It means things like being able to control the eentric correctly, right? Finding your I staying your ideal bar path. So what do I mean stabilizers? So for your bench press, things like your upper back, your biceps, your lats, those are stabilizers. Kind of a big deal. Uh for your squat, what do we mean stabilizers? your hamstrings, a lot of your back, a lot of your your musculature, your trunk, okay? It gives you more stable squat. Hamstrings will help stabilize the knee better, gives you better control of where you want to put your hips on the eentric. Uh, so again, building all these muscles up improves your lifts, improves joint stability, and it doesn't beat you up the same way. All right. So, so when we say this, I'm very serious. If you really want to play the long game, if you're serious about lifting really heavy for a lot of years, focusing more on bodybuilding type training really is going to get you further. And then for the heavy lifting, do the amount that you need, right? The amount that you need uh to get stronger. So even in conjugate type system like like I use and it's worked for decades. Um you're usually maxing out on one upper body and one lower body lift a week. That's it. Everything else is just speed work, dynamic work with light weights. And then you come in and just build everything up with hypertrophy type training like a bodybuilder. All right. Um and it works. You'll stay in the game longer. You'll hurt less. You'll be less beat up. You'll be just as strong. And you'll look good on top of it. You'll look a lot better. All right, this it's really the way to go. Trust me on this, guys, when I say this. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.