Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about why powerlifters have to stop being afraid of higher reps. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. Um, and drop me a comment. Thank you so much. All right, let's get over into the topic. Um, this is something that I've I've been saying for quite a few years at this point. Um, for quite a few years. Yes, heavy work should be a part of all of our training, right? Powerlifters obviously need to do work in the one to three rep range. We absolutely have to. Absolutely critical. We all understand this. We can make the case for even whether you want to do it year round or close to a meet max effort work starts to become very important. Heavy singles. However, we have oftentimes this phobia of higher reps. Now, we're even seeing we're seeing more of it in in some of the little bodybuilding circles and stuff. Even the machine guys, I don't want to do over six to eight reps. It's like, oh my god. Um whereas in you go to Westside, you go to look at any of of some of these highlevel highlevel world record level power lifters over here doing sets of 10 and 12 on their squats. West side doing tons of high rep stuff. all this bodybuilding type work, right? Conditioning work, everything else. Okay? And this should should tell people something. Again, Westside was the strongest gym in the world. They were doing tons of 10 and 20 rep sets on exercises. They were doing tons of sleds and GBP. Okay? Get in shape, get fit. Um, but the other thing is is even the rep work. You know, and people act like this is some strange idea, but even when you look historically, I mean, if you look at Melineev when he set that world record squat out of Russia, he was doing the whole phases of like 10 and 12 reps on the back squat. You watched Bill Casmmer, um, you know, back in the day with crazy high bench. He was one of the earlier guys to be benching like 600. Um, and of course he did World's Strongest Man and stuff, too. Was very successful at that. But then you're like, man, he's over here doing tons of 10 rep sets on benching. Okay? Right? And people have to understand this this idea. You cannot be afraid of these higher reps. They're going to make you stronger. And I think what people forget is that when you are really strong, the weights get heavy real quick. Okay? The weights get heavy real quick. um even for your work sets. And so the idea that you're going to come in and just beat lots of heavy work is not always going to work. It's going to work if you're a more intermediate lifter, a novice. I can have you live on fives and sixes just fine. Okay? We can live on fives and sixes, but you can't do that much of it. I mean, a perfect example like I think right here is something like a six rep set with 500 on the deadlift. Keep in mind, I'm almost 50 years old. Um, I can't come in and do this over and over. Now, can we argue I'm going to get an enormous hypertrophic response? Absolutely. You're going to grow from that. But stop and think about the the the total tonnage there in the workload. I can't just do that over and over. Okay? And ultimately, you're going to need the rep work to grow because what we have to remember muscle mass is is the biggest driver of your wonder max and of your strength. Size equals strength. And anyone who doesn't understand this um that's that almost needs to be its own topic for people who are not getting it and they're not understanding. Um maybe I should do a follow-up video up next on that. Size size absolutely equals strength potential. This isn't even a debatable topic. uh quite frankly to the contrary it's not even debatable but we know that we need to get bigger to get stronger. Okay, you're only going to do so much with technique and neural drive. You're going to have to gain muscle. The problem is it's too hard to gain muscle with tons and tons of heavy work. Um it just it beats you up, right? Does the heavy work help? Yeah, you can get big with heavy work. Don't get me wrong. You can absolutely stimulate maximum hypertrophy with lower reps. The problem is is that it does it does start to beat you up. Whereas in when we're doing high rep stuff like like right here, right? You saw me do that heavier set with 315, but then I'm going to do 225. It's like a 17 rep, 16 17. I'm not sure which one this is. Um, you know, something in that range. It's over 15 reps. Okay. This doesn't beat you up at all. Like your shoulders and stuff feel great. They feel fine. Everything feels great. you know, come in and do your rows, your pull-ups with 10 plus reps. You can do some of your squats with 10 reps. You know, your back down work, back squats, front squats. Okay. What do we get out of this? Well, it's just doesn't tax our structures of our body as much. It tends to be a lot more muscles muscular in nature. Now, the argument people make, yeah, but there's a lot of warm-up reps. You're not growing from the early reps. are like on a 15 rep set that probably the first eight or nine are not even causing any muscle growth and that's fair. But does that matter as long as we eventually get there? Okay, long as we get there. Like the only argument people have is is that well you have a bunch of reps that aren't stimulating growth. Okay, so why is this even a problem? And then and then uh corresp your your fat butt needs some cardio. Okay. And if you're so out of shape that doing, you know, 12 or 15s on a row is suddenly cardio. We got to talk about your conditioning. You're not healthy. You're not fit. And I think this is what a lot of it comes down to for a lot of power lifters is they all understand ultimately because they'll do high reps on a tricep extension all day long. How many powerlifts like, "Oh yeah, I'll do 20s on a road press down." No problem, man. You talk about doing it on a bench press or a closed grip bench or a row. Hell, even even a front squat. We're like, "Yeah, no, I'm not done. I'm out. But they know that the others get them bigger and they know it carries over. They don't want to do it on a big movement. They don't do it on a compound. Why? Because they're out of breath. They're out of shape. They can't handle the work capacity. And they know that it works. They know that it's so much easier on their joints and everything to just do a lot of a lot of their stuff with higher reps. Okay. the problem. They're out of shape. It's because so many of them fear cardio. They fear conditioning work because again, oh, it hurts gains or I don't need it. It's good for your health. It's good for your recovery, but also the work capacity. And I think this is a big problem, a lack of cardio, right? And I'm over here like, dude, we can do 12, 13 reps on weighted pull-ups. Why not just get them and just do them, you know? Look at my back. I got pretty dang good back. And this is why. But I digress. It's the lack of conditioning that makes them scared of the higher reps because all it's cardio. It shouldn't be. Why don't you get in shape? Get in shape. Do some conditioning or get used to the higher reps. And this is not a problem, guys. And we all know it works. We all know it'll help you get bigger while beating you up less. It's the lack of conditioning that creates the fear.