pre-aggricultural humans didn't have access to saturated fat for the most part. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals uh about this today. Quick reminder, if you please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribe, please do so. And if you would be kind enough to drop me a comment just to say hello or leave your thoughts, I would appreciate that. Thank you. So, let's get over to the topic. Now, when I make this statement, you're going to hear people who scream about the exceptions to the rule. As if anybody they have ever met an ancestor who actually lived in those regions, right? And I'm saying that last part is hyperbole. Hey, maybe you do know some Saboans. Okay? Maybe you do know some some Inuits. Okay? Fair enough. But for everybody else, for the rest of the world, 99% of you do not have a single ancestor who anywhere before agriculture had more access to more than about five grams of saturated fat a day. Okay? At the absolute most. And I mean, that's pushing it, guys. And people say, "What do you mean? What about me?" No. So, so what are the significant sources of saturated fat found in nature? It's not game animals. So, what are we left with? Arctic circle animals. We're talking about whales, seals, walruses. Okay. Only in really, really cold climates. And um I think it's fair to say the majority of you even along coastlines, your ancestors were not out hunting whales for 50,000 years. Okay? That's not something that smaller scale low technology before we had civilizations were really doing for the most part and they certainly weren't doing as a staple. So let's set the whales aside. They were eating fish. All right. Okay. All along the coastlines fish, normal fish. Not they weren't out hunting whales every day and feeding the tribe whales for 100,000 years. All right. So what do we have left? Coconuts. Well, we know coconut oil is not even particularly good. So, so that's what you have, guys. So, you had coconuts over in a few tropical regions, right? And you got whales and seals. That's your saturated fat. You're not really finding it anywhere else. Not in any significant degree. Not in amounts that people would have been able to eat, right? you're just not finding it. So when people make this topic that well our ancestors ate this, it's like what do you think that they they were eating? Let's assume um that you had some ancestors who were eating large amounts of wild game. Let's say it's a big part of your ancestry because people act like it's totally natural to eat huge amounts of saturated fat, but it's like it didn't happen. Anyone ever seen the fat profile game? I'm not talking about grass at Step Back. People try to act like grass-fed and wild game were even remotely in the same category. grass-fed is in the same category with grainfed just slightly leaner. Okay, it's still so if you take uh the the spectrum, let's say wild game like you know a deer or an elk or something like that versus say your grass-fed beef and then you have the grainfed beef grain finished out. you realize the grass-fed is just barely a little bit leaner than the grain finished and it neither of them are anywhere near it's like one step lower whereas in the the natural the wild game is going to be like five steps lower. Okay? Because wild animals are not standing in a field munching grass all day, right? Do we understand this? They don't reach the body weights. They don't reach the size. They're running. They're eating what they can. They're foraging. They're eating way less and they're moving more. They are dramatically leaner. They're basically bodybuilder lean. Okay? They're shredded. So, you're talking about food that we're even like, "Well, this grass-fed beef, it's it's only 20% of the calories or 25% or fat." Well, uh, the wild game, it's like 3%. Okay. understand why people used to talk about the rabbit starvation thing because it's a lean wild game. There's almost no fat. There's not enough fat for you to actually even reach some of your essential fats on. It's too dang lean. Okay, understand that your ancestors aren't getting saturated fat. Uh the same thing with uh you know the milk. And I'm very pro dairy. Let me be clear now. I believe in in taking the fat out. Doing more fat-free dairies for the most part. I think it's better overall. I'm very pro dairy for athletes, lifters, big on it. Dairy protein is phenomenal. Right. Arguably, you know, for for me, if I had to pick, and we don't have to, fortunately, I'd go dairy protein over meat any day. If if we're talking purely muscle gaining and athletic performance, it's a hair It's a hair better, right? Just slightly overall better. But you know, hey, we can do both. All right. But the point, you aren't getting milk there. There nobody was getting milk regularly in nature. That's agriculture. Okay? That's agriculture. You have to have the pasture-raised animals. If we're back over to pastures, this is agriculture. And without farming and agriculture, we still don't have enough to feed all of them, right? Because nobody's living on just that. You've got to be able to farm in order to have herds of animals. Like you have to be able to farm and have agriculture and farms. It doesn't work on its own. Okay? So, it only works in regions where you're doing that. And interestingly enough, people aren't going to like this. When we go back and look at records, where do we find the first atheroscerosis in humans? When we look at records of remains we can find we find atheroscerosis starting in the herdsmen of goats. We're talking thousands of years ago. So we found records to where it's like aha this is where we're finding it. We're not finding it like when they find paleo remains are not they're not seeing it. But age 40 bodies of say goat herders because what are they eating? They're getting red meat from that. you're eating, they're eating pasture-raised meat and they're drinking the milk and all that. Um, but they're getting that pasture-raised meat because milk itself is actually much easier on your lipid profile than the meat. Uh, interestingly enough, if it's whole complete dairy, not once you remove it down to butter. Now, if you're going down to butter, absolutely absolutely enormous impact on LDL. Whole milk, not so much. But they're still eating all the all the meat. And that's where you see the first atheroscerosis appearing. Okay? And we don't have that previously because they just weren't getting that much saturated fat. Like nobody was eating it. It's unheard of and there's no source of it, right? It's it would be literally like like saying you know um our our ancient ancestors over here, they all did tons of cocaine. And you're like, uh, large quantities of cocaine are kind of man-made, you know, without having the cocoa leave and the so it's, and I'm using that as hyperbole, but you get the idea. This is man-made. Okay, let me state that again. Unless you lived in the Arctic Circle and were eating tons of coconuts, but definitely animal source saturated fat, this is a man-made phenomenon. This doesn't occur in in regions where our ancestors live for the most part. It's not natural. We created it. So, quit calling it caveman and whatever else people do. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.