The pursuit of strength is enormously beneficial for longevity. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. And when I make this statement, don't be a Don't be a When I say the pursuit of strength, I mean from lifting weights correctly. Let's be clear because whenever you say that, people chime in with the most crazy insane responses. So, you're telling people to get fat like every time you say it. This is the the nonsense you'll hear because people are literally this stupid. And this is only a blithering idiot comes to these conclusions. So, you're telling us that we'll live longer if we just get really, really fat and become a really fat powerlifter? No. And if you actually think that that's what I'm saying or implying, then you are probably too stupid to tie your own shoelaces. You should probably just not talk ever to anyone about anything. Are you saying we should all blast 17 grams of trin a week so that we can get crazy strong, bro? What is that what you're saying? I I think you're wrong. Again, if you think I'm telling you to use a a bunch of anabolics or peeds because I said the pursuit of strength is beneficial to longevity, then again, you are too stupid. you are literally just too stupid to have an opinion about anything. Like if that's where your brain went, if you think that that's at all what's being implied, again, you should probably just shut up anytime anyone is talking about any topic, you're probably too stupid to have even finished high school. Unless you got through uh some sort of system where, you know, no child left behind. You're you're actually dumb. And let's just be clear to everyone who thought about making any either of those replies. Just accept that you're stupid. You should probably just listen to other more intelligent people and don't even bother to try try to think for yourself cuz you're really dumb. But we get those I get those replies every time. Okay, let's explain what getting stronger means. It means you lift heavy weights with progressive overload. Okay, that's that's what we're talking about. And they need to be relatively big lifts so that you get structural benefits also, right? Tendons, coordination, particularly bone density. Um, and I want to talk on the bone density being a massive, massive deal here. And again, please let me note, I am not telling you that if you already deadlift 500 lb that if you build your way up to 700 or 750 and try to get crazy elite that it's going to improve your longevity. Again, talking about just building strength, right? Stuff up to about the dad bod strength standard I've given you guys. You know, look, if you can bench 300, uh, squat 400, deadlift 500, do 10 body weight pull-ups, you're you're pretty much where where I'm talking about in terms of of the potential for longevity. I'm not saying you even have to sustain that sort of strength your whole life either. You know, that gets harder to do at 60, but doing those things earlier in life and building a solid strength base, think about what it's going to do. And those are not dangerous levels of weights. People say, "Well, people shouldn't be lifting too heavy. They're going to hurt." That that's not at that level. We're not talking about 400 lb squats and 500 lb deadlifts. If you're really getting hurt doing those, um, you you didn't bother to learn basic form or fatigue management. Just stop. So, think about the bone density, right? What what kills us as we get older? Well, sarcopenia being up there, but uh bone density is a problem. Hip fractures, bone fractures, broken bones are an absolute killer past age 55. Okay, hip fractures particularly high. If you're pastif past 60 and you fracture a hip, 19 out of 20 people are dead in less than three years. Did you know that's the statistic? And their health deteriorates immediately. Why? because you can't be active anymore. When you're over 60, as soon as you become sedentary, your blood work and health markers become an absolute nightmare. That's when your heart attack, cancer, strokes, all go through the roof. So, think about what I'm saying here. If you fracture a hip, you become sedentary immediately. There's a long recovery phase. You may not be able to walk for six months. So, how can you get up and be physically active? Because physical activity in old age, meaning can you just get up and walk? Do you walk 5,000 plus steps a day in old age? If you do, you're like you're active 10,000 whatever, right? That that's a activity for an elderly person. That's what I mean. You lose that. You fracture that hip, you're going to be immobile for a while. You're going to start getting fatter. You're going to get insulin resistant. Your muscle's going to drop all these problems. like you're going to die from it 19 out of 20 times in a fairly short period of time. It's deadly. Well, heavy squats and deadlifts are some of the best things for preserving your hips. Same thing for building and preserving your back. That whole bent back thing you see that getting shorter with age. That's due to loss of bone minerals. And again, we're not talking about the people say, well, some powerlifters have said from elite levels of squatting that they seem to have lost height in their disc. you know, yeah, you're talking about 800, 900, 1,000 pounds regularly, particularly the guys in the deadlift suits. We're not talking about a 400 lb squat doing that. Not as a man. Stop. So, what else you have to think about the muscle mass? So, sarcopenia is a killer, but also the insulin resistance. What's one of the absolute best things you can do to improve insulin sensitivity? Uh besides losing body fat being really high on the list, gaining muscle, lifting weights, insulin sensitivity is what staves off diabetes, insulin sensitivity helps stave off cancers, it helps stave off cardiovascular disease. The first two being bigger ones. So again, if we're lifting heavy and actually strength training, we're gaining more muscle because again, people say, "Well, well, I'm I'm strength I'm gaining muscle doing other stuff." No, you're doing a bunch of curls. and cable chest flies, you know, uh that's not going to put that much muscle on you. It's the big movements because you have to think in terms of the muscle through the lower body, the trunk, the glutes, the quads, all those muscles are way, way bigger with way more growth potential. So, the strength training tends to grow the whole body, particularly the bigger muscles. This is what you need to help with with everything from sarcopenia to you know again even the improved insulin sensitivity. Okay. This helps you stave off diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disease and those are the three killers. Okay. Nothing else is anywhere near close to that. Let me be clear. Those top three are so high, you could take all other causes of death and add them all up and it's still probably going to be less than any one of those three. And I've taken you take the other 57 causes of death. They're all a drop in the bucket in comparison, right? All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.