Progressive overload is more important than training volume. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. All right, uh let's get over into this topic. Notice I didn't make this about volume versus intensity. I made it about volume versus progressive overload. Um because I I think we all realize that if progressive overload is present, it's eventually going to get intense no matter what. Um, so in a lot of ways that matters even more. Okay? And if progressive overload isn't present and your intensity is high, but you're not able to see some progression over time, you're probably not gaining muscle and there's something wrong with your recovery. There's something wrong with your nutrition. There's something not working. There's something that's not dialed in. Okay, so here's the thing. We've had all these people who continually discuss these ideas of volume and um a lot of the evidence-based people, they try to put volume over all this other stuff. And the reality is that's never worked in the real world. And quite frankly, it's only worked in the lab 50% of the time. And the other 50% of the time in researchers, it doesn't work, which which speaks volumes. And I I think we've all seen this. We've all seen plenty of people who do these high volume approaches without any true progression. And they don't get bigger. they don't get stronger. Uh, and and I've seen even noviceses do this as a coach. I've seen trainers out there, and I'm not going to name any names. There's people I've seen on social media who I've either added as friends or whatever, who do these extremely high volume approaches, right? They do these extremely high volume approaches. They've been training 10 plus years and they haven't finished out their noob games. Okay, let me be clear. Like, I'm looking at them going, "Hey, man. Um, I got clients who have a year of training under their belt who are bigger and stronger than you. You've been doing this for 12 years. So, we we all see these people. Uh, you know exactly who all I'm talking about. You all see them out there. It just doesn't work. Progressive overload is always going to be the driver. We could argue that the intensity is the end driver, but the progressive overload is the proof. That's another way to look at it. It's it's your litmus test that what you are doing is working. Um, so generally speaking, we should be chasing rep PRs. We should be chasing adding weight to the bar. And even in my case here, like um notice with what I do with a lot of these lifts, I don't even bother to increase anymore. I don't really go over 405 on a back squat. I don't go over 500 on a deadlift. I just chase reps. But I have over time worked those those reps up. You know, I've generally just seen a general upward trend this year on the rep count on that stuff. And it's not always present, but the smaller exercises the same thing. You know, when we reach certain rep rep goals, we uh we add weight. And again, let me be clear. Even if you're only doing one set, if progressive overload is present, you're going to see muscle growth. You are seeing muscle growth. And I think this is the the problem we run into with these conversations. Everyone is arguing about maximum muscle growth. What's the volume that we need to get 100% of possible muscle growth? This is not a problem anybody really has. Okay. Do I want people to really think that through? Is this the problem that the majority of people out there have that they're trying to get maximum muscle growth? Do you see anyone out there who's getting good good muscle growth who really worries about that anymore? No. What's the real issue? People aren't growing at all. Not maximizing. The problem is people aren't seeing anything. There's no gains. They've just completely stalled. And I don't mean people will say, "Well, how about you? I'm 49 years old with 25 years of training. I'm going to stall." Okay? I'm talking about people who can't even bench 300 lb. They can't even squat 400 lb and they've stalled for years. Or let's say, let's take it under that. How about people who are stuck at a 200lb bench for three reps? Uh they're they're they can squat 270 or 250 for five and they've been stuck there. This is what I mean by no gains. These are the problems that people have. And we see people just throw endless amounts of volume at it because that's what certain circles and we need to be clear. This is not what the science says. This is what certain circles in a very incomplete, pretty poor of science that doesn't have a lot of talent, funding or good studies or they just don't have the funding doing the best they can. This is what one big circle of them have concluded. But I want you to note those people are all really lazy and they're weak. a few exceptions, but by and large those researchers who have dedicated their lives to this, the majority of them who push this, they're lazy and they're weak. So even whatever they're doing is biasing biasing their research and it's clearly not working for them. In fact, didn't we see Nipper the the other recently kind of come out and said, "Look, I was cutting and did this six sets a week and it actually worked really well." Exactly. And he falls into that camp. Yet here he is admitting that. All right. Progressive overload. I don't care what your volumes are. If progressive overload is present, you're gaining muscle. Okay. Obviously, the exception is a novel exercise with the first couple weeks of neural gains. We understand this. Just because you switch exercises every two weeks, that's not we're talking about because even then when you rotate back to them, there should be an upward trend. If you gained muscle and you haven't done a laying extension uh in five months, you'll hit a PR on it, right? We understand that the first time you do it, not over the next couple weeks. But progressive overload, and that's the point. If you're gaining any muscle, if everything is growing, it doesn't matter how fast. You're ahead of the curve. The problem is nobody struggles with gaining maximum muscle. We really don't. That's not the issue. The issue is people not making any gains. Because if you're consistent and you keep injuries low and you don't have to de load all the time because you're overreaching and you're making any gains, you're going to get jacked eventually. So that needs to be the solution. Are we making gains at all without getting hurt and without overtraining? And it blows my mind that people have that approach because then they're like they'll observe what I do and it's like you're 49 and we see you doing like 11 reps right there or four or five on a squat. Seen you do 315 for five on a pause bench. Yeah, I don't hurt. I don't wake up hurting. I don't have these problems because I mitigate my volume and I focus on progression. There's your solutions, guys. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.