Progressive overload is the key to muscle growth. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Uh quick reminder though, if you guys would please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are following or subscribe, please do so and drop me a comment down below. Thank you so much. All right, over to the topic. Look, for a lot of you out there, if you're not making gains, it's because you're not progressing with anything that you're doing. And I know sometimes it can be a chicken or the egg scenario of well I mean I can't progress on anything. All right. Well, that's a different different than you're not trying. Okay. So, usually it's the people who who are not uh making gains or not gaining muscle. It's because they're literally not trying to add reps. They're not trying to add weight to the bar, to the dumbbell, whatever. They're not progressing. They're not adding additional workload. And if you're not doing these things, you are simply not going to grow. Now, people say, "But I grew for a little while." It's like, well, well, yeah, because usually if you came from being completely sedentary, uh going and taking a walk every day will put a tiny amount of muscle on you. Getting up, doing some jumping jacks or some push-ups will put some muscle on you because again, it's harder than what you were doing. you progressively overloaded. Okay, if you only walk three minutes a day and you step it up to 20, that's a progressive overload. You did you did more work. So hopefully that makes sense to people. So of course maybe your calves and and thighs did grow a tiny amount. But again, that's progressive overload. So I think people start to get that concept here. It's you have to challenge your muscle tissue to workloads that it is not normally used to doing and it's not or it's almost not within its capability of doing and that's very much the point and no it doesn't mean just adding more volume and I think that is the biggest problem with this whole movement in the evidence-based circles with the high volumes is that we see way too many guys starting out now who are like a volume is the key. So, if I just add more and more and more sets, I'll gain muscle and it'll work. Well, it'll work for a short time. But the problem becomes they're not going hard on the individual sets in that case because we we pace ourselves. And I noticed that I tried some of that a while back to see how how I did with it. And it's literally what I noticed when I tried to do, you know, 20 sets of muscle group a week or crazy stuff like uh 20 sets more than once a week. What do we do? We hold back for the first 10, 12 sets or whatever. All we do is hold back. And the reason we hold back is because we know in our brain, we have so much work to do. We don't want to get exhausted early on. Okay? And and so again, what tends to happen, these guys just do more and more and more. All right? Or they do think that training hard or progressive overload means that they just go really slow with the movement or they start cheating and do some forced reps. And it's like, well, well, no. If if you're doing force reps and cheating, you're no longer working all the muscle fibers that you were trying to work. Okay. All right. Now, if you reached failure in theory, okay, so you did have a quality set, but if it just get starts to get a little hard and you start doing things to make it easier, see where we're going with this? You're you're still not challenging the muscles, right? You're now doing cheat reps using bad form because once the muscles were about they're starting to get fatigued now they're actually going to grow. You're like oh this is hard to improve the growth stimulus. All right that's that's a problem when you and that is literally an example of people not willing to train hard. If every time it starts to get a little heavy you start doing cheat reps you are avoiding the work. you are avoiding the training stimulus. All right, that's problematic. And as funny as that sounds, I've seen guys do this and then they wonder why they're not growing. Or they do really super slow training. Let me just ride really slow negatives and they have a terrible sets. And by the way, that's been found in studies to reduce muscle growth. I don't know why people insist on it. It's never worked. It will never work. It's ludicrous. Let's do five and six second negatives. Uh, no. Every study that ever looked at it found it they it reduced muscle growth for 25 years. It doesn't work. You don't even see serious bodybuilders training that way. It just doesn't happen. All right. But back over to the point progressive overload guys. So if you are not progressing uh you're you're not going to make gains, you know. But we also come over to the point of yes, we do have to have the sufficient volume. I just covered that in another video. It might be out the same day or the day before. Uh but yeah, you have to have sufficient volume there too because obviously you're going to stop progressing. I mean, if you try to do just one set a week, one, you're going to gain less muscle. So, okay, sure, you might progress longer because you were gaining less. So, sure, it takes a little longer to hit the cap, but once you stop growing from it, you're not going to be able to progress anymore. So again, when it comes to the progressive overload, you also have to look at if if you're not able to progress, is it because you're not doing enough volume? Is it because you're doing too much volume? Okay. Right. I'm going to say you drop under about five total sets a week for a muscle group. You're going to start struggling. That's that's insufficient volume for most people. I'm going to say you start exceeding about 12. And I'm fully aware and I've said that many people 16, 18, 20 sets can be phenomenal for muscle growth. That's the upper end of the threshold, but that's only for people who have a high work capacity and really good recovery lifestyles. Okay? So, when people start talking about that, they start talking about going over about 12 sets a week for a muscle. This is where I'm going to say, is your diet perfect? Like, no, I have a little junk. Okay. So your your diet isn't 100% rich in antioxidant and anti-inflammatory food. Gotcha. Oh, I drink a little alcohol. Okay, this is a problem. You just need to stop. Right. You are not the person who can do 20 sets and benefit from it. Right? So again, we come over to is your volume sufficient? Is your recovery sufficient? Right? Is everything in a good place? All right. That's you have to look at an appropriate amount of volume for most of you. Somewhere between about five to 12 sets a week, right? Pushing everything, keeping good form, getting proper nutrition, proper sleep. All right? This is what has to happen with progressive overload. But you have to be progressing. you have to be adding weight or you have to be adding reps on your exercises in order to facilitate muscle growth. And so again, when we talk about progressive overload being necessary, this is the context of it. In other words, are you continuing to take your work sets on your exercises? Are they going harder? is the workload going up over time on the individual sets because that is where the magic happens. That's where the muscle growth is. All right? Unless you're very new to lifting, unless you've drained or unless you added more magical supplements, and by that we mean drugs to your stack. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.