All right, guys. I'm going to talk to you a little bit about protein overfeeding for lean gains. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. A quick reminder, you guys will please click like and drop a comment down below. Um, let me state with this, this is not just about my own personal experience. This is a topic that we have plenty of evidence for. Um, so people say, "Well, you're not shredded, but I've made very lean gains. Um, I've actually lost body fat while getting stronger recently. Um, so actually it does actually work. It works really well in using me as an example because I have a history of being a a fluffier powerlter. Uh, but let's set aside what's what's happened with that and let's talk about uh research. Let's talk about examples of guys like Martin Burkham telling you guys this, especially when it gets combined with fasting. Um because one of the guys who was involved with the protein overfeeding studies um like Alex Leaf, I know him and his wife personally uh they're they're pretty good people. Um he is really big on fasting, you know, and he co-authored that big study on protein overfeeding, okay? Or uh like his graduate work, he was part of it. So in in that case, what they had found in that study and and again let me point out he's pointed that out just chatting with them too. He's like like you really you combine the protein overfeeding with something like fasting. He's he's like people tend to lose body fat no matter how much they eat. And this is someone with again an advanced biology degree, you know, specializing in nutrition and protein metabolism who is actually in shape and lifts himself. Uh so again this is what what he's noted also um that when people protein overfeed and when we say protein overfeed we don't mean 200 grams. We're not saying oh get a gram of protein per pound of body weight. We're talking like three four 500 grams of protein. I don't remember the exact numbers on the study but it was something like 3.5 grams per kilogram of body weight or something something to that effect. So they had taken a nor a high protein diet and added 200 grams of protein to it like first thing in the day like eating 200 grams from shakes really early in your day than trying to eat your normal food, you know. And in that that study what happened there technically was supposed to be a surplus. They had calculated maintenance calories for all these people who were lifting. And when they had them protein overfeed and try to eat an 800 calorie protein surplus on top of their normal macros, they all lost body fat. Okay. So, do we understand that they all gained muscle because they were they were technically supposed to be in a calorie surplus? They all gained muscle, but they didn't really gain scale weight and they lost body fat. So essentially they just recompositioned but gained muscle at the same rate you would expect from someone you know lean bulking. So do we understand the concept here? Um you take guys like Birkin and the Kenobbody later stole and ripped off a lot of his stuff and Burkin used to tell you look he's like if you fast and have an eight hour feed window um and you get at least 50% of your calories from protein and that can be done without even calorie tracking. He's like, "You're going to lose body fat." He's like, "But if you're training truly hard, you're probably going to gain muscle." Like, it's a recomposition strategy. The problem is, you know, when people say, "Oh, recomp is well, recmp can be efficient with something like this." But it's you're eating a ton of protein. And for a lot of people, that's unpalatable. For a lot of people, that's expensive. I think that's the the latter part is the biggest argument in [clears throat] this economy. uh the price of protein, the price of food, the way the economy's been the last few years. I think that's the biggest issue with the protein overfeeding. Okay? It's not the most cost effective thing. A lot of people are going, "Man, I don't have an extra, you know, $200, $300 a month to throw towards my food bill and grocery bill to do this." You know, in particular, I guess if you're eating out a lot, that would get prohibitively expensive, right? trying to get 150 grams of protein every time you eat a meal out somewhere. Oh man, you know, I get it. That could add up. Like, dude, that's over a pound of meat. But, you know, Martin pointed that out and with his his people, even Martin used to eat junk a little bit in there. Used to do cheesecake and stuff and he would still be shredded. Absolutely shredded. But it has to do with, and I'm not telling people to eat junk. I'm not a big fan of the flexible dieting approach. Uh but not saying it doesn't work for body composition and it did even in that case. He's like you can work stuff in. But he's like look if you're doing that window and you're getting it at least 50% and he used to say is for him sometimes as high as 60% of calories from protein. He's like I almost don't care what you eat. You're going to lose body fat. Um and we we saw the same thing in these protein overfeeding studies. you know, just do start eating 350, 400 grams because that's kind of where they were getting up to, right? Because these were people already on high protein diets and they threw that extra 200 on. And it was very heavily reviewed. I remember Greg Knuckles going in saying, "Well, I think it's well because one, the satiety, the thermic effect of the protein, they might have been in a deficit anyway when it was all done because they it just they didn't eat as much as they thought they did later." But I think that kind of highlights the point too. So if you're combining things like this and doing the ultra high protein overfeeding and it is impacting your appetite to the point where you end up being in a small deficit because of again the thermic effect of the protein u the appetite suppression and so on. Okay. So what because you're still gaining muscle. That's what they find in these studies, too. When protein gets really, really, really high, that calorie surplus doesn't seem to even matter for gaining muscle at all in any way. And we could argue how much it matters anyways for people who who aren't shredded already. Um, that we could debate that all day long. But when we look at this, I mean, the data is pretty consistent. When people eat really, really high protein, recomposition gets very easy. And so that's that's what I'm saying with some of this. And this has largely been my experience again recently, right? Um I've leaned out a little bit again while doing the lower carbs. But I mean, even for me, I've been hitting close to, you know, 350 400 grams of protein a day inside of a, you know, a six to eight hour feed window and getting most of my other calories from just healthy fats, right? And what's happened? Well, I've continued to lean out while getting stronger on these lifts. I've hit stuff like a 500 for nine conventional deadlift. I've hit 12 reps with 405 on a high bar. I've done like 18 19 reps, a 225 on the bench, 315 for five pause reps, so on and so forth. Um, so even in my case, I haven't lost strength. I've gotten stronger, which would indicate some muscle growth, right? Getting stronger on your rep work, your full range of motion rep work is definitely not leverage improvement or neural neural drive because it's like my eight reps and 10 rep maxes and stuff. Um would indicate some muscle growth yet I look leaner. So again, it works for recomposition and I' I've found, you know, at least thus far, the same sort of approach does work. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.