Protein really is the key to your fitness and body composition. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today, but a quick reminder you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it. Um, and when I say this, I'm not trying to sell you protein powders. I maybe have one or two protein shakes a day and I have days where I don't have any, right? It's just something I add in because I eat extremely high protein. So, I'm not trying to sell you protein shakes. I'm not trying to be a shill for the supplement industry. Um I personally these days. Uh I basically use protein powder and an extra strength fish oil. That's pretty much my whole supplement stack, right? Pretty much my supplement stack at this point in the game at 49. Um so so I'm not trying to sell you supplements. Let me be clear when we we say this. I've always said that before. That's a tendency of the industry to try to push the really high protein for that. But the reality is we can get protein from meat, we can get protein from dairy, we can get protein from eggs, okay? And the thing is protein really is your key. Um, and high quality protein when we even saw some studies. So, so to put it in perspective with high quality protein, when I say this, there was a study, oh gosh, a year or so ago, uh, where a bunch of women who were trained lifters already, right? They put them on uh had them run an omnivore diet versus a wellbalanced wellbalanced vegan diet where they ate 1.3 grams of protein per kilogram of body weight, which all the the research shows should be enough to gain muscle efficiently in pretty much everybody. And they struggle to even maintain their muscle and strength. So when the protein got down to that level, guess what happened? they they couldn't keep their gains because of the lower bioavailable protein. Uh so again, when we're talking about protein, I'm talking about high quality protein. Um and we see this in studies. And so when people talk about gaining muscle, they're like, "Yeah, we need a high protein diet." Uh but that's not really where it ends because honestly, if you're just trying to just to gain the muscle, okay, just trying to gain muscle, yeah, about 1 and a half 1.6 6 g per kilogram of body weight. That means a guy like me, 150 grams a day, right? My sort of body weight, I'm 95 kilograms roughly. Uh that's that's sufficient. But even then to many people, think about that for a minute. A lot of people are eating a lot less than that. A lot of people are eating a lot less than that. So if you're just trying to gain muscle, yeah, you need to bring it up to that level. But what about all these other things like what about fat loss, satiety, thermic effect, recomposition, tendons, skin, right? This is where protein loading helps a lot. And I want to remind people there there are studies on protein overfeeding. Uh my friend Alex Leaf was involved in one with his graduate work. uh where when people do extreme protein overfeeding and we're talking double the amount I just listed right three plus g over three grams per kilogram of body weight now we're talking for someone like me over 300 grams okay whatever you happen to weigh you know is I think some of those studies were on something like 3.4 four, you know, over 300 grams for me. What happens in those studies? They all lost body fat. When they tried to force them to to bulk, to force a calorie surplus by adding massive amounts of protein, they all started losing body fat. Okay? So, we need to think that through for a moment. And I'm not telling you you're going to get contests ripped by doing that. But when we're in a situation to where trained lifters, if they don't take put you into a deficit, it's like, yeah, keep eating the same thing you were eating at maintenance, you know, rough amount of carbs, fat, protein, calories, but then let's add 200 grams of protein on top of it and try to force that in. They start they lose body fat. Now, they all gained muscle, too. And I think this is the take-home here because most of us, if we're thinking in terms of fitness, we're thinking in terms of body composition, we we're trying to ideally in a perfect world, we could all gain muscle with no body fat and even lose a tiny amount of body fat while we're gaining muscle year round. Okay? Year round. I feel like I've successfully done that in the last couple of years. personally uh and using these sort of methods, okay, large amounts of protein is the key there. And it's for a lot of reasons. One, yeah, you're going to get the anabolic response. That's been noted by some experts, too. Like when protein starts getting high, you don't need a calorie surplus because it's not about just the energy in, energy out. It's about do you have enough surplus amino acids to build muscle tissue. Okay. after everything is said and done, when your body is done burning stuff, burning fuel, does it have enough extra amino acids in its pool to build muscle? And if it does, it doesn't care about you being in a surplus. You can be in a small deficit. Your body is still going to gain plenty of muscle just fine, right? It's not the calorie surplus that creates the muscle growth. It's the protein surplus. Okay, there's really nutritionally what you're looking for and this has been replicated in in in a variety of studies like so really high protein does this. So that means you can be losing fat while doing it but we also have to think about the thermic effect the appetite suppression. You don't really get hungry. Protein is very very stable energy levels. It tends to help us avoid fluctuations in blood sugar and energy. Uh it's very satiating. It keeps you full. Okay, so very very high protein intakes do these things. But then what about the other stuff? Protein is the building blocks of the body, right? People tend to start thinking about, oh yeah, just muscle tissue. No, tendons, skin, hair, nails, your organs. So if you're looking at repairing structures of the body and this has been another thing noted too, collagen synthesis in the tendons benefits from even higher proteins and muscle growth does. So we're really talking fitness. What do we mean by fitness? How about tendons that are thicker and stronger? They don't break. They don't get injured. They don't hurt. Okay. So a lot of times we think about, well, I'm a little inflamed. Man, my tendons are hurting a little from my training and exercising. But if your collagen synthesis is up, this this helps reduce it helps reduce the inflammation of it. Okay? And yeah, protein is an inefficient fuel source. We can point that out. It's like, well, yeah, sure, you can convert protein into all this other stuff for fuel, but it's very inefficient. But we have an obesity problem. And honestly, very few people out there struggle to eat enough food to gain weight. So having an inefficient energy source like that can be extremely useful if we're trying to just get fitter and fitter and fitter all the time in addition to all the benefits on muscle recovery, tendon recovery, even stuff like bone density. Higher protein intakes are associated with higher bone density in humans. So yeah, protein really is the key. Protein is the key to all these metabolic issues, muscle issues, t everything, right? Eat your protein and get lots of it. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.