All right. We oftentimes talk about the physiological muscle protein synthesis and other aspects of full body training. Uh which again I can probably cover in some other videos coming up, but we don't always talk about the psychological and organizational aspects. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. Um so I kind of came full circle with this myself as a coach. Um, I for years and years and years, probably the, you know, the first five, six, seven years of me creating video content, I pushed full body out there as one of the voices, one of many, who helped repopularize it with some popular programs. And then I messed more with splits and more with conjugate again and and and different things, upper lowers. And then I came back around to it and to this day just like always you know at least half of my clients at any given time are are running full body. And you know, I made a video with this similar idea discussing the psychological benefits and a couple of my clients saw that video and who had been doing upper lowers and and they're like, "Look, this makes sense for my lifestyle, right? This makes a lot of sense. Can we go back to some full body?" And we did and they've been been happy with it. But I think what gets uh discounted is going to be the organizational and making it work in the real world. Okay. So, one of the biggest problems we run into with body part splits just in general, right? Big problem we run into and and I think a lot of us realize this. If you miss a workout or you have to slide something down, it messes up your whole rotation. And particularly when you're only training a muscle once a week, it's can be bad enough with a an upper lower, but particularly on a pushpull legs or a four day or a fiveday body part split, what happens? your whole rotation gets messed up and if you have a single bad workout, you get sick, you have to miss something, you either have to slide your entire rotation down, right? And then what if you're used to what if you're like nor your normal is I always do my chest day or my press day on Monday and it becomes your norm. It's your habit. your entire routine gets disrupted from a single missed workout or a bad day because you either have to slide it down and then your next week gets out of your normal rotation. And we are creatures of habit, guys. We need to remember that there are psychological benefits to us maintaining habits with these things. They're kind of a big deal, particularly for motivation, particularly for the discipline end. All right. Once we're through the motivation, we're over to the long-term discipline. Those habits and routine uh really become critical to our long-term progress. And so, it messes up your routine or you miss those muscles for the whole week. Now, that doesn't seem like a big deal except that guess what? If you're not hitting on every workout, that ends up being a pretty substantial amount of possible uh draining. So, not just loss of gains, but actual potential uh slight loss of of muscle mass and particularly loss of motor units or motor unit learning, movement patterns. That means your whole next workout is just redoing that. So, it's the next workout isn't even about gains. It's oftentimes then about undoing that for those same lifts and body parts. This becomes a problem. Okay. The other problem people run into when they start splitting stuff up, they run into psychological angst. People start, and this is how you know it's creating a psychological issue for you. You ready? Right. You ready? Where do I put this lift? Particularly the biggest best movements, things like deadlifts, even RDL's. I mean, let's let's let's go over to other stuff. Good mornings. I mean, people will take some of these really great exercises and go, "Oh my god, where do I put it in the rotation?" Which would be fine. You could just place it in there. People forget splits and and things like that in the rotation um are just there for psychological reasons. There's not physical benefits to doing it. It's for mental and psychological reasons. So now if it starts creating any angst or even slight anxiety with where you're placing an exercise or confusion, you're now losing all the benefits. Okay? You're losing all the benefits of it because it's supposed to be there for your organizational patterns in your mind for your motivation, right? Body part splits, we need to be un understand this. They are splits for psychological benefits. Some people really enjoy that environment mentally. And that's one reason I always say body part splits might be slightly inferior physiologically, but some people really enjoy them. All right, that's worth muscle gains. If you're going to consistently show up and you enjoy it and you're motivated with it, it does it's that is worth more than being technically perfect, isn't it? Motivation's powerful. Consistency is powerful. So if it's disrupting that, that's a problem. Okay. So placing exercises become slightly problematic here. So something to think about. But what about the organizational end in terms of missing workouts? If you do full body and your full body workouts are literally the same workout every time or variations. A lot of my people, we have an A and a B workout, right? Maybe we we focus on a deadlift and an overhead press more in another workout or we have, you know, incline versus flat for the chest and so on, right? So, we'll have a couple different exercises. Some some people we do pull-ups on one day, rows on the other. All right. So, you've got a A and a B or we just run the same basic uh workout. Well, if you miss one, it's not a big deal, is it? Because the movement patterns are all maintained. Like if you have to slide something down for two days and you still get two full days of workouts, you haven't lost anything in terms of dtraining or muscle growth to the same extent because those same muscles are just getting hit again. So let's say, oh man, you would hit them every every you know 20 or 48 hours. Well, you have to miss the workout completely and slide it down, you know, go over two days. The draining is is not significant. Okay. So, if we're dealing with organizational issues or lifestyles, it works better. Like, this makes more sense for the real world. People with busy jobs, people who have kids, people who get sick, again, having busy jobs and a bunch of kids is also causes you to get sick more often. Kids are always bringing stuff home from school, who have more compromised immune systems, are always bringing home viruses. I coach a lot of dads. So, when I say this, people might laugh and be like, "But that's not you." It doesn't have to be me. I coach a lot of dads. I've had clients I've had so long that they've gotten married and had their second kid with their wife while they've been coaches. And yeah, we deal with this. So, this sort of stuff, it makes a big difference psychologically in terms of the mental organization because it's not a big deal if you miss a workout. doesn't disrupt the entire week, you can take your day or two off and go right back into the flow and you probably haven't drained anything. In other words, even if you missed the growth from that that particular training window, it's not long enough since you trained those movement basic patterns or muscles to where anything is draining or we've lost significant muscle protein synthesis. So, you know, you can just flow back into it without any problems and it works really, really well. So, these mental benefits have to be discussed. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.