All right, let's talk about rep count and size versus strength. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I'm going to talk with you guys about this. Uh please remember to drop me a like and a comment down below. I'd appreciate it so much. And let's get over into the topic. All right. Uh when we look at all the history of lifting, look at all the available scientific data, look at all the anecdotal data, we all know that a certain number of reps and volume are needed to maximize growth. Okay, this is why it's very difficult to get big off just heavy singles. We also know that strength potential um comes mostly from size. But there is neural drive, there is skill, there is something to be said for max effort type work. And generally speaking, we know that lower reps, at least a limited number of them, are necessary to maximize total strength development, right? Not potential, but development. your muscle mass comes is what gives you the potential. So in this conversation and I and I think this throws people off because I'm a strength guy. I've I've had quite a few this point coach national level lifters. You guys have seen me put up quite a few clients in the past. 600 lb squats, uh 700 lb deadlifts, right? Things like this. I've had multiple clients. You see me put up with all 400 plus benches, right? And none of these guys are fat. Um, but I think it throws people off that by and large my coaching and my advice is mostly high reps. Um, even my conjugate guys, everyone's like, "Yeah, but they maxed out and you were maxing out." You do for a while did maxes every day, but it was only one rep and then we did volume work. So, if you guys go back and look at that, um, I did mostly 10 rep sets even when doing the daily maxing thing. Okay. Why? And I and I think this is a conversation we have to have. And I get what a lot of guys say that, well, you know, uh it's just wasted reps on the higher reps. Anything over eight or whatever or over six, it's just extraneous reps. And that's cute when you're weak. Okay? Do we understand that? this. I know somebody is weak when they say that they they have not built a true strength base because when you're strong, you can't just come in and beat yourself up with low reps. Okay? You can't. It will beat you into the ground. You know, it will beat you into the ground. And I think this is what creates the confusion, you know, because uh people like me who promoted 5x5s for building noviceses and stuff are like, "But that's still moderately low reps. How how does that not match with what you do with clients? Well, because because we're not training noviceses and a lot of my noviceses do mostly five to eights. You know, a lot of my novice lifters, we we still do that. But that's for base building. Okay? And we do understand if you want to maximize total strength, you need to do some low reps, but realistically, they can't be more than about 10% of your total training. And even at Westside Barbell, um, you know, they always said, and Louis Simmons says, "Max effort work, which we do twice a week, is 5% of our training." 5%. Why? It's like, because you just don't need that much. And I think when we have these conversations, everyone's like, "Well, I'll just come in and do a bunch of fives and sixes and and it's like and and I'll get all the strength from the low reps, but it's not really that low reps." Um, and then I'll still get all the hypertrophy. Well, well and good till your joints start hurting. And and again, what happens when you're strong? It's one thing when your five rep squats are 200 lbs. It's another thing when they get to 400 plus. Same thing with those deadlifts. They get into the 500. How about your your benching? How about when you're you're doing 300 for fives? Yeah. This this is a problem even more so 400 for fives. Yeah, this is a problem. And and this is something I have noted when I observe the strongest masters lifters I know. When I say strong guys, I mean I'm talking there's guys on my friends list on Facebook. I know at least one guy in his 60s who benches over 400. I know a guy who's in early 50s who benches over 500. These are raw lifters. All right. What sort of reps and sets you think they do? Yeah, they they all do some some lower reps. I see them uploading a whole bunch of 20s, right? Let's be clear. Like the the older guy, I've watched him do 23 reps of 225 on a bench. And he's regularly doing stuff like that. Literally just am repping out 225. He like 64 in benches, low 400s in meets. I've seen Jared Burton. I've seen him bench 540 in comp. He follows all my stuff. Um I've seen him do like 20 rep sets of 315. Think that contributes to that 500 plus bench. I think it does too. There'll be pause reps and stuff too. So we need to understand that even if you're in the pursuit of strength, you need the rep work. And the rep work is it's the efficient way to get you bigger. And I know people say, "But sixes, fives, they can build muscle just fine." And I agree, except that they beat you up. It's it when you start getting really strong, it's hard on your joints. And when you're doing 8, 10, 15, 20, you guys are noticing me doing a lot of, you know, 12 to 20 rep stuff these days, right? It's very easy on the joints. And when you're strong, you're still getting all those other benefits. And I think people have to have to remember that, too. All the bone density benefits. Look, when you're strong, you don't have to do low reps to get crazy bone density. And all you have to do to maximize your strength is go do a short phase of really heavy work, you know? But I think guys forget that. It's like, well, what happens when you're able to hit 10 to 12 reps with a fairly heavy weight on even your classic big lifts? What happens? Is your max going to go up? Of course it will. But I think this this is what we have to discuss. You know, guys, the higher reps have their place. And I know right now it's in phases. This goes back and forth in phases. There's a lot of people out here saying, "No, you don't need to do that. We could we could do only the low." But look at the guys with the most longevity. I see the Westside guys. Look at Michael Hearn. Guy's pretty much a vampire. Michael Hearn does a little heavy work. was like, but he still does some heavy lower repup stuff, but it's such a small amount of his workouts. I see Mike doing a lot of twelves, a lot of 15s, too. If you start looking at his work, it's like, wait a minute, he does more 12 to 15 rep stuff than he does sub five rep stuff. Again, the whole power building idea. And you can come in and do phases of nothing with the higher reps. Are you really going to lose strength? You know, like here, dude. I'm doing I think probably here like a set of 11 or whatever on uh on high bar squats at 405. Am I anyone really think I'm losing squat strength because I'm not squatting heavy? Do 10 plus reps. I do 10 to 12 rep sets of 405 on the high bar. Same thing you guys watch me deadlift 500 for eight sometimes when I'm deadlifting. Guys, we're building muscle with this and that muscle is going to carry over and particularly we're still working the same movement patterns. Trust me, your maxes are going to go up. Like again, I assure you, you build up your your 225 max rep bench, build it up to 20 reps. Even if you don't touch anything heavy, watch what happens to your max. And I've seen that with guys with absolutely crazy elite masters lifters on the bench press. They're overdoing sets of 20s and stuff all the time. and they're not beat up. And I think that's the key. Younger guys don't have to worry about this as much as you get a little bit older. That stuff keeps you jacked. It keeps you strong and it doesn't beat your joints up. And then the strength is there when you need to max it out. You can peak it real fast. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.