Reps in reserve is killing your gains. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. I thought I would chat with you guys about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, get over to the topic. Uh, one of these things where people will love to try to use uh scientific evidence to refute it um while then ignoring other scientific evidence that makes their point sound quite silly. Now, is there plenty of evidence at this point that we can gain muscle without going to failure? Of course. Have people gained muscle without going to failure? Of course. Plenty of times. Been demonstrated in the lab, been demonstrated in the real world. However, there's some caveats to that. And then we're going to have to think about the evidence that looks at reps and reserve. Here's some things that you have to consider. Uh it's generally accepted even by researchers and scientists that the closer you get to muscle failure, the more muscle growth you get on a set for set basis. There are some, and this is controversial and not proven with evidence. There's PhDs in the field who do say that the closer you get to failure, the more valuable each rep gets. Okay? In other words, thinking in terms of effective reps, the rep right before failure probably is slightly slightly more effective than the rep was three reps before failure, even though both cause growth. And I don't mean on a set for set basis. I mean the actual individual rep because it's closer to maxing out all of your possible muscle fibers to the point where they can't fire anymore. Right? Do we all understand this? The reason we need multiple hard reps to usually get a muscle fiber as fatigued as we want. Otherwise, we could just do one rep maxes and all get really jacked, right? So, we do need a certain number of repetitions. We need multiple repetitions. Closer you get to failure, the more valuable each of those reps probably is, maybe is. But we know set for set. All right, let's say you have a weight you can do 10 reps and you will fail on rep 11. If you do eight reps, you know that you're getting less growth than 10 reps from that same set. There's less training stimulus, not even subject to debate. Okay? Because if if we're going to argue effective reps, you're just going to have less total effective reps, right? You you could have pulled off 10, but you stopped at eight. Now, a 10 rep max for eight reps will still cause muscle growth, but it's not as high of a quality. And that's the point we're making here with this, right? Because if if muscle fibers had if everything had to go to failure, the the main muscle on an exercise to get any growth, then we could throw out this idea of, you know, the big compounds causing multiple muscles to grow. But we know that they do, right? It's just only one muscle probably fails. And when form starts to break, it's because that muscle did fail and something else is trying to take over. Compensatory strength. Okay? Which is one reason why it's really beneficial in big compounds to go a hair beyond technical failure, but can stop short of of total failure because you did have a muscle that failed. If technique breaks down, you reached muscle failure on at least one muscle. Okay? All right. So, we all understand this. If everyone gets this, I think we're good. If you don't, then we got a problem. If if you don't realize doing 10 reps with your 10 rep max will cause a larger training response than eight reps with your 10 rep max, just, you know, two reps in reserve versus zero in reserve, okay? But still not still not absolute failure. If you don't understand this and we got a problem, right? So then you don't actually believe that you know multiple repetitions are really necessary in any way. Uh but over over to the point, well that sounds good. So people are like, "Okay, so we can just leave reps in reserve. Won't be as exhausted." Well, here's the problem. When it's been studied in the lab, they find novice lifters, for one, have no concept of how many reps they have in reserve, right? But everyone then assumes everyone assumes what? Well, then with just more experience, you get good at it. Well, that's not been true either. Um, I've seen multiple studies that have found that when it's tested and you let even experienced lifters try to determine how many reps they are from failure, at least half can't get it right. And I don't mean, oh, they missed it by one rep. No, I'm talking guys who are like, yeah, I think I I had one rep in reserve, two reps in reserve. if they were to actually test it, they they had like five reps, six reps. Okay? And people say, "I don't believe it." It's been studied. It's been studied. And if you don't believe me, this is something I noticed when I went from multiple sets to doing single set training. I only usually do, you know, other than like my curls and stuff on my bike off day. Most of my big exercises I do one all out everything I have set. Here's what I found. My reps were way higher than I thought they were. Right? So, so in other words, I personally found this after 25 years of training. One of the things that I noted, and I used to do a lot of single top sets and would ramp up to them and stuff, uh, you know, when [snorts] I was younger, but still one all out set. When I started doing stuff to failure with off of a single set versus three, I had weights that previously when I did three sets, I got sets of 10. When I scale back to only doing one set, and a lot of those I thought I had, oh, we had one rep in reserve. I started finding I could do 13, 14, maybe even 15 reps with a weight that I thought was a three by 10 with one rep in reserve. Turns out I was wrong because you don't hold anything back when you're only doing the one set. So, here's the the thing. It shows it shows us how our perceptions of this, even as truly experienced lifters, can be extremely off. So, here's the problem. If you're over here training with this idea, two or three reps in reserve or you just stop when it burns, okay? And you never train to failure to really get a a baseline. You don't get a baseline. You have no idea what your real rep maxes are. You're not getting as close to failure as you think you are. Says the research. says the the majority of you, over half, well over half, I think I've seen some that show as many as 70% can't get it right of experienced lifters, like three plus years, right? Some indications are that number could be higher. In other words, our perception of how many reps we have left is bad. We're not good at this. So, if you're doing everything with reps in reserve, particularly if it's not, well, I'm getting up to zero reps in reserve. Okay, that's a little different. Now, you're actually seeing the bar slow down or you end up failing. Better much much better estimate. But when you're bar speed never changes, we are almost all of us bad at this. So, if we're leaving reps in reserve, a lot of us are getting an underwhelming training response, which is why some people need so many sets. And if they just trained harder, they wouldn't need nearly as many total sets to get the same or better muscle growth. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.