All right. Today I'm going to cover a topic of nutritional controversy, but the funny part is that it's not really that big of a controversy in the research and scientific circles. It's only uh because of fat diets and other stuff that it's become a controversy. Uh but there is some nuance to it. So, hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. If you guys would please give me a like down below, I'd greatly appreciate it. If you are not following or subscribe, please do so. and drop me a comment down under the video uh just to say hello or give me your thoughts. I would appreciate that so much. Thank you. And let's get over to the topic. So, let me give you guys the quick primer before I jump in on the saturated fat thing and point out number one, I am actually very pro meat and dairy. So, before we get into that, because as a strength coach, as an a strength athlete, you know, with over 25 years of experience, uh I I'm big on dairy. Let's just be honest. Dairy is awesome for athletes. Okay, I said it. Now, that being said, and I originally spent time growing up on family uh cattle ranch, so I mean, I grew up on Texas State, guys. Come on. All right, that being said, let's talk a little bit about saturated fat. A little bit of the confusion. Um so what the data generally shows is that yeah saturated fat in a con uh how do we put it quantitative manner absolutely absolutely is tied to atheroscerosis through the elevated LDLC. Um but when we mean saturated fats we don't mean all saturated fats. We mean specifically the saturated fats from meats, uh, saturated fats from certain plants like coconuts, palm oil. Yeah, absolutely. So, coconut oil is garbage. By the way, if you care about your atheroscerosis, you don't add a bunch of coconut oil to your food. Uh, it's all that I'm really going to say about that. So, again, crazy. Let's just take a liquid saturated fat. It's no different than butter at that point. Um, now here's the kicker. Whole dairy doesn't seem to do this. When I say whole dairy, that means not butter. Butter is the exception to the rule because it's no surprise. It's a processed fat. People say it's not processed. Yeah, it is. Beef tallow and butter are processed and you can see it on the blood work. Okay. Just because it's an older process that doesn't involve putting whatever acid in it or something doesn't mean it's not processed. It doesn't mean it's not harmful. People lose sight of this nonsense in the whole thing. They they basically want to find a way to throw a bunch of refined fats on their food without dying. You can't do it. I'm sorry. Just stop. Get rid of this cooking oil and replace it with this. No, you're still going to die. Quit. Quit treating your body like a trash dumpster. All right. Now, back over to the point. Back over to the point. Uh, this is all data driven from data all over the world. And if anything, people talk about financial bias. There's a financial bias towards being pro meat and pro dairy. I don't know why people don't realize this. They haven't looked at the research, the meta analysis, who funds a lot of the ones. The ones that come back showing less problems are always funded by the the beef or pork industry every time. Like, do you people not look at this stuff? I feel like people don't look at where the financial uh stuff is where they go look at a meta analysis. They don't go research and see who paid for it. There's definitely bias in regard to this topic. And it's the opposite bias of what people want to pretend it is. Yeah, there's absolutely financial bias when a study showing red meat does not cause insulin resistance in large amounts. Uh, really? Because 57 other studies show it does. All right. uh happens to be funded by the beef and pork industry. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. No, nothing suspicious there. Keep in mind, my my family were cattle ranchers. I love beef. All right. Let me make that clear. I love steak. You guys have seen me put steaks up on my social media. But let's We have to talk about heart disease, though. We have to. But whole dairy, not a problem. Butter in the research, horrible. Beef tallow, horrible. But they've cut all the protein out. We've cut all the the nutrients out. And then we've rendered or churned the fat to make it faster absorbing and more digestible. Right? This is not good. Fast absorbing saturated fats into your bloodstream is not a good thing, by the way, for those who haven't figured that out. All right, but let's get over to to what a lot of the data is showing. Whole milk doesn't seem a problem. Yogurts, cheeses actually don't seem they seem to be completely neutral. All other saturated fats absolutely the intake you have relative to your genetics and cardiorotective benefits elevates LDLC. There is no debate anymore. So when people say well you know and it's not that science is ever settled that's a horrible term too. There is so much data at this point showing that LDLC is the primary cause of atherosclerosis and hardening of the arteries that in order for you to create a debate, you're going to need to produce like 50 studies showing the opposite. That's the problem we have. It's one of those to where the data is so strong from like 37 different countries that all have different financial and political interests, okay? That for you to even create a counterargument, you have to have an enormous amounts of data involving millions and millions of people to create a debate because until you do, there is no debate. Like you can't have a debate when something has, you know, 57 studies done in 22 different countries or whatever the number is at this point. You have no debate. There's nothing left. You have to produce an equivalent amount of data to counteract it. Really, really, really strong data with really good studies. And I'm not saying it's not possible, but you got a lot of work ahead. Um but yeah, it absolutely is the driver of atheroscerosis. Okay. And what elevates LDLC? Saturated fats. It has the largest impact. And then people say, "What about poffas? Poffas don't raise it." In fact, even refined pufas tend to lower it. Even the garbage ones that I tell you not to eat. Like I tell people, look, don't cook with oils. All right? Let me be clear. But if we're talking about atheroscerosis, garbage trash dumpster canola oil is still going to have a much more beneficial effect for preventing heart attacks than butter or beef tallow. And I'm telling you not to eat it. But if that is your only concern, you're like, "Oh, all I care about is a heart attack." It would be the better choice. Not saying for cancers, not saying for anything else, just the heart disease. It's a hundred times better. There's like no contest. So, no. Uh, polyunsaturated fats don't do that. In fact, what we found is that whole form omega6 lic acid, but I'm not talking about something it's been in the deep fryer at McDonald's. I'm talking about nuts. Okay, there you go. How about some almonds? All right. See where I'm going with this? How about some uh some peanut butter? Natural peanut butter. All right. Has been shown to be protective against elevated LDL slightly. It actually reduces the increase even when really horrible fats are mixed in. That was study some time fact and they found that it actually slightly blunts the negative effects of the trans fats which we all know trans fats are are the worst. You know the margin was a horrible idea. Horrible idea. It was a great great original concept. It turned out to be horrific, right? We all know this. This is accepted. Uh but yeah. No. So PUFAs are not the problem. It is pure almost entirely saturated fat that's the driver. However, the cardioroprotective nature of the rest of your diet can offset it. Make sense? And but the but the worst options are definitely going to be the refined saturated fats, butter, coconut oil, uh taking lard separately and cooking in it. This is stupid. Sausage, bacon, like these are killers. These will eventually give you a heart attack. Just stop.