Telling people that inflammation is causing fat gain is a massive scam in this industry. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would uh chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click a like on my video, I would appreciate it. If you aren't following or subscribe, please do so. And if you would be kind enough as to leave me a comment down below, uh please feel free to do so. Now, I do know that in saying this that I'm going to upset people. People are going to feel like I slaughtered their their sacred cow. I know some coaches out there who market this sort of stuff and I think it's nonsense. Uh but yeah, people will try to to tell people, "Oh yeah, your inflammation from uh from food intolerances, right? Uh food intolerances. You have an intolerance to whatever and that's what's causing you to to gain body fat and make it hard for you to lose body fat. And I'm sorry, but that is again complete and utter rubbish. This is not biologically how it works. Uh now if you have intolerances to certain foods, you obviously can't eat them. But what I want people to understand what a food intolerance is. It's not an allergy. An allergy is an immune system response. Okay? A food intolerance means that your body cannot correctly digest something. Okay? Do we understand that? It's usually an enzyic deficiency. It could be a gut biome deficiency. Okay? So, we need to be clear. Food intolerances actually usually make you expel calories undigested. All right. So, I want people to stop and think about this. What causes fat gain? Calorie surplus. Okay. Calorie surplus. Intolerances mean that you are not fully digesting correctly. Something with your digestive system is not fully uh digesting or absorbing something. That means you're losing calories through your poop because usually what do we then see within with a true intolerance of diarrhea. You'll a lot of times see bloating and stuff but bloating is not fat gain. So what what we're actually seeing here is the opposite. It's harder to overeat when you have a food intolerance. It's it's it's harder to absorb calories. Sometimes it's harder to eat because you have stuff going on that's causing major GI tract distress. Okay? And in fact, notice this is something I know as a coach when I have young men who struggle to gain muscle and struggle to gain weight. They're like, I can't gain weight. I'm too skinn. And it's like they're lactose intolerant and they're drinking milk or they're having too many protein shakes of maybe a cheaper brand. it doesn't filter it and they're getting diarrhea and everything because they're lactose intolerant. So then they're expelling food that they need to gain weight. Okay, this is actually what really happens. This is what an intolerance is. Okay, what a lot of people are mistaking for an intolerance is they overeat a bunch of garbage and they have a bunch of inflammation in their body. But that's not a food intolerance. We all get inflammation from overeating garbage. Yeah, they're gaining extra water from the inflammation from the junk they're eating, the refined sugars and, you know, the MSG and all this other stuff, right? But they're also gaining body fat because they're eating like a like a an right? You're eating a bunch of garbage and empty calories. Well, the fat gain causes inflammation, too. And this is again people are mistaking poor dietary choices and overeating and inflammation caused from excess calories and excess junk food um then exacerbating your body fat because you're gaining body fat from it. And what do we know about body fat? Body fat causes inflammation. Okay, that's not a food intolerance. That's you being fat because you're overeating junk. Okay. And again, what's the fastest way to drop inflammation in the body? What's one of the best tools? Lose some body fat. Because we have to be clear, body fat is a dynamic tissue. It's not just sitting there as an empty fuel reserve. It causes inflammation. So when we have excess atosity, excess body fat, all of our inflammation in our body goes up as a response. It releases various inflammatory markers and hormones into our body. So people are oftentimes mistaking their bad diet and all the fat they're gaining as, "Oh, I've got an intolerance." No, you don't have an intolerance. You're just fat from eating junk food. Okay? And you'll get people like, "I don't I eat healthy." And you look at what they eat and it's junk food. No, you eat healthy TM, right? When you go get that box of healthy cereal that you eat all 3,800 calories of, well, that's still junk food, guys. Just because some company slaps a healthy label on it and says it has organic humanely harvested a kaiber berries and you mainly harvested or organic cane sugar. That's still just called table sugar. Of course, it's going to make you fat. Of course, it's going to cause inflammation. You're eating junk food. You're eating junk food with a healthy label on it. you're still eating a trash dumpster junk food diet. Or I eat uh whatever chips fried in organic humanely harvested coconut oil. That's called junk food. There's no difference between the coconut oil. It's still junk food. And in fact, it's full of saturated fat on top of being processed. That's going to cause more inflammation. But you're just eating garbage. Just because it's got a healthy label on it doesn't mean that it's chicken, rice, and vegetables. Okay, so this is what's happening. And then people got the No, no, no, no, no, no. Just stop. You're fat and inflamed because you eat junk food. You don't have a food intolerance. If you have a food intolerance, you would probably start losing fat. Okay, again, my lifters who have real food intolerances, we have to take those foods away because they can't gain weight. Like I can't eat enough to gain weight. I just crap it all out. It's liquid explosive stool. Okay, do we understand? But this is nonsense. People market this and it's a total scam artist. Oh yeah, you're you're I'll just fix your gut up and then you will get rid of this food intolerance and you'll be able to lose weight. Now, if they had a real food intolerance, they would already be losing fat, especially if they're trying to exercise and stuff because they're pooping it all out with diarrhea. That's what a food intolerance is. That's what it does. You're not intolerant to refined sugar. You're digesting it just fine. If you were intolerant of it, it wouldn't be hurting you as bad because it wouldn't ever reach your bloodstream. You wouldn't be able to digest it and absorb it. The fact that you're getting it into your body is the problem. And it doesn't mean that you're special with an intolerance. It means you're a member of the human species. That's what happens when you eat that junk. That's what happens to all humans. We're not intolerant of it as a food intolerance. Again, people misunderstanding it. So then this person's telling, "Oh, I'm going to cleanse all this and we're going to fix your intolerance and you'll lose weight." No, they're just having you quit eating the junk food and get rid of the calorie surplus. They're not fixing an intolerance. They're not fixing it. And the inflammation is going down because you're finally in a calorie deficit and you're losing body fat and you're not eating butter and table sugar. Okay, this is what's going on. Uh so this is complete scam artistry. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.