sets in which you are losing reps are probably a waste of time. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. And let's get over into the topic. Uh, you know, this is this is one of the reasons I personally these days have gone over to very low set training. I do a lot of that with my clients. It doesn't mean our volumes are super low because our intensities tend to be high and we're still usually doing you know six sets of muscle group a week. But you know the thing with that when you start looking at the results or you look at the the growth response every study that's ever looked at multiple sets does show a reduction. All right? It shows a reduction in muscle growth on a set for set basis. Okay? In other words, you get the most growth from the first set and then so on and so forth. And I think we have to realize the intensity of those sets absolutely matters. Um, and people are like, but it's still muscle growth. True, it is still muscle growth, but here's what I want people to think about. If your performance is degrading and you're losing significant numbers of reps, and it's not a set number. What I want to be clear here is we're not saying, hey, exa at exactly three reps lost or exactly four reps lost. No, if you're losing reps at all, you are getting a dramatically lower training response. Like we saw this uh done in in research where uh shorter rest times were used to the point where reps were being lost. They were unreplicatable. And you know, and again, exercise science studies are very limited. But what it determined was it actually turns out longer rest periods produce more growth. Why? Because of higher quality sets. In other words, it's not just about how close to failure you got are going to failure. It's about what muscle fibers as you recruit. And it takes time to get the fast twitch fibers to fire again. You you're not if you take a set to failure, in other words, and you go do another set in one one and a half minutes, you're not getting the the fastest twist fibers again. They're they haven't had time to recover. That's where most of your growth occurs. Okay? So, we need to be clear on that. And the longer you train, the more that is biased, right? Every subsequent year of serious training you have, the higher the percentage of almost entirely fast twitch fibers is where your muscle growth comes from. And and I mean, we're looking at in more advanced lifters, it's over 90%. Okay? If you've been training, in other you've been training hard more than three years, 90 plus% of your muscle growth comes from the fast twitch fibers. none of the other muscle fibers grow anymore. Now, for a novice lifter, you know, the other fibers could be, you know, as much as half of your growth in the first couple months. Okay? So, we have to understand it in that context when we we make these statements. Okay? We have to understand it in that context. So there comes a point where if we are losing reps, okay, in other words, if you lose any reps, let me be clear, it was a lower quality set. You simply did not do as much work as the set before. You probably didn't get as many muscle fibers. Okay? Doesn't mean no growth, but it's less. But here's the thing. What happens if we start losing significant reps? And I don't think we can apply this to the really low rep sets. People say, "Oh, how many?" This is the problem. How many reps are you doing? I'm gonna say if you're losing three reps, we're at jump volume. Even for a little higher rep sets, right? We're we're turning into that set probably did almost nothing for muscle growth. But if we're doing our heavier work, it's it's harder to pin that down because if you're still above 85% of your max, every rep has a growth stimulus. like it pretty well been figured out, you know. So, in other words, if your max is 400 pounds and you're doing at least 440, every rep cost muscle growth. The problem we get into all of this is, is it enough to justify the fatigue? In other words, if you can't train that muscle again fairly quickly because and replicate performance because of these jump volume sets, then it's a problem. This is where it's costing you muscle growth. Okay? Because muscles only grow for a couple days really after you train them, right? your other activity will help maintain them. But if you were completely immobilized, uh muscles start shrinking within three or four days. Okay? The only reason guys get away with this on body part splits is because of the overlap, right? You are getting secondary stimulus to those muscles again on the other body parts because there's no way to isolate a muscle. You can't do it. That's that's complete nonsense. There is literally no such thing as muscle isolation. It's a makebelieve bodybuilder idea. Not how human body works. It's impossible. Let me state that again. It is biologically impossible to isolate a muscle. You can't do it in the weight room. Never been done. Can't be done. Complete complete misunderstanding of human biology to think that it could even be done. So the overlap helps, but I mean otherwise the way to look at it is if it's reducing your frequency because you're not recovering and you can't replicate, then we have a big problem, don't we? And that's the the case I would make for people. It's like, are we stimulating really good muscle growth or are we trying to chase that last little percent at the expense of our recovery? But if we're chasing it at the expense of our recovery, then our frequency goes down. And if our frequency goes down, then we're still not optimizing muscle growth. And I think that's the problem with this idea, right? If you're trying to squeeze out every last drop of muscle growth, particularly without drugs in the mix, being able to train a muscle frequently, like up to three times a week, and replicate performance and progressively overload, is what's going to maximize your growth. And people forget that with a lot of bodybuilders, it doesn't m a lot of that doesn't matter anymore. um muscle protein synthesis stays elevated and they can always just add more drugs. Adding another 200 milligrams is probably worth more than optimizing their frequency. So we have to understand it in that concept. But here's the point. Um those junk volume sets. So let's say let's just say a pull-up. Let's say you can do 10 pull-ups, but then you only get nine on the second set. Well, that's a little that's definitely less. But then the the the third set, you're only getting six. That's where it's clearly a jump volume. All you're doing is beating up your recovery. And people say, "Well, I could just hold back on the early sets to get it." So then you're just doing lower quality sets. You'd have been better off just doing one allout set to failure. you would have probably gotten more muscle growth, get out of the gym quicker, and make great gains with less overuse. Because that's what it comes down to also, not just recovery, but overuse. As volume goes up, overuse risk go up. Okay? So, we have overuse goes up and then frequency has to go down. So, it's not [clears throat] really a win. And that's the point we're making here. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals uh next time.