Should a personal trainer look the part? Uh, hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Uh, but a quick reminder, please click a like down below, follow or subscribe to me if you aren't yet and please drop me a comment, leave your thoughts, leave your ideas on this and or just say hello. So, let's get over to the topic. I always I bring this up occasionally and it's always funny. Has nothing to do with me. Number one, I'm not a personal trainer. I'm not a gym trainer. I have done it in the past many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many, many years ago, right? Part-time. I'm a strength and conditioning coach. I coach powerlifters. I coach people offseason bodybuilders. I coach fighters for their lifting, stuff like that. Um, I'm not a personal trainer. So, so when this comes up, this is nothing to do with me. It's not my profession. I don't really desire to be a normal gym trainer. Um, so we're talking about actual gym trainers and what I mean of should they look the part or what happens if they don't. Um, I'm going to go out on a limb and say it's not a good look. It's not good for their business. You know, I've had people who who will say in these contexts when this this topic comes up, yeah, but are their clients happy? Are their clients getting result? Can they get their people, the general population, people who are hiring them, can they get them results? That's what matters. And fundamentally I'm going to agree with that. Okay, fundamentally I'm going to agree with that. Uh because that is what matters. But where people go really extreme, they always try to compare different professions to it. They'll be like, "Well, Boris Shako is is fat and out of shape old man, yet he's the greatest I'm going to say no. The second greatest second greatest powerlifting coach of all time. Let me go with uh Louis Simmons as number one." It's like, okay, but he's not a personal trainer. If Boris Shako walked into your local 24-hour fitness or LA Fitness and nobody knew who he was coming in there speaking Russian, offering personal training services, I can tell you right now, he wouldn't get hired. No, like people wouldn't hire him. Let's be realistic because you're talking about personal training the general population. Now, people who know who Boris Shako is would obviously hire him if they're stuck in a 600 pound squat and they're like, "I need to get my squat higher. I can only squat 600 lb in competition. Boris, I need to get to seven." Yeah, they're going to hire him, but has nothing to do with being a personal trainer. That's a specialized type of coaching. Nothing to do with general population fitness. Same thing you like, well, you know, a football coach doesn't have to have won the Super Bowl. No, but he better have played football. Okay, you kind of see where we're going with this. Okay, so yeah, your your 50-year-old coach out there, he never played a game of high school football. You're telling me he's never been out on a playing field? I don't know that he should be trying to coach the NFL then. He didn't even play high school football. He's never been on the field, never played the game. Is that what you're telling me? Okay. But again, you're talking about coaching a sport at the ultra elite level to where less than 1% of the population has the genes to even be there. That's not comparable. Let's come over talk about a gym trainer. I'm going to go out on a limb and say that if a gym trainer isn't in shape, they're fat. They probably shouldn't be helping clients try to get into shape and to lose body fat unless they have a really good reason. They just went through a major issue and they're in the process of losing weight again because something happened and they gained a bunch of weight while they were sick or whatever, you know, major surgery and then inactive and depression, gained a bunch of weight. Okay, but that's temporary, isn't it? And they probably already have clients and people who remember them in a base. But if they're just fat all the time, I'm going to say no. They they probably shouldn't be a personal trainer. They have no professionalism, no accountability. How are they going to handle this for the other general population? I'm going to say no. The same thing. Um, plenty of trainers don't look like they lift weights at all. I'm not saying they have to be my size, guys. I'm 220 lbs. You guys just watched me close grip 325 with a two second pause and do a 500 lb squat without sleeves as a 48-year-old man, by the way. Right. Repping out pull-up weighted pull-ups. I'm 48. Okay? They don't have to be my size. That's not what I'm saying. And I'm obviously not the biggest guy in the world. I personally have numerous friends who are bigger than me, personal friends of mine. So, um that that being said, they better have some muscle. Like, why are we lifting weights? For the purpose of gaining muscle. So yeah, if you haven't gained any muscle, you don't look like you you work out, you're just a skinny guy or a skinny girl. No, I don't I don't know that that is a good look for a personal trainer. And here's the thing, a lot of them don't lift and don't know how to lift. I mean, I I have observed this many times as a serious strength coach who teaches the barbell lifts at an elite level. I'm gonna go out a limb and say I have seen many personal trainers myself in the gym who aren't qualified to teach uh a kindergartener how to lift a weight. It's pretty bad. I've also known personal trainers who are phenomenal at their profession, but they also look like they lift because they do lift. Okay? And that's kind of the point. I I will be the first to say if you don't know basic you don't know how to stack your wrists on a barbell bench of any type have to be the flat bench. You don't know how to stack your wrists when you grab a barbell. I I don't think you should be teaching anybody in the weight room in my opinion. You need to get out of there until you learn the basics. Okay? You can't take a barbell on a back squat, a front squat, even a dumbbell and do a below parallel squat without your heels coming up off the floor. Yeah, you you probably have no business teaching anybody how to work out and especially charging money for them. But, you know, I digress back over to that point. They don't have any muscle. I mean, are they a personal trainer or not? And that's kind of the point. Let's talk about credibility, accountability, lifestyle. If you don't work out and take it seriously yourself, oh, you hop around and do some one-legged stuff with a cable or a Bosu ball. Yeah, you're you're not you're not serious at all. You're goofing off. So, you don't take it seriously, then then this is not your passion. Okay? It's not your passion. You don't live the lifestyle. you don't even train at any sort of remotely serious proficient level yourself, then yeah, I'm going to say that no, you probably shouldn't be doing it for a living because it's not your passion. And that would be the weird question that I have for people who are like, I'm going to be a trainer and get people strong in a but they don't know how to do it themselves. Like, you don't know how to do it yourself. You're like, well, I choose to do this other thing instead of actual effective methods. Yeah, that's that's doesn't mean that's what you need to teach your clients. If you make that personal choice, you need to have your clients do what's effective, not what you personally choose to do. And I think that's that's something that has to be looked at with that. Um like so that would be the difference. Okay, I don't practice what I preach. Okay, that's fine. But if you don't practice what you preach, then what you preach better be what works, not what you practice. just just throwing it out there my thoughts on it. Uh but no, I will say that for the a gym trainer, you need to be in shape. You need to have gained at least 10 pounds of muscle. Doesn't need to be 50, but you better have gained eight or 10 pounds of muscle. You better know how to perform the basic lifts with good form. You better not be fat. At least look the part. My opinion. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.