Social media standards are not the real world for physiques. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. Um, and when I say this, I do need people to understand this. In order to look absolutely amazing in person to normal people, you do not need to be within three tiers of what you see on the internet. Um, people have been sold this ridiculous standard. they've been sold this ridiculous standard to the point where and I just had a call uh with a former client who was coming back to me for some consultation stuff and diet adherence who himself has a great physique if he pointed that out too that he goes it's crazy that you're right you know that you're absolutely right that a person online you can have a physique that looks nothing like the internet and in real life everyone will give you constant compliments because it's just it's so different than standards he goes. And two, he's like, "Yeah, people if they see an impressive truly natural physique, they've been so misled because the internet and social media is telling people, hey, this is what, you know, we need to look like, right? that which is what we need to look like that when they are shown someone who is a truly impressive natural they're like wow if that's the best I could do it's not even worth working out which is an absolutely ludicrous position absolutely ludicrous position because of course it's worth working out because that same guy who's put in 10 or 15 years of really hard work to normal people looks amazing amazing and he's healthy and he's strong and he's fit and his quality of life is improved. So again, this I think this is something I would say to people. If you really if you don't want to use a lot of drugs, you need to stay off of social media for your standards for fitness and physiques. Like avoid it because most of these guys who are telling you they're natural are blasting. And then on top of that, nobody looks like this. the these guys don't look like they look. Okay, I'm one of the guys up here who doesn't have that level of physique, but I'm also shirtless every single week on camera, right? How many of these guys Photoshop AI, you see all this nonsense from them, right? I mean, obviously it's not going to make my 49year-old self look like [laughter] that, but you know, it's lighting, it's dieting, right? These guys will literally prep for six weeks or eight weeks and use diuretics to do a single shirtless scene and then they'll use perfect lighting and Photoshop and editing. They do not look like that in person. And if you've been to expose and events and you see the guys all throughout the day out in the normal lighting, you know that they don't look like that, right? You go to an expo and you go meet someone at the expo who's been out there. They're in their second day or third day of the expo. Like, man, they don't look anything like they do on social media out there without a shirt. I mean, they they look good compared to a normal person on the street. They look amazing. They don't look like their social media. They're smaller. They're flatter. They're less cut. What's going on? What's the deal? Because they sell illusion. Not only are they on drugs, they peak and use Photoshop and perfect lighting and everything and angles for the videos and the pictures they put on the internet. They don't even look like that. So, if your influencers don't even look like that all the time, what makes you think that you can? These are people who it's their job to look like that. [snorts] They only have that for temporary for a day and they may not even have it at all once you do a little touching up. And this is a point I always make. I'll see these guys say, "But everyone, it's okay. It's not fakery because everyone does it." But that's still fakery. Right? Do you actually look like that on a random day? Like, well, no, I don't look anything like that. I don't even look like that the same day later. Or especially with the editing, the Photoshop, they don't look like that at all. All those touchups with the perfect lighting and then they hit it only, you know, they looked at their best part of the day. Okay. You have to understand that difference. So that's the reality. You're being sold an illusion. And it's horrible for your body image. Like if you want body image dysmorphia, particularly if you don't use a lot of drugs. You want body dysmorphia, go look at so-called social media natties and look at their photo shoots and the rare few shirtless videos they do. That's a perfect way to get body dysmorphia because you're like, "Man, this is what I'm supposed to look like." No, they don't even look like that half the time. They don't look like that. Some of them don't look like that ever. And the ones that do don't look like that 90% of the time. So, so it's unrealistic. And I'm not telling you you can't be fit. Sure, you can be fit. Sure, you can be in shape. But you're not going to look like an illusion. You're not going to look like Photoshop. You're not going to look like a guy who runs a gram of master a week as part of his drug stack to dry out and then takes a diuretic before he uh does the photo shoot in the perfect lighting. Okay? Unless you're going to do that every day for the rest of your life, you can't look like that. You're not going to look like it either. So stop looking at it. Stop using it as inspiration when you know it can't be done even by that person. Most of the time they're not even actually doing it. And I can tell you right now, Photoshop doesn't work on the beach. Photoshop doesn't work by the pool. I mean, it will in the pictures after. So, that's the same problem people are going to run into. Okay, you could try to do that. You could do that on your social media, but what happens in real life? And then people go, you don't look like that at all. Okay. So, then they know it's just fakery. Then what are you going to tell? Oh, well, you know, I I do all it's like then it looks really insecure like, but you didn't do it for money. You just did you just did it for fakery for the internet because you want people to think you look like that. Like we see it as fine in the fitness world like it's their business. But if you did it any other time it would just be insecure. And isn't it insecure? Let's be realistic. These people aren't willing to put how they really look up on the internet. They're insecure. Because if they weren't insecure, they'd take their shirt off on random days when they don't even look good in bad lighting and be perfectly content with it because that's what secure people do. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.