There are things to consider before you throw away your money on supplements. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals about this today. Um, if you guys would though, please click like down below, I would greatly appreciate it. If you aren't following or subscribed, please do so. And if you would drop me a comment down under the video, thank you so much for that. All right, so over to the point. For those who know my my serious history going back 10, 12, 13 years, um I fought pretty hard against scams in the supplement industry. Ended up being sued, um drove through courts and everything over calling out scams and and bad products that were actually vindicated later by meta analysis and stuff like the branch chain amino acid thing. Multiple meta analysis came out later confirming they were completely useless and completely a scam. uh but you know companies still spent hundreds of thousands of dollars trying to sue me to shut me up over that. So just so that people have a context for this I have uh been through it in dealing with this topic. All right so over to this point people always are looking for supplements and the problem is most of the industry is is owned by these supplement companies. They sponsor everyone. They have a lot of control in the fitness world and so therefore people tend to get very biased information in regards to a two-sided story. But what these people who pimp them and who make money on them and maybe even have been convinced of their value forget is um it's not legal to sell supplements that work. Um this is the problem that people uh forget. Uh so if any supplement over-the-counter produces a drug-like effect that that rivals anything uh that a prescription uh drug can do, it is made illegal. It is pulled off the shelf. They are not allowed to sell you things that actually work. So anything that can can legitimately build muscle, burn fat, um replicate a drug like effect like affect statins and things, it becomes illegal. And before people jump up and say, "Oh, see that's just the big pharma." Well, yes and no. In some cases, yeah, it is big pharma protecting their interests, but it's also the case of of looking at safety. Um, because if an over-the-counter product can produce a drug-like effect, guess what? It usually has the same side effects as the drug. This is a point that people forget. If a naturally occurring herb or whatever can produce the same effects that Lipur does, for example, guess what usually happens? You usually have a lot of the same side effects. That's reality. So there there is a safety concern. But then the other problem with it is um it also makes it dangerous because now we have a product and over the counter there's an herb or something and there's that the one I just named is is a real one and I'm not going to go into which type of red yeast that is. It's illegal to sell it or to import it into the US for that reason. Um and here's why. Because yes, it has statin-like effects. People say, "Well, how is that a bad thing? Why why are they preventing that?" Because it's it's an unregulated effect. In other words, when we take a statin, for example, if your diet is so bad and your lifestyle is bad enough that you need a statin, okay, you need an exact amount and you need an exact effect. Um, a standardized drug gives you that effect and the doctor knows based on your blood work, hey, five milligrams does this for you, 10 milligrams this, this, 20 milligrams, and they put you at that dose to get the exact desired effect for your body. The problem with the herbal one, here's where we're going. It's inconsistent. You don't know if the batch you got this week because it's an herb and it's the the thing is not at a standard concentration. It can vary from plant to plant. It can vary from season to season. It's not regulated and there's no way to regulate it. You don't know if you're getting one milligram equivalent or 20 milligrams equivalent of the drug from week to week. So if you're using this for something that you need for a medical purpose, the dose is fluctuating with every batch and bottle that you get all the time. Okay? So if you need it for health purposes, you could die because you got an, you know, underdose batch. Your your health could suffer. Um what if you got an overdose batch and you needed a smaller amount? So let's say you've been taking more to get the effect and then all of a sudden now you get a super strong batch and it's triple the effect. The side effects, the health risks are going to go up. And this is something people forget with these products. So no supplements that work are not allowed to be sold. And when it comes to something really competitive because you know statins are not expensive. How about fat burning stuff? That's a big market. Um we learned this the hard way like a fedra got got outlaw. They came after it big time when it outperformed in a in a bunch of studies um all the prescription weight loss drugs. It outperformed them. man, it was pulled off the shelves and made illegal within 6 months. Um, so you have that to factor in, but but that's written in the law. So the supplement companies know this. They know that they have to make sure that their products don't work too well. All right, you see where we're going? You may be paying 30, $40, $50, $75 a bottle for something that the company making it has a financial vested interest in making sure it either doesn't work or doesn't work. very effectively. This is a problem. This is what you're spending your money on. The same industry is also known for spiking drugs in there to promote sales. Like this has happened numerous times. They'll take a new product. They'll spike it with amphetamines. They'll spike it with with oral anabolic steroids. And orals are more dangerous than injectables to your health as a general rule. People forget that. It's a reason injectable is used more. they hurt you less in terms of your health. Um, but that's a whole different topic. They spike them with things and so you may be getting illicit drugs, illegal drugs that are again, you have no idea how much you're taking. You're taking it without knowing you're taking it. This is a problem. Um, you may be taking these methan analoges or anabolic steroids from this over-the-counter supplement without knowing you were taking them, subjecting yourself to risks and side effects, you know, and if you wanted to take those things, you would just go buy those things and take them. It's pretty straightforward. This is a crapshoot. So, again, the industry has done this and then they'll pull it off the product before they get caught. They'll pull them back off the shelves. Occasionally, they get caught and then the product stops working. All right. This it's an entire scam scummy industry that's that everyone in it who works in it knows the laws and that they have to do it this way. So by even choosing to be in the industry, they know they're in a scam industry. This is who you're dealing with by default. And on top of that, supplement industry is not required to do safety testing or prove their products are safe in in the United States. They're not required to. Therefore, unlike drugs, which we know the exact side effects, we know the health risk, they go through tons of testing, supplements do not. The rule they have in place is that if it is proven to be dangerous, they can no longer sell it. But they can sell it all the way up until medical research and expertise comes out saying, "Hey, this could be a risk. This could be a problem." Up until that point, they can literally sell you the equivalent of rat poison. And they do, and they don't care.