Sometimes lifting weights isn't about the gains, sometimes it's about therapy. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. Um, and if any of you have experiences with this or you understand this or the barbell or the gym has been part of your therapy, then please feel free to share down below in a comment. Uh, thank you so much. Let's get over to the topic. Um, you know, this is something that a lot of people I know relate to. Um, men and women both. So, this is not just guys. Um, I I know women uh who have this same situation to where for people the gym is almost it's their escape, it's their me time. Okay. Um, and and a perfect example even let's let's take women. I know mothers who are like, I'm a mother 23 hours out of the day, right? Um, I I do all this stuff. Um, my kids depend on me, my family depends on me, husband depends on me. My gym is my little bit of me time where I get to just work on myself, you know, once a day or three times a week or five times a week or whatever they happen to have and they're like, "This is just my me time. It's the one little bit I get and and it's valuable to me and it's important to be where I can just work on myself." And and I think people need to have that. All right. Even even in those situations and anyone who has a problem with something like that is actually it's quite ridiculous because you know if they don't have their me time and they are not healthy and fit and doing stuff they can't fulfill the other things they need to do. Um but let's come over and let's talk about everybody um everybody. Um, the gym is therapy for a lot of people and I think people forget that. They see lots of people who are really jacked or really strong or the people who are the serious gym people and not realize, you know, for a lot of us this was part of a therapeutic process. There's so many people who uh are abuse survivors of some type. Um, child abuse, sexual assault, men and women both, uh, PTSD, whether it's from that sort of stuff. veterans with PTSD, police officers with PTSD, uh you know, people who have experienced things where they have these traumas, uh the gym becomes an outlet. Okay, the gym becomes an outlet for that. And it becomes an important outlet. And that's something I've been really really big on is understanding that for people. And it's not just me. Um like I was I was at uh Texas State Championship three years ago for powerlifting. I was chatting with a guy there who um was competing and he was part of a group uh to where a therapist was has got them powerlifting a group of veterans to help with their PTSD and started a whole program for it. Right? They had a whole program going for for doing that and they found that it helped. And then they also the same therapists and other people realize uh any sort of abuse survivors, sexual assault, you know, child abuse, women who had been assaulted that the brain response is the same. The trauma is identical. The PTSD is no different. Like your brain doesn't register that sort of trauma being different from the other. It just knows trauma and the same type of PTSD develops, right? the memories are different but the the chemical response in the brain is the same. Uh trauma is trauma and they found that it helped them also. Uh so again getting under a heavy barbells is that therapeutic thing for people with a lot of these conditions. But I think it's it's also that way for for a lot of people out there. There's a lot of people who their gym is their me time. They have stressful lives. They have stressful jobs. Okay, that time in the gym, that lifting is where people destress. Okay, it's where they de-stress. It's where they get out their frustrations. It's where they get out their anger. And it's all done in a positive manner, you know, because you can come in and you can lift heavy weights. You can take your your anger, your frustration, your aggression out on a heavy weight. Okay. And I used to do this. I don't anymore. I'm calm when I live now, but that's decades later, you know. I mean, I'm 48. I've been doing this a while. Um, it's decades later, but I used to do the same thing. It's when you come in and you vent that frustration. Yes, in my case, I I am an abuse survivor and I do have a PTSD diagnosis. Uh, and a lot of people will say, "Oh, no, you don't. I actually actually legitimately do. It's on it's actually on paper by a psychiatrist. So, uh I used to find the barbell helpful for that, right? It was an outlet for me and it's the place where it where it's it's you you're in control. You're focused, right? And it's where you can come in, you can take all that aggression out, all that frustration in a manner that doesn't break or harm anyone or anything. Right? Because the barbells and the the equipment or the the barbells and dumbbells are made to be abused like that. They're designed for it, right? They don't mind if you put 500 pounds on the bar and lift it. Usually, if it's designed correctly, it can handle it. But it's constructive, right? Instead of being destructive, it is a constructive outlet that not only gets your frustrations out, but it builds your body up, it builds your health up. Okay? Um, and there is a mental health component to that. We the the longer we look at the world, the more we realize there's a a massive connection between physical and mental health. And of course there is. Um, you know, one of the reasons we wonder why we have such a large mental health problem crisis in the US is not just lack of treatment. That's a factor, but how about our lifestyles? I mean, we know that insulin resistance and insulin sensitivity affect mental health. Well, gaining fat and not having muscle affects that. Same with the diet in by the way. Literally, the health of your gut flora affects your mental health and your brain neurotransmitters. All right? The mind and the body are connected. The mind and the body are connected. Um, so again, if we're going to talk about mental health, well, physical health has to go with it. If your body's inflamed from being obese, uh you don't have good insulin sensitivity due to due to lack of muscle, lack of training, your brain can't be healthy. It is not going to be optimal. And if your brain isn't healthy, you're not in a good place for mental health. But let's come back over though, that ability to get frustration out and to focus, right? And and that's the big part of it. It's the ability to focus on something day after day that is self-improving. All right, that's therapeutic in and of itself because it programs you to believe that you are worthwhile, that you are worth investing in. All right? So gym time is absolutely absolutely therapy any way you break it down. But for a lot of people it is their escape or our escape, right? It's our escape from all the other stuff going on. It's our either our me time. It's our outlet. It's our focus time. It's our place of zen. It is our meditation. Okay? And that can take many forms in the gym. It's a valid form of it. All right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.