Squats and deadlifts are the most important exercises and I will die on that hill. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, look, I know people are going to argue against these for various purposes. They're going to say, "Well, I don't powerlift or I'm a bodybuilder or I have a bad back." All these excuses. And quite frankly, I don't care. None of that's relevant to the conversation. Um, and don't even bring the bodybuilding thing up because plenty of guys who won the Mr. Olympia, who had elite squats and deadlifts, were the best bodybuilder in the entire world competitively at that time. So, saying that because you're a bodybuilder that you're not going to do those exercises is a piss, poor, horrific excuse. Just stop. It literally never prevented anyone from becoming Mr. Olympia. So, just stop. All right, that just that there we go. That anecdote debunks that. Um, but in terms of of other stuff, we talk about back health and back injuries and all these things. Well, well, these are the exercises that prevent this, right? Having a strong trunk, a strong back. This is this is how uh we help reduce back injuries. This is how we help keep a healthier back and a healthier core. Um, but when I talk about these two exercises, what I mean is we're talking for overall fitness. All right, we can make a case for overall muscle mass, but but people forget um that overall muscle mass doesn't necessarily give you the most jacked biceps because strictly speaking, the biceps are smaller than every single muscle in the lower body by an enormous margin, right? People don't realize that even your hamstrings and your calves are at least three times the size of your biceps. If you start talking quads and glutes, adductors, oh man, that that jumps even more. Um, but you know, that aside means they're not necessarily going to give you the upper body aesthetics if that's all you do. But in terms of total muscle mass, no. There there is literally nothing on the face of the earth capable of putting more muscle mass on you. total than the squat and the deadlift. We're talking about total muscle mass through the whole body. Um, and that's a point that has to be factored in. And this isn't just going to be about muscle mass. We're going to talk about all the other stuff, too. But, but realistically, they will put the most muscle on you. And if you're trying to gain muscle for health and fitness purposes, meaning you're you're not necessarily trying to develop perfect biceps and perfect round capped delts because that's not necessarily gaining large amounts of muscle. Okay? Those are much smaller muscles. You're looking for a certain look. But here's the beauty of it. Training the squat and the deadlift does not stop you from doing lateral raises and curls. Okay? Let me state that again. Nowhere in the history of the world has doing the squat or the deadlift stopped anyone from doing curls unless they tore a bicep, you know, but uh I digress. Um and when I talk about these lifts, I'm talking about doing them relatively raw. I mean, I do use a belt, right? I'm not talking about using knee wraps, straps, any of these things because honestly we start talking uh you know back injuries, these are the things that are going to cause the back injuries. They allow you to use more weight than you would be able to lift for all. Okay. Well, this is where we get hurt, right? And that's a point that does need to be made. I do feel like back injuries on the deadlift are considerably exacerbated by the use of straps. Uh because normally your grip will give out. Like when your back is starting to reach a fatigue or a dangerous point on a deadlift, your nervous system makes your grip give out. Straps let you have a bypass that fail safe. It's like like taking the governor off, you know, on the engine, right? There's a limit set in place. It makes it harder to overrev and that's your grip limiting you. And even with a mix grip, and as long as you pull with good form, mix grip is safe, too. You just got to pull with good form. Pull slack out of the bar. Um, but straps, same thing. We start talking knee wraps. Well, knee wraps can can injure your knees, but the same thing. You hurt their backs or tear quads. Well, they're using knee wraps that let them use 50 pounds more than they're capable of lifting. Okay? guy who can squat 400 for five is all of a sudden squatting 450 for six with the same amount of strength and the same amount of muscle. Well, yeah, this is this is where other stuff becomes limits, you know. This is this is where injuries occur. But if if you just work within your natural strength, it's fine. I mean, same thing you guys see me doing like sets of 12 there with 405 on a squat. It's not crazy heavy for me, especially with no sleeves or wraps. And that's what I'm talking about doing these exercises. Yeah, they'll put the most muscle on you. And it's because they work the entire lower body, but they also work muscles of the trunk, the core, the back, everything else. They'll make you big, at least in terms of of muscle weight. They're not, again, they're not going to give you big wide shoulders and perfect bicep peaks, but you can still do curls. Uh, overall muscle. Yeah. But what what about the other stuff? How about all that core stability? How about the bone density? How about the uh coordination? So, if we're going to talk about fitness and longevity, uh what does fitness mean overall? Well, overall fitness, overall athleticism, these are big movements that require coordination. They require you to move your body through space. Therefore, they improve um athleticism itself, right? Putting 400 lbs on your back and dropping down into a squat position and standing back up with it requires a degree of athleticism and coordination and you're training it every time you do it. All right? They're big movements. Okay? They also train the nervous system. They train neural drive through these same reasons. They're just going to make you stronger, more coordinated, and more athletic in general. It's why many [clears throat] top athletes around the world use these sort of approaches. Well, what else? How about bone density? How about a stronger back? Okay, these are exercises that put adaptative stress on your bones, particularly the lower body, the hips, quad, you know, the femurss, all these things, right? That we need to prevent fractures. Helps longevity. This is critical as we get older. but also the back. You know, you get people who are like, "Well, this one guy said that from the years of powerlifting, it made him shorter." Well, yeah. Are we talking about the guy squatting 800 pounds with knee wraps in a suit? Whose back was never really intended to fully support 800 lb for years and years and years? Okay, might be a case for that hypothetically, but normal work sets for people who are just at a high strength level, who who's not doing all of that, they're going to make your bone density improve. They're going to give you stronger vertebrae. Your vertebrae are going to be less likely to break down and get uh compressed over time because they're going to be harder. They're going to be denser. You're going to keep a stronger back. You're going to have a longer back. Okay? It's going to help resist these things. It's going to help resist that hunched over back that old people get. So yes, the bone density aspects of it cannot be overlooked. So these these are exercises that are extremely important. Like these are the absolute best exercises you can do. And again, they should be the foundation of your training. And I'm not saying you guys see me doing curls. I am literally doing dumbbell curls right here after doing them. Okay? Not saying you can't do some curls in biceps. No. No one's saying that. But these exercises are king and they bring more to the table than anything else you could possibly do. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.