 the hack to getting strong is to squat heavy once a week for 10 years straight. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here and I want to talk to you guys about this today, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like, drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. I love this analogy or this particular line and you guys already know I've said before, I stole it. I stole it from a group of coaches having a podcast. I think it was Wendler with a bunch of like the hardcore CrossFit games coaches. You know, they were having that conversation and I had to listen in. Like, that's great. And I'll go into it a little further and it's not meant to sound trite, it's not meant to sound condescending, it's the reality. And I think what it is is because people don't understand, there is something about consistency, there's something about long term heavy lifting. It creates a very dense musculature, higher strength and myofabular growth. Because we're not getting at that point in the game, it's no longer about transient storage factors. Well, we got some extra water and inflammation and glycogen storage in the muscles. You train heavy for a decade and you're going to, if you just do it consistently year after year, even if you only get in once a week on the heavy squats and that's the point. Didn't say, hey, you need a perfect program or you've got to have a high squat frequency or that all your squat sessions need to be heavy. But the idea here is a multi-fold in nature. And one it is that consistency. Because even if you split up and do multiple leg days or other things or maybe you, even someone who goes and they do a bunch of high rep leg presses for most of their legwork, but let's say every Friday, they come in and do a really heavy set of squats, at least one really heavy set of back squats. Okay. And they try, they get it in almost every single week for a decade straight. In terms of just the sheer slow accumulation of myofabular growth that's kind of put through most of your body, but particularly those big movers, you know, primary movers like the quads, the glutes, you're going to build an enormous base for strength. And people have to understand that consistency. All right. And it's just the act of the squatting itself, and particularly if you're changing it over time, you guys have seen me squat well past 500, high bar, low bar, safety bar, straight bar, squat bar, cambered bar. See where we're going with this? I've done good mornings over 500 pounds. Get strong. Just get strong. And what you're going to find, and that's what I mean by getting strong. Okay. So you've got one perfect technique down. And well, can you do with all that stuff? Man, can you grab any barbell and squat a really big weight? Can you go wide stance? Can you go narrow stance? And that's kind of the point of what we mean with strength. Because when you've been training for years and years like that, a decade, and you've been squatting heavy every week, you've probably tried a lot of different positions, different footings, different bar placements, different stances, different approaches. Like you've probably done some box squatting. And that's the point. You've accumulated strength in the ability to push through probably at, you know, five or six different squat angles. And if you've done that on squats, you've probably done that on different movements, different sort of pressing, pulling. Okay. You are going to have accumulated a very large amount of knowledge and proficiency with just moving big weights. Okay. And there is, there is something to be said for that experience. Can you just grab stuff and be strong at any angle? And that's kind of, for me, I used to do a lot of conjugate stuff. You guys have seen me do 600 plus pound deficit pulls, block pulls, regular pulls, stiff bar, deadlift bar. All right. I benched 365 clothes grip. I've done it wide grip, flat back, you know, so on and so forth. You know, even when I could overhead press, I used to do 225 overhead presses all the time. You know, you just get strong. And when you've been doing it a long time, you hit a lot of angles, you experiment with a lot of stuff. You learn things and you learn to move bigger weight, but more importantly, the consistency of it. And I'm not saying you have to lift heavy all the time. Once a week. And that's why I love the beauty of that because that heavy lifting, that heavy squat, as long as you get it in once a week, I don't care one set, but you do it for a decade. And when we say heavy, I mean a truly challenging heavy set. I don't care if it's one rep, six reps, challenging set every week for a decade. Again, you will accumulate large amounts of myofibrillar growth. You will accumulate a lot of tissue protein, a lot of bone density, because those things keep going over time. They just chip away and chip away over over long periods. And so there's going to be a point where you're going to get stronger. Even if you lose that strength, it comes back. What happens if you die it down? What if you quit squatting or whatever? Okay, but then in three months, you can be back where you were. Right. Once it's been there and that's the thing that people forget with advanced lifters like that. Once you have previously hit certain levels, you can detrain on those things. You can lose muscle and you can get it back. I've seen dudes use pretty hefty amounts of gear, get super strong for a long time and then come off all their drugs. And just do some TRT and it tanks and then they rebuild it back up and they end up being bigger and stronger than they even would have been natural. Because they've been there before. There is something about muscle memory, whether it's enhanced. And that's what I tell guys. Once you've cashed in your natty card for any period of time, it's permanent. There is no, hey, I came off. There's going to be some changes. And we have studies showing how that works. We've seen what the changes are under the microscope. But it's the same with the heavies lifting. It's literally the same thing. Once you've had that myofibrilar growth, all those muscle fiber nuclei accumulate, you've been doing it a decade. Dude, you could take two years off from lifting. And if you spend a decade getting your squat up to 550 like that, you could take two years off from the gym and come back in six months. You might have to start with 135 squatting. In six months, you'll be squatting 500. A year, you'll be squatting 550. Even if you took two years off. Just the nature of it. It's the nature of the beast. And it's those long term changes. It's changes in your muscle fibers, in the actual contractile proteins, changes in your bone density, changes in your nervous system, changes in your skills and coordination. And especially a barbell squat. It takes a lot to coordinate a barbell squat. And that's the point. Alright guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys in GALISON next time.