 nOROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROROR I'm sorry. This is what it is. My first my first rep on squat work tends to tends to be that way. If I'm doing reps. But when it comes to meet time, I always hit depth. All right. But I digress back over to the point of habits or how we build discipline. Stop. Stop chasing motivation. OK, because if you need psychological arousal and motivation all the time, what happens when it's not there? Because you're not going to have that forever. Nobody does. OK, nobody does. And so when you rely on it, you're always looking for a way to fill that cup back up. OK, you're always going to need the new motivational video. You need the new song that just hits right. You know, you got to have the right playlist. These are the same guys who feel they need the pre-workout all the time, which is garbage and a ripoff. And I've said that numerous times. So when you're chasing all of this, I just need to get motivated. No, you don't. You don't need motivation because you don't have it all the time. But what you can do is set habits. And this is stuff that I've always done the habit thing, obviously, because I've done this a really, really, really long time. But in more recent years, and I couldn't tell you how many years that is. I don't know, five years, seven years, whatever. I kind of reached a point where even my training went to its end like state. I didn't care about motivation. Sometimes I listen to music. Sometimes I don't. I went a couple of years with no music intentionally to kind of get out of that hype. You know, to learn to just train calm. And I think what definitely originally helped me with that and learning to not need motivation to take calm was Matt Perryman's doctoral work. The guy who wrote the book Squat Every Day, talking about psychological arousal and recovery. You know, that it interferes with recovery to get psyched up, even if the same amount of work is done. And we thought that was fascinating. But that's the problem. If we're not getting psyched up, man, we're with our motivation. But you don't need motivation. You don't need motivation. You need discipline. Because when motivation wanes and you just don't have it, discipline is what's going to carry you. Right? Discipline, the discipline of steel. As Conan the Barbarian talked about, the discipline of steel. You know, flesh is stronger than steel. You know, and he said that. But discipline. And how do we develop discipline? Through habits. Consistent habits. And what I tell people when they start their fitness journey, I think for a lot of people going in full tilt, unless that is truly your personality type, that I'm just going to go balls deep. Right? We're just going to go immediately from day one. Everything crazy. Well, it doesn't work for most people. You're going to burn out. Because you're still relying on that motivation, that hype. Right? Make a few small habits at once. I always tell people, start simple. On your fitness journey, start simple. I'd love to see everyone in the weight room, you know, in week one, but that's probably not going to happen at least. But at least start walking. Set a habit. Make one or two new habits and keep them for three weeks. Because it takes about three weeks to set a habit. And once you get locked in, you need to do them all the time. Like, if you say that my habit is, I need to lift weights at least twice a week. Like, no matter what. No matter what's going on. Then you need to stick to that. What if you start having set days? Like, I always train Monday, Wednesday, Friday. Even if you do some other training in between. If Monday, Wednesday, Friday are always your training days, you need to lock in. And you need to do it for a long time. So if you decide, hey, it's Monday, Wednesday, Friday. You need to lock in for a year. Do not, short of a true emergency. Car wreck, the flu, your mom's cat died. You know, something happened. Where you gotta, you gotta be away. The last one was a joke. You're not missing a workout because your mom's cat died. You know, your cat died or your mom died, totally acceptable. I get it, bro. But you need to lock in for a year. And if your discipline is, I eat clean every day except Friday evening. Then there's no cheat meals in between. Right? If your Friday evening is your date night with your girl. Or your night where you go out with the bros. You have that one day. And that's okay. But that's, that is your lock in. That's where you set your habit. I don't eat junk other than Friday afternoon, Friday evening. And that's very workable for most people, by the way. It's very workable for most people. You know. Now, I can't do that at all when I'm cutting. I can maintain and do that. I want to cheat meal once a week. But I can't personally lose any body fat while doing that. A lot of people can, though. But you lock in. That's, that's your thing. And so once that becomes your habit, then you don't deviate. You decide, this is the habit I'm going to set. And you stick it out for the long term. You have to set those habits, habits, habits, habits. Oh, I'm tired. I don't feel like going to the gym. But it's Monday. And Monday is one of your, your training days. If you decide Monday is your bench day, like International Chess Day, then you have to bench every Monday. And that's what we mean by discipline. This is what we mean by habits. They don't need to be rational. They don't need to be rational. They just need to be consistent. It's the, the, the iron gods have dictated that in gyms all over North America, Monday is, is chess day. So I have to bench on Monday. So then lock into that. It's a habit. And it doesn't have to make sense. Okay. You lock it in. And there's no exception. Once that becomes your hard, fast rule, you don't miss for the next year. You bench every single Monday. Okay. This is how you get results. Because when discipline, discipline is what will carry you when motivation fades. You have to stop chasing motivation. It doesn't work. Okay. It's going to, if that's what you're doing all the time, you will burn out. You're going to struggle to progress. You're going to end up quitting for long periods of time. You're going to have downtime. Stop doing it. Lock in. Get your habits set so that you build the discipline.