Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha strength and fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about the fact that strength and conditioning are skills that transfer very very quickly to other sports once sports specificity is reached. Uh but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below I'd appreciate it. Um, and when I say that, um, I can use kind of what I recently did as an example. Um, or I could use plenty of my clients or I could use plenty of clients and things coaches all around the world have done. And this is one reason why we say things like, look, just get really strong at basic barbell lifts and it will transfer to other stuff. Okay? The reason conjugate guys, they just rotate maxes and still have elite lifts. They're changing maxes all the time. doesn't matter uh because you can do a little bit of specificity and it carries over. Max strength is max strength. Conditioning is conditioning. Um and and I coach quite a few people who compete in different things and we find this to be true. Uh but if you use even recently for me, so you know it's like let's take me this year. You guys see the 500 squad. I'm 48 years old. Okay. I haven't run in over 20 years. I started off as a runner to lose weight, lost well over 100 pounds running. I quit doing running. But it's like I've had people who said, "Well, you can't run, you know." And then so I decided to take up running again, but I had been doing other conditioning work. I ride my bike a lot for less indoor bike, but I've been doing sled work. I've been doing long walks, right? I did all this other stuff. And then, you know what's interesting? I start jogging, right? I quit uh, you know, went ahead and started running. took my shoes off, just did straight up barefoot running and started off the first few days, five, 10 minutes. Within a week and a half, I'm hitting five mile runs. And then my run times start going down almost every single day. So, and I think that shocked a lot of people. Like, you haven't run in over 20 years. You're almost 50 years old. You weigh over 200 lb. You know, you're over here shaving 30 seconds off your average run time every day and going five miles. Like how rich have you built that up from zero running? Literally zero running. Again, let me be clear. I did not run for over 20 years at all. Not a jog, not, you know, no practice. And within two weeks, you know, I'm already was already decent. Like within two weeks, my five mile runs had, you know, obviously not an elite level, but they were faster than the national average for the average adult male in America who just does 5ks recreationally. They were faster than the national average. And then improving and improving and improving from there, right? improving on a weekly basis because as soon as we have specificity of training, the strength from the heavy squatting, the conditioning from the other stuff carries over. The same thing even, you know, I've tried to tell people, look, your sled work will carry over to your squat, your jumping, your box work will carry over to your slide. Just get strong, get athletic, get conditioned. Okay, these things transfer. These are all base skills. Okay, conditioning is conditioning. While running or sled, for example, are very specific, the basis is not. Okay, strength and interuscular coordination is still strength. You get good at maxing on several big lifts, you're going to be able to very quickly build a max on another lift, if that makes sense. Even a lift you're new to, right? In other words, your incline will build your flat bench. Your flat bench will have some carryover to your incline and so on and so forth. You know, within reason, box squat will carry over to a back squat. Sumo deadlift will carry over to a conventional deadlift. There'll be a huge amount of transference. In other words, if you get really strong at any of these lifts, you're going to be respectable at the new one. Maybe not the first time you do it, but you train it a few weeks. So, so again, perfect example. Show me any man who can who has decently strong shoulders because he's done any shoulder work who can whatever bench 405 or all with a pause and he's never done an incline bench in his life. You have him train the incline for three weeks. Is he going to have a really strong way above average incline? Yes, he probably will on day one. Give him three weeks. Take a guy who's in good shape. Give him three weeks to practice running. He'll be a pretty respectable runner even if he's never ran before in his life. If he's done other conditioning. Do we understand this? Strength is strength. Speed is speed. Conditioning is conditioning. So, they're transferable. There's a reason back squats and jumping on a box help boxers, sprinters, and and MMA fighters. Okay? These are all just basic abilities and they transfer you once you throw sport specificity in. Do you see my point? An athletes and an athlete. And I think people forget this. That's why I have clients. I have clients who literally compete in different fighting. We'll do 5ks, strongman powerlifting. I've have people who compete in two or three different things. What do we do? We just get them real strong, real condition, real fast. Okay. Once you train for the specificity, then you have it. Okay? You need to go train for Muay Thai if you want to do Muay Thai. Of course you do. Not going to be a great fighter just because you squat 500 lb, but you sure as hell have an advantage walking in. What happens when you actually practice it for a couple years under a skilled practitioner who knows how to teach you? Well, you know that makes a big difference. Athlete is an athlete. Okay. This is why I tell people just get generally fit, get generally strong. Learn these basic skills. If you do that, you can train for any sport in the world because then you just need this the sports specific practice and the specificity of training. But I mean, you can do all these other things. Because you walk, you walk in, do powerlifting, you do strongman, you do 5K, you do boxing once you train for those things. These are skills that carry over. And I tell those people, that's why I tell people just be a well-rounded fit athlete. Build up big numbers on your on your basic lifts. Do some jumping, do some running, get your conditioning up. Okay? Then once you've done that, you will be able to pick up any discipline or endeavor that you want and once you apply and learn the specific skills and the specificity of it, all this other stuff will transfer because you're still you have built the machinery and the neurological functions and everything that you need to do that. And yes, it transfers really easily with a lot of this stuff. And I think people are shocked. Like again, I have some clients who are runners. Uh they're like, they see my run stuff, they're like, "Dude, how you're you're already a decent runner like super super instantly." And I'm like, "Yeah, because I was already in shape and I was already strong and I was already fast. Now, we just build the specificity into into the running. Okay. Then go off and go do some 5ks or whatever, right? An athletes an athlete. Base building is a thing. Just build your base in all these attributes and you can apply it.