Strength is forged in the fires of training volume. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bhaja here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciate it. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below. Um I would appreciate it so much. particularly if you'll answer the question of how much experience have you guys had with uh spending a lot of time gaining muscle and then all of a sudden you find that your strength is up. All right. Uh so when it comes to this topic, this is something I've said quite a few times over the years. It's a line I've coined before. Um you know, strength is forged in the fires of volume. And again, when we don't understand this, this is when people come up with these ludicrous ideas that powerlifters are all stronger than bodybuilders and or that bodybuilders are weak and that all powerliffters are small. This is this is completely insane. Completely insane. Uh the reality is the powerlifters who break really early in in the game are the ones who do nothing but lift heavy all the time instead of doing more hypertrophy work and bodybuilding work. Um, so the the thing that you have to remember with that is um and and this has been noted by by quite a few coaches over the years. They're like, "Man, we go spend all this time doing hypertrophy blocks and then when our lifters peak back up, they're they're strong again." And I'm actually a fan of for powerlifting purposes of concurrent type training to where you just stay strong year round and you do mostly hypertrophy work. But realistically, even that isn't isn't strictly necessary, right? Um, that's really only for guys who are going to compete multiple times through the year, who want to be meat ready all the time or who want to be able to just come in and and hit big lifts at any time. Um, the the fact of the matter is though, right, the fact of the matter is your hypertrophy work is what really builds your strength base. Yes, the heavy lifting, yes, the neural drive, yes, speed work, all of this stuff. uh makes you stronger. Of course it does. But really but really it's the hypertrophy work that builds your entire strength base. That is where 90% of your strength comes from. And even peaking and doing the other stuff is only worth about 10%. In in other words, in other words, um, a guy who peaks at a 500 squat could do no heavy work for months and months and months on end, six months straight, and still probably come in and squat 450, even with no real change in muscle mass or anything else. And in in other words, uh, what you find is that all this other stuff is only worth about 5 to 10% outside of your hypertrophy training. Okay? So getting bigger really is what's going to fuel your strength. And then people say, "Well, what about this one small Look, there have been some fake lifters who who pulled some really crazy stuff." Um, and I'm not going to go into names because people get upset, but there have been multiple people who pretty much there's no evidence that they're actually strong as strong as they're portraying and have a really big bench or really big deadlift at a really small size or body weight. But none of them have ever actually proven it on the platform. Some of these big names out there in social media. Um, so you you guys have to drop this nonsense, right? At least one of them was famous on YouTube, a guy was like a buck 50, a buck 55 benching over 400. He's pretty much a fraud. I'm just calling it like it is. Um, and the evidence for that is there. Uh so but you have to quit using these examples because the reality is they're all strong and all your bodybuilders are strong if they come in and spend just a little time doing some heavy work. Uh but also keep in mind there's a difference between technique and levers that carry over also. In in other words, most powerlifterss when they're trying to display strength, they're not benching. Like I'm benching here for hypertrophy right there, right? I'm working with 245 for reps, but notice the bench difference. A super long range of motion, no leg drive, almost no arch, you know, again, building muscle. Building muscle, hypertrophy work. Okay, strength is forged in the fires of volume. So again, when you understand this, right, when you understand this, um, it it changes stuff. It's a it's a completely different game. All right. And how so then how how do we get get bigger by training volume? And I don't mean endless amounts of volume, but but realistically, if you want to maximize muscle growth, uh most of the data is showing somewhere between 10 and 20 sets of muscle group a week. Okay? That's that's a good number uh to work with, right? And if you're in that range, and I'm going to say most people towards a lower range, especially if you're doing significant rep work, you're going to get bigger and you're going to get less beat up, too, when the reps are a little higher. So, this is this is something I've I've done with plenty of lifters of of spending all their time even in the, you know, 8 to 15 rep range, right? Just getting big, building all their muscles, okay? And then they can come in later and and pee can be really, really strong, okay? And they're going to be stronger. And I've seen again other coaches note that that they've taken uh you know lifters through long hypertrophy phases 6 n months long where they did nothing but hypertrophy and then they've had them come in and test their maxes and their maxes they hit lifetime PRs albe it small ones but they'll hit a PR with no real peging. Um I I did the same thing. You guys remember I did that charity event before I came and did those powerlifting meets. walk into that cherry bed and pull 625. In the 6 months previous to that, I didn't touch anything near 600 on a deadlift. Like 570 was my best. I was doing actually a lot of sets of uh of 10 and stuff. I was doing a lot of rep work on my big movements. Um was getting bigger, right? Got bigger and then came in and just pulled 625 out of nowhere. Okay. Just pulled it out of nowhere. I was doing stuff like sets of 10 with 405, right, on the on the deadlift, things like that, high reps of 300 on the squat and came in and did that. And we see this a lot. This is this is way more normal than people realize. Okay? and and we've seen it historically even amongst some of the the best lifters like when Belinda Chef came in um you know and hit that that over thousand pound squat. He started talking about his training and he was spending half of his time doing like tens and 12s on the squats and accessory work and stuff. Okay. He just carried a ton of muscle. And people just don't realize it when they're a fluffier powerlter like that who's, you know, 300 plus pounds or whatever. They're not realizing he's he's mass was massive bodybuilder size under the fluff. Okay. And again, we know the same thing bodybuilders. As soon as they try to come over and max out and practice the technique a little bit, they all have elite lifts really quick. Again, strength is forged in the fires of volume. And again, I'm not saying we shouldn't be doing some heavy lifting. Heavy lifting is where you're going to peak your strength, but all that potential is going to come from all the rep work you do, whether it's on your classic lifts or rep work on your accessory work, you know, your dips, your tricep extensions, right? All that stuff is going to build your maxes. This is what's going to raise your potential. This is going to take it up. Uh, and again, it's something that people people often lose sight of because they don't have the experience and the knowledge and they don't realize this, right? Focus on muscle mass, focus on body composition, and you will have great strength and really great relative strength, too. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.