Strength gains from fat on a bulk are temporary. Hey, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and g a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys will please uh click like down below. Be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you would be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would greatly appreciate that also. Thank you so much. I just get over the top. This has come up a lot in lives. Um and I have dudes bring this up over and over and over and over. They're like, "Okay, but if I want to make faster noob gains, can't I just bulk up faster and I can diet the fat off because I'll be stronger?" And here's the thing. This is where I agree with a lot of coaches who said this, a lot of the people u uh evidence-based experts who are looking at the research and the lab. We need to understand a couple things. Number one, you gain leverages from fat on a lot of exercises. So, when we say you're improving leverages, yes, you're lifting more weight, but it doesn't mean the muscles are contracting harder. Does that make sense? It's actually easier to do the lift. Some some lifts when you have more body fat and you're gaining fat. Therefore, the muscles work less hard with the same amount of weight. So, you're obviously moving more weight. Um, sometimes it's trimming ranges of motion. Sometimes it's making easier squish out of the bottom where it's hardest. Things like the bench press, the squat, so on. All right, this is a problem. Uh, you know, so a lot of times the guys will say this and then their strategy is like, well, I'll just bulk and then I'll cut later because then I'll be stronger. Uh, no, you won't. And and here's what what I'm saying. A significant calorie surplus doesn't seem to cause more muscle growth. Okay? It just doesn't seem to be the case. Very very small surpluses, and I'm talking like 100 calories a day or less, seem to be able to cause 100% of possible muscle growth. If you're carrying a little more fluff, like you you don't have abs or anything, like even if you're where your body fat's where I am right now, right? Not ripped ripped. Um you know, I'm at a healthy body fat, but I'm not ripped. It's possible to recomposition, right? So you could be where I am or fatter and you may not need a surplus at all to make pretty dang good muscle growth through just recomposition. Okay, so here's where I'm going with that. You know, they'll want to do this. It's like, but you're not gaining more muscle for it. So, I tell a lot of them, look, if you're gaining three pounds or four pounds a month instead of just one, you're not gaining more muscle, you're just gaining fat. So, again, they're like, but but I'll be stronger. Okay, as long as you're okay with being fatter. Like, if you plan on staying there for five or 10 years, if that fat you gained from the bulk and you're happy with it, by all means, they're like, well, no, I'm going to cut. And that's that's where the problem comes up. If you don't plan on cutting and you say, "Hey, if I get a little bit of a belly or I got a muffin top spilling over, I'm happy with it. I can live it leave it there for years." No problem. But if you can't, it's going to be a problem. And the reason I say it's going to be a problem, uh, you're not going to gain more muscle. Yes, you'll be able to lift more weight. Mass moves mass. The fat gives squish. See where we're going? But here's the the problem. The guys then they they do this and then they're like, "Oh, then I panic. I I I too fat. I look horrible. This I was just I wanted to look better. I thought if I just got stronger, I'd look better." Well, you weren't doing it to compete in powerlifting. Then why'd you get fat? So, you know, that's the problem. Um, so then they panic and they diet down. Well, then they lose most of the new gains muscle or in the muscle they gained because they they didn't diet quickly. They lose most of the muscle they gained. And then they're like, "But where'd all my strength go?" And and they have the idea. They're like, "What if I retain all the muscle? I just cut slower." Okay, great. You're still going to lose some strength because if you've gained 20 pounds of extra fat or 25 pounds of extra fat and you dieted off, you lose that squish, okay? You're not going to have the strength you had at the higher body fat even if you keep the muscle, even if you keep the neural drive. Why? Because you've lost the leverage advantage. Now your muscles are having to do more of the work. Okay? So you only have the strength from the muscle growth. You don't have any of the strength, the temporary strength from the fat gains. So in other words, your end goal, you would have done better to not have gained the fat to begin with because you could have gained all that muscle without the fat. In the same time frame it took you to bulk and cut, you probably could have gained all that muscle actually quicker because then you wouldn't need to do the cut had you just lean bulked it up. I'll just gain a pound a month. But then these guys, these all these guys will argue, well, but it's too slow. Yeah, it's too slow so because you're not getting the the squish from the fat. But are you doing it because you want to be stronger with no concern for your physique and you don't mind being fluffy? Okay. But if you care about your body composition and you're like, "Yeah, I want to be able to see my abs one day." Um, this is going to be a problem. You're not going to keep that strength. And again, let me be clear. It's because you're getting cheating. The fat lets you basically and and I don't want to use the word cheating because you're still lifting it, but it is for all purposes. Yes, it's letting you cheat more weight up just like knee wraps do, right? When you take the knee reps off, you lose it. So, when you lose the fat, the squat and the bench press go down to whatever they should be without the fat leverage. So, you really did it for nothing. So, if you're just going to bulk and then cut, you wasted time. You wasted cutting time. Had you just gained weight much more slowly, you would have gained all the muscle and all the strength that you ended up with after the cut, but you'd be there sooner because let's say you did the bulk for six months and then you cut for for two. Well, you could have just been there in six months. Now you spent eight months bulking and then cutting down to hopefully be where you would have been at six months. If you don't lose any muscle, if you lose muscle, even worse, you've wasted even more time. So, and I tell these guys, if you actually care about the body composition, just gain your pound a month. Take your time. Do it for two years. Okay? So, let's say you're a somewhat skinny skinny noob. You're like, well, you know, I'm 150 pounds at whatever, 5'9. Okay. So, gain a pound a month. In two years, you'll be 24 pounds heavier. It will all be lean. You will look leaner. You'll be bigger. You'll be stronger. All your lifts will be up. Doesn't matter that it's slow. It's going to be slow. And it's going to be just as slow if you bulk and then cut. In fact, it's going to possibly be slower. And I know this is contrary to what I used to say 10 years ago. More data has come out. More evidence. my own observations match that evidence. Uh other coaches I know it matches it. So this is the issue people need to understand. If you bulk fast and you gain fat, the strength you gain from the fat is leverage. It will go away after you diet the fat off. That strength boost will be gone. Just like if you took the knee wraps off that you were wearing that created a leverage advantage. That 50 lbs you were getting out of the knee wraps, you're not going to be able to squat that weight anymore. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.