Strength changes everything. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys would click like down below be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment down below be greatly appreciated. Uh thank you so much. So let's get over to the topic. Um again I work with a lot of clients who are over 40. Uh, a lot of them compete in things, a lot of them do not, but that's kind of been my bread and butter at this point. Like around half my clients are over age 40. I'm 48 years old. So, one of the things that I will note, and some younger guys don't get this, they should get this, but they don't get it. But older guys start to realize, man, strength really matters. As soon as you get 35 or something, if you haven't been working out, you've let yourself go. When you go to pick something up, you notice it. When you go to do minor things, you get up out of bed, you hurt. Like you pull muscles doing routine things like even uh you know sexy time with the wife, like things start happening. And this is stuff that people realize and they appreciate more and more and more they associate with getting old. Okay? But the reality is this. This stuff doesn't have to happen. It doesn't have to exist. We shouldn't get hurt doing day-to-day activities. Uh, you know, at least most of us. Now, people say, "What about what happens sometimes with strong guys?" There's usually overtraining involved. Uh, usually some major overtraining in the gym, you know, with bad programming that causes this. But I digress. Back over to the point, uh, these things shouldn't be happening. And again, as you get older, uh getting up off the toilet or getting up off the couch should not be a major strain, but it gets to a point in life where it is. And if we just strength train, you know, these things go away. These problems go away. But the same thing with a lot of younger guys. I've known of younger guys. I know someone um even now who at her job, she works circles around all these younger guys and she's like, "This is sad. You guys need to get in and lift." Now, she's a pretty serious lifter. Uh, but she has a somewhat physically demanding job. At least part of the job is. And she's just like, "You're 23, 24 year old guy. She's like, "You guys can't do anything. Like, you're I shouldn't be able to outwork you." Like, this is ridiculous. But that's a perfect example, guys. Perfect examples. Um, even for young men because they've been so sedentary. They haven't strength trained. They've never been in a gym. And there's this weird idea people have that, oh yeah, if you just do some physical labor, you'll be strong and in shape. But that's just simply not true. Like that is a really weird myth uh that working class guys come up with. And I used to be in that environment. I get it. Uh but the fact is the guys who lift can outwork them. Because again, as you can imagine, you can imagine, uh, I've met construction workers and other people at powerlifting meets. Like, not everyone who's competing in powerlifting has a desk job. There are plenty of of guys who literally just do construction work and and things like that, right? Like serious manual labor. There's plenty of them, you know, and they'll tell you the same thing. They're just like, you know, I come and do my training whenever I bench. I bench 350 and you know deadlift 600 and uh you know yeah I I work circles around the other guys. I beat them on sheetrock. I beat them on all this other stuff. Uh they're they're like they can't keep up with me. And you know that is the simple reality and that's the point man. Strength makes all the difference in the things in our day-to-day life. But again this is this myth that people have that oh this other stuff will except that they're all broken down and beat up. How many of those guys who do that sort of work, you know, this their lifestyle and everything they do, they still all times are obese. They still have all these problems. They still have stuff that hurts and gets beat up because it's just overuse in an unbalanced manner. Right? When you're coming in and strength training, you can build everything balanced and then all your physical work becomes a secondary stress. When that becomes your primary builder, you get muscle imbalances because maybe the nature of your job is fairly repetitive and certain muscles don't get worked nearly as much as others. Okay, well that's not a good thing. People need to understand that they have this again this idea, well it must be really good and balance because it's just manual labor as if the human body was designed specifically for manual labor. know, we were meant to be out on planes running running stuff down and hunting and climbing a tree. We're not meant to necessarily do a repetitive uh set of physical task for eight hours a day. Now, that's not actually how our body is is uh is developed. So, again, the same thing, muscle imbalances where if you just came in and strength trained everything, those imbalances go away. But yeah, in those those same jobs, these strong guys I know, they're like, "Yeah, I work circles. I'm better at my job physically than these other guys, even though it's a manual labor job." In other words, just like strength training carries over to sports, doing big heavy barbell lifts, getting strong and jacket carries over to sports like football, everything else, right? Non-specific carries over to distance running. We know this. It carries over to your manual labor job too. It will make you better at it. Again, the same idea, sport specific training is not what always makes you good at your sport. It's an important part of the skill, but you know, so the same thing that we could then apply to that manual labor, let's apply that to every sport. We know that strength training is required. Nobody makes it in the NFL. No one makes it in the MMA. No one makes it in any or in the UFC. No one makes it in any of these sports without doing excessive amounts of strength training. Well, not excessive, but appropriate amounts. They don't make it. Even Lance Armstrong did tons of barbell squats. Okay, see where we're going with this? Strength makes all the difference. And strength training matters. And it matters to every aspect of your life. It matters if you play any sport. It matters if you have a manual labor job. it matters is you start to get older and you need to pick your kids up or bring the groceries in or you need to get up off the toilet. Okay, again, how far are we falling as individuals when let's say you get up into your 40s and you've let yourself go completely when getting up off the couch becomes hard. Okay, this is a problem and this is what happens if we don't strength train. Okay, it is absolutely the fountain of youth, but it's not just a fountain of youth. It lets you function optimally at all these other endeavors, whether it's your career, your hobbies and sports, your day-to-day life. And ultimately it will affect your survival because again the bone density the strength the fighting off sarcopenia what is it that we know hip fractures hip fracture is a death sentence okay doctors will tell you this you're over 60 years old if you fracture a hip it is pretty much a death sentence um it's like a 90% chance you're going to be dead in a couple years like that's it everything declines. Getting strong as squats and deadlifts will dramatically reduce your risk of hip fracture when you fall down. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.