Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about the fact that strong people are just generally more useful. Okay. And we need to to understand this. You know, I talk a lot about different psychological benefits, therapeutic benefits, you know, therapy, all these things of of with training. Um, but stuff that needs to also be addressed is the fact that you're more useful to everyone around you. You're more useful to your society, to your family. Uh, and in fact, strong people are harder to kill. And and we need to to realize this. And I'm saying this as someone who spent until I got really sick. You know, I started out fat, but I was still consider kind of strong. And then I got really fit and really into lifting in my my 20s. Um, then I obviously got sick and lost everything. was in bed and then rebuilt myself. But both in the interims before and after that um people treat you different when you carry a lot of muscle when you're strong. They see you as more useful. And you need to you need to understand this. Anyone who doesn't train does not understand this that like everyone kind of relies on you. In other words, hey, you know, when you're younger, obviously we don't do this when we get older. Like no, we're not doing this. I'm not moving your furniture for some pizza. But when you're you're big and you lift and you're strong and people are always asking you, "Hey, will you come help me lift this at your job?" They'll help you. You're just seen as more useful. People, friends, family like, "Hey, will you come help us move? Help." You know why? Because they know that you're more useful in these situations. You know, people act like uh strength is somehow in the modern world not useful. That's just simply not the reality. Okay? And everyone knows it like and we all know it deep down. You all know when it comes to anything like that that needs to be done, you're going to get called on. Now, people say, "I don't want to live to get called on the things." Why wouldn't you? Okay, let's talk about having a sense of accomplishment and pride as a man. Okay, think about that even in terms of just your self-esteem and your your sense of self-worth. Even though yes, if you're strong and able-bodied, you're going to be asked to do, you know, a lot of different things. People are just going to ask, "But wouldn't you rather be that guy?" Okay. Wouldn't you rather be that guy? Think about that from your self-esteem that hey, you someone says, "Hey, oh, you're in the parking lot. Will you help me pick this up? Please, you help me fill this water bottle." Just because you're coming through. And I know people say, "I don't." But but I can tell you it feels good when you train. Those little things will make you feel better about yourself. You just feel more valued. All right? You just feel more valuable to people around you and you are more valuable to your community and your community will see you that way. A strong man is absolutely an asset to those around him and you're viewed that way. And it's better to be an asset than a liability. And here's the thing I would I would say to a lot of guys out there. Um, you know, even all these a lot of these guys are talking about, oh, they can't find, you know, a good girl or a good woman and all this stuff. Like, look, you don't think being stronger helps with these things? you because if you're viewed as more useful and I hate to tell you guys but being utilitar being having utility increases your value as a man just in general to everybody around you. Sorry, but it does. You don't have to like that but it is the reality and that is your lot in life fellas. And the sooner you get over it, the better. The sooner you say instead don't stand around crying about any of it. just accept it and then go, okay, well, how can I be considered just more valuable to everybody? Get be stronger physical strength. Because here's the thing, nobody wants a weak husband. All right, let's state that. Given a choice, no one wants a weak husband. No one wants a weak son. Definitely nobody wants a weak father. Okay? Nobody wants a weak father. I can tell you that for children that's an important looking up their dad is strong and I I hate to use that cliche. My dad can beat up your dad, right? You all remember that as kids. Hey, nobody wants a weak brother. Nobody wants a weak friend, right? Don't be a be an asset to your family. Whether it's, you know, your parents, brothers or sisters, cousins, children, your wife, be an asset to them, not a liability. A weak man is a liability. Okay? Again, you come down to guys out here talking about, "Oh, I I can't meet a good girl." Well, what is the what do women really seek? They want to feel safe. Like, if you really are trying to Impress a girl that you want, woman that you want, make her feel safe. Safety has a lot of things. Physical safety is one part of it. You know, there's other types of safety. There's everything from emotional safety and financial safety and all those things. Those all matter. Those those matter, too. It's all part of it. They just want to feel safe. any man they feel safe with, just safe in general across the board, like you're gold, like you're in. That's attractive feeling, making her feel safe just in general. Of course, safe is a general feeling. Well, being strong helps with that, assuming you're not violent with her. Okay. No one wants a weak husband. Kids don't want a weak father. Society doesn't need weak men. Okay? And stronger you are, the more of an asset you are to your community. And again, let's come down to to guys. step back away from the nonsense online and all the red pill stuff or your, you know, all your time with video games and think about society as a whole and how you fit in and your role. Okay? If you're strong, you are seen as an asset. I don't care if it's your neighborhood, your work, your church, your school, okay? You're an a bigger asset as long as you're part of that community. you're not, you know, someone praying on that community. Well, then that's why they need the other. That's why they need the strong men. It's like, oh, there could be other strong men out there who are problem for this community. And then your role is protector, right? Strong men are more useful. You are seen as protectors, as leaders, as a as a guy who can go get stuff done. Man, that's a guy who can help us load this in the truck. He can help us move this People look up to you, okay? It's not, oh, he's big dog. No, they look up to you. Oh, this is a guy who can go get he can move my he can help with the he can move this. He can take care of it. Okay. You want to be that guy even at your work. They're like, "But it's not even my job at work." Yeah, but it gets noticed. Even the women in the office like the guy who come over and move the stuff or lift the stuff for them. That's all. This is good. Like then they're happy. Then they they they they're good around you. This is good for your work environment, right? Bosses notice it later. Well, you know, he may do your main thing with his job, but hey, no, push comes to shove. You know, John over here, Bob over here, he's he's the one who comes over and moves something when we need it. man, he's got some extra use outside of just his normal job, too. We We got to think again, you set a positive example even with the person who, you know, determines your raises, who might affect your promotions, you know? Oh, man. He's just he's just real useful. He's an asset. Even if you don't even have a physical job. Now, if you got a physical job, this is a big deal. Oh, this is going to be directly tied to your performance in work. So there's that. So you look at your love life, look at your professional life, then you look at your community, guy in the neighborhood who can help move this stuff as there's an emergency or problem. People like that. Your church, your group, maybe you're you're not just maybe you're part of a church, maybe you're part of something else, whatever other group, some hobbyist group you're, oh man, you know, Bob over here, we got to come move these table, man. Bob just he's he can handle his end of it. They look up to you. Okay, this is a positive thing. You are just more useful. People feel safer with you. Bob strong. He keep everybody safe. Seen as a protector, more likely to be seen as a leader. You're going to be respected. And this is the point, right? Strong men are more useful and they're more respected just in general in society. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.