Low reps do not make as much sense once you are really strong. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, again, let me be clear. This does doesn't conflict with any of my old information because people are like, well, you were famous for 5x5 novice programs and all that. Yes, that is correct. Novices are weak. noviceses are weak. And one of the things you guys have generally found for me uh and I've changed this even more recently, primarily due to my age and my strength level relative to my age being quite frankly insane. Uh but I for many many years have always said uh my clients live on 10 rep sets. Okay, we still do heavy singles. We still max. And this is whether they were chasing physiques or whether they were competitive powerlifters. Most of my competitive power lifters lived on 10 and 12 rep sets. Even my conjugate guys, we just generally didn't do low reps outside of max effort or speed work. Why? There's just no need. Um and and I'm going to make a couple of minor minor points here so that you understand. And also keep in mind uh guys, they've been insanely strong, brutally strong guys like uh Melanchev and even Bill Casmier who trained this way, right? They did 10 plus reps most of the time. Like if you go look at even Melanchef um broke a world record squat with wraps, right, at one time here in my lifetime squatted guy squatted over a,000 pounds in wraps. Okay, he spent half his training in the 10 to 12 rep range on all his big movements. Like half of the training year. Okay, he did a lot of 10 and 12 rep sets. Andy Bolton, Bill Casmmer, all those guys, they did a lot of 10 plus rep sets. Guess they were some of the strongest men in the world, right? insanely inhumanly strong. So, we need to understand why that is. And and people point out, "Yeah, but higher reps are inefficient. We they're just warm-ups, right? They're just the the reps are all warm-ups. Only the last five are probably even producing any muscle growth." And that's that's probably a degree of truth to that. They're like, "Heavier work gives you better neural drive." Absolutely. But heavier rep work, like when you're a really advanced lifter, do you really think heavy threes, fours, and fives are giving you any neural drive? No. You're already strong. You're not getting anything. Singles will wonder at maxes will. Okay, we understand that. But heavy work outside of maxes starts to become less and less useful the stronger you get, and it becomes more and more detrimental. context here, guys. I just did 19 reps there with 225 on the M. I'm 49 years old. That was 19 reps over here. Also, 21 reps of 315 on a squat. I'm not like a 250 lb guy either. That's one of the things that I notice more and more that for me u even 10 and 12 rep sets on the squat like 405 with 10 to 12 is just absolutely exhausting. Eight reps with 500 on a deadlift exhausting, right? You go too much heavier then it starts to beat your joints up. This is as I've gotten older I have to pay attention to that. So my point I'm trying to make here, your neural drive gets less and less benefit. So we always say, yeah, but you'll get better neural drive, lower rep, so therefore better strength. But that's a diminished return. And it gets smaller and smaller and smaller over time. Okay? Gets smaller over time. And think about that for a minute. If you take a weight that you can do 20 reps with, but you're strong, you already have really, really high strength levels. Are you going to get weaker? No. You're just going to gain muscle. And here's the point I'm going to make. Yes, there's a lot of warm-up reps. Okay? Well, one, it gets you in shape. It helps keep your conditioning up. We can make that case. But two, they don't beat you up. They do not beat your joints and tendons up ever. And when you are strong, that happens real fast. So I could make the case that we get people will say, well, you get more benefit from the low reps and no point in the high reps. The growth is the same, right? When you're weak. Absolutely true. the stronger and stronger and stronger that you get, threes, fours, fives start to get real heavy and you can't come in and do them all the time. You have to start limiting the volume of them. Before long, you're down to even if you train a lift multiple times a week, man, I can only do one heavy set. Remember, I was doing 3x3 on bench a couple times a week a while back. It started to just my I started to really hurt. I was noticing my elbow tendons and I was like really in my late 40s. So back to kind of what I've always done. You got to look at it and say how much heavy work do I need? And if you don't need to be maxing, you don't even need conjugate or anything at the moment. Well, conjugate works great if you want to max every week. I stand by that. But it's only 5% of your training. Okay. As you get stronger and stronger, the beauty of higher reps starts to become valuable because now you're working with weights that don't beat you up. Yeah, you might have to do 15, 20, 25 reps, but it's super easy on your joints and tendons. And when we talk about, well, doesn't the heavier weight build those things? Sure, but how much do you need to build them with the heavy weight? Again, we come over to the point, if you're doing 20 reps with 225 on a flat bench, do you not think your tendons and joints are getting adaptative stress? Sure, they are. I get it. When you're one rep max is 155, 185. We can make the case for the bone density of the joints. But you're once you're past all that, I have found, you know, even though I used to say tens tens tens 10 tens, my guys lived on tens. These days I'm finding myself living on much higher reps and I don't feel that I'm getting weaker. But I can tell you what I do feel. My joints and tendons feel great. Right? My joints and tendons feel great because I'm still going heavy. Let again, you have to be clear when your 20 rep sets are goals like like one rep max goals for newer lifters, you're lifting heavy still. And that's the point. That's the point we're making. And at a certain point, man, you you can't just keep beating yourself with a crazy heavy weight all the time. Your joints and your tendons will not like it. You can gain just as much muscle without that. And it doesn't matter that they're inefficient. They work. We're still getting the muscle growth. Okay? But without getting beat up. And if you need to peak for a powerlifting meter for a one rep max, just spend three weeks peaking for it. Done. Problem solved. You're good to go, right? [snorts] It's not a big deal. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.