The newest studies we have out there are showing that women gain muscle as fast as men from lifting weights. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. Um, if you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you will be so kind as to drop me a comment down below, I'd greatly appreciate it. All right. This is kind of one of those things where I tell a lot of guys, um, spending a lot of time worried about testosterone or anytime if you're not going to go get it tested, you're not going to talk to a doctor, you're not going to get on TRT, or you're not going to just do a cycle of steroids. Um, I'm going to be frank, it's really a waste of time. Okay? It's a waste of time. Why? Test boosters don't work. Test boosters do not work. And even if they did, they're going to have all the same side effects as drugs do. And I've covered this many, many times. It doesn't even make sense, right? It doesn't even make sense to use an over-the-counter product for something like this. It's insane. Again, not like it works, and it's not going to be any better in any way if it does to actual drugs you can get. And it still will not be uh dosed correctly necessarily. It's going to be inconsistent batch to batch. So, it's it's a really silly idea. should have never caught on other than scam artists. Um, but you know, we come over to this this whole topic and I try to tell guys, look, yeah, if you have higher test levels in the healthy range, you will have a little more muscle, but it's not going to matter for your training. And this is what the the research consistently shows this guys, your the training itself, there doesn't seem to be any synergy with testosterone levels. a given amount of testosterone is going to make you just hold a little bit of mus extra muscle and that extra muscle goes away if your test goes down. Um, and and it's not a lot. And so we need to be clear someone who has uh very high normal testosterone like they're in the top 10% of the population versus someone who's right at the edge of clinically low. You're talking about a few pounds of difference muscle over the course of a lifetime. It's not like 10 lbs of muscle. Like people have these crazy ideas. Well, I'd gain 10 pounds of muscle if my test was higher. Well, yeah, you better be pinning it. Not not what a human produces. Okay. And here's the thing. We see this data and what are we finding? That women women gain muscle just as fast as men. Now, they have smaller frames. Okay? On average, women have much smaller frames than men. They're slightly shorter. They have uh smaller frames. And people say, "What about the legs? Um they have still smaller frames." So, women have bigger legs than men due to more fat storage, higher body fat percentage. They're their thigh and glute muscles are not necessarily bigger than yours. They're still going to be a little smaller, just normally. Okay? It's the reason uh you don't see women necessarily squatting or deadlifting the same amount men do when their training is the same. Okay? In other words, we can take a novice woman and a novice man and her strength is muscle is going to go up in proportion to where she started, but she's going to start weaker even on the leg lifts and she's going to end weaker. I mean, so this is this is how it works. Um they have a smaller frame, but relative to their frame size and everything, yeah, they gain muscle at the same rate. they gain muscle at the same rate. This is what they're finding in the lab. Um, it's just going to scale proportionate to the frame. So, if her frame is 30% smaller than yours on average, she's going to gain 30% less muscle. It's going to go to structure. But the muscle fibers grow at the same rate. And people say, "How can that be? We have way more testosterone." Um, but they have way more estrogen. Okay? Estrogen's anabolic, too. People forget this. Uh when you have guys who start pulling this nonsense, I'm going to crash my estrogen. I'm going to drop my estrogen to zero. They use drugs to do it. Well, number one, going to hurt your muscle growth. Estrogen's anabolic. Number two, you're going to destroy your health. Okay? We need estrogen. Just like women need a little bit of testosterone and need a little bit of estrogen. We have to have it. If your estrogen goes too low, obviously your sex drive gets destroyed. You're you you're usually impotent. Um you'll lose bone minerals. Your tendons will rupture easier. Your HDL cholesterol will drop. So you're going to be more prone to heart attacks, more prone to tendon ruptures, more more prone to bone breaks, and you're going to have erectile dysfunction and depression. Okay? So why would you do this? because it's the woman hormone. Well, no, not really. We just have different ratios. But for women, the the estrogen is just as anabolic. So, they gain muscle at the same rate. But it also goes to show you that testosterone itself isn't as big of a factor because if it scales to their frame size, you see what we're saying? Their starting point, they gain muscle at the same rate. So that all that testosterone versus their estrogen isn't really doing anything for your training response at all. This is this is the data. And people forget that, you know. So that so what they also don't notice how many men there have been plenty of guys I've seen plenty of powerlifters who compete in the drug-free stuff who have actual low test and they qualify for TRT, but then they don't want to do it because those federations don't allow medical exceptions. So, they'll kick you out. They'll they'll pop you'll fail the drug test for your TRT and they will not accept your doctor's note. Um, they don't allow medical exceptions. And I've seen guys who do that who still squat 500 lb and they're still pretty big. Why? Because they trained, right? And I think people forget that. You know, lifting weights makes you gain muscle over time irrespective of the anabolic environment. The anabolic environment is additive. So putting stuff is going to create its own muscle growth. Okay? But it's at higher levels. So we're outside of those normal ranges. If everybody's hormones is in the normal range, this data should should tell you literally what we've been saying for years that no, it's it's adding testosterone doesn't produce more growth from training. It's just going to add a little bit of extra muscle in a short period of time. And it it doesn't continue, by the way. It's not like if your testosterone goes up, you keep gaining muscle. No, it's going to be over a few months and then it stops. Body's going to gain an extra amount of muscle based on your levels and to go down, you're going to lose that little bit. It's just the way it works. And we we've known this a long time. Uh but studies studies like this with the women really kind of show the point where I'm making. I tell guys, in other words, there's no reason to worry about your testosterone unless you're going to seek medical intervention. It really is a fool's gambit. Like, it it is it is not worth your time. And if it was, I would I would be the first on top of it telling you guys, "Look, man, go do this. Do this. Boost your testosterone." It's just not going to do anything, guys. The best thing you can do to fix your low testosterone or or nonoptimal because if it's low, you need you need an injection. Um, if it's not optimal, lose some body fat, lift weights, eat a healthier diet, quit smoking, quit drinking alcohol, quit smoking weed. Done. Get some sunshine. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.