Sumo versus conventional deadlift is an absurd argument if you actually want to get strong. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Um, if you guys would though, please remember to click like down below. Uh, please subscribe or follow me if you have not yet. And please leave me a comment down underneath the video. I would appreciate that. And I threw that up. That was my old 635 with a with a power bar, not even a deadlift bar. Um, you know, a few years back. Uh, just like 45 years old when I did that. So, here's the thing, guys. I'm I'm a coach who works with a lot of really strong lifters. You guys have seen me put up multiple clients deadlifting 700 plus, including drug tested ones. Uh, deadlift is almost an expertise for me out of all my different lifts. Here's here's the other thing. This entire sumo versus conventional debate as a training tool is absolutely absurd. So, I'm going to explain why. And I'm going to explain why I program both. And a lot of my lifters and my athletes, we rotate them all the time, year round. We use both. Now, that being said, if you're talking about powerlifting meets, not talking about getting stronger, not talking about getting bigger. If you're talking purely powerlifting meats, yes, I think there is some merit to the argument that uh sumo, especially with these whippier bars that are coming out, isn't uh maybe the the best judge of strength. We could make a case for uh conventional only. Okay, we can make a case for conventional only and maybe even for removing some of the super whippy bars. I mean, I'm just saying we could make a case for that in in the sport of powerlifting. All right, but that's not the argument people are having all the time. It's they start talking about training them on top of it. Look, I pull conventional in meats, yet you see me doing sumo work. Why? Because I'm stronger at conventional. I'm built better for conventional, right? the thick back, all that stuff. So, let's get over let's talk about about training the two. Um, if you're going to look at stuff like your speed work, you're going to look at any of your volume work, it makes sense to rotate these movements for a number of reasons. Number one, obviously the overuse. Okay, there's the overuse factor. You do need to rotate movements from time to time if you're trying to avoid overuse, particularly as you start getting stronger. particular as you start getting stronger. Fact, there's a reason we do all this light speed work when we get really strong. Okay? Because it gives you strength transfer still without having to just move bone crushing weights all the time. Okay? Without having to move bone crushing weights all the time. Like even for me right now, I do a heavy a heavy deadlift at this moment like once every three weeks. Hey, state that again. I do a heavy deadlift about once every three weeks. Uh but I do speed pulls every week and at the moment I do 10 sets of speed pulls on a weekly basis. So what are we doing with this? What are we doing with rotating the movements here? Then we're we're avoiding overuse. You're changing the shift from your back to your hips back and forth. Okay. Sumo is harder on your hips. Conventional is harder on your lumbar. Rotate the movements around. It shifts the ratio. That's a big thing. Number two, muscular development being strong in different positions. Uh bodybuilders kind of have the right idea on a lotus. There's a reason you see me rotating our hypertrophy work. Guess what? Working different angles does improve hypertrophy. In other words, there's been some studies on that. There have been studies on that that found that, you know, if 10 sets a week are done for a muscle, doing all 10 sets of the same exercise versus five sets of two different exercises because 10 sets is a fair amount of volume. I think that was one of the studies that was done. The the people who did the two exercises gained more muscle. Same thing, you know, we've looked at and it wasn't a lot more, it was a small amount more, but same thing we've looked at at things like um extensions versus bench pressing for triceps. Studies show that the li the lateral head grows more than uh than laying extensions when you do the bench press. It it makes that head of the tricep bigger when it's compared. The long head grows more on the laying extensions than it does from bench pressing. And then when you do both, the whole tricep gets bigger than if you had done just either one. So here's what I'm I'm kind of suggesting with some of these movements. And yes, speed work will make you grow. Anyone who says otherwise has clearly never coached it or done it. All right, we're working two different variations of a similar movement pattern in phases. Which one's more likely to to get you more developed? Well, doing the two different movement patterns, there's a different emphasis in a lot of the same muscles. I mean, keeping in mind a sumo and a conventional deadlift do work the same muscles. There's a difference in the ratios. There's a difference in the angles. Okay, there's also a strength curve difference. You are then training yourself to get stronger at different positions. Okay, you are shoring up weak links. So, why does this matter? Why would this matter for the powerlter? Uh, all right, here's a good one. What happens if you you strain something in powerlifting meet and you still need to pull? I mean, so let's not even get over into field athletes. Talk about powerlifting. You're normally a conventional puller, but you strain your erectors a little bit on the arching on the bench. It's cramping a little. Or you strain that erector on an allout max squat and you know you're conventional is going to be a problem. If you're proficient in sumo, you can pull sumo. All right. What happens if you're normally a sumo puller and you strain an adductor on your squat? you drop out of the meat or do you go pull conventional? See where I'm going with this? All right. Same thing. You start thinking field sports, contact sports, functional strength in the real world. Strong at different positions. It's going to keep you stronger in different positions in a in a conflict, you know. And I'm not necessarily talking about you go guys getting in street fights and stuff. It's not what we're talking about. I mean, it could be, but I'm talking, let's say, um, BJJ, Muay Thai, MMA, you know, okay, stronger in different positions. This is not a bad thing. Also, you're used to loading and moving fast and throwing at different positions. Is your injury rate going to be lower? you're less likely to get hurt. Okay, this is a good thing. But let's let's get back to that other point, too. How about just getting bigger? You don't think it would benefit you from a hypertrophy perspective to train both of these movements terms of just, you know, your glutes, your hamstrings, your adductors, erectors in your back, you know, all your hip extensors. You don't think it's going to matter? I think it will. Says me. And I'm not the only one who feels this way. like tons and tons of phenomenal coaches rotate these in a very similar manner to where we I do with a lot of my people in three-week waves, three weeks conventional, three weeks of sumo, back and forth. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.