The old super squats program got people jacked on just a handful of exercises. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here with Jason Bla Strength and Fitness and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, so over to this point. Um, and I think this is a point that needs to be made and I and I think it will upset a lot of people. Uh, but the Super Squats program when I was young, uh, was still out there. It was still popular. Uh, dudes were getting jacked. And by jacked, I don't mean they were bodybuilder jacked, but they were fit, had still had bodies to where walking down the street, everyone knew that they lifted. Um, you know, good muscular development, good strength, and people didn't have a problem doing that. And it's the most simple programs possible, right? most simple programs possible to where you just increase weight as you got better at stuff. Um, and for those who don't know, the old super squat was literally just one set of Widowmaker squats followed by a set of high rep pullovers and then you did like two or three super sets of chin-ups and dips afterwards back and forth and, you know, weighted if you're strong enough to do them weighted. Um, and it worked. And I think we need to understand why this works. And I'm not telling everyone, hey, just go run the the super squat stuff, but it was an effective program. And back in the day, people did this. Of course, they would always do the gallon of milk and things with it if they needed the calories. And I'm not necessarily a big advocate for that gallon of whole milk. Um, personally, I'm not necessarily an advocate for that. I think people get fat too easy on it. But that being said, the idea here though was was the same. Think about the overall growth response. And the pullovers was just there to get hit those other muscles and open the chest and everything up. Make sure the long head of the tricep got worked. Um, but what was what were the widowmaker squats and why does that work? Well, you're doing a squat that's around your 10 to 12 rep max. Okay? And then people did them as breathing squats. Okay? They did them as breathing squats. And this program could be done like three days a week. Okay, these workouts are 30 minutes. And I do mean that. We're talking 30 minute workouts. 30 minute workouts. And that would sound crazy to people, but think about the intensity and and what's happening. So what happens with something like those Widowmaker squats? I mean, a set of squats pretty much to failure is already going to be uh serious, right? Like even here, like in the background example, I'm doing a 12 rep set with 405 on a high bar squat. Okay? So, let's say you're taking, you know, whatever weight you can only do 10 to 12 reps with, but then you extend the set out. So, by be by the breathing squats, they rest pause their way. They keep the bar on their back, take several deep breaths. Sometimes the sets would last two or three minutes, right? They'd last up to three minutes. Think about the insane amount of growth stimulus from that. Particularly, you know, for a for a newer lifter because isn't your your core, your trunk, your back, every everything is being worked by that? You're getting a tremendous systemic growth response. Obviously, the entire lower body is growing, but what they do, they try to get to 20 reps. So, they take that weight and they work on building it up to where they can get 20. Even if they're taking six or seven seconds, eight seconds resting between reps, they keep pushing and they try to get to 20. Okay. So, what's what's the idea here? Enormous growth response to the whole body. Also improves conditioning because you're having to do it with that big weight up there. So this is done even for football players to get them into shape uh back in the day. So then what was done after that? Well, once they regained their breath, you know, and could stand up again, they would do a set of high rep pullovers for about 20 reps of weight that was about their 20 rep max, you know, take it pretty much to failure. And they would lay lay on a bench and do pullovers, but there was a dumbbell or plate, usually a dumbbell. Okay, the same thing. And that alone would cause people to grow. All right, because again, working the chest, lats, long head of the triceps, all that stuff. But really, the whole tricep does get worked to some extent in a pullover. You'll feel it, right? All that's growing and then it's opening up that rib cage and chest and working the core more. So then what about the chin-ups and dips afterwards? Well, the whole upper body gets worked. The entire upper body gets worked on something like that, does it not? Of course it does. So if we're doing a system like that, um, then the whole upper body gets work because the chin-ups hit what? Obviously lats, the entire back, biceps, forearms, grip, abs, upper chest, long head of the tricep, you know, rear delts, even side delts to some extent. What a dips hit the delt, front delt and side delt to some extent, but obviously pecs, triceps, abdominals. See where we're going with this? There's a lot of of ab work even in there on something like that. The whole body grows from this because we've never needed huge amounts of volume. As long as progressive overload is present, dude, you could honestly just do one set of each of those. And as long as as you're getting close to failure or to failure and progressive overload is present, people get gains, okay? And yes, it's it's all big movements, but everything gets work. It's not like any muscle doesn't get stimulus. People will argue, well, maybe the hamstrings might not get enough, maybe the side delts might not get enough fair. But if a person is just trying to get jacked efficiently, they want to be fit, strong, jacked, that will get it done. And I think the question I ask when people talk about, well, if we had did other stuff, you would gain more. Sure, you would. But how much more? Maybe 10% more overall muscle. you know, maybe if you if you worked in all the weak points and everything, and I think that's fair, you know, maybe about 10% more muscle growth because if you're doing something like that three times a week, the stimulus is tremendous. And people will argue about it, but it worked and we all watched it work. Again, we're not saying people looked like serious competitive bodybuilders doing it, but they all looked like they lift. Everyone who ran those programs got fit and got in shape. They all gained muscle through their whole body. They all got stronger. They all got more athletic. They work great for football players. And and I think that is the take-home here. A system like that works and it's simple and there's not much there. Yet, it is more effective than all these popularized methods. I see tons of guys out there today following all these different bodybuilder type programs who are not even getting as jacked as guys were back in the day just running that simple old school program. They're getting lesser results. Okay? And and I think that's the important part there that we have to think about. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.