Supplements do nothing for your gains. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Um, look, there's there's a lot of reasons people take supplements, uh, you know, mood, different health things, maybe wanting certain uh, blood workers and so on. But a big one that we're see over here in the fitness industry specifically is this idea that guys have that they're going to get more gains in some way by taking supplements. And the problem is they've been so brainwashed by all these scam artist influencers if they really think that. And look, I'm not saying there are not a few convenient supplements, but supple you can't supplement your way truly out of a bad diet. You can't. So we need to be clear on that. Okay? And if we're going to talk about protein powders and and look, I think protein powders are useful. I do some sometimes. All right, I use a little bit. I usually mix them in Greek yogurt and stuff, but here's the thing. They're not necessary. And and it's like if I were to just eat other whole foods instead of doing that, the gains would be the same. Okay, we need to be clear. There is not one thing special about a protein powder or a protein shake. It's just food. The only exception to that might be the crazy kooky vegans who their protein quality is so low that specially engineered soy protein mixes with extra amino acids might actually help them get muscle gains. And there's data on that. But almost nobody's a vegan. No reasonable person who really and truly cares about their fitness as a primary is a vegan. Okay? And quite frankly, I think it's an ideology that's going to die out more and more, particularly in the United States, the trend with the Maja stuff and everything. Um, and again, most of my audience is American. So, so people need to remember that. And they're like, "But what about everyone else? My demographics show that on Facebook, 89% of my followers are American. On YouTube, it's 75% at this point. UK being number two in both." Okay. Uh, veganism is not really growing there. Not going to. So, nobody cares. So, that aside, uh, keep in mind these supplements are just generally not going to improve your gains any more than eating normal food. Okay. Um, and let's talk about the stuff that's useful. Sure, creatin, protein powders, uh, omega-3 supplements, you know, like extra strength fish oil. But I take extra strength fish oil more for health and because I can't stand or eat fish. Do do you see where we're going with this? Every one of these are purely a convenience. I have a bunch of creatin. I haven't been taking it because I eat a pound of red meat every day. Okay, let's think this through for a moment. In other words, these supplements are situationally useful for small small small amounts of muscle growth because your diet's not not ideal, but they're not doing anything that just eating better wouldn't resolve, you know. But a protein powder is just food. Whey protein is just food. I almost use it as flavoring at this point because it adds some extra protein and it lets me flavor um some of my Greek yogurt sometimes. That's pretty much my primary use for it because I get tons of I get like 300 grams of protein a day, right? Just from my whole foods. But for everyone else, it's like, well, what if I don't get enough protein? Well, why are you not getting enough protein? Again, you're just trying to get out of being lazy with a bad diet, but it's not extra gains. And still, at the end of the day, whey protein is made out of milk, right? We we know this, right? It's made out of milk. Milk itself, the protein in it is 20% whey. 100% of your whey protein powder came from as a byproduct of the cheese industry. That's why it exists. Okay? It's a byproduct of the cheese industry that's pure protein. So they they use it. They found a use for it. But that's still just food. Extra strength fish oil. It's just made out of salmon. Just salmon oil. And if I could stand to eat fish, I personally can't eat fish. Can't do it. It's revolting. Not going to go into why. You could eat salmon every day and get a hundred. you get the exact same thing. Okay, omega-3 fats are arguably very beneficial for muscle growth, but we can get plenty of them in our diet. I get omega-3 eggs every day. They're not that expensive right now. They're actually easy to source. Um, so what is it anyone's getting? We're not getting any gains out of this stuff. It's just a scam industry. Everything else is a scam. But I need this preworkout. No, you need a preworkout because you've been following really, really bad, stupid programming and your fatigue management is not on point. But the studies have shown that they don't help anything with gains. And I think that's a point, too. Guys act like their pre-workout's going to help with gains. Really, studies say even the ones that were so strong that they got outlawed. Don't do anything for your muscle growth. There was a 12-week study with that where they had actual strength and conditioning coaches at the university write all the programming and the sports dieticians wrote the diet for both groups. One group was given the now illegal preworkout, the other was not. The gains in muscle and strength were identical. So your perception that it's giving you a better workout is meaningless. It absolutely means nothing. you're getting nothing. You would get the exact same gains if you just didn't take it according to the very limited and only research ever done on it. These are scams. test booster scams. All these products that they're claiming outside of these minor ones that could that are just again conveniences for your diet. Creatin, protein powder, fish oil. Okay, that's about the only ones that are useful, but they're just situationally useful for for muscle growth. there's stuff that can be useful for other purposes, you know, because you're just trying to work around diet a little bit. But at the end of the day, all of those are really just food. They're just things found in your food. You could get the exact same benefits from food. And many of us do, but the pre-workouts, the test boosters, all this other stuff, it is not going to do anything for your muscle growth. Creatin is like the only supplement that showed any small amount of muscle growth consistently in tons of independent studies. It's turned out it's less than we thought it was. And people who eat sufficient amounts of red meats are almost always non-responders. Why? Because the effective dose of creatin is much lower than than what's even in the serving sizes on the supplement for muscle growth. So you eat a steak every day, right? You see where I'm going with this? or or a pound of roast beef or whatever, you're not going to see any benefits from the creatine. You probably won't. It won't do anything even then, right? So, ultimately, these are just minor dietary fixes. And let's be clear, these are tiny microscopic gains. It's not like you're gaining five pounds of extra muscle over a couple years because you did any of this, right? So again, and everything else does nothing, absolutely nothing for your muscle growth. It's a complete scam. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.