Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Once again, it is time for my client Gusto's vlog. And a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, it' be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, um, greatly appreciate it. So, let's get over to the topic. Yes, I know he does these with a a vertical versus a horizontal screen. That's okay. We make it work. Some of my vloggers do it the other way, but again, I'm not uh, you know, going to ask him to change the way he's he's comfortable filming over it, you know, because again, I got plenty of vloggers. Uh, but right now, so Gustaf, we've been working with him a while. He's been just increasing weight. So, what we are doing at this point, taking him from a 4-day split to a upper lower, mainly because he was running into work capacity issues dayto day. So, we've had to adjust this um to where really I'm giving him more time between uh sets on the exercises. I'm letting him pretty much do, you know, chest exercises in a back and so on and so forth, right? So, we're doing it that way so that he uh has time to space these muscle groups out because we were running into an issue to we're trying to do, you know, 11 12 sets in one workout um for one muscle. you know, again, if we're doing all pressing, his triceps and things were just giving out near the end, biceps giving out near the end, even legs on certain stuff. You know, after doing multiple exercises, other getting to the leg press, he was just running out of steam. Um, so again, I think the best course of action here is say, look, well, let's do, you know, no more than six exercises for muscle per week. We'll do a a upper lower and just continue to progressively overloading. So in this case, you know, on on these days, we get two presses and then we do a back exercise between so his chest has a little time to rest, you know, then the same thing, you know, we do a tricep, then we do a delt, then we can do a bicep exercise. Um, so in doing it this way though, the only time thing we're really doing six direct of, you know, in a given workout is going to be the chest because I let him do back on all four days. We've worked rows into the lower days. Um, so we've got his spaced out a little more to where he's able to recover on these. And we've continued to make gains. See the arms there? They've gotten bigger. Keep in mind, he's still an intermediate. This is not a guy with like four or five years of training experience, right? He's he's in like his second year, but, you know, we're in a good place. We pulled three plates and some change for eight reps on a deadlift the other day. So, increase the weight, you know. So, he did 145 kilograms for eight. Um, but keeping in mind, you know, we're just using the rep works as proxies. I don't really want him going under about five or six reps on most exercises. Okay, he's concerned purely with hypertrophy. And so accordingly, notice we we tend to isolate everything, right? We isolate almost every muscle. We do big compounds for everything. We still do the barbell lifts, we do weighted pull-ups, right? We do squat, bench, deadlift, we do pull-ups, we do incline, we do all that stuff. Um, but definitely the weighted pull-ups, we do barbell rows. But then notice we isolate everything. We isolate calves. We isolate biceps, triceps, delts, all these things. And the reason for that, he's he just wants to get big. And so notice everything is about form. Everything is about using, you know, reasonably good form. Uh trying to take exercises through their full range of motion. Um controlling movements for the most part, you know. So again, uh normal tempo though. I don't have him do anything slow. I'm not interested in super slow training. But in this case, he's just trying to gain muscle. That's his goal, okay? He's like, I want a a good physique. I want to make, you know, just good lean gains and muscle mass. And that's what we've been doing. And eventually, he may be ready uh to do physique updates for people, but right now he's still not comfortable with it. Um I have personally, as a coach, seen the physique update pictures, and I see he's made quite a bit of progress. you know, he has continued to put on, you know, significant amounts of muscle with no noticeable fat gain, you know, in the months that we've been I've been working with him, right? So, we've continued to progress on that. We've had to adjust the programming just a hair a little bit going from a 4-day split to a 4-day upper lower, but again, we're continuing to just slowly progressively overload. And so, you know, if you look at any of his lifts and we were to go monthtomonth, they've gone up, right? So every month I we could go through and say, "Oh yeah, all your lifts have gone up. Your incline stronger, your bench, the rows, you know, the the squat, the deadlift, the leg press, everything is just progressively going up." Okay? And that's what we want to see, just continual, gradual progressive overload. But you guys notice on the on the upper day there, it was, you know, flat bench, weighted pull-ups, incline, uh laying extension with easy bar laterals, uh strict barbell curls, right? um this lower day we I have him squat and deadlift on separate days still because they're a lot on his recovery still. Um so he does squats, he does good mornings, he does leg presses, right? We do some calf raises. Um do some leg curls and uh you know this works. This is this is all that we need for him. Notice he changed gyms. We now have some machines. I told him I want him to try to get on the 45 degree uh leg press. He used this one which is like a a curved one which is still better than what he had. that other gym, we didn't have a plate loaded one. We had more limited range of motion. And I told him, look, if we're going to use machines, you know, we need better machines. You're, you know, those are complete new machines for old people. We need you on something, you know, realistic. So, he's, again, he's at a better gym now, a little better equipment, which he wanted to change anyways. So, we have access to better machines. You'll see it on his calf work near the end, too. We have better calf machines. We got better leg presses. But I want him to get over on like a regular 45 degree slide on the leg press. So then on this day we do that and then we do obviously barbell rows, right? We do some barbell rows on this day. Um I threw the press downs in next because I have him do two different tricep movements on the different days. Um and I usually have him do like a decline. We don't have a decline here. So we're about to go over uh to dips for him. About to go over to weighted dips moving forward. So again uh here's here's again the press downs. Um arms for him have been a relatively strong suit. So his his lats. So at this point though, we've got to get him thicker. So a lot of that middle back, the traps, just more chest. Chest has always been a little bit of a weakling for him, which is one reason we we do a lot of, you know, incline through a long range of motion flat. And then we do even some decline type work, which we're going have to take over to dips. His chest I work from a lot of angles because it's a weak link. Um obviously legs need to continue to come up. I've had some people say, "Well, his legs are a little under." Yeah, but he's also relatively novice still. He He's an intermediate, but he's like an early intermediate. Okay, so it's going to take time. Same thing we were squatting and deadlifting, but you know, really on like the leg press, I needed him on a better leg press. Uh but the deadlifting, um it's been coming along, right? We're getting some some good progress in all the rep work. Keeping in mind, you know, we're not doing maxes. This is all five plus rep stuff. Um but he had hit eight reps, so I took his weight up here a little bit. Obviously, we want to continue to increase this. Um, but again, nice, strong, solid rep work on that. So, that's continued to improve. And that's also a proxy for size. Look, if you have a a deadlift weight that, you know, it's like a three rep max and then we're doing eight reps with a heavier weight, you know, moving forward in the future. Let's say you've put another, you know, 10 kilos or 20 pounds on the bar and now you're doing, you know, seven or eight reps with it. You know, we know that we've gained some size. So, the same thing here. um calf raises. He obviously has access to to some better equipment at this gym. So, we're going to, you know, make the best of that. We're going to make the best of it and utilize that various equipment than we have now. And then, of course, you'll see him doing some barbell rows again because we didn't get rows, we weren't doing barbell rows for a bit because they were nauseating him. I was letting him do easier stuff. Now, we've gotten to where he's built the work capacity and and the conditioning to be able to do the barbell rows without getting sick. So, we've added them back in. Um, and we're just continuing to make progress on all this stuff. But you guys can see this angle right here. He's definitely made some gains along the way. Uh, so I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.