Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Once again, it is time for my client to Alex's Dadbot the Daddy transformation blog. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribed, please do so. And then in the comments, if any of you guys are trying to transform your dad bod, let me know um in the comments. Let's talk about it. Tell me about your experience, your goals. So, in his case, uh I've been training Alex for a while. We haven't really done a dedicated cut. He's slowly started cutting lately. Um, and it's kind of funny because we did some of those before and afters before and there were people who were like, "Well, I think he looks better in the before and they weren't realizing he'd gained three lbs because he looked leaner." Some of the people who want everyone to be thicker, uh, didn't realize he was three lbs heavier in the afters, even though his waist was several inches smaller and he was a lot stronger. So, it's just kind of funny how how people perceive things. Um, but in his case, uh, he we are working on slowly leaning down now. Uh, I do have him do a three-day pushpull legs. He's got an extremely busy life. Uh, extremely busy life. So, we managed to squeeze in about 3 45 minute session. So, I have him do a three-day pushpull legs. Now, our training here, uh, the first the first day is obviously it's it's flat bench for the barbell, incline bench, then then flat dumbbells, then usually a tricep exercise, uh, for the push day. Now, most of his body parts, we do about six sets. Okay? So, I have six sets for lats, you know, so on and so forth, six sets for quads, six sets for for posterior chain. Um, on the three-day pushpull legs, but the chest, we do nine sets. And the reason is his chest has historically kind of been for him a weaker muscle group. The bench press is his weakest lift, right? I mean, we've squatted and deadlifted over 400 lb for maxes. We've not hit a 300 bench. We're down in the mid 200. So, we do give it a little more attention. So, I do do nine sets for his pecs and then tricep work. Now, his pull day, it's it's kind of the same thing. Uh, we do one heavy single on the deadlift. Occasion, I'll have him ramp up to a PR, right? Every now and then just casually hit it. Right now, it's just like just doing a single at 405, you know, so about 90% hair over of his max and we just pull it for a single, then we do the other work. So now right now I have him doing weighted pull-ups for three sets. Then we do barbell rows for three sets. Then we do curls. Then we do laterals. So with a lot of this stuff, yeah, we we do six sets for things like lat six sets for quads, six sets for the posterior chain. But then arms and delts, we come in and do three sets of each of those. And a setup like this works really, really well. And then we have room for a little bit of extra work through the week for whatever the weak link is. In his case, his chest gets three extra sets over all the other muscles. Um, but you know, if his biceps were a weak link and they're just they're not, we we would come in and do six sets of curls, right? So, we would do more arm or more tricep, whatever his weakest link is. But overall, he's been relatively balanced other than the benching and the chest just tend to be weaker links for him. So, we do give it extra work. So, we end up hitting three angles on the chest, you know, whereas in lats, we're we're fine. you know, he's strong on his back, deadlifts, you know, mid 400s. He can do weighted pull-ups, uh, we're in a good place. So, in that case, we just do six. Same thing with the biceps. His biceps are actually one of his better overall muscles in terms of just his size right now. So, since we're doing the other stuff, just three sets of curls is enough for him. Uh, we used to do more training, by the way. I built his base originally on a little more stuff like a 4 day upper lower, but since his lifestyle has gotten really busy, you know, we really can he he can dedicate three days to the gym, okay? He can dedicate three days to the gym, three workouts, and that's what we do. And he does them at home, obviously. He's got the home gym. He invested in that, so he doesn't deal with travel time, doesn't deal with the gym. Even got his reverse hyper, so he can just get in and get it all done. Then we finish the leg day. It's usually three sets of back squats. We do the work sets are 315 right now and he's working with about about six reps. His best sets are usually six reps and we get at least five for all of them. Um so again, we're in a good place. You know, as a guy who can get into the gym 45 minutes three days a week, cranking out 315 for six reps on deep full range of motion squats, pulling mid 400s, you know, we're in a good place because he's he's about I think right now he's 186 187 pounds somewhere in that range. Uh, so you know, we'll take that all day long. So we do, you know, squats there. Then he does good mornings. Now we do a power type good morning because he's strong enough that we can't do the the subbody weight stuff and and go to the full range of motion. He's just too strong. We we'd be doing 30 40 rep sets. So now he does 315, but he does 10. But keeping in mind it's like a low bar position uh on the good morning like this. And people ask that they notice why do guys when they get really heavy they're like are they doing that just to use more weight? And it's like, no, because once it starts getting well beyond your body weight, you can't, if you try to lean all the way forward, you flip. And so in order to push the hips back and do that, it ends up being different. But notice that the torso still goes to 90 degrees. Um, and is there's basically a ratio with your body weight where everyone who does good does good mornings notices that. I mean, I have to do it that way even when you guys have seen me do 500 plus pounds for a max. So, so kind of explaining what's going on with the power of good mornings. Uh so people do understand what's happening there. Um so again that's why that form gets used and it turns into looking like like a low bar squat that where you almost good morning it up. But notice how strong he is even relative to a squat. And even Louis Simmons used to say that he's like get your good morning as strong as your squat. It's just like you guys have seen me um my best squat this earlier this year was 500 but then I've also done a 500 lb good morning on the Camber bar for a pretty respectable range of motion. So again, um just something that's noted. So we do that. Then he does three sets of lunges and then three sets of reverse hypers for his leg day. And then we call it a week, you know, and as he continues to get leaner, I think people will be pretty pretty surprised because we've got a pretty good amount of muscle under there considering what his lifts are and everything. You know, we drop off about 8 to 10 pounds of fluff. I think people will be uh be really impressed where he's at for a guy who who really can only get into the gym three days a week for less than an hour. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.