Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Once again, it is time for my client Ted's conjugate vlog. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribe, please do so. Um, and if you guys will drop me a comment, uh, let me know what you think about his training. If you have any questions about the conjugate stuff we do, uh, why we do what we do, uh, just commentary, I'd love to hear it. Uh, but specifically, you know, what do you guys think about what we pick for the maxes? Um, and all of that has supplemental work. I'd love to hear people's thoughts on it, of course, but let's get over into it. So, this week we did, because he does all close grip pressing, we did a long pause. It's obviously less than his normal uh because I wanted him to do a 3se secondond pause. Uh went pretty good though, all things considered. Very happy with it. So, then for supplemental work here, uh we obviously we do closed grip bench, we do incline, right? We do strict standing press. Uh we do chins. Uh and then we do again all sorts of other rowing and stuff. So here we are seeing the uh the incline work and then we get over into his strict press. And yeah, he does rep work with 155 on it. Keeping in mind he did a 205 strict press not that long ago. I believe what was it last week? Uh which was a PR. Keep in mind he's in the high 180s. So he he had bumped up to 191 for a short bit, but he said said it was just definitely water. It just kind of ballooned up. He's like, "Wow, I'm way up here." But he's down into the 180s again. It was just one of those weeks where it happened. Uh we've been consistently coming up. He put on, you know, he's put on about a pound a month or so. Pound to pound and a half, but he's very, very lean. So he can get away with a a little bit of aggressive like that because again, the guy's got visible abs, he's lean, got striated delts, all that stuff. Um, and again just his overall lifestyle. But yeah, I mean, so we're real good at strict press, real good at incline, and that works because his other his other uh side hobbies, you know, are boxing, um, BJJ, stuff like that. So again, all that close grip work and all that pressing strength really carries over to the to the boxing and stuff. Same thing, we're doing more axle bar work, which you guys will see later in the vlog, better grip training and all of that. Uh, so again, but we do a lot of a lot of weighted pull-ups, a lot of weighted chins, which again great for grapplers, all that upper body stuff, and then a lot of the again fat bar work and things like that. But of course, we do huge amounts of lower body because again, hip extension and all that. So here's our our lower body day. We did a a 500 deadlift here for max effort. We didn't get a PR this time. It just like it felt hard. And that's okay because we only recently hit 500 on conventional. Uh we did 525 on sumo, but we're getting stronger at the supplemental stuff. So he's gotten stronger on these camber bar. Good mornings. We're up to uh working with 225 on these. All right. Up to working with 225 on these. Although I need to talk to him about the plate math. Um because I'm looking at what I'm seeing here and we're supposed to be doing 225 and that's what I've written, right? Anyone else see the Anyone else see what I'm seeing? I'm gonna need to mention that to him. He'll see the vlog. Be like, "Hey, hey, Ted, you do know that's not a 45 pound bar. I don't know. We can't see the place close enough." But, uh, so he may have been doing heavier on this than we thought. All right. So, then after that, of course, we do belt squats. Uh, we do or this Yeah, this belt squat machine. He he did these this week instead of the pendulum thing. Um, again, he's sitting way back, so we're getting more more posterior chain, a little less quad when you take that stance that he's taking versus um, again pushing forward a little bit, but still we're still getting a lot of quad work though if you look at the knee angle, obviously. All right, but definitely it you get a little more hip and posterior chain involved when you do them uh, pushing back that far with the hips, which again we're fine with. We need hip extension. We need all that because that's what's limiting some of his lower body stuff at this point. Not that it's bad. I mean, we pull Sumo 525, we deadlift 500. For a guy who's under 200 pounds, we'll take it. But again, we always trying to get to that next tier. You know, it's kind of like, let's get to, you know, 525. Let's do 550. Let's let's get to a 550 on sumo and conventional, right? Never really strong enough, particularly, you know, if we're going to be a serious athlete. And in his case, he is. He's been competing in sports pretty much well into his youth. Uh so again just a lifelong athlete. Um so again we we take that into account. So people are kind of like with him man he does a lot of volume and a lot of stuff. He does conditioning almost daily of some type. We do GPP. We have a GPP day in here. But keep in mind guys lifelong athlete. So speed bench against bands. U again we do usually like 10 triples for him or is it nine triples now? I need to double check my notes. And so we do that. So we speed bench and he does his other supplemental work. So these are done with 30 second brakes. So again, bands, compensatory acceleration. I just realized those kabuki plates might be 25s. Those are just like thinner plates. So that might be what we were seeing on that bar. I was looking at going, that's an 85lb bar. But and again, they like to design a lot of those that way so that they're at standard competition diameter, which is really a great idea. I like it when companies do that stuff with a deep dish plate like that. Um, so then of course then we do all his other stuff. I didn't have weighted shins from the uh first workout. So we have the footage here of him doing those. So again, we have I threw the weighted chin footage in here from the second upper from the dynamic day. So again, weighted shins pretty much to failure. He's doing axle bar rows also. Uh, and then we're doing some axle bar curls now, which again, good for grip, good for forearms. Um, axle bar axle bar curls are pretty solid. In fact, I have that same bar. All these bars he has, I'm laughing. I literally have these exact same bars and brands. I recognize them. Like, I know them distinctly. These are all Titan bars cuz I own these same bars. I own that same camber bar. I own that same axle bar. I literally have them in my garage. I own those same plates, which are always good on the platform. Those training plates can be nice for stuff like this. Uh, but here again, then some axle bar curls. Uh, of course Ted's got great biceps, so I kind of let him run free with his bicep training. He just does whatever he wants because we're not training for physique. He's got good biceps. He knows how to train his biceps. I'm worried about all his strength then. Um, so again, I'm not concerned. He likes to just rotate through lots and lots of that. But I program his tricep work for the most part because of certain certain responses I want to get with all of it to keep getting that all that pressing strength coming up. And then here he is doing some u some laying I'm sorry some incline skull crushers. Right. Incline skull crushers. Again great for the long head there. Um so if that area is lagging and it still hits the long head but meaning you're also getting that lateral head really really well. Um these are tough on your elbows. I will say to people if you do not have healthy elbows this is probably not a good exercise for you. But if you do yeah it can it can absolutely work for building a lot thicker, stronger triceps. But specifically this type of extension done does give good carryover to your benching. Uh so again just be aware of that versus some of the the stuff we do purely for the long head where we go way behind the hip. All right. Then of course we finish up the week with uh speed squats, right? Finish up with speed squats and then speed pull. So he's doing just speed squats here. He didn't set up bands and that's okay. I have math for him for both bands and without. And then we're doing uh deficit conventional speed pulls against bands, which again, this is fantastic for lockout strength because this is what we need for him more on his conventional deadlift. All right, guys. Really happy with this week's training though. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.