Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for my client Alex's dad bod to daddy transformation blog. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Let's get over to the training. So, um, with Alex, for those who've been following for a while, uh, we do three day a week, uh, full body, right? super busy guy. Uh super busy career, super busy family man, band gigs, all this stuff as a as a side hobby. Um you know, pretty serious musician on top of all of that. So again, we're just trying to always keep him fit, strong, you know, we're still trying to get to that um that 315 bench. So he's hit the rest of my dad bond strength standards except the bench. Notice we do a lot of chest pressing. So notice all his days we either flat or incline bench. And the reason is because, you know, chest limits and I mean, he can do weighted pull-ups. He can do like 10 weighted pull-ups, you know, with like a 25 lb plate. He deadlifts mid 400s. We've hit a 405 squat before. We doing reps of like 325, 330 uh for rep work on the squats, you know. So, all of that being said, uh he's he's got everything but the bench. Um but keeping in mind a lot of what we do with him, we've got about 45 minutes to an hour up to about an hour three days a week. Um, so we're super efficient with it. So we need to be clear on that. Uh, because he has limited training time even even again he trains at home. He built a home gym so that he can get this done, get his workouts in and um get on with his life. This is three hours a week, you know, and and all things considered um as far as compared to other dudes out there uh he's in pretty dang good shape, right? And and I think with a lot of guys out there, um, a lot of dads and really busy dads, uh, this is kind of what they want for results. And I think I think people don't always realize that. A lot of really young guys who are chasing the influencers aren't realizing, man, you guys get about 35 40 um, if and you know, you're super busy. Like, you'll be thrilled to be where Alex is, you know? And I think a lot of dudes, okay, I get a lot of guys who chime in are like, um, yeah, I agree. Right. I've had other people who've talked to me in consultations and other stuff who needed help with things and they're like, honestly, yeah, I mean, I agree. I'd actually be kind of happy to be where he is. So, um, this is what we mean when we talk about, uh, stuff as a dadbot, right? This is this is about where most guys would really want to be. And it's not as hard to do as people think. But the thing is is you've got to be efficient. You have to [snorts] be efficient. So what is it that we're we do with this training? It's a three-day it's an A and a B workout right now. So notice that workout A. We got four lifts. He does three sets of squats, three sets of bench, three sets of weighted pull-ups, and we do some curls. Why it curls? Because we need some arm work. Especially guys like him. He's in I've said this before. is in t-shirt a lot, short sleeves a lot, doing bad stuff, doing band stuff. Man, a little bicep goes a long way, you know? So, we tend to keep in curls uh for guys like that, right? We tend to keep in the curls. I do that for all my dad bods, honestly. Like, most of my dadbod guys do a little bit of direct arm work, whether it's some some extensions or some curls, kind of depending on what they need, you know. Um and and that's the reason for it, right? That's the reason for it. Uh, a lot of times they're out in a t-shirt and they need to look like they lift in the t-shirt and sometimes we need that. Yeah, having being a big thick chest and shoulders and back helps, but man, you know, a little bit of bicep, a little forearm goes a long way. Now, we don't have to worry about forearms for most of my guys that much. Why? Because we do all our pulling without straps. They do deadlifts, pull-ups, sometimes rows. So, we're good. Uh, but for his workout B, uh, we usually do deadlifts. So you'll notice here on deadlifts I only do one top set though. All the other stuff we do three sets. Um the deadlift being the exception. So we do four main exercises in reverse hypers if you ask time. Uh so again this is very very simple programming. I get a lot of guys who are shocked. They're like how do you have some of your really long-term clients on really simple programming? And it's like because they get results. And I I think guys like Alex, guys like Toss, some of these other guys, guys like Ryan, you guys see client Ryan come through a lot of my lives on my different platforms, the tubes, the face, YouTube, Facebook, all that. Um, you know, how do we keep these clients? People are always shocked at that. I'm like, because they get results. I think coaches forget this. I'll discuss briefly the rest of this and I'll go into a little diet tribe on that. Uh, so then after the deadlift, we do incline bench, rows, overhead press. That's a full workout, man, with a bias towards pressing. We bias his training a little bit towards pressing because that's where he's weakest. And of course, he's got a reverse hyper. I get it. Every dad should probably have a reverse hyper. Wouldn't be a bad idea. Work that posterior chain further. All right. Work that posterior chain further. So simple programming and on that I leave that open. You know, we do up to five sets of that on workout B's if he's got the time for it. And if he only gets one set in, not the end of the world, but we do as many of them as we have time for up to five. Um, so simple programming, and I've said this for a while. Clients who are getting results don't care if their programming is simple. Coaches have to get this through your heads. All these coaches want the most complicated program they're like, "But if I don't keep it complicated, how am I going to keep clients?" Think about how terrible of a business model that is. If I don't make the programming complicated to confuse the client, I'm not going to have business. You understand how dishonest of a business model that is? You're making complexity that doesn't matter just to wow and impress the client instead of just giving them good coaching and saying, you know what, this client doesn't need complexity. They're not running a bunch of crazy conjugate. They're not peing for an event on conjugate for a strongman event. Okay. Right. So you're giving them complexity they don't have to have that's making their training more complicated to follow. I don't know that that's that's ethical business to be fair guys when you know the reality man what are clients paying you for clients paying you for complex or they paying you for results but we need to be looking at are they getting stronger are they getting more jacked is their body composition improving are they injuryfree do they hurt are they getting results this is what we need to care about and been my experience, the good clients, the people you want, the people who see value in it, who are going to stay on long term, that's all they care about. That's my reply because I've been asked this before by by some people occasionally comes up in a live stream. If you're going to run some of these guys with such simple programming, you know, h how do you how do you how do you keep clients? Because they're happy with their results. That's how you you keep the fatigue management on point. They have accountability. they have fatigue management. You're keeping them injuryfree. You're keeping them moving forward. Okay? That's what matters. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.