Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha strength and fitness and once again it is time for my client Ted's vlog. Uh obviously his first workout of the week. Uh he did it on 4th of July. Gyms were closed so he did it at home. Uh he does have some basic stuff there. So we did a max effort close grip bench press. He got a 260 PR there. Uh so again that's coming along really really well. Then afterwards we did back off work on the um the the bench press. Right. He did some back off work and then we did floor press. Um so what we'll notice on this day pretty much have pull-ups, curls, triceps, and then lots and lots of pressing. Uh so in his case, yeah, we still do a decent amount of rowing. We do a decent amount of of pull-ups. Um he did mention he was going to come in a couple of these days. He got cut short, so he couldn't get all of his rowing and stuff in. He said, "I'll go get it on an off day. I'll slip in and get the rest of that in because we do need to make sure that rowing gets done." But yes, uh Ted's volumes are very very high even though we're on a 4-day conjugate. Um he is on a lot more volume than my average client is. So I do need to have that disclaimer. A lot of it though is because again he's very athletic, lifelong athlete. And yes, that stuff matters. Um it absolutely matters. The stuff I point out to a lot of people, they're like, why do some people just, you know, they have these work capacities sometimes? And what people have to remember, you have to think in terms of lifestyle, overall epigenetics and things. And I I see this very frequently as a coach when I get people who have been playing sports and stuff kind of their whole life and then when they get up into their 20s and 30s, if they've stayed super super active um and their activity level and conditioning and cardio is high, their work capacities tend to be crazy, right? And I' I've seen this a number of times actually as a coach, fairly common. And whereas you get guys who didn't do sports, they were really sedentary. you know, they'll get up into their 20s and they're like, "Man, I can't even do three sets close to failure and replicate my performance, right?" And it's and it's because of that. And I think people have to remember that with the stuff that we do, you know, if you start with this stuff later in life, you can still get great results, but you're not going to have as easy of a time as someone who, you know, was active and running and jumping and doing sports and athletic at 14 years old. You know, you're just not, guys. And I hate to tell this to a lot of people. if you chose to play, you know, spend all your time, you know, doing video games in those sports, there's going to be a price to pay for that, unfortunately. And it's it's unfortunate that it's that way. But this is something I've noticed as a coach, you know, whereas in him, he's been a lifelong athlete. He still does a couple of other sports recreationally. So, here we have for the floor press and we have the strict press, we've got weighted pull-ups, and here he is doing his his tricep extensions, right? So, we're doing our our skull crushers right here. So again, finishing those triceps off. Um, again, we do a lot of tricep work for him and it's because we do a lot of pressing. He prefers generally pressing closer grip. Although I'm having him do uh some of his speed benching a bit wider because I'm like, look, over time we can get stronger at some of the the wider grip stuff. It's going to carry over to bigger numbers, right? If you want a bigger bench because his bench is is his weakest lift because that's a closed grip. you know, he might be stronger with a wider grip if we can bring the pecs up and bring the grip out a little bit. Um, you know, because again, he has a 205 strict overhead press, for example. You know, it's 55 lbs difference. Whereas in here, 535 sumo, we pulled 500 plus conventional, we've got a 415 back squat, right? So, comparison, you guys see what I mean? So, it's something we are we are working on more and more. It's been a a comfort thing for him of having done all this stuff with a closer grip. And a lot of athletes do gravitate in that way and it does make it makes a lot of sense for a lot of sports to do a lot of closer grip pressing um all your pressing movements overhead you know incline flat um particularly for a lot of contact athletes but it's it but it will come at the expense of chest development to some extent and chest strength particularly for a lot of guys trying to build a really big bench but that's not universal either. we've seen. There's guys out there who have crazy close grip pinches. I mean, right, they are out there. Um, so we do need to do need to be aware of that. But just as a general rule, we're going to have a little more chest and most people be a little better there. So, for max effort lower, we did a sumo. We got a 535 there on his sumo deadlift. Then we're doing heavy good mornings, right? Um, then he does heavy machine squats from does these into a bottom position, right? Uh so again we go fairly heavy on these usually no more than about eight reps on this stuff here. Uh so again this is kind of a heavier day. So I usually want him about the six to eight and then we do a lighter machine squatting on dynamic day. So here we are pushing you know a bit heavier weight on this bit heavier weight. So we do do some sixes and stuff on some of his max ever lifts right. So a lot of his pressing some of his machine squats you know the good mornings were not quite that low. trying to keep them, you know, around nine or 10 plus, but we're doing well there. I mean, we're up to, you know, over two 200 lbs for sets of 10 on the good mornings, you know. So, I think we're up to about 230 there right now is what I recall we're using. Of course, we do all that. We do glute ham raises, reverse hypers, all of these things. Again, um he has access to a reverse hyper, so obviously we're going to use it, but we make use of that since uh he has access to it. again the the perks of going to a very athletic and powerlifting oriented gym like this. We got access to a lot of stuff and he also does plyometrics and box work and some sled work and stuff there too on especially on some of his off days. So he comes in and does does GBP also. So in addition to this normal work he does GBP um high step count at work and then of course um you know various martial arts he does recreationally and stuff also. Uh so again he stays athletic, he stays fit, he stays on top of this stuff. All right. So, then we get to the dynamic effort stuff. A dynamic effort benching we're doing with bands. I had him rotate grips. I didn't put up the footage of the wider grip. I probably could have. Um, so again, I have him taking the grips out wider at, you know, at different sets. So, again, we're we're working on all of that. Then I have his incline work on this day because mainly we needed a little more flat pressing for his overall chest. So, we're doing the floor pressing and other stuff. Uh, I have his incline move over to just the dynamic effort day. So, we do the speed benching and then we come in and we do incline benching behind it. Then we do all this back, tricep, bicep work. So, again, more pull-ups. Obviously, all that stuff is still going to be in here. Um, I only have so much room in the vlogs. I don't want the vlogs to run more than about at most, you know, eight or nine minutes. Um, because again, it's a lot for people to watch with the client blogs. So, again, we have that and then we get over to the dynamic effort lower. So, this week we did uh we're doing the SSB for the speed squats. So, we do doubles on the speed box. He does six doubles and then he does six doubles on the speed poles. I've been rotating obviously sumo and conventional on those in different phases and even some deficit uh conventional work. So, here we're doing you see the sumo from a couple angles. Yes, we're running that against heavy band tension uh which again I really really like that uh on speeds. The bands are so much easier to set up than chains by the way on speeds like so a lot of times is a convenience to just run bands. I like to myself that way all the time instead of messing with chains. Much as I used to enjoy chains on speed work, it's just it's a pain on deadlifts to set up. Then of course, we finish with good mornings. All the posterior chain stuff that we have on the other day is all in here again also. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.