Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Once again, it's time for my client Ted's conjugate vlog. With a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following, uh, please do so. And if you would be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, um, I would appreciate that. Thank you so much. Let's get over to it. All right, Max effort upper. We did close grip against bands. Um, didn't note his exact exact weight here. Uh we are up to like 260 off a closed grip pinned press recently. So his bench uh closed grip bench should be getting good. We want to hit like 275 coming up here soon. Uh that's a goal we have. Keep in mind he did a 200 strict overhead press and a 225 incline. Uh we do all close grip pressing for him. It feels better on his shoulders. Some of the other sports stuff he does, it works better. So in the case of this, that's what we do. We train all the other stances on squats and deadlifts. He pulls conventional pull sumo. We used a 525 sumo a couple weeks ago. Uh, but for other supplemental work, then of course we do some closed grip benching. We do closed grip incline bench. We do overhead pressing, weighted pull-ups. We throw rows and stuff in here, too. I don't have I don't think I got any row footage in here this week, but we do rows and stuff on a lot of times the uh the squat and deadlift days. So, we throw some other uh upper back work in there like seal rows particularly. We like to do a lot of uh but for him, we do a lot of closed grip. We do a lot of overhead and it's because he wants shoulders, needs shoulders. Um, he's an athlete. He is not a physique uh competitor in any way. Even though shirtless stuff I've put up, people are like, "Wow, he is jacked." Um, he doesn't train for physique. Like, he's just like, "I just want to be strong as hell and to gain muscle accordingly and I want to be a good athlete. I want to be fast. I want to be powerful, right?" Uh, because he's a lifelong athlete. He does some other uh sports still now, but he, you know, uh, was sports all the way since middle school. So again, performance is everything for him. And so we train accordingly, but he has the athlete look. Like again, you look at people like he's jacked, but he looks like an athlete. He doesn't look like say a bodybuilder, you know? So certain muscles are not necessarily overdeveloped, but you know, you see like the massive uh shoulders, the massive triceps, the you know, the glutes, uh the quads, all that stuff, right? The stuff that we want to see, you know, in an athlete or and martial artist and fighter and stuff too. So again, this is this is kind of what we want. Same thing. We do a lot of weighted pull-ups, a lot of weighted chin-ups. Again, uh mark of an athlete. I'm a big fan of that stuff. All right, for main triceps right now, we're messing with a JM floor press because again, he's like, man, I feel like if I can just get my triceps stronger, that close grip's going to go up. We'll get it to the next tier. So, we're going to run a little wave of these. We're going to run a wave of these. Um I don't want to beat his elbows up too much on this as this exercise can be really tough. on your elbows, but it is very very effective for getting strong. Um, not always my favorite say bodybuilding movement, but man, if you just want a strong lock out on all your pressing, this will do it, right? Because again, the way that it builds the tricep, particularly say that lateral head, that lateral and medial head, they get worked extremely hard and those are the ones that we use for locking out presses. Okay? Right. So here's his four 475 deficit pull um that we did this week. All right. So we're happy with that. So we're at a 500 conventional 525 sumo there's our deficit. So then for other work we do we do a lot of good mornings. I do a lot of posterior chain for him. Right. So here we are doing uh safety bar good mornings exercise. You guys know that I have near and dear to me. Um I've moved some pretty big weight on this in the I think last time I was doing it, I was doing sets of 10 with 250 or 3 by 10 on it. He's not quite there yet, but we're getting him there. But what does this also tell us? He knows he's like, "I need upper back. I need hamstrings, coach." Like, yep, got to get those up for him. Uh, you know, so he will be on that level, right? Because think about the strength differential. Like I I come over pull 585 pretty easy. I've pulled over 600 before, you know, right? Whereas he's down at the 500. But then you look at the gap on the supplemental lifts. Where are we at there? Right. His glutes are strong. I think the glutes are the issue. So it's hamstrings, you know, for his pulling. Uh for his squatting and stuff, we need a little more upper back. So we're going to do more SSB work. All right. Here he is doing a hack squat machine. Um he's doing these to a dead stop and then coming up. So again, for me, for a power athlete, I'm fine with this. You know, obviously for bodybuilding, we would want maybe different, but think about some of that of coming down and hitting that and driving up. Power athlete, you want a big squat. We want strong, powerful legs, right? This is where we get some of that neural drive. I like a lot of dead stops. So, of course, I'm doing pause squats right now for hypertrophy myself. Um, so again, building everything with the supplemental work, right? We use the max work for learning to grind and to push through maximum uh weight, building brute strength with different exercises. We do all the speed work to build our our speed strength and our power and to give carryover to that. And then everything else is just like we take these exercises and we just get thick. And then we want some of them to have a little bit of carryover. You know, some dead stop stuff, some other things that are going to address our different weak links on movements, but we're just trying to get really big. So, same thing here. He needs hamstrings. You guys know how I feel about the glute ham race. I bought one and have one myself, right? So, glute ham rays. Good mornings, right? Hit that posterior chain. Hit those hamstrings. Hit those hamstrings super super hard. And we don't let up. So, again, we train them into the ground for him. Train them into the ground. Uh, so again, not the most fun exercise, but it is very, very effective. Of course, I do it myself. It's definitely helped my own hamstrings, particularly that lower insertion point, right? Great for that. All right, speed benching. He's doing speed benches with bands. Um, obviously this is all lightweight. So, I've just took clips of his speed work here kind of at the end and just took a little bit of it. He does it all as one file on speedwork, which is good because then we can see how long it takes. I want short bracket break breaks. I want a lot of this with like 30 seconds between. It's what I want to see in my people, right? So that's what we get here. So it's for him. He does triples on it and then we rest 30 seconds and do it again. So that's the idea. I threw in his his set of curls. He sent me the films. He always comes up with new types of curls. Let's let him do whatever he wants for curls. You know, we get we give leeway on that stuff. The end of the day, we're not chasing bodybuilding. So he just does different curls that he thinks are fun. He has good arms. I don't think we're worried about it. I think we're in a good place here, but for Hillary curls, you're just kind of fun. Sorry, guys. I'm yawning there. I'm just going to leave that in and keep running with it. All right. And then, of course, we finish up with uh speed box squats with the SSB this week. Right. So, we got the SSB here. I may have him go over to that cambered bar next time. He's going to hate me if I do that. All right. So, we do SSB speed squats and then we do uh sumo speed pulls. Right. So we do this for doubles and then we have the speed pulls that he is doing against bands. So running band setups on all this. I may set him over on a straight bar on these next time. And the reason for it uh he's got a good band setup. He's got it happy. I don't want to disrupt it. And then here's our speed pulls uh sumo against bands. All right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.