Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here once again. It's time for my client Ted's vlog. And a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not following me or subscribed yet, please do so and drop me a comment down below uh just to say hello or to give me your thoughts on the video. So, you guys know Ted's a combat athlete. Um we had a pull last week and so we've had to go really really easy on everything. and he pulled his adductor. No bruising, no swelling, but it hurt. And he did it on a on a top set of squats. He did it on the very first uh rep on a weight that was 30 lbs lighter than we had squatted the week before. Uh we had no morning going into it. Um it's one of those things where I remind him he does lots and lots and lots of rolling, lots of fighting. Um so we're doing hours of BJJ every week, plus his boxing. So I have to remind him we have to keep volumes mitigated and slowly getting him to to come around to that. I mean, we took his volumes down and he got stronger from where he was. So, again, keep letting him know. Um, the gains are definitely there. So, we've switched over to conjugate. Now, we're doing a 4 day and then I'm letting him have an extra day in the middle of the week to where we do a little bit of extra back work, some explosive work, a little arm work, like a little bicep work because he doesn't like to only train four days. He wants to be in the gym five to six. And I've kind of told him five is really our limit. So, as you guys saw for max effort day, he does all this pressing closed grip. So, we did a closed grip benchmax. Um, and I'm aware his bench isn't crazy strong. Like, he overhead pressed 200 lb strictly the other day. You've seen him squat 405, you know. Yep. But he doesn't care as much about the bench. And we only close grip at this point for him because it works for our goals for fighting. Um, so we skipped the max effort lower this week. So, if you guys saw, we did flat bench u close grip and then we did rep work on it. Then we did incline. We do triceps and overhead press on max separate upper day. Then we have this explosive day in the middle of the week. So I let him do seal rows. Um we do some some um snatch grip high pulls, do weighted chins, right? Do some reverse hypers. So we also use it as an excuse to get in do extra reverse hypers, which we'd like for his lower back because we need to bring all that up. That is limiting him on things like deadlifts. And if it's limiting us on deadlifts, it's limiting us in fighting. So, uh again, this is what we've done is have that that fourth day in the middle of the week. Uh so, you're seeing just the end of this. And of course, and having to do reverse hypers. Um we've increased the weight on these uh this week. U feel like again, he can handle more weight, more volume on this. So, I want to continue to push those reverse hypers up because there's something that's going to benefit him uh tremendously, right? because we still need to bring his good mornings up. You He's working now with about right around 200 pounds for for 10 reps, you know, in that range. And I've told him, you know, I mean, for your long-term goals, we need that closer to to 300, you know, uh we want to see that close to 300 for 10. So, we're going to keep pushing that up, but then we use things like the reverse hypers to build that. So, we went ahead and did the speed days as as programmed though for the week. Um, so again, stuff's just going to change on these. I don't know if for all my conjugate people, I don't always like to put all the sheets up. We just were doing conjugate guys. You guys can look and see what what lifts and stuff they're doing through here. You can see the maxes. Like I said, we skipped max effort lower while we're letting things recover. But then we did speed bench, right? Uh so speed bench for him, we're running around 50% of his max. We're doing 10 triples with 30 seconds between. So you'll see a couple of them here. Uh and I'm having to split that up because he is doing all his speed work. It's just one set. He just turns the camera on. But then we see how long it takes for the for the full work. So that's good. Lets us know what's happening there. Uh what his breaks are like. But then I have to chop it down for the vlog. Otherwise, you're going to have 10 minutes of sitting there, nine minutes doing 10 sets of speed bench. U afterwards, of course, we do incline, we do overhead pressing, we do um some tricep work on that day. Times we'll do a little bit of extra back work. Um, so on a lot of his days, we're gonna I'm gonna work in more and more of just doing more back work on all those days. Uh, because again, he likes he likes having it in there. He's asked if he could have two days of chins this coming uh week in the rotation. So, I'm going to put them in there for him. I'm going to let him have them, right? Coach Coach is cool with that. Just got to make sure we don't have overuse. And then, of course, we have the dynamic lower day. Um, and he skipped on some of the quad work for this time. He's just going to let it heal, but we still did speed boxes. So, we did speed pulls. Um, we did singles on those. Um, so again, right at around 50% of his max for 10 singles. And then, of course, for speed boxes, we do 50% max for 10 doubles. And that's what I have him doing right now on the rotation. Uh, we're going to work in obviously sumo. He prefers sumo over conventional, but we wanted to work that conventional up. Um, being a fighter, we will of course uh work uh sumo speed poles in. I feel like those are very beneficial for any sort of contact sport. They're beneficial for any sort of fighter. And I feel like plenty of coaches have explained why out there already. I don't always need to reiterate that. I probably can. I can make some videos on that. Um I do feel that's a topic that's been covered pretty pretty significantly and extensively though by by conjugate coaches who work with fighters. Um and I happen to agree been my own experience as a coach that they are right uh and and they do benefit from it. and but pretty much for anyone who's in a contact sport, right? But we still rotate them around. I like to rotate the sumo and conventional for my people unless they have a reason they can't do one of them, right? So for conjugate work, I like to rotate sumo and conventional back and forth for speed work. So again, the speed boxes, same situation, 10 doubles, 30 seconds around 30 seconds between. And his timing in the video is just about right. I think that clip was about about 10 minutes. So, that's right about what I expect to see, which means um a set every minute on the minute, taking 30 seconds between getting set up each time. And if we can tighten that down, we tighten that down a little bit. But again, setup takes time, right? You got to take a breather between just a moment and then you jump back into the next set. Sometimes it requires us to reset up and everything. And then of course, he finished up with a bunch of good mornings, which always going to be for my conjugate people, man. I push the good morning all the time. And especially after speed work, if we do nothing else after dynamic work, we're going to do good mornings. Like if if I have someone who's in a hurry like, "Coach, I only have time for one accessory on a dynamic day after all the squats and deadlifts." We're going to do good mornings. And for him, I'm going to push them up. You guys know how I feel about this lift. Of course, for him, uh the good morning because he grapples uh doing the BJJ. We'll mess around with different bars. I'll mess with the SSB some. I I used the SSB for for these this week myself for my rep work. I've still got him on the cambered bar here because we're making good progress on it when it starts to stall, right? Um, we'll I'll rotate bars, but definitely for anyone who grapples, definitely anyone who grapples, good mornings with that safety squat bar is is a very sports specific thing. It's very beneficial. So again, we will eventually uh work some of that in, maybe work in some neck harness work and things uh to again uh just build all of that stuff up, build up everything that we need there, right? Because that's what we want. We need to get that neck strong. We need those traps strong. Uh but overall, pretty happy with this uh week's work. We're getting them into the flow of this. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.