Hey everybody, it's Jason Law here. Once again, it is time for my client Alex's vlog. Uh, his dad bod to daddy transformation. Uh, just a quick reminder, if you guys would please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not following or subscribe, please do so. And if you guys would be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. So, thank you. All right, let's get over to it. Um, Alex these days does a push pull legs. U, so again, he's got very, very limited time right now. Um, so again, just due to his lifestyle, everything else. So, we get it done. So, really, he's got about 45 minutes up to about an hour, three days a week. So, we make the most of it. We get in and we hammer pushable legs. Uh, we do about 12 work sets per workout and we get get out, okay, so that he can get on with the other stuff in his life. Um, but overall, I mean, we've been happy with it. You know, we've gotten him to a 400 squat before. Um so again we usually do a top set with the bench. Then we do two sets of rep work up. You know about eight to 10 reps. Uh then our second exercise we do three sets of incline bench and then he does three sets of overhead press and that handles all the interior side of the pressing. So again we'll do a little bit of other shoulder work on his pull day. So that handles that and then we finish off with some tricep exercises. Um and right now we're still doing dumbbells but we'll mess with other stuff here and there. Um, I like to rotate it around. I might even have him mess with some pullovers and stuff coming up. You know, those are always fun. We like to change it up a little from time to time so we don't get any overuse. So, I see a lot of my guys if I keep them on a lot of extensions too long, um, they sometimes elbows start to hurt, they get inflamed. That's when we'll go over, we'll mess with press downs. Um, doesn't necessarily have the best setup for that other than bands. Of course, we'll do bands for him if they start hurting. uh but failing that uh you know I can always have people do pullovers and I love doing that for people because if we're already doing a lot of pressing you know the other stuff's covered we can do pullovers and get the long head and finish it off. Um and I think people forget that you know for the tricep because of the complexity of it. We don't always have to have extensions particularly if they're giving you problems and particularly if you don't have access um to a press town. We can always do, you know, your benching and other stuff and other pressing and then pullovers. You know, in his case, our our lateral head and stuff is being more than stimulated, right? We do bench, we do incline, we do overhead press, that's all covered. Really, the long head's all that's being neglected. So, we can always do that. Um, and so pullovers work in that case if I need to. So, if people are curious how I program around stuff like that. All right, deadlift. We got a 430. We've never tried 430 before. We got him at 425 and I just had him casually come in and do it. He's like, "Wow, this came in. This was easy." And I'm like, "Yeah, cuz we've uh been doing ramping it back up slowly and the 425 was not a max for you." So, we knew I knew you could just come in and hit a PR and so we're good. So, now we've knocked down for bigger lists. We've got a 405 squat in the past. Now, we got a a 430 deadlift. Um, need to get that bench up a little bit more. Uh, is you know, so again, chest has always been a little bit of a a limit for him. Another reason I could always throw a pull lever in. All right, so after that, we His posterior side's good, though. So, notice the deadlift's good. We do weighted pull-ups just fine. He does sets of seven or eight, you know, or weighted pull-up there with like 35 pounds. Uh, so then after that, so we only do the one rep on the deadlift, then we do three sets of pull-ups, uh, three sets of barbell rows, then we do curls. Now, I can also always change curls around. I can change row types around. I can take him over to dumbbells if we need to on this stuff. So again, if we get any overuse or inflammation, I have different movements I can rotate in. Um, so again, even guys on these sort of minimalist programs, that does happen sometimes. Um, so after we do those two, then we do obviously laterals so that we we get the delts. I'm not as worried about so much rear delt work because we do all that other pulling, we're good, and the laterals will hit that. So again, we we do get pretty good overall well-rounded shoulder development from this. And then of course, um afterwards, I just have him do barbell curls. And again, that's a staple for him. It works well for him. He likes them. He uses good form. Don't have any problem with it. I can always throw dumbbells in, though. If if uh we need to change stuff up for that. Uh but arms have never been a weak link for him. He gets biceps have always been decent, so not a problem. It's mainly his chest at this point uh that we need a little bit of specialized work in. But do we really need that? I think people forget that too. We worry about weak point training too much. And I think the problem is, you know, sometimes we'll overtrain weak points and by and then might neglect other stuff and that doesn't work. We should just be getting big. Keep your training balance. Let it balance out. We're all going to have different physiques. And I and I think people forget that even competitively. Pick the right division. Pick the right division for your structure and then you know you don't have these issues. you know, everyone can make it somewhere, right? There's some division of bodybuilding, at least, you know, drug free could compete in successfully. Uh the same thing with uh you know, powerlifting. Same thing. Pick the pick the weight class carefully for your structure, your height, and everything else. Make sure you're at the right body weight for it. Um someone could be successful everywhere, but the same thing with your physique. Uh we're just going to have different structures. You know, it's it's a bit silly, I think, to worry too much about weight points. Just train everything balanced. Let it land where it's going to land. All right. So, for his lower body day, we do three sets of squat. So, he's working with 315 on the squat and the good morning both, which is what we're seeing displayed here. Um, so again, we do a power good morning for him. And that's okay. It's got his squat good. And so, what we mean by power good morning, notice it's a really wide stance. It's a low bar position. uh and we just push the hips back. And for some people go, why can't he go a little lower because of the weight? So, it's like if we go light enough for him to do what people consider that full forward range of motion, it has to be less than his body weight. Then he does 30 reps. Or we can go heavy enough to get a challenge and then it's going to look like the power of good morning. And in that case, we go to 315. And that's the problem when you get strong on good mornings. That's I feel like that's worth its own conversations. Your technique changes once you start getting well past your body weight. It has to because of the center of gravity. But it's like if you do what some people want you to do to that full 90 degree, you end up doing 30 reps, you know? I mean, someone like me who you guys watched me this year hit a 500 good morning. Imagine if I had to go down to 200 lb on it like with that same bar. Dude, I'd be there for an hour. And that's the point. Um so again for those who aren't understanding what we mean by the power of good morning and why. All right so we do three sets of squats, three sets of good mornings, three sets of lunges, okay? So that we get a second quad exercise and then we do of course uh reverse hypers and which is also plenty of of hamstring work. We do three really heavy sets of good mornings. Three sets of reverse hypers, six total sets. His posterior chain is actually strong. We're stronger on all the posterior side than the interior in general, aren't we? Right. Look at his pull-ups. Look at his good mornings. All of that. Like, um, as a coach, I'm happy with that, though. If I had to have someone be stronger somewhere, I would rather it be the posterior side, right? It's safer. You're going to be stronger. But that was kind of where he was at on the transformation. That's a bulk. He is heavier on the right, even though he's leaner. That's 2 and 8.8 pounds heavier. Just for those who aren't understanding why that's there. His waist is considerably smaller though. It's what we call a recall lean bulk. All right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.