Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it is time for my client Alex's dad body daddy transformation training vlog. Uh we had kind of a hectic week for him. We uh didn't get all of the training done that we wanted to. He missed a few days. Um but this was real life situations getting in the way. Pretty serious type stuff. But we're back. We're back on track. We're back in action. And as you guys can see from this, uh, we're kind of doing workout BAB. So, he went over to full body. Um, he saw me make videos on it. Um, you know, as a long-term client goes, you know, what you're saying and doing with it makes a lot of sense. Can I go back to full body and mess with this? And I told him, yeah, we can. So, again, in his case, we run um an AB type template. And so for those who don't understand kind of what we're doing there, um, essentially we have workout. Um, one is going to tend to be back squat, bench press, weighted pull-up, and then barbell curls. Yes, I let him keep the barbell curls in for now. Mainly because he's out in a t-shirt a lot, and even though we do lots of pull-ups, uh, we want to keep the biceps uh, nice and big. So again, it's just kind of one of my dad bought things for guys in that situation. All right? It's just something that we do. Um, big part of what we do. So, I've kept that in there. Right. So, that's his workout A. And then his workout B, which is kind of we started with B on this week because we alternate. We do a single heavy set of deadlifts. We do incline bench press. We do weighted pull-ups, the strict press, and then we do reverse hypers. As many sets as he can squeeze in up to five sets of those. Now, normally we do three sets of each of those on on like the workout A, four movements. It gets skewed a little bit because we have five movements on the workout B, but it's only one set of deadlifts, right? One top set of deadlifts and we go straight into incline bench and then of course the reverse hypers end up pushing everything way up. But we have the reverse hypers, so we're dang well going to use it. So if you kind of look at what he does here, um, again, work sets and I prescribe the weights every week. Uh, so for those curious, you know, when I'm dealing with a client like this, it's like, well, how much weight does he use? I write it out and I base that on the performance week to week, how many reps we have, kind of where I want to keep him in terms of intensity, uh, you know, watching the work sets, right? So, again, um, we kind of had a little bit of disruption, you know, in the middle in the middle of this week. Again, some some real life stuff. Um, nothing emergency or bad, but just some very stressful, very important life events went down. And so now he's trying to kind of get caught up on sleep, get caught up on um you know, everything going on here. And so we're getting back in the flow. Now for again, we get over to this uh the second workout of the week, which is one of our a workouts. Um we do back squats. And I mean, this this is actually pretty pretty solid just workout in general. So I think for a lot of people, they go, "Oh, well that makes sense. We have a squat, we have a bench press, we have weighted pull-up, and then curls." Like for a lot of people, that's a solid full body. like the everyone would look at that and go everything is being built everything is being built there except for what maybe the posterior chain because we only have squats that's not really a bad run but considering then on the other workouts we do deadlifts and we do reverse hypers that completely gets covered. Um, now is some of his workout a little bit pressing dominant? You know, shoulder and chest pressing dominant just slightly. And that's because for him that is that is the weak link muscularly. Um, strengthwise he's a better squatter and deadlifter than he is, you know, presser in general, you know, because we're our best bench. We're like a mid 200s bench, you know, but we've hit a 405 squat. Like he's even doing sets of five or six or 315, multiple work sets. Like squats. squats are his best lift. You know, I think we're around 440 for his best conventional deadlift. So, you know, again, by by contrast, we would want to be closer to a 300 bench, but, you know, we're not yet. So, we we are uh you know, working towards that. And so, we just do rep work right now. You know, a lot of sets with like 200, 205 on the flat bench and and that works well for us. So, again, one of these these workouts here, you'll notice it's back squat, three sets of squats. Um, and those right now they're like with 315. Then we have bench and we have weighted pull-ups. But notice he can get a decent number of reps on a weighted pull-up. You know, he's not he's no slouch there on that. Um, so again, we're looking at, you know, what is it that he's capable of doing, right? We look at what is he capable of doing and um, you know, we're we're really in a good place there. Now, it would be nice if on the uh the workouts I could actually read everything. So, I'm struggling to look at his numbers for this week. There it goes. It wasn't loading correctly. But even then, the pull-ups, you know, we've got 30 pounds. 30 pounds. And he's able to do up to nine reps. Okay. So, we're strong at weighted pull-ups also. So, again, you see why we put a little more priority on pressing. It's kind of like uh you know, on that one workout, we do one set of deadlifts and we do incline and overhead press. Like, we do both of those. That's six total sets of pressing. All right. And then we we bench just bench on the other day. But again, that is where we're weakest. So, we put a little more total effort there. Okay? We put a little more effort there because again, pull-ups, you know, we got 30 pounds. He he does anywhere from depending on multiple sets, like six to nines. I was looking at his sheet just now as I'm recording here. He got like nine and then eight and then six as far as sets on the weighted pull-ups, right? And these are respectable range of motion. These are from a dead hang, right? Dead hang pull-ups. All right, we're in a good spot there. Same thing. He does rep work like five, six reps of 315 on a deep squat. Hey, these are these are not his weak links. So, we double down on the pressing and we do lots of it. So, then you'll notice over here on on this other workout, we do the one set of deadlifts. We do pull-ups. We usually do actually I haven't do incline then pull-ups. I think the footage got slightly mixed here. Right. So, we got incline benching and then he overhead presses. I know a lot of people would be like, "Well, shouldn't they if you're going to switch those around, maybe throw the curl in there and put that overhead press on the on the flat bench day." But no, like we're really double downing on the shoulder and upper chest, you know, on on this other day, just like we're doubling down on the posterior chain. And I like doing it that way because then the deadlift and the press are together and then we don't have as much structural loading, you know? Um, we're able to split it up a little bit, right? So he only he doesn't do more than about four total standing sets with his spine loaded per workout. You know, three on the squat day and then we do some the other. And again, it works for just our overall fatigue because he also plays in a band, plays guitar. Reoccurring theme for team blah there. A lot of lot of a lot of guys on the guitars and bass and bands. Um we play music and we lift heavy weights, guys. That's part of what we do. Then of course we finish up here with the reverse hyper. And again, I have him programmed to do five sets, but it's like, look, based upon what your time frame looks like because again, he has limited time. You know, he's has a super super busy life. Like I'm we're lucky to get an hour in three times a week and sometimes he has to slide it down. So again, that reverse hypers is like just do as many as you can inside your your working time frame up to your five sets. And we may not necessarily get that, but their short breaks are done at the end. So it ends up being about the same length uh for all those workouts. So again, uh we have two workouts for him right now on that. The only real isolation we're doing at the moment is is our barbell curls. We could argue he may not really need them with all the pull-ups, but we have them in there just because in this case because again, I don't want to take his curls from him. He's got to be out there in a t-shirt. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.