Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here once again this time for my client Ted's vlog and it for it's a quick reminder guys if you will please click like down below be greatly appreciate it. If you are not following or subscribed please do so and if you would be kind enough to drop me a comment down below uh I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. So I got a little bit of a loop of his max bench in there then we have all the other stuff. So, uh, we've gone over only closed grip benching for him again due to what we do with his goals, everything else, but he got a 350 closed grip on max effort upper this week. Uh, we got a 525 sumo deadlift, which again, lifetime PR on any type of deadlift for him. Uh, so to get an idea here, I didn't we didn't get any footage this week of supplemental work on the max effort upper, but the lower pretty straightforward stuff, guys. We do a lot of good mornings, right? We do a lot of good mornings for him. Mainly because his hamstrings and stuff are a weak link. All right, hamstrings are a weak link. Like even here. So for comparison, right, you guys see this bar he's doing um you guys have watched watched me do, you know, sets of 10 with 250 lbs on this bar, right? Same bar. So just so that we have have a context for this. Um so again, hamstrings are definitely limiting him, right? They're limiting him overall. He's got he's got strong quads, um strong glutes, everything else, but the hamstrings. So, this is stuff we're working on building up his low back, building up his hamstrings. Um little effort into that upper back. Um in his case, like I said, we train for strength. Uh we train for sports. He doesn't care that much about physique. Even though we've done physique update pictures and people are had a bunch of people are like, "He's on gear." And um I have clients who are on gear and I'm not always going to say who they are. Obviously, he's actually not one of them. But I digress. Back over to the point. Um, he still has a great physique just because he's lean, burns through a ton of calories, and we put a lot of muscle on. Well, he had a lot of muscle already, but we've been getting him bigger, and particularly the lats and all that stuff have gotten a lot bigger. Uh, so after the good mornings, we do belt squats and we do a wide variety of other posterior chain work. We do glute ham raises. We do reverse hyperextensions. Uh we do a lot of hanging leg raises, other ab. But but the main thing again, we double down on his posterior chain. Yes, we do belt squats. Yes, we do speed boxes. We do all that stuff, right? And we continue to build quads, but for him, the hamstrings, the erectors, all of that stuff, that is where our focus is. That's what we need to build. That is his limit for his lower body. This is what's keeping him from kind of getting to the next tier. Although, we've just we've kind of gotten to that tier already, though, right? We just hit that 405 squat. We just pulled a 525 deadlift. So, he's been he's been coming along there, right? At least on the lower body stuff. Um upper body, obviously, we do need more chest over time, but he's closing grip pressing, so we're just going to tricep it tricep him up. Uh but you guys have seen already, so we've got a 250 flat bench close. He's got a 225 incline, and we've done a 200 strict press. again a very shoulder dominant lifter obviously um but it has to do with the nature of what all he's done with training sports and um and even he's told me I don't really like wide grip benching it doesn't ever feel right so with some of it we'll just continue to use these other chest presses to build his chest up but if we need to if he says hey I need much bigger pecs we'll come in and do some more specialized work but as long as we're getting stronger and everything is closer grip for him uh we're not that worried and I'm not worried as a coach because he's not bodybuilding, right? So, don't care. But as far as the lower body goes, heavy heavy posterior chain dominance. So, it's a lot of good mornings and we rotate bars. Um, again, reverse hypers, glute ham raises, all that stuff, right? Our staples, the stuff the stuff that we love, the stuff that we love, stuff that I I love to do myself. I don't know if love's the word I would use. Love hate. Um although I think for a little bit of a phase I'm going to cut a lot of it out and just do more squatting and deadlifting just for me doesn't mean my clients are going to do that. Keep that in mind guys. I do these things in phases. All right. And then of course we always do back work for him because I want that upper back bigger. So it's always pull-ups. It's always rows. Always stuff. All right. So here we're doing seal rows on the lower body day. We do pull-ups on the upper body day. All right. Then we get over to dynamic effort upper. I didn't get any footage. He It'll probably come through. He probably sent it. It hasn't loaded yet. It'll load later. So, sometimes that happens. Um I don't have any of the dynamic lower actual dynamic stuff, just some supplemental list. But we got a lot of stuff on dynamic upper. So, we've got footage. All right. So, we do speed benching with bands. Um he does 10 triples right now with 30 seconds break between. Um then we do other stuff. We do incline benching. We do overhead pressing. We do pull-ups. We do curls, we do tricep work. Okay. And he won't ask me, can we go over and mess with some JM presses to get that tricep strength up faster for the pressing? So, I think this coming week we're going to mess around with some JM pressing. I need to get it in his new sheet. I haven't written his new sheet. I need to get that sorted. Needs to happen ASAP. Um, I have two sheets I need to write tonight actually. And we do incline with a close grip. and we do overhead pressing, pull-ups, arm work, right? This is what we do for him. Um, it's what we need. All right. Again, his strict pressing, obviously, very strong at the strict press. We've done 200 lbs. Again, he's got delts and triceps and but for our goals, he needs more delt and tricep, just like we need more hamstring. We need more erector, right? We need more upper back. Well, we need more delt and tricep, too. So, we're going to push it uh push it to the limits. Walk along the razor's edge. Sorry guys, my age is really showing right there. You guys aren't aren't even gonna know the song. Most of you guys are going to be like, "What song is that, man? How old are you?" Jesus. All right. Then, of course, we do weighted pull-ups. We have been doing chins, but we like to rotate stuff around to avoid some overuse. So, again, nice nice heavy weighted chin-ups or pull-ups now from a dead hang. Again, build those lats, right? build the lats and pull-ups really are king for that. People argue with me all day long. Pull-ups number one lat exercise. Then he I let him pick a lot of his bicep stuff. He just picks bicep stuff. He just changes it around. He's got good arm development. I don't care. And that's kind of a point, too. There's a point where with a lifter who has progressive overload on all the other stuff. Do I care what they do for biceps? As long as they go to failure, probably not. He's got good arms. It works. But triceps, triceps, triceps after that. So, we do all this close grip work, all this close grip pressing. Um, then of course he's doing some uh incline extensions with the cables. Yeah, we finish up with lots and lots of triceps because again that's the name of the game for him, especially doing all of our pressing closer grip. Triceps are make or break him. Same thing here, throwing in some other curls. Um, again, I just let him do what he wants for curls. I program the other stuff. Um, I kind of just let him do it. And sometimes I like to give a lot of my lifters free time. That's something I program sometimes, too, uh, for certain people. I haven't specifically always done it for him, but I just kind of let him flow with it. Um, I've always had times where I let some lifters just do free time, right? I let them just come in and pick whatever small isolation stuff they want to do for 10 minutes at the end of a workout. U, you know, as long as it's it's related to the body parts and and movements they train that day. So, if it's a bench day, they want to do some upper body stuff, that's fine. Um, but then of course we finish up the lower body stuff after the I didn't get any of the speed footage for the lower. It'll probably load later like tomorrow. Big files. Uh, but we do the same stuff. We do good mornings, right? Do good mornings. We do belt squats. We do all of that fun stuff to finish up to build the quads, the glutes, hamstrings, the erectors. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.