Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here once again. It's time for my client Gusto's blog. Uh, if you guys would though, please click like down below. If you aren't following or subscribed, please do so. And if you would be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would greatly appreciate it. Um, so we're going to change his training after this week, mainly because he's he's kind of told me he's like, "Look, I'm really running out of steam on my leg days. Um, it's it's kind of a lot to handle all in one day." So, we've kind of reached a point where even though he is training for um aesthetic type goals, we've had him on a body part split for months, he's made really, really good progress actually um just in terms of those strength and his physique. Eventually want him to do a physique update, but he's not he's not ready to do one yet for the public. But that's okay. He doesn't have to. But I've been pretty pretty happy with his progress, and so is he. Uh, so I'm gonna think I'm going to take him to to a more hypertrophy oriented upper lower. Uh, which I think will be a little more geared towards his his personal goals. Um, again, main issue we're running into is definitely as a drug-free lifter. Now that he's gotten stronger, he's running out of steam on these body part splits, right? So, for him doing all the squats and deadlifting and then the leg pressing, he's like, I'm completely uh you know, he's like, I'm gassed by the time I'm close to done with the leg presses, um you know, and he's like, I'm losing I'm losing reps really quickly and losing strength. Uh so, again, we can't we can't have that. Um and we need him to get bigger. He's also going to upgrade to a gym with better machines for the legs coming up uh here in another month or two. So, that's a good thing. But, so what we're doing for now, you guys see we're on a on a split here. Um press day we have five exercises. We have flat bench, we have incline bench, then we do dumbbells with decline. All right. Then we do uh skull crushers, well laying extensions, right? These are not skull crushers. We go behind the head and then we do uh some rope press downs afterwards. So again, very straightforward. Then we have a pull day. So the same thing. We have three back exercises, two bicep exercises. Uh so you know we're getting about nine total sets right for the for the major muscle groups and we're isolating arms we're isolating delts but again the issue we're running into is um not not getting quite the workloads that we want out of some of this. So I feel like an upper lower I'm going to be able to take him to a little bit more sustained uh total workload of everything. I'll be able to increase his total volumes while keeping performance up. And so I think that's what I need to do with him for a while. Uh, but again, the volumes don't need to be crazy high. They don't need to be crazy high. I always tell people and for most drug-free lifters, your upper threshold is about 12 sets of muscle group. And and I'm sorry, I just don't see exceptions very often. I don't see exceptions very often. All right. Uh, so for the pull day though, we do uh we do weighted pull-ups. He does seated rows, right? Then we do incline incline dumbbell rows. Uh, then we do two types of curls. So, we do uh strict barbell curls and we do preacher curls. Now, for a lot of my lifters who don't struggle with arms, I'm happy to just leave them at at barbell curls most of the time, honestly. Um again, because we can progress on one movement, then we can rotate them as necessary. So, that's kind of a thing. We'll discuss some of that with upper lowers. You know, you can simply rotate your isolation work, right? If it starts to get to a point where you feel any risk of overuse, you just rotate isolation movements. very straightforward, very straightforward, pretty simple solution. Um because again, that's actually surprisingly a lot of people don't get that. That's often times where your overuse occurs at the local level, right? Not always your big movements. A lot of times it's your small ones. Big movements kind of can beat your whole body up, but it's it'solating too much stuff with too much volume with the same exercises. So, you can rotate those and fixes a lot of problems. um that but it's also good because we have so many different isolation movements. Kind of kind of makes it simple, doesn't it? Right. Very simple, straightforward fix. But we do barbell curls and we do preacher curls for him. All right, shoulder day because he gets his own shoulder day. His shoulders have come along really well. Um I'm at a point where I don't think they're any form of weak link for him. Uh really at this point, uh chest and back just need to get thick. We just need to get him thicker, you know, if we're talking about his goals. A lot of the peripheral stuff has come along really well. All right. Arms have come along decently. Uh shoulders have done really well. Actually, his lats are good. His lats have gotten really well. He's got a good vtaper in the pictures I've seen. Uh so in his case now, we just need to get thicker. You keep filling out that chest. Got to fill out that whole middle back area, that middle and upper back area. And then of course, we just now we got to push legs a little bit harder, right? We got to push those legs up. So, in order to do that, um, again, I'm going to need to adjust everything, uh, while still paying attention to total systemic fatigue. So, for a shoulder day though, we have strict standing press. We do an upright row, we do a lateral raise, uh, then we do rear delts on the machine. Okay? So, I have him do dumbbell laterals. And again, notice he's always strict with everything, which is is what I like to see in the guys with these sort of goals. Um, control cheating and different stuff is not something I like for more novice intermediate lifters. So, when we start talking stuff like uh, you know, any sort of control cheating, a push press, cheat curls, uh, rows where people use a little bit of momentum. I don't like to see people with about less than five years of training experience doing stuff like that, you know, because people say, "Oh, all these pro bodybuilders do them like who are successful." I'm like, "Yeah, they also have many years under the barbell. They also know their bodies better. They know how to feel a movement. Okay? So, a lot of times, even though a lot of them may be cheating, using a little leg drive, little hip drive on some of those movements, they're maintaining uh the primary mover is the muscle that fails. Okay? And that is the key context to that. So, in his case though, he's not advanced enough. So, I like everything really strict like he does it. By the way, that uh pole we had in his upper back is gone. So, he's able to squat effectively again right now. So, again, happy about that. Although, I'd like him I'd like him to get a little deeper here on these squats, right? That's still a weakness for him that I want to work on. So, I think that's what we're going to do moving forward, the squatting. I want him to really focus on on depth. So, that means he might need to take his stance out just a little bit, right? So that he can get deeper. So, that will be uh something I want to do with him. I'm going to coach him on a little bit here coming up. Uh then of course after the squats we do deadlifts. Then I have him do leg presses and calf raises, right? Do leg presses and calf raises. And then we call it we call it a day. But yeah, so that's what we're going to do for him. Um my upper lowers though, they do tend to be squat, bench, deadlift based. Even for my hypertrophy guys, um people can argue with me all they want. They're some of the biggest best exercises. It's silly to not use them for hypertrophy if you can perform them correctly. All right, they work so much muscle. Like, I will never understand this concept of not having a bodybuilder do them. Ludicrous. Absolutely ludicrous. They don't have to be a priority. They're just another exercise, but you should be using them as primary movements. My opinion says me. Uh they make people jacked. Okay. When done for sufficient workloads. All right. So then his other movements we do leg press well we do good mornings. I forgot to mention I've got him doing good mornings now. So we do those and we do leg presses, calf raises and we call it a day. So I hope it's been informative and I will talk to you guys and gals next time.