Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here once again. It's time for my client Ted's vlog. But a quick reminder, if you guys would please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribe, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate that so much. Thank you. Let's get over to the training for our Conjugate Max. We did the strict overhead press. He did 205. That's a PR. All right, so press day. Pretty straightforward, guys. We do lots of other pressing. We do a lot of closed grip benching. Uh we do close grip incline, we do close grip overhead press. We do close grip for him because it feels better on his shoulders. He's been stronger at it. Um and quite frankly, his his pecs have been coming up. You know, he had was very del dominant, but now that I've been training him a bit with some of this, people noted in some of the recent physique updates, chest is coming up. Chest is getting bigger. Um you know, so we're happy with it. But I mean, we've hit like uh you know, 255 on a closed grip, 225 on an incline, 205 on a press. Coming along really well. um overall happy with it, but again because a lot of his other other side hobbies are fighting related sports, does a couple combat sports, recreationally. Um and and so we try to do the stuff that's going to carry over better, you know, to the boxing to the grappling to the other stuff. Uh so again, we just go with the closer grip and it's just easier on his shoulders. Um then for this phase, we're doing weighted chin-ups. Um that's pretty decent amount of weight there. So, we're doing like I believe that's 60 pounds. I have to go back and check the notes. Then axle bar rows. So, again, I'd said before we do want to start doing more and more stuff for his grip. Well, there you have it, guys. Axlebar rows. Um, I'm a big fan of these, by the way, for grip training. Um, I used to use these a lot. There's a point where I may work these back in myself, but yeah, those axle bar rows, they are phenomenal exercise. They bring so much to the table just for overall grip. Um, so again, I love these myself. I'm a big fan. Uh, I'll probably add some of these back in as I get leaner and I'm no longer doing hours of cardio. I might start doing stuff like that again. Again, just to bring up those forearms and grip and now we have him doing some more traditional skull crushers. We've been doing these incline and it's a flat. Um, so again, for him, these are okay. We're not running them for long periods of time. We're rotating through these different movements, so we can get away with this traditional skull crusher. I'm a big fan of this exercise. If your tendon can handle it, I think it works great. Um I oftentimes do the one I do because of of the benefit of that pullover movement. But but um I like to do those sometimes also. And I think for me, like if I do a pullover too, we're good. His case though, his his long head is good. We just build triceps. Build triceps, build triceps. And that's the name of the game for him. And it works well uh because he needs it for just his pressing power, everything else. So, here we also have him doing some curls. He does a lot of different types of curls, mainly because he just likes arms, but again, he does grappling and stuff. Never a bad thing. All right, back squat uh PR this week. Um, so we did a traditional normal aigrass back squat. What do we get here? We got 410. So, 405 had been a lifetime PR. We got 410 this time. So, we hit this week, we hit two PRs. two PRs um on big lifts, some some kind of pretty much classic lifts, so strict press and then that then of course on this same day we do good mornings, right? We do good mornings, we do uh so again this phase we're running them on the camber bar. We were running them on the SSB last phase. This phase we're doing a little bit of camber bar, working them up, getting stronger at this. So again, we want all that all that hip extension. This is his weak link right now. Keep in mind, you know, we pulled 500 conventional. We did 525 sumo and this is where we are still w with good morning. So that tells us that posterior chain, those hamstrings are still the weak link. Um, very very good quads and everything else. So we keep hammering that. We keep hammering those hamstrings. We keep hammering uh that posterior chain because that's what he needs to progress. But it doesn't mean we neglect quads and stuff, right? So here we're going to just do heavier um you know machine squats, right? And he we do these from a dead stop for him. He likes to do them. I don't mind him doing them that way. Um because again someone who needs to do grappling and other stuff, some dead stop training never a bad thing. Of course I'm a big fan of various dead stop training. So I like even axle bar rows and stuff off the floor. Um really fantastic exercise. So then what else we see here is going to be uh glute ham raises which I put in here, right? We're doing some glute ham raises. Um which you'll see coming up next. And I also before we went over to the speed work, even though the chins and the curls coming up, I just wanted to show a couple different stuff we're doing. I like having a different angle for the chins in here. Not a bad thing. So I I threw that in also. Um so we have the glute ham raises. Again, always doubling down on this posterior chain and hamstring for him. So, good mornings. Glute ham raises, reverse hypers. We didn't throw reverse hyper footage in. We didn't need it this week. Again, I have to trim these down to get them reasonably. Nobody wants to watch 25minute vlog. Um, they just don't. So, doing the glute ham raises and I do inch and then him doing kind of like a standing type incline curl. He just does lots of biceps. I don't program biceps. I just pick curls. I let him run wild with it. You know, he's got good bicep development. not a weakling for him. He can do whatever type of curls he wants. But again, pull-ups, we do tend to rotate the grips between chins and pull-ups and stuff. So, in this phase, we're doing obviously chins. All right. So, again, better for overall biceps. I like overhand grip for a little better lat personally, but you're not going to have bad lats by doing chins. So, we do a lot of chins in rows for him. His lats have come up as you guys have seen from some of the pictures we've done. Here he is doing like a standing incline curl up against the bench. Uh so again, another just variation. Keep the biceps growing, right? With his relatively low body fat and small waist because he does have abs. You guys have seen in the other other pics. The bice the big biceps always look really good with that. All right. And the leaner you are in the smaller your waist, the bigger your arms look. So that always helps him. And and he does that even though he's not a physique guy. He doesn't care. We, you know, he still looks like one. even training like an athlete all that conjugate because he still does arms even though he does a lot of biceps. He you just stay lean and get really strong and train your biceps, you're probably going to have a good physique by by almost all standards short of competitive bodybuilding, right? Um speed bench, uh we're doing waves still with um we're doing bands, right? We're doing the waves with the bands. Of course, I'm going be rotating through some grips and stuff, I think, for him more and more to where we do um wide medium clothes and stuff. Wouldn't be a bad idea. I've thought about doing that more and more with him, but he does really really like the close grip. Uh so, we do tend to work with that for the most part, mainly due to comfort, um due to again his needs. Then, of course, for this phase, we're doing normal speed boxes, right? We're doing our box squats with just a normal bar. Um we rotate some of this around a little bit. Um, he didn't set up bands for this one, so he's just doing straight weight. I give him depending on what he's got for time, he has trouble setting up the bands. I have numbers for him that we've agreed upon for either approach, whether he wants to just use straight weight or bands. If he's got time to set up uh bands, we do that pretty much there. You see he's got like I think 225 on the bar, right? We got 225 on the bar for that. Uh, which works great for the that. And then a speed pulls. We're doing conventional on a deficit against bands for this wave. And yes, it still matters. Accommodating resistance on a a a deficit deadlift still has actually amazing lockout strength. This is what we need for him. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.