Hey everybody, it's Jason Baha here once again. It's time for my client Gusto's vlog. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. If you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, be greatly appreciated. Uh thank you so much. Let's get over to the training. Uh we pretty much have Gustaf over to a 4-day upper lower right now. For those again curious, his goals are purely aesthetic and physique. It's also to be uh natural. So essentially his goals are not necessarily to compete in anything. Although he said he might one day if he builds a big enough base, but keep in mind we've got less than two years of training experience here. So, you know, when we're doing sets of seven or whatever, you know, with uh 210 kilos, you know, that's like 240 on the on the back squat. He's not super advanced. Same thing. You know, we're doing uh you know, a little over 300 pounds. uh you know on the deadlift we're up around around 330 or so because they're trying to go from kilos into pounds. Yeah, he can do you know six, seven, eight reps with that. So again this he's not a real advanced lifter but it doesn't matter. So we keep our roots in the basics. So in his case most of our work is six plus reps. We have a lot of stuff about six to 12 reps is almost all of our training, right? We we hit about 12 reps. Usually if we're getting about 12 reps on any of these exercises, we increase weight. His big basic compounds, I like him around six to eight reps for the most part. Sometimes we go a little over. We start hitting nine reps on stuff like the flat bench, uh the weighted pull-up, the deadlift, the squat, you know, we increase weight. So, just like this week on those pull-ups, he managed to get uh nine reps with 15 kilos. So, I'm taking him to 20. So, if we look at this upper day, upper one, uh, it's pretty much flat bench, weighted pull-ups, incline, uh, laying, tricep extensions behind the head to get the long head. Um, it's a barbell curl and a lateral raise. So, again, not a lot of complexity. There's a little bit of variation on day two. You know, I rotate tricep exercises. You guys will see the dips. I threw the dips in. So, um, because his new gym doesn't really have a good deep climb bench, uh, for our purposes, uh, we're taking him over to dips, but he has dips. You'll see that later. So, again, this day after the the tricep extensions, we do barbell curls and then he does lateral raises. So, what we're looking at for most of these muscles, um, you know, we're looking at about 12 sets a week because he does barbell rows on the on the lower day. So if you look at chess, it's like all right, we have both days we have three sets of two different exercises. So it's six sets quality sets. We want to step one rep and reserve up to about failure, right? So our stuff varies. One rep and reserve, zero and reserve failure. So the curls here, for example, I want him to take on two momentary muscle failure, you know, to where he just feels like he can't do another strict rep. So right there, you look at there's some cheating. That's pretty much failure, but he's kind of pausing. Then he's cheating one more rep. And that's definitely to me that's muscle failure. Of course, he likes to try to go a little more, but now you're seeing, yeah, he's cheating and barely getting through it. So, he's done u lateral raises. Then we finish up. So, then we do the big all those big body parts, you know, we want 12 sets for chest and back, right? But then for the other stuff, we want about six sets for the smaller muscles. Why? Because they get hit. They get hit the, you know, we're doing pull-ups, rows, benching, pressing, dips. Arms are getting worked. You know, arms are getting worked, delts are getting worked, but we do want to come through and hit a little bit of extra volume. Keep in mind, he can only only have time for so much volume. So, we don't want to come in for a non-competitive drug-free lifter, be like, "No, you should be pushing to 20 sets." And we don't need that. We're shooting for about 12 sets for most of the the the big muscles and movements and then we're filling in with stuff that needs isolation with just three sets twice a week. So what do we mean for isolation there? Uh calves, biceps, triceps, you know, side delts, right? Pretty straightforward, right? First lower day we do squats, right? So here he got he got like seven reps with uh 210 kilograms. That's 242. And that's okay, you know? He doesn't have to be monstrously strong as his rep work. And he's again closing in on on almost two years in the weight room. Um I'm not expecting him to rep out 315 for 10 reps. Come on. Just not not yet. Plus, he's he's staying at a leaner body fat. He's just been slowly bulking up. So, he's one of those guys we're just pursuing lean gains. And so this is exactly exactly realistic guys for guys who have built their base in their first year to come in and to be doing stuff like this you know seven reps with um 110 kilos perfectly fine right same thing I think he's getting like about eight reps on the deadlift 145 kilo but yeah we're doing reps like that and then we start obviously taking the weight up a little bit you know so I generally want to keep for him these big movements in that that six to eight so now also have him doing good mornings leg press these are these are staples for us. Um, I worked in the Good Mornings a few weeks ago. We started working these in. Of course, you guys know I'm a big fan. Um, I've got him with a full plate and we've added some change now. So, coming up, we're going to be adding more to it, but he's able to do, you know, 10 reps with a a full plate aside. So, then we build from there. You know, long term, obviously, I'd like to see lifters who are doing things like good mornings. I'd like to see like 200 pounds for 10. You know, that's stuff we work towards over the next year or so. All right. Um, so then main other compound after the squats, we do leg press, right? So, so if you look at this, we've got a pretty good set of movements here, uh, for this. And then we sometimes are doing some leg isolation. I don't always get footage of that. Not really a big deal. I'm not that worried if we get a hamstring curl or whatever on camera because no one really cares. And I I don't do all of his footage in here anyways because I have too much stuff. It would end up being, you know, 20 minute vlogs. So like the second workouts, I just give you guys a couple clips from workout three and four in the week because just showing the differences. But the same thing on this lower body day, you know, uh we focus really on the squat, the good morning leg press, right? Those are kind of our staples. But then I do have him come in and do some rows because again, we do care about that thickness. So now we're doing bend over rows, keeping in mind he does pull-ups on the other days. And really that's enough for a good back. You do three sets of weighted pull-ups, three sets of barbell rows twice a week each, 12 total sets for those lasts, not counting the deadlifts, we're good. Same thing, we've got him doing calf raises here, right? Now that we have a calf raise machine that's decent, you know, we're just doing those standing calf raises. Um, and just like everything else, he's taken them pretty far. But we do have two leg days now because originally had him with just one leg day, but his upper body's come along well. But we do need to bring the legs up further. So, in his case, it's definitely warranted for us to do a second leg day because we want to get that squat up. We want to get those other lifts up for the rep work, build the legs up because he does want a balanced physique. All right, the second upper body. Um, I only put in some of the the footage that's a little bit useful because I'm not going to show benching and the pull-ups and stuff again. You saw where he's at on that. So, we added dips in uh this week as again we need that other work to make sure that whole chest fills out. He's got a really good range of motion. And also have him just doing body weight. Why? He's doing benching first. He's still not super strong yet. Um if we're not cranking out 10 plus reps on these, there's no point in adding weight. You know, I want to see at least three sets of 10 on something like this uh before we consider adding weight. And of course, I threw in his barbell curls again just so that people are sure we're doing arms. If some people are saying he's not doing enough arms and doing six sets of barbell curls a week on top of six sets of pull-ups, six sets of rows, this is plenty for now. His arms are not a weakling for him by the way. So this is this is more than sufficient. Like really things like chest, midback, you know, quads. This is where really where we need need, you know, quite a bit of work, right? This is where we need the work. We need to get thicker. He's got pretty decent arms for his overall weight and size. He's got a decently wide lats at this point. He's actually got a pretty good vtaper when I've seen him. Of course, here's his deadlift top set. Um, so again, it's like it's 145 kilograms, so we're doing pretty good here. And then we finish up with some barbell rows. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.