Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. Uh, and once again it is time for my client Ted's Conjugate vlog. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below. Appreciate it so much. So, we've been doing only close grip bench because that's kind of what he prefers. He doesn't like wide. And I kind of told him, "Hey, we need to work on doing some wider." Um, so that's the widest we've benched. Obviously, his bench is down there a bit weaker than close grip, but I'm going to have him do the whole variety of of grip with. So, we need to build that up over time for powerlifting meets because his bench is his weakest lift. He's got really strong shoulders, really strong triceps. You know, you guys have seen him strict press 205, right? He straight up strict presses 205. We've seen a 227 incline. So, I want to keep working, you know, his chest. So, we need to be doing a variety of bench grips and I want to build that up. Um so afterwards of course we do a wider grip floor press with the axle bar. Um this of course for max sever day. Then he's doing a clean to a log press. Right. So again um been rotating through different stuff for the overhead. But again overhead is definitely one of his fores. Right. He's very strong sumo. He's strong conventional. He's stronger sumo. Good squatter. Very good at overhead pressing. Um, so again, uh, throwing in a little bit of that log press footage for you guys to show what we're doing there. Um, so again, we do a wide variety of training. Keep in mind, he's a multiaceted athlete. Like we're just now going coming up with first powerlifting meets. We're going to compete in different sports. Um, so he's going to have a few different things he rotates through. Um, obviously recreational fighter, does a couple types of martial arts, lifelong athlete. Um, so again, his volumes are very high. His training stuff, his diversity is very high. We do conditioning. It's a high step count. I do remind people when they see what he does, um, this is the difference between being a lifelong athlete versus someone if you start working out at 21, 22, you you're simply going to be behind the curve. And I'm sorry, that's a reality. And unfortunately, um, I find even the injury rate can be higher in guys who start later. They just haven't, you've got to spend a lot of time building, um, tendons and things up. And I find this more and more uh you know the longer I coach you know you have to force them to do all the all the time building the tendons up. have to force on you. If they say, "I don't want to." Um, you have to make them because guys who don't start training till they're an adult, they just don't have the tendon uh strength. They don't have the just things that you need from a lifetime lifetime of being active, you know, right? Particularly guys who are skinny, right? Skinny, sedentary guys have no tendon strength. Okay? They have no tendon strength. They usually lack eentric control. wars and you know again guys like Ted lifelong athlete you know we just jump into um you know a lot of really serious stuff all the time but also if you guys uh I didn't get a lot of footage from from the supplemental work right we didn't get the footage from the supplemental work uh for max effort day because he didn't get any but we have some coming up for dynamic effort so normally like guys will see me stack that in there uh but we only really kind of the log press and the floor press there he does other stuff guys he um obviously does pull-ups and we do rows and all that good stuff. All right, but for max effort lower um we're keeping some of the maxes a little reeled in right now for some stuff coming up. Um so again, he didn't go crazy hard on that safety squar uh safety squat bar, box squat, which again that's obviously going to be his weakest squat by far. He squats up in the 400s, you know, something like that's going to be closer to to 350 right now and that's okay. Um, so then of course we do belt squats. Uh, we do reverse hypers, glute ham raises. Of course you saw the safety bar. Good mornings. We were doing camber bar for a while, but I've rotated over the safety bar because I want to make sure his upper back and thoracic spine, you know, gets as strong as possible. Also in here, um, I threw in a clip of his sled work because he does do sled pushing. He does he does sled backwards, he does sled forward. Um, so he pushes a prowler, then he'll drag a sled backward and stuff, too. I think that's like I think that's the same sled I have that you guys see me use. So again just showing you know again different conditioning and stuff. He does he does a fair amount of sled work. We do a fair amount of GPP. Um it is part of what he does. We want to keep conditioning obviously quite high. Um so again he's going backwards with the sled which again totally different beast and very very viable. All right. Then we have dynamic effort uh bench press day. Right. So, dynamic effort bench press. We uh obviously use bands and I have him rotating grips a little bit. So, again, speed bench um we we try to always use bands on this if we can. And I think particularly for him, someone like him is very tricep dominant. We really need those bands to decelerate it to the top, right? We really need that to again get the speed that we want. So, uh we do that and then we do his other supplemental work. Now, incline bench I used to do both days and I'm trying to keep his volumes a little more in check. He loves really high volume and I have to tell him, look, we have to we have to reel it back a little bit. You do a lot of conditioning. We do a lot of different sports specific stuff. Um, and we train hard four days a week, you know, we can't just do endless amounts of it. So, incline bench I have him do only on his dynamic day instead of another flat press after the speed bench. Uh, and you know, so we stick to just, you know, like a floor press and then an overhead. Usually on the max effort day, dynamic day, I have him do incline, though. That's where I let him keep it in. Of course, then I'll show some of his other um other stuff. We're doing uh obviously weighted pull-ups, right? And we always want to be strong at weighted pull-ups. And I tell this, I want all my guys to be strong at pull-ups. Um, it's something I I really really like to see in team blahan lifters. You guys have seen some guys with some strong ones like Doug used to do two plates for sets of five, right? Uh then I've got him doing some axle bar penlay rows. Again, building that grip. So again, grip strength is something I'm wanting to work on more and more with him. So we're throwing in the fat bar for the rows. That will build your grip, right? That will absolutely build your grip. Uh and I don't think there's a whole lot of things that will compete with it. There are things that can, but you know, it's up there near the top of the list, right? And then over here, he's doing some reverse curls with the axle bar. Um, obviously, we can't do a lot of weight on this, but uh I think he's got about 50 lbs there because I think it's a 30 lb bar, but the fact that he can even do 50 lbs on it is pretty decent all things considered. Uh, because we're able to rep it out, right? Able to rep it out. And then, of course, we have dynamic effort lower. So, we're doing uh speed boxes. Of course, he's opted out on the bands or a lot of setup. So, this session, no bands again, just straight weight. Uh so, again, this is our very most basic speed block. We rotate three different things in three-week waves. Um this is very basic, right? It's just a normal barbell. Uh we just do our six doubles, right? And then, of course, we do speed pulls. We're just doing conventional right now against bands. if he has time to set up bands. Bands are very easy to set up on a a setup like that. And then of course I didn't finish up with reverse hyperextensions. He does other stuff in between, but you know, the vlogs can only be so long. We do the same posterior chain stuff um you know that we do on the other day, but then we have we finish up with reverse hypers. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.