Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here once again. It is time for my client Ted's conjugate vlog. But a quick reminder, you guys will please click like down below. Be greatly appreciated. All right, we started off max effort with an incline bench. We got a 2 and 12 lb PR uh 227 and a half. Yeah, using those micro plates to get PRs. And you know what? That's perfectly acceptable. Take note some of my other conjugate guys who try to go for those big PRs. Sometimes they don't need to go for. Sometimes they'll go for that five or that 10 and then miss it. Sometimes it's a smart way to do it. Sometimes you just go, you know what? I'm ramping up. Feels good. I got whatever. 300 last time. Let's go for 302 and a half. It's permissible to even throw a one pound micro plate on one side. All right. Just saying. Now, for the rest of his supplemental work, we're not doing incline here. I didn't get any footage of the other speed day other than the speed bench from it, but that's okay. So, we don't have the incline rep work, but we got a max, so it's in there. Um, so for max effort, we pretty much do floor presses right now doing them with an axle bar. We do overhead press. He does pull-ups, pen, leg rows. Now, on dynamic bench day, I'm keeping the incline in. What I wanted here are those three sets of floor presses because I want to keep bringing his chest up a bit. And we're starting to experiment more with bringing the grip out. He wants to mostly uh close grip press, but I'm also like, well, if we want to bring the chest up, we do need to work a bit on some of the wider grip. So, he's messing more of it with speed work, um some of the rep exercises. So, again, we want to slowly bring some of those things out. Um we also then of course do pull-ups. All right. And I've got him doing axle bar. Those are weighted pull-ups. Of course, axle bar pin lay ropes. You guys remember when I used to do these all the time? That was way back in the day. Remember I used to do these all the time. They will build your grip. Tell you right now, anyone who's struggling with their grip on a deadlift, this will fix it. Right. Doing pin lays with the axle bar because we can use so much heavier of a weight on the pin lay with it. And so it forces us to just use that grip over and over. It's a good good tool. So again, grip training particularly because he grapples and stuff. Uh does BJJ and stuff is one of his sports. U you know, the grappling not a bad idea, right? It's a axle bar work in general. Also notice I've got him doing the floor presses with it. So remember I told you guys a lot of this stuff we were going to get more sports specific for some of that. All right. So we we do we want to get carry over to his different endeavors because he just said, you know, he may want to compete in powerlifting eventually. He just likes being athletic. He likes doing lots of sports, lifelong athlete, you know, so he does some martial arts, some boxing, looking at maybe jumping in and doing some powerlifting as we get stronger, right? So that's the idea. It's like just do sports, be athletic, have athletic hobbies because again lifelong athlete, you know, he was an an athlete in school and everything through his adolescence and high school and uh he just continued that trend. Right. So here we're doing a JM press on a machine. I know people are like, "What? Those cruisers are built." We're we just change stuff up all the time for his armwork. It's just always rotating through things. All right, we got a small PR here. uh 403 on the safety bar squat. Again, note that he goes super deep. Now, occasionally I've had people when he does these, they'll mention, "Oh, what's with that shoulder?" That's like, "You guys have never done a max squat on a safety bar." Clearly, that's what happens. That's very normal. All right. U then we're doing the Cambridge bar. Good morning. Now, I've left these in a couple of blocks. All right. And I know people are like, "How come you'll do some lifts for months or have other lifters, but your conjugate guys are always rotating stuff?" Because kanji gets a different mindset. It is a we take a different philosophy. And I think what people have to remember there's not a Jason Balaha philosophy. I run different training modalities and we use the modality that fits the the client and the lifter. Okay. So we have to understand that. And I think every coach out there who's good at what they do does that, right? We have to say, "Hey, what's the tool for this person right now? So yeah, some of my people do uh you know just basic slow almost um double progression is what I have them do for the most part is largely what we see a lot of on just basic exercises and rotate a few supplemental list to avoid overuse. Then I got a lot of my conjugate guys who were rotating stuff every week or rotating accessories every block. Um, you know, every three weeks we rotate speed work, the rotate max work every week with a different mindset. And we're also just continually chasing PRs, right? Chase PRs for three weeks on a supplemental lift, change the lift, then chase PRs on the new lift. Um, and again it's because this training system, the whole conjugate system is built around thinking in terms of PRs all the time, all the time, all the time. You know, so a lot of my guys were rotating the maxes all the time, going for even two and a half pound, 5 pounds every time they do it. Again, it's just you're always thinking PRs, PRs, PRs, and everything is speed, speed, speed. So all this power work, speed work. Um, of course I have him doing jumping and other plyometrics, right? And even a lot of the supplemental work, a lot of it we do rotate it in three-week waves or we change to a different variation and we'll just keep pushing. But because he's getting a lot out of those camber bars and I told him that you're going to for what we're doing right now, your carryover is going to be tremendous. Okay. So, we had the speed bench there um with the bands. Of course, in our dynamic right now, we're doing uh safety bar box squats for speed and then we're doing sumo deadlifts for speed work. So again, we're rotating these in three-week waves. Last wave on the deadlifts was a deficit conventionals. Uh that was a straight bar, right? So we're always rotating these in into three-week waves. And I like to have a lot of my people rotate conventional and sumo variations. Sometimes they can be different variations using different stuff. Sometimes they'll even change bars. And I think some people are like, "What?" Yeah. So So some of my people will change from a deadlift bar to a stiff bar. And as funny as that sounds, we're rotating to a different movement for that three weeks. It's to avoid acclamation. It's to avoid adaptation. So the idea with this system is you're always thinking about new, new, new, new stuff, PR, PR, every weird angle all the time. But you're always chasing numbers. That's the conjugate mindset. So it's not the same as a lot of my people who follow just basic programmings with double progressions on certain movements and things. Completely different mindset. And some of my people I do a mix of them. Okay. Some of my people I do a mix of them. But I take someone like him who does a lot of different athletic stuff. Uh does a couple of contact sports, you know, recreationally. And so we're always thinking of all these weird angles we need to be strong at every possible angle. Of course, then he finishes up here with some uh good mornings and some machine squats. Obviously, we did all his posterior chain work on these days, too. uh glute ham raises, GHRs, reverse hypers, all that stuff. So, the other thing though, he did tell me, he's like, "Coach, I'm really fatigued. I think I need a couple days off from lifting at the end of this block." And I'm like, "Yeah, take it, man. That's fine. That's normal. It's what we should generally be doing." So, he's going to take a couple days off, right? We're going to come back towards this weekend fresh, refreshed, and uh we'll start hitting some big numbers and PRs again. So, I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.