Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here once again. This time for my client Ted's vlog. Uh quick reminder, if you guys would please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment down below just to say hello or give your thoughts, I would greatly appreciate it. Uh thank you so much. So Ted is now on a 4-day conjugate rotation. Uh we started his max effort upper off with uh obviously the incline bench. Kitty got 225, which again we're happy with. Uh he's a he's a mid-200's bencher. Uh so just a little over that. So his incline and his uh overhead are very very close to that because he doesn't care a lot about the flat bench as much. Um he just wants to be strong, powerful, but he does care about his lift. So we're going to continue to bring it up. But I mean by comparison, people are like, "God, his incline's 225. We've seen him strict press 200. He just cranks out. He do cranking out weighted pull-ups to the 45." Yeah, exactly. Uh we hit a 500 deadlift recently. Uh again, he's an all-around athletic guy though. So in his case, a lot of people have noticed some of the shirtless stuff we put up like, well, he's got a good physique. But he doesn't care about physique. That's the funny thing. He just always laughed. He's like, as long as I stay in good shape and keep my cardio up and uh you know, get strong. I tend to look good no matter what. But he also was a track athlete, you know, when growing up and stuff like that. So, you know, a lot of sports, it matters, you know, and I tell that to people, you know, when it comes to lifting and and gaining muscle and other stuff, epigenetics and things matter. So, people who played a lot of sports early on are absolutely at an advantage. And I think people forget that. Um, so for a lot of his supplemental work on the max effort day, you guys see it. We do some closed grip benching, some incline work, uh, some strict pressing, some pull-ups, some triceps, right? Uh, pretty much pretty much call it there. He's doing curls later in the week. I put up a set of like some strict curls he did up against the wall. You guys will see uh on the dynamic date. Uh but yeah, I mean again very very straightforward stuff for us. And we just now are adding squatting stuff back in uh because we took it all out for a couple weeks. He pulled an inductor on a work set on squats right after hitting. He had hit a 405 squat which was you know PR. It was a deep you know full Olympic style squat. We hit it and then the next week he was doing rep work and pulled an adductor. And so that's when I told him, "Look, we got to scale back to four days of lifting this. The the amount of volumes that you want with all your other stuff and practice and other sports and martial arts and stuff you're doing, it's a lot. It's a lot. So, we need to do four. You don't need more than that. We can do a GBP day, which he does in the middle of the week with sleds and extra reverse hypers and stuff like that. Uh, so again, the lifting itself, we've got to we've got to keep that in check. And I always tell that to people. So there he was doing some tricep work. Triceps are a strong point for him. Obviously, he's got big triceps, which you guys can can see. Um, all his pressing stuff tends to be tricep dominant. It's why he's great at overhead incline and not a lot stronger at flat. Um, because we're very triceps uh, and not a lot of chest yet, but we're doing more chest work. All right, so for max effort lower, we had a 330 SSB box squat. That is one of the hardest squats you'll do. So, sometimes some people might look at that. It's only a 330. It's like it's on a low box with a safety squat bar. Um, you'll try it. Give it a try. You guys will see what I mean. You'll be like, "Oh, yeah, that is the equivalent of a 400 squat." Like, it's pretty pretty close to equivalency. Um, here we've rotated over to the SSB. Um, we've been doing couple months, several months of uh Camberbar. Good mornings. Now, I'm taking him over to the SSB. You guys know I'm a big fan of the SSB. Um, and then of course he did some reverse hypers, glued ham raises, other stuff. And then we're slowly working the quad work back in on the dynamic day, which we did this week. All right, speed benching. Um, we're running bands on everything now. Notice, yes, it's a fairly lightweight, but you guys saw me do the same. All right, you guys seen me benching up in the 300s, and I only use 135 plus bands or chains. All right, for speed benching when I was doing it for for a couple months here. Uh so speed bench, he's got 95 pounds and around approximately 50 pounds of bands. Um and I have him doing uh like 10 triples right now, right? 10 triples for the speed bench. And he had told me he's like, "Man, that the bands are really hard to get used to." I'm like, "Yes, they are. They're a different beast. Totally different beast." Um so again, anyone who's done pressing or squatting against heavy bands, he understands. Then of course he does some other tricep work. Then we do the same stuff. You know, we do some overhead pressing and we do pull-ups and all that good stuff in here, right? Do do some seal rows and things too throughout the week. So, because the vlogs, I don't want these vlogs super long. You guys, we're just seeing kind of the highlights like what are the highlights when we're doing the max work, the speed work. I'm showing some of the accessories so you guys have an idea of what he does. But yeah, we do triceps, triceps, triceps, triceps. Uh because he does do some martial arts and stuff too, some boxing and BJJ. And so again, triceps are a good thing. Uh it's one thing I always tell a lot of my my clients who box, for example, like, dude, I love incline bench, and I love tricep work for them. All right. All right. So, here he is doing some strict curls, and we don't do a lot of curls. He doesn't need them. You know, five, six sets of curls a week the most, and he's good. You know, he does a lot of chin-ups, a lot of pull-ups. Um triceps are again obviously a dominant body part for him. So again, doing some strict curls. Uh again, he's got good arms. Like again, right, he's got good arms. So again, this is not a weak link for us. Got to keep bringing that chest up, though, too. Uh but again, just he just changes this stuff up a lot. Kind of like I do, you know? It's like for me these days, I just push the curls hard. Have days I just feel like doing different types of curls. And I don't think there's anything wrong with that for isolation stuff, guys. As long as it's good exercises taken to a good range of motion, you're getting them real close to failure and some general uh progress in there, we're good. All right, dynamic effort day. Uh here he's doing some speed pulls. Um again, noting and I want people to note, we train everything for strength and performance, but he's still got a good physique. And I think this is a reminder of what I tell guys. I know you're not going to have perfect bodybuilder proportions, but if you were caught diesel strong and then you get your conditioning on point and you get lean, like you're going to have a good physique. You're going to have a good physique. May not be winning bodybuilding shows with proportions, but you're going to look stacked. That's exactly what you see. I think especially with a triceps, you know, in a t-shirt, it matters. So, we did speed pulls. Um, then of course th there's some extra try. I threw this back in the clip when I was putting it in the rotation. It got mixed out of the thing because I'm like, he's did some other tricep stuff here. Um, so again, these these are like the equivalent of kickback. So that cross cable like that actually hits hits the long head really well into like a shortened position. All right, so dips actually do the same thing. By the way, long head can be gotten into a shortened position. It's just only a few exercises do it. Dips do it. This sort of kickback type uh movement will do it. Of course, then we have his his speed poles in here. Uh we s we had the speed poles and I have his speed squats. So, he's having a little trouble with the setup on the chains. I told him, man, you got to get a longer lead chain here. Still, we're still getting some accommodation here, though. So, I mean, it'll count, but you guys will notice that the chains are off the floor still. Um, and so for me personally, when I have chains of that length, I like to run them into thirds. Notice mine are in thirds. So, I've got six foot lengths of chain that are cut into thirds. So they're they're two feet long each with more lead chain. So he's going to have to look around the gym and see if they've got some different leads. Uh so we can get that dialed in just a little bit better. But we still got the equivalent effect. We got the power, got the speed. There is some contrast weight with that. So we'll still take it. And then of course he did all his normal stuff. We did some belt squats. Uh we do some reverse hypers, some glute ham raises, good mornings, all that good stuff afterwards. Again, a lot of posterior chain but some squat pattern movements there. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.