Hey everybody, it's Jason Plaha here once again. It is time for my client Gusto's vlog. And for a quick reminder, if you guys would please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to uh drop a comment down below, I'd greatly appreciate it. So, Gustaf, for those who've been following uh the series, intermediate lifter, um he's really only interested in physique um and pretty much natural bodybuilding, not necessarily competitively. Uh, but he's one of the guys who's like, "Look, I just want to get as as good of a physique and put on as much muscle as I can drug-free." Uh, you know, he's he's actually my currently my youngest client at 20 years old. Uh, youngest client I have on the roster. Um, he works hard though, you know. So, again, we won't hold the age against him here because actually he trains uh pretty hard and with really strict form overall for his age. Like I don't get I don't get many younger clients uh like this who who are actually willing to do everything with really strict form. Notice he does pull-ups from a dead hang. He doesn't doesn't swing. Us do all this stuff clean. Right? So again something he does, but it's also because he doesn't doesn't care about eagle lifting because he's like I'm not here to move weight because I just want to build muscle. Uh so this week normally we would have a barbell incline here. So, we we do a four day upper lower right now. Uh having to do three sets of bench, then three sets of pull-ups. Normally, we would be doing a barbell incline, but he had said um I had to do the dumbbells. The incline bench was in use. Uh I didn't want to pester the people, and I needed to get my workout done. So, I just grabbed the dumbbells. He's like, but we were in the rep range that we wanted. I usually want these up in about something like this about uh you know, 9 10 up to about 12 reps, you know, which is kind of right where we landed. he picked the right dumbbells based on his normal incline. Um, I might like to see his elbows a little more tucked here on those, but that's okay. He doesn't normally do this exercise. So, usually after that, of course, then we go to a laying extension and I'm not changing his his upper body workouts as much. I've started streamlining them to where I don't necessarily do a lot of different work on the two different days. We just have a handful of lifts we really push. Um, you know, I let him do some press downs and stuff though. So, I'll we'll do press downs some days on the instead of these laying extensions some of those days, but otherwise it's the same. So, and I'll sometimes I'll have him do decline work for the second chest, but otherwise it's the same stuff. It's bench press, pull-up, we want to progress on those for reps, right? We want to progress on those for reps. And then, um, I'm putting the rows on his his lower date because again, it works better for him. he does run out of steam a little bit on the upper days because we do have a decent amount of volume. Uh doing, you know, three three sets for every muscle and then six sets for chest on these days, you know, it's a lot. And and again, when we say three sets, we do mean like I'm adding the curls, we're adding laterals, we're adding triceps, you know, on top of all the compounds, right? Whereas in the chest is of course getting getting six. So really, if you start counting splash over, it's actually a lot more than three sets. really is like six because again uh you know pull-ups do hit delts, bench and incline do hit delts and so on but we do those we do laterals uh we do strict barbell curls right so it's very straightforward so our real focus most of this time is going to be uh bench press incline bench pull-up uh two different tricep exercises we do rotate those just to be easier on his elbows uh straight barbell curls lateral raises now his lower days I do have them split up we have a squat dominant day and then a deadlift day and everything is identical. So, for the squat day, I do have him doing um doing these, but he's right around the five rep range. So, that's kind of where I want him. I want him at about five to six, and then we will increase weight from there. Um because, again, he runs out of fatigue, but I still want him back squatting. Uh and eventually, I'm going to build his stamina to where I make him do three sets of back squats. It's pretty much what coach does, guys. Come on. So, I do three sets of squats and then belt squats all the time. It's rout routine for me these days. But again, he does run out of steam, so over time, I'm going to want to build him back up. But now that we're doing two leg days, I can I can work that in over time. So, usually we start with a squat or the deadlift, and then we go over to a good morning. We go to a leg press. Um, you know, then we have some other minor isolation work in there. I don't always put all that in. I had someone say, "You should have him start doing calves." No, we do calves. He does three sets of calves both days. Um again, but I don't want the vlog to be over really long. But the good mornings we're now progressing on. So I started in really light. Now I'm adding adding weight every single week because again I like to take people to set to 20s. Now I don't like the leg press or the machines that we have here because he struggles to get depth on it. Like he actually a lot of times hits the bottom of the machine. He is changing gyms. Um I believe this coming month. is going over to a much better gym, more of a strength oriented gym, more serious gym, in which case we're going to have access to really good leg presses and stuff. And I think that's going to help him a lot because that ability to have different machines where you can get really deep really helps a lot with legs because notice on this uh he just he doesn't hit depth and a lot of times he hits the bottom of the machine and that's that's what we get. But we work with what we have. We work with what we have. Um, I mean, I could always have him step over and do some lunges or step-ups, but I know we're changing gyms. We'll just stick to a leg press. And then, of course, now I'm having him, we've added in barbell rows. He wasn't able to handle rows before. We were having a a case where he was, he was literally vomiting, but now he's able to handle them better. He's like, I feel like I'm more conditioned with it. Um, I'm not doing all the pull-ups first. He really felt like like the pull-ups beforehand were just um exhausting him to the point where it was making him nauseated. So, and that's why I took them out previously. As I had explained, he was throwing up. And if we have a lifter who's trying to make lean gains in muscle and we're vomiting during during workouts on rows, this is not working. But now he's he's able to handle them a little better. So, we worked them in this week. Everything went really well with them. He's like, I didn't get the same nausea. So, again, some stuff we just build up over time. We figure out where to put it in workouts and we make it flow. His physique results have been really good. But I know he's all covered up here and he's not comfortable with any sort of a public uh update yet, you know, but eventually we'll probably do one. But um as a coach, I've been really really happy with his progress. I think I think people would be really surprised what he looks at what he looks like. Um the vtaper and everything is is really actually quite good. And I notice you you guys can't see it quite as well here, but I see it when I've seen the update photos. So we're in a good place there. Really, I just need him thicker, right? His back is really wide, but we do need the thickness, which is why we do rows, we do deadlifts. Now, he got a deadlift PR here, so I'm increasing the weight. Uh, so this works, which is 145 kg. He got eight reps, right? He got eight reps. So, I'm like, okay, we take this up. So, he's probably at this point, he's at a four plate deadlift finally, you know, for a max. But in his case, we talked about it. Uh, we don't care about maxes, we just care about proxies to maxes, you know, we just care about, are we close? Just like, you know, if you can do eight reps with four plates, you can pull five plates. Like if you just spend just a little time peeking up to it. So in his case, we just use proxies for one rep maxes because he doesn't directly care about them. He's just trying to build muscle. He's like, I just I just want to be as jacked and as fit and look as good as I can, you know, just training um as a as a drug-free guy. He's like, I just want a good physique and I want I want to be big. So that's what we do. We just work on getting home big. So then obviously after the deadlifts, we do the same sort of stuff, the good mornings, leg presses, all that. And we'll finish up with the barbell rows at the end. Uh which again, I think works decently well on a leg day like this for for a a lifter of this experience. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.