Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it is time for my client Alex's uh training vlog. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. Thank you. So, let's get over into this. So, with Alex, he's been doing I've had him doing a push pull legs three days a week, but um he saw some of the full body stuff I'm putting out. Watches he watches all my content, of course, or a lot of it. And he listened to what I said on he's like, "Hey, I mean, I see what you're saying with the full body for being really good for some people scheduling. I feel like this would really work well for me. Uh can we do this, right? Can we do this?" And I told him, "Yeah, of course we can." Um, so, uh, again, we decided, uh, to do that and so, uh, I have him on an A and B template pretty much. So, if you guys notice, uh, workout A here, we do squats, we do bench press, pull-ups, and then barbell curls. Now, as I've said to a lot of people, um, we can you can throw an isolation in somewhere on a full body. Um, it works just fine. You know, again, if you have something you really want to work on, and you know, his case, we've always decided to do biceps. biceps are probably his best muscle group overall. Um, he's in t-shirts a lot doing stuff. So, just keeping that little bit of biceps, something we just decided to do. Now, I could always take that out later if we feel I can say, you know, it's not that big of a deal. Uh, because you guys kind of know what I've said these days. I honestly feel like lots of pressing and pull-ups really can uh really can build most guys arms the way that they want. And we're not talking about competitive bodybuilder arms, but to have arms that are going to look good to the average person, but you know, still we've chosen to keep it in. So, we pretty much have four exercises for uh three sets each on the template A. So, it's back squat and you know, the squats and the bench depending upon what we're doing anywhere from four up to about eight reps on stuff like that. Some of his stuff we're going higher obviously um but you know, for the most part, most of his training is is about the four to eight rep range. All right. Uh, and some of it can go as low as threes, like it's deadlifted here. So, again, we do that. Then we do weighted pull-ups, and we get up to about eight reps uh, there on the weighted pull-ups for the best sets. And then curls are obviously going to be higher rep. You know, we're usually around that 10 rep range. All right. So, for workout B, I only do one set of deadlifts, right? But then we do reverse hypers at the end, which you guys will see coming up. So, on the deadlift, I've got 385 here. He did a triple. Uh, keeping in mind he's pulled 440 as an allout uh PR. We've done that on camera here because I've been coaching him few years at this point. Gosh, coming up three years. So again, but we've done good, you know, 405 squat. So the bench though always been a little bit of a weakling, but it's coming up. And yes, he can bench more than 225. I think I think our best bench has bet around 250 when we've tested it. So again, chest chest is a weak link for him. bench is a weak link for him. So, it's why we do some of the other stuff we do. So, I've got I had him get an incline bench a while back. So, for workout B, now this is looking a lot like KP people who used to watch old school like when I was training like at Iron City before I built any of this home gym stuff that I have now. um you know some of the the vlogs I used to do there because I didn't document every workout back then but you know at least about once a week I I document a workout you know a lot of my workouts for full body were looking like that it's like uh you know be deadlifts incline pull-ups and then you know some sort of overhead press and that's literally what we're doing for him just having him do do an overhead press a little bit of knee bend and I don't care like again we're not doing a strict press event And as much as I I think the strict press can be a good lift, I don't care if we have a little tiny little bit of leg drive and some bent knee. I used to do little push presses very similar to that with a little little more dipping. Um but you know, I really like on a lot of full body finishing with a with an overhead press. Now some of my guys treat it earlier in like uh uh one of my guys we do deadlift then we just go straight to overhead press and he benches every other but again uh needs needs of the individual lifter. So, in his case though, I don't necessarily want him benching three times a week. Um, not everyone's built for that, you know, once they're they're past the novice phase. Yes, I do it, but I don't think I don't think everyone needs to, you know, but I could always change that myself, right? I could always change and go over to incline in that slot personally every other workout. I'd be fine. Uh, you know, so again, in individual needs with what you're doing. So, um, in fact, I've considered doing stuff like that myself. All right, but back over to back over to my client. Um, so we do that and we do an overhead press for three sets and then we finish up with reverse hypers. Now, I have him doing uh reverse hypers are being done uh how do how do I put it? Up to five sets. So, I have him listed as five sets. And so what I have him do, because we've already deadlifted that session, he has a reverse hyper. On that day, I usually have him uh do as many sets as he has time for up to five. He only got time for one set. He keeps it loaded over there. He cranks out a set and gets out. It's what he's pretty much have written for him. But ideally, if he has the time, I'd like him to get all five sets in, right? Again, assuming he has the time for it. All right. And if he does, then hey, great. We get in and get that done. But um workout B then of course we come back over uh sorry workout A getting a little tongue guide here. We get to workout A. And what do I have him do? Well, very straightforward. So for workout A, we uh do squat again. We do bench press. We do pull-ups. And then we do curls. Okay. Uh so with the squatting right now uh because again now I'm having to do it multiple times a week. I did notice uh we're not getting quite as the reps we were getting before we were getting like five five and then six or six five and five. I think we got like four or five or six on this one of these workouts. I need to go back and check the sheet. But we do do with a with a little bit of fatigue. He's had a few cases of getting viruses, colds that have kind of knocked us back on training just a little bit. Um, so again, the the joys of being a dad as he notes, uh, but also, you know, because again, he's got a very busy life. That's why this sort of training works great for Alex. He has a busy life. You know, he's a dad. He's in his late 30s. Uh, full-time busy career. He's got a band. He does gigs, you know. So, he's got a very, very full life career. wife, kids, uh, band, you know, squeezing in what we can to train is we we squeeze in what we can to train. But yet he has what, you know, when I put some shirtless stuff up stuff, a lot of women have said, "Hey, that's like the ideal dad bot." You know, he got a lot of compliments from from ladies when we put pictures up on my different stuff. So again, I would say to a lot of guys, I mean, if if you're going to get in and just consistently work, I mean, three days a week for an hour. All right, which is pretty much what we do. It can get most guys pretty much where they want to be to where, you know, walking down the street, everyone knows you live. You're in shape. People think you have pretty good body. You know, we're not talking about being a pro bodybuilder, but again, people who just want, you know, the best body in the circle, friends, in the room, at their at their company, this can easily do it.