Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha strength and fitness. And once again, it is time for my client Ted's conjugate training vlog. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, greatly appreciate it. So, we started off with an overhead press and a little lower than his last PR. He managed to get 195 for a max. He's like, "Yeah, that's pretty much all I had, coach." Uh, so he called it there. Keeping in mind, we PR several times since I've had him. He got all the way up to 205 at one point. Um, he's been uh fairly aggressively bulking here to kind of come up for the weight classes and powerlifting. So, let me be clear on that. That is something he wanted to do for weight classes. I have not necessarily um advised him to bulk at that rate, but he's also wanting to be in a certain weight class and fill it out. And pretty much we're at a point where I told him we should probably definitely stop gaining weight here and he can recmp from this point. Um, the interesting thing though, even though he's gained significant body weight and some body fat, if you guys saw in the updated pictures, he still has visible abs. So, again, I I think there's a point to be made for um even even for the guys who do bulk, there's don't want to bulk to the point to where you're actually sloppy fat. Um, you know, so in his case, he still has a visible six-pack. It's not a great six-pack, but he still has visible six-pack, you know, in the updated photos. And of course, he knows how to get really really lean quite easily. Um he's one of those where uh to gain weight or even sometimes to maintain a lot of times he's got to he's got to work pretty hard at it, you know, in terms of intake. So for our max effort day though, afterwards we did back off pause bench work. We did overhead press, we did shins, and then here he is doing uh some some standing tricep extensions. Um now again, this is one that he's chosen to work in. I had skull crushers in here, but that's okay. I don't mind him experimenting around a little with arm work. I give him a lot of freedom to work with on arm work and we rotate tricep exercises. Biceps I just let him program his own stuff. He has great arms, great biceps and they don't really affect our strength training. So I let him do you know what he wants there. It's where I give him definitely freedom to work with. Um then for max effort lower uh we did sumo deadlift and then here he is doing a little bit of of rep work for back off afterwards of just 405. Um so again he ended up doing a 515 for a max there. I believe it was 515 now. We've hit 530 before. So again he's just kind of truckling along with this. I feel like we have had a decent amount of fatigue on some stuff though after um he did have an adductor strain. We've been talking a lot about keeping his volumes reasonable because keep in mind he does a fair amount of training volume. He also does multiple days of GPP sometimes per week, very high step count. Um, so, so again, overall activity levels high, but I want people to keep in mind he's a lifelong athlete, former like track and field athlete when younger. So, uh, his conditioning level tends to be really high. His work capacity is very high. So, we give a lot more leeway on volumes. But again, this is something I say as a coach a lot of times. Um, as a coach, we reel lifters back in. Um, for me, as someone who coaches a lot of people who are athletes, serious athletes, I find more than anything with this demographic, I'm usually pulling them back. I'm like pulling them back five or 10% from where they want to be because they'll overreach, right? It's a totally different mindset from a lot of times your average person who needs motivation. They need accountability. Um, no. For the the clients like this, a lot of times a lot of coaches learn this. For your athletes, you're usually reeling them back in. They want to add other stuff. They want to do way more stuff than you prescribe them. And so, we're usually tell them, "Hey, no, we got to pull this uh back in. We got to keep this at a reasonable level. No, we don't we don't need to do this, right? Let's let's keep everything um, you know, down to a reasonable level. Let's back it down a notch because they'll overtrain. and they'll overreach. They'll get hurt. Um, so then for other assistance work, he did good mornings. We do glute ham raises, reverse hypers. I didn't put the reverse hypers in here. I do have him doing um machine squats, like on a hack squat machine once a week in here. I don't I don't think we got footage this week, uh, but I do have him doing it once a week, although he did send me a lot of um footage of his GPP, so I may put some of that up as separate shorts and reels. Um then as far as the dynamic effort uh upper day goes, we do speed bench and I I put a couple different grips. I have him do three sets wide, three sets medium, three sets close. So here he is doing his wider, which is going to be pinkies on the rings. Then he does a medium, then we do uh close grip, which going to be right by the smooth. So there we go. Pinkies on the rings. And then here is his other extreme of it. So I usually have him start wide and then work his way in over the course of sets. So every three sets we bring it in a few inches. Um, so if you noticed, uh, the the other one was right at the rings. This is right at the smooths. And then, of course, his medium grip is, of course, right in the middle. Now, that's as wide as we bench for him. He's not used to really wide benching. And I don't have many of my guys bench as wide as I do. A lot of people will notice. I bench real wide. Don't always do that for my clients. All right. So, instead of overhead pressing, usually on this day, it's where I work his incline in. So, after speed benching, we usually incline. Um, then you'll notice he's got his he's got weighted chins. We've got barbell rows in here. And then he's got curls. So you'll notice he does two different types of curls on this day. Um and I let him again just program whatever he wants for curls. U because again we're not bodybuilding and he just he does what he wants to do for his arms. I'm not overly concerned with it from a powerlifting perspective because we've got chins and he's like I want to see if I can blow my biceps up more coach since I've been gaining weight and and everything. So, we've been doing chins and then he's doing straight bar curls afterwards. So, he does that and then he did some hammer curls this week, which I I put footage up of that because I mean, I've had people say, "Hey, he's got good arms. You know, what's he do for arms?" And it's like what I want people to note um I want people to note he doesn't do anything specific for arms. He just does lots of sets to failure of different types. He works in a few sets of curls every upper body workout of whatever he feels like doing and he he changes it all the time. And that's I think a point that needs to be stated when it comes to isolation work. You can't really train isolation per se. Just get in and do hard sets. Your big movements you can you can program you can look at all that stuff. Isolation work, you're just isolating a muscle as long as stuff's going to failure. The the only progressive overload is going to come from when you're able to, right? You don't really program it. You just do reps as you're able to. As long as you're going to failure, you're stimulating all you can. But in this case, he's doing like some cheek curls here with a straight bar. Um, then you'll see him doing some hammer curls. Um, but he changes it all the time and yet he still gets good bicep development. And that's kind of the point I think with isolation work. I think people overthink that a little bit. Uh, as if as if you can really program it and you really can't. Um, just do isolation work to failure, right? If you feel that you need to isolate a muscle, but he changes it all the time. Probably helps prevent overuse, right? It's not about shocking the body. It can be a case of just lower chance of overuse. Uh but he just changes it and does whatever he wants for girls. And I think I think that's an interesting thing for people to think about. Um but let's come back over then to the the lower body. So then dynamic effort lower same accessories as as um the max effort day, but we've got speed boxes here, right? So we've got speed boxes, just normal speed boxes here on a box swap with a straight bar. And then we've got our speed pulls. Um, there's a conventional pull, which I'm I'm gonna rotate him back over to sumo soon, right? We're gonna rotate to sumo soon, but I wanted to make sure his inductor's good before we do that. So, we have speed boxes and speed poles. Uh, all right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.