Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here once again. It's time for my client Alex's vlog with a quick reminder. If you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciate it. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that so much. So, let's get over uh to Alex's training. So, um Alex, because of again his schedule, workload life right now, we've been doing for a while now, just a three-day pushpull legs, right? So the whole point behind this is again getting the most bang for his buck. So for him we focus on about six total sets of muscle group. Um of course he's cutting. Of course he had just told me, "Yeah, man. I had a whole unfortunate week with the family. Kind of messed my diet up, but um he's already dropped all that back off. So again, he's going to go ahead and cut. We built a pretty good amount of muscle. I mean he squats 405. We deadlift, you know, like 445 or so, you know. So overall, um, he's he's gained a pretty good amount of muscle and strength. Um, he's always just we've done a get bad dad bod to daddy transformation. We put some shirtless stuff up. Um, and he's overall been fairly happy. Um, and a lot of people when I've put up his stuff for people who are not serious hardcore fitness people like on say my Facebook and stuff, a lot of people are like, "Yeah, no, he looks good." You know, was also interesting, um, you know, with some of this was when I put up his before and after. I had some of the the stronger guys, guys, strengthbased over in my my, uh, YouTube had said, "Well, he looks better in the before." I'm like, "But they only said that cuz he had more body fat." They didn't realize. And I'm like, "But he's three pounds heavier in the right." Even though he was leaner, he was three lbs heavier. and we put 100 pounds on the squat and deadlift. So, it's just strange how how some people have these viewpoints, you know, we have such a divergent perspective, you know, like if you're not shredded, many fitness people are like, "Oh, you're not you're not in shape if you only have the outline of abs." Even though to the normal person, you're super lean, you know. And by that same token, you go to some of the strength guys who who want to see bulkier that you can literally have a client who recmps and gains muscle and puts a 100 pounds on their squat and deadlift and they'll literally say stuff like that only because they're associating a little more fluff with being bigger and stronger. And that's that's not always the case, right? That isn't always the case. Um that's not how it works. And so, you know, it's funny in this case, uh, because of that, because of that, uh, we we've kind of got to laugh about it, but he's going to go ahead and he's cutting. We're just going to slow cut. He wants to trim down a little. And so, we're going to do that. But if we look at the training itself, uh, what is it that we have? What are we doing here? Um, we have, uh, for the push day, um, we change stuff up a little bit. People will notice we do change exercises a little. His basic stuff stays the same. We're always going to do squat, bench, deadlift, pull-up, right? Always going to do that. But I do rotate through a lot of his supplemental stuff over time, even when we're only doing lower volumes. 45minute workouts three days a week. So, obviously the chest day, we do bench press. And I've taken the top sets out. I just haven't do sets across. I'm like, let's just focus on on muscle here. We don't have to necessarily have a really heavy top set. We can work on your back's bench later as long as we have muscle, right? Just gain muscle. Um, so three sets of flat bench, we do three sets of incline bench, then we do three sets of dumbbell presses. So in his case, his chest does get priority. You know, it's the only muscle group I'm really saying, hey, let's do like u let's do nine sets for, right? And it's because for him, he's always felt like it was a weak link. He wants a bigger chest. It tends to hold back his bench because his arms are pretty good for his strength. Uh it's always been, you know, a weak link for him. So I'm like, let's let's double down on it a little more. um you know instead of instead of so much shoulder work he likes the overhead press like let's just replace it with more more chest work. So we're doing that and then he does dumbbell extensions. Um then of course on the um the pull day we do just a heavy single on the deadlift and that's been enough. You know, we came in and hit a deadlift PR like like a 440 or when we had done it. That been like a small PR for him and we just pull moderately heavy singles and I occasionally ramp them up a little heavier and go for a PR here and there when I know he's going to be able to easily do it, right? And we only do a single on the deadlift. And then we do weighted pull-ups. Uh we're doing dumbbell rows and stuff now. I've got him doing u barbell rows. Uh we rotate through stuff like laterals and upright rows. So then I have him doing laterals and then he finishes up with with three sets of of barbell curls, right? And that is a standard kind of a standard pull day for us. But notice it's about four exercises, right? Other than our deadlift single, we we usually do, you know, right around four exercises, three sets of four exercises. So we get 12 work sets in done three times a week. And for the average person, that's enough. You know, if the average person's just trying to get some muscle, they're trying to get a strength base, they're trying to be well-rounded, you can you can pretty much get everything done there, right? And you're still going to look better than than 99% of the people walking around out there. You're going to easily be in the top 1% if you do that for a few years. Um, so then for the lower day, of course, we do uh barbell back squats. Um, he does his work sets right now at 3:15. Um, again, he does, as you guys will notice there, and we do three sets of good mornings. He's very strong at those. So, posterior change really good, but that's what we want. Um, I always say that to a lot of dudes. A lot of dudes don't seem to always think about that. My my people, I make them think about it. Look, you want bad body, you want to keep the wife happy, you want to be strong, you want to be able-bodied, you know, be able to do stuff, do manly stuff, be athletic enough, you got to train that posterior chain. And so I make all these guys push that hard. So in his case it's um good mornings and he's good at them. He does sets of 10 with 300 plus pounds, right, with the barbell. So we put we've put a lot of work in there, right? Keeping that posterior chain strong. Then of course he does need some extra extra quad work because three sets of squats is not really going to give everything. I'd like some extra stuff since we don't have any other machines or anything. We just do right now we do lunges. Um, I could have him do split squats, but he'd hate me, which would be for a lot of people my my go-to there who have just a setup like this. We might do split squats. And I might rotate him over to some just to change stuff up a little bit, but his squats are still pretty strong. Quads are good. I'm not that worried about it. Then, of course, we finish up with the reverse hyperextension. And all of you know how I feel about this movement, right? The reverse hyper. I get any of my clients with a home gym, especially a garage gym, I always want them to buy one. I want him to have access to one even if it's it's the scout hyper some dude. In his case he bought the Titan economy one which these days I think is running like 500. I originally got it for like 420 or something and then gave it away as a gift when I got my Rogue one. I gave it to a friend of mine. Um but uh the point is the reverse hyper brings so much to the table. I think especially the older lifter like guys I tell guys you get 35 plus you get 40 you really and truly need the reverse hyper like you you have to have one it shouldn't be something to where you say hey this is optional uh you know I can I can get away with not having this no you really you really can't you're going to regret not having it even if you don't use it forever doing some quite you know some time of base building on it is going to strengthen that lumbar area up it's going to really give you prehab work it's going to build the tendons, connective tissue, blood flow to your low back in addition to actually building your glutes and erectors, right? It's just to me not an optional exercise. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.