Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here once again. It's time for my client Ted's conjugate training vlog. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated if you're not subscribed or following, please do so. If you guys will drop me a comment letting me know what you think about what we picked for Max effort lifts and everything this week and for the speed work, I greatly appreciate that. So, we started off on Max effort upper with uh axle bar floor press. Now, he does everything closed grip mainly because he's stronger with it. has strong triceps. We just run with it. And in the physique updates, a lot of people were surprised. They're like, "Wow, his chest has gotten actually considerably bigger." Um, and it has, even with all the closed grip work, because we do tons and tons of it. We do a lot of of of incline work. We do a lot of flat benching and then all the speed benching. Like, it's actually accumulated a lot. But he's always going to be tricep dominant with what he does. So, here this week, we did close grip benching after the the max. We only do one set of that. I'm about to change him over to floor pressing for 30 sets and then pull the incline out of the max effort day. Um, so because again we overhead press both days and he's very shoulder and tricep dominant. But again, we see that when you guys have seen the Sherless physique updates. I mean he has a strict press of 205 right now. So on that day again we do incline uh we do overhead press and we push those really really hard. I mean he also has an incline of 225. Keeping in mind he's walking around about 185, 186 right now. Very lean, drug-free guy. So again, notice those triceps though, right? We got triceps for days, right? Triceps for days. Then we do weighted chins. Uh we do various bicep work, axle bar rows. So again, his volumes are very very high. So when people are looking like, "Wow, this is a lot of work." But I want people to keep in mind he does a lot of of uh martial arts and conditioning work. He used to be like a track and field type athlete, an endurance athlete when he was younger, right? So, he's been an athlete since, you know, his early teens and like a serious competitive athlete. Um, so in that case, and I think people have to remember that for your lifters and four-year athletes who are lifelong athletes, they thrive in these high volume environments, particularly for performance. And and it's a lot of people notice that. They're like, "How come I have other people like I flounder with a half of this type of volume?" And you have other clients literally doing six to eight sets a week, you know, for muscle groups. And then you got guys like this who are just hammering the volume. You've had a few others like that. But we need to be clear. Every one of them have have been multiddisciplined competitive athletes who started when they were like 12, 13, 14 years old in actual sports. Okay? And I hate to have to be the bearer of bad news to people, but that makes a big big difference in terms of their work capacity and conditioning. So, you know, again, we see him doing all that. We saw the incline extensions here. He's doing strict axle bar curls right up against the wall. And notice he always has good arm development, right? He's probably his best best features are his biceps and triceps, even though, you know, ironically, he's he's not a physique guy, you know, but he still trains arms. And I think that's the main takeaway. You take an athlete and you train them for absolute maximum performance all the time. Have them do curls and stay lean and they're going to have a really good physique. And he does. So here we are with like a 415 uh camber bar squat, right? So again, this is this is PR. Like this is the most we've hit on a squat. We're at like 410 on a back squat, but he's tried that with the SSB or with the camber bar. his first time really taking that to a max like that and look what we got. So then afterwards we do a variety of supplemental work. We do machine squats, we do glute ham raises, we do good mornings, we do reverse hyperextensions. I now have him working with 225 for sets of 10 on those good mornings. I'm about to step him up to 230 next sheet. I just send him the sheet. Um so again, I'm going to keep him um keep him flowing on some of that. So again, uh, I want to keep pushing that cambered bar, good morning, up a little bit higher, and then I'm going to rotate him over to something else. I'm going to rotate him back to like an SSB or some other stuff. So again, rotating these movements around, keeping him really strong at good mornings because for him, that's that's where our limit is right now. If we can get those hamstrings, we get that low back stronger, we're going to keep hitting big squats and deadlifts. Um, again, quads and stuff are not his weak link there. Especially you look at his his pulling and stuff. Notice even his sumo is stronger than his conventional. So, I want to keep building those erectors, keep building those hamstrings for him. That's really what he needs. So, we double down on that. So, if you look at these days, it's like we do we do good mornings, have him do glute ham raises, and then I have him finish with uh, you know, reverse hypers in there. Have him finish with reverse hypers. So, and then up here we'll see the glued ham braids. I can only fit so much stuff into these. I keep these vlogs about 8 8 n minutes. Obviously, if I took every bit of footage that we have from him, I kind of pick and choose what I want to put in here so that we just keep the general idea of what he does for the training. If I put every bit of footage, these would be like 15, 20 minutes. But, but we don't need all that. We just need kind of the highlights. And he gives me enough footage though that I can kind of go through and pick uh what we want to work with here. But again, we always double down on all that posterior chain work. I I destroy his hamstrings, right? And I have to because that is what he needs to get stronger. So for him, again, we we hammer him into the ground. As long as he recovers and he's not cramping, um I'm good with that. So again, hamstring, hamstring, hamstring, hamstring. And we do a lot of the wider stance stuff, too. So I have him rotate in sumo pulls for speed in different phases. I threw the incline in here another set uh from later in the week right before with the speed bench because this is a really good camera angle. I think it really shows, you know, even even with a shirt on. Um he's he's getting pretty dang stacked at this point, right? He's getting pretty stacked. Uh so again, we're happy with that. Very happy with that. Uh so again, good strong sets. Then for finish up the week, um I'm not going to show all the supplemental work behind this. We have speed bench, dynamic bench done with the bands. He's struggling a little bit here. He's got the bands a little bit tight there. Um, so a little bit a little bit heavy. I might have to tell him we need to reduce that weight. Possibly just a hair because I think he overshot his band tension in terms of how much weight is there because he he did not get the speed I want because of the sheer ridiculous amount of band involved there. So again, he may need to readjust those this coming week. He'll see this vlog and then see it. Um, speed squats. Again, we got bands set up here. Safety squat bar for uh box squats. SSB with with bands for speed squats. And all his speed works done 30 seconds apart. For those curious, we run about 50% of our maxes. And if we do bands or chains, we want their average tension curve when combined with the bar to be 50%. And that's that's what I like. Um, that's usually what I use what I use for helm. And then we also then finished up with uh sumo speed pulls right against bands. So again how we finished the week up for him. So we're doing a wave of that. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.