Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and once again it is time for my client Ted's uh vlog. So we're doing conjugate now. So we're just going to call it conjugate training vlog. He and I talk about it. That's the direction he wants to go. It's just the way uh the vlogs are being presented. So that's what I would like to do. Um I'm not necessarily going to put uh his his sheet up because you guys get an idea the flow of everything. You guys know what my conjugate trainings look like. Um and so I'll just kind of show a lot of his supplemental lifts, the lifts we pick. You guys can see the numbers he's hitting. Um, so for max effort upper, we hit a floor press for a max. Then he did work sets a closed grip bench. Now his volumes are high. I I do want to admit out of my clients right now, he probably has the highest training volumes. I have another client who has close to these volumes. Uh, but but again, most of them do not. Uh, in his case though, he's a very very conditioned athlete who does multiple things. So again, we do a lot of volume. So yes, I do have three different types of supplemental presses on his max effort uh upper day. So we also have chin-ups in there. So if you guys will notice, we we do uh closed grip bench, we do closed grip incline, he does overhead press. Uh we usually do some sort of extensions in there. And then I also have chin-ups in there, right? We've got him doing some weighted chins. We also occasionally throw in a little bit of extra upper back work, some rear delts, some some other stuff. Um, but I don't need to film all that. These vlogs are going to get real long because of his volumes otherwise. So, what we're going to do, you guys are just going to kind of see what he does for supplemental work. Um, how we make it work. Now, obviously, his benching strength is weakest out of all his lifts because you guys have seen kind of what he lifts. But even then, um, 235 floor press will take it. He does everything close grip. Uh, his overhead press though, he hit a 200 press though, he cares a lot more about overhead pressing, but I do point out we do need to be strong on the chest stuff. We do need to work this stuff. So we absolutely do keep it as an important part of the training. Okay. But he's functional. So in his case, he doesn't care so much about physique. He's got a good physique. You guys have seen him shirtless now. But we just care about performance. He wants to be explosive. He wants to be strong. Um he wants to be conditioned athletic. So again, this is how we handle all this. And of course, he does plenty of other sports stuff on the side. Uh messes with martial arts, other stuff, too. So for max effort upper again pretty straightforward because we're quads were still a little he had that adductor pull um a few weeks back. All right while doing rep work with we got no warning signs. So I told him we have to scale your volumes back Ted we can't be doing this five six day training telling you as a coach okay telling you as a coach. Um but we we skipped any quad work on this day. So we did a max deadlift. He got five plates. He got 495. That's his first time hitting that. That is a lifetime PR. Little grindy, but we got it. Uh, so afterwards then on this day, we did good mornings. So you saw the camber bar. Good morning. You guys see uh the seal rows. Okay, we do reverse hyperextensions. We do glued ham raises. Okay, so again, very very very standard stuff for for my lifters. Um, and then in the middle of the week, so this is what we have here. So then I didn't put in the glute ham raises, but I have the reverse hypers in. He has access to one, so we use it. And these are always going to be staples for my lifters. If we have access to the equipment, good mornings, glute ham raises, reverse hypers tend to be somewhat staple exercises. Doesn't mean they're all going to be done every lower session, but they're definitely always going to be in the rotation, right? They're always going to be in there in the rotation because again, hamstrings, posterior chain, these are our go muscles. You want to be strong. you want to be athletic, we need to work these things. Okay? Uh and and it and that is almost irrespective of the of the discipline or what sports we want. No athlete has ever ever been made worse by having a strong posterior chain, strong hamstrings, top to bottom, stable knees, strong lower back, strong glutes. Okay? Back hip extensions and enormous parts of those sports. And in fact, just building those up will reduce injury rates and contact sports, field sports, stuff like that. Keep that in mind. All right. So, for the rest of it, I just kind of did the speed work and a couple of the supplemental lists in here we didn't have other stuff for. So, he just sends me all his speed work as one file. Um, and I can always chop it up. So, I just trimmed it here just to show you guys kind of what we have a little bit for the rest periods. So, I just took a little sample in the middle to put in the blog. So, this is all one clip. This is not dice. This is him just laying back down, which is about what we want. Ideally, we want about 30 seconds. And when I do mine, even though they're done as individual files, I do the same thing. These are about 30 seconds between sets of speed work. So, for him, he's doing speed bench. Uh, again, he does 10 sets, 10 triples, 30 seconds apart. We're running 50% of max. I like 50%. This is something this people have debated. I've gone back and forth for years and years and years and years. I have never had any client who didn't make decent progress doing around 50% max for speed works. We could argue for less, we can argue for more. Um, when I do contrast weights, I take an average of the bands or chain to try to get it around there, too. Make sense? So, in other words, if your max is 500, hey, you would you could do 200 pounds of bar weight on a lift and 100 pounds of bands or chains. Why? That's the average in there because the banner change 100 uh top versus bottom. You guys see where we're going here? 50 is about the average in between zero and 100. So 200 bar weight 50 pounds average contrast weight 50% of 500 done. And I think that's a good way to go about it. So he did some press downs afterwards. Obviously Ted's got good triceps and all his pressing is closed grip probably uh a big factor because even his overhead press is closed grip. all this bench, he knows, incline, close grip, close grip, crooked grip. Um, he's got he's got triceps, but we still want to do some extensions, right? We always want to add some sort of extensions or press down to some type in there because again, no athlete or powerlifter or any athlete who needs upper body has ever been made worse by having bigger, stronger triceps. See how that works? No physique has ever been ruined either by having bigger triceps that I've ever seen. Maybe in theory if you had really small chest and shoulders it could overpower it a little but is it ever gonna look terrible? I don't think so. All right. So, and then afterwards he did some curls here. Just some seated curls. Um again, just supine grip just to keep some curls in the rotation. So, we did that on dynamic day. And then we get over to the dynamic lower. I didn't put all his supplemental work because it's pretty much the same stuff uh that we have on the other days, right? It's pretty much the same stuff. So, what do we see here? Uh, we're doing speed squats on boxes. Again, the same thing around 50%. 30 seconds break. So, I just kind of left a little bit of a clip in here just so you guys can kind of see it. So, again, we do uh box squats, 50%. He's doing doubles with 30 second breaks. Right? You want to stay tight, drive up, right? Come down. So, this is what we want to see on a speed box. This is rate of force production. You stay tight off the box. You unload the hips while keeping the torso locked in and the abs and core tight. And then you drive up, explode upwards. So exactly what you see here, that's what we want to see. All right. And again, notice he still has a good physique even though he doesn't train for it. This is what we mean, right? As long as everything is jacked and big and you're lean, you're still going to look good. May not win bodybuilding shows, you're going to look good. All right. Speed pulls. The same idea here, right? Frank's got a 500 deadlift. So, we do about 250 and pretty much where we need to be, right? So, he does singles on these right now. It's all I have him doing. Just 10 singles and we call it a day. So, again, 30 seconds between works great and pretty much call it a week here after this. We have a GPP day in the middle of the week in between where he does a bunch of sled work, other stuff that he chooses. Uh, so overall, this is what we're doing now with this training. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.