Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha strength and fitness and once again it is time for my client Alex's dad bod to daddy transformation blog. But let's get over into the training. Um so we've taken Alex over to uh full body 3day a week. Um again just due to his lifestyle he definitely realized that yeah the full body is going to work a lot better for him. He has situations to where he sometimes has to go like four days in a row without training. And while we enjoyed the pushpull legs three days a week, the fact of the matter is certain muscles get uh 2D trained and and it it has to do with the fact of how busy his life is. um in terms of just total lifestyle, busyiness, family, um career, hobbies, everything else, he is one of the people who has the least time to train, you know, out of out of clients I've had. And so, again, super super busy lifestyle. Um so, accordingly, we're occasionally going to have days where we can't get the workouts in. And again, he's gone so far as to build a home gym to make it easier uh to get to get everything squeezed in. And yet we so we usually get three days a week. So by us doing full body like this, if something happens, nothing gets particularly drained because it's like, well, I either did a squat or a deadlift and a chest press and a pull-up, you know, last workout. So again, even if we think in terms of of muscles, um, you know, needing a week to drain, nothing's d-trained. If we do any sort of other split, you see where we're going. And then he's now been 11 days, 10 days since we trained that muscle, we're going to see draining. So this works really well for his lifestyle. Uh, so if you guys notice, we do an A and a B workout. Notice this is workout A. So we have a bench, a squat. Well, we start with a squat, bench, pull-up, and then we do a barbell curl. All right, we just keep a little bit of arms in for him. Um, just on on the workout a like we don't we don't do it every workout, but it's three sets of each of these. All right, I I tell him how much weight to use, right? This is done progressively, you know, progressive overload here. I tell him how much weight he needs to use. Um, and he just does the reps and stuff I prescribe, which is generally a rep in reserve to failure type situation. All right. So, uh people who are curious know I don't use RP. All right. I prescribe singles weights for singles and then we assess how heavy it is and everything else we either train unless it's something really meticulous. All right. Um that we need to be very careful of such as learning to good morning. It's usually one rep in reserve or to failure is is generally what I prescribe for my lifters. Um because I don't I don't see a point of doing anything else. All right? We're not in here doing 37 sets. All right? So, if you want to do 37 sets of muscle group, it makes perfect sense that you might want to leave three or four reps in reserve. Otherwise, you'll never finish the sets. But if your goal is to just gain the most muscle, uh, you know, in the least time, it doesn't make sense to leave two two plus reps in reserve on anything. It's just not efficient. All right? And I I will clarify that there are people who truly enjoy doing 30 sets of muscle, I suppose. So, they better leave a lot of reps in reserve. All right? Now, that being said, but it's not better. It's just what they enjoy. All right. So, workout B, we do deadlift, incline bench, pull-up, overhead press, and then he does reverse hypers. Um, then the reverse I So, again, we only do one set of deadlifts. So, people are curious, it really only gives us um outside of the one set of deadlifts, we we just have the three other exercises. So, the reverse hypers are u more or less what we do with what he has time left because he has a limited time for these workouts. And so, the reverse hypers are in there. Hey, he leaves it set up. It's like, grab a set, right? Grab a set if you have time. Always one, but if you have time, up to five sets. And that's how we treat the reverse hyper with him, right? Make sense? We we do it as time allows. We do it as time allows. Um, and we may not always have the time for that, right? We may not always have it, but again on this day it's and this is a little more upper chest and shoulder type focused obviously. And I'm okay with doing incline and overhead press in the same day. And it ends up being good for his bench. So people will be curious why it's split up that way when you have someone who who we need to bring their bench up. We need to bring their chest up. Allowing us to do incline or bench every every workout. We get plenty of chest. But if you think in terms of his bench press performance will carry over. All right, bench press performance will carry over. Um, that's one of the old school methods for improving a raw bench. 30 of your pressing is done flat, third of it incline, third of it overhead press. That's exactly how I have him split up because it makes sure that his upper chest and his delts are all strong, right? His squatting is his strongest movement, right? Squatting is his strongest movement. These are all 315. We routinely do work sets of five or six. He's in a 405 before. And it's probably going to have him squatting with more frequency. So if you can make all three workouts every week, it's going to go up. But chest and benching is our weakest. You know, his his squat and deadlifter is stronger. So his pull-ups are pretty strong. You know, he's not a super lean dude and he does weighted pull-ups all day. You know, not a problem. This is not an issue for us. So it is it is chest and binching. So again, a lot of this program is a little more biased towards pressing strength. It's a little more biased towards his chest. All right. Now, for people who would say, right, why don't we have a lot of tricep work? Um, well, because pull-ups do work the long head also, but we do a lot of pressing. It's three sets of pressing on workout, six the next back and forth. So, we're looking at all the weeks, we're looking at a minimum minimum of 12 sets of pressing plus all the pull-ups. We don't have a lot of room for triceps at this point, right? We just don't have the room. Um, in terms of recovery, we're not trying to overtrain because again, he has a busy busy lifestyle, right? But the biceps we can get away with a little bit of, right? Never never hurts to have a little more arm. especially my dad bod guys, you know, guys who are going to be out doing stuff in a t-shirt, having a little bit of arm goes a long way. So, again, we do keep we do keep some strict strict barbell curls in here. Uh, so again, it's definitely for for guys like him cuz he is in a t-shirt a lot. You know, he does his thing. He's a dad. He's in a band, right? Plays guitar. They they do a few gigs. Again, you guys will notice a lot of my bloggers, we get a lot of musicians. Like, you guys would be shocked how many guitarists and bass players I coach. It's a lot. Um, but in his case, I like to keep the curls in just because of that. You know, he's he's a guy who's up here out doing stuff in a t-shirt a lot. And so, that's more important oftent times for, you know, the dadbod crowd because they're going to be in shorts and t-shirts and stuff a lot. you know, biceps, biceps, forearms, calves, they can go a long way, right? But in his case, we don't have a calf problem because we do all the squats and deadlifts. And for most guys, that'll be enough. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.