Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. Once again, it is time for my client Gusto's vlog. Um, and as a quick reminder though, if you will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment down below, I'd greatly appreciate it. So, minor changes with what we're doing here. He's he's been telling me, you know, the last couple weeks, he's like, I'm really struggling uh later in the workouts with the performance. goes and I know you've said we probably do need a little more volume over time on some stuff. Um I'm struggling with with work capacity doing nine 10 sets per muscle group once a week. Um he's like especially the leg days. He goes the leg days are just killing me uh on the volume by the time I get get to anything because I do the squats, deadlifts, and leg presses. Um and he's like I feel like the leg presses suffer. Uh I'm just running out of steam. and he said the same thing on like chest work and other stuff. So I'm like, okay. Uh in that case, if we're struggling with individual muscles, we'll take you to an upper lower split. I've had plenty of clients get crazy jacked, crazy strong on upper lowers, so we'll take you from that to the uh you know, from the body part split. I'm like, plus I would like to get two lower body days in. I'm like, um I do feel like us doing only one leg day for him. Uh, at this point I do feel like legs need to come up, midback and stuff needs to come up. And some of that can happen with with us getting a little more leg volume in, but if we're running out of steam, it's not working. So, as you guys saw from the screenshot, um, couple things. I want him squatting deeper. I talked to him about that. I'm like, we have to get more depth on the squats. I'll reduce weight if we need to, but I need you getting below parallel, which now we're doing, going into a full squat. Uh but for the upper day, um it's uh pretty pretty similar to what we normally do, right? Except that we only do uh one shoulder exercise per workout. So we don't need as much total delt work as he's previously had. Just not necessary. All right. It's not necessary. So it's like we can do we can do two two presses, right? two types of pulls uh for six total sets for chest, six total sets for back, and then I have one belt exercise uh one bicep on tricep movement. Okay, so this puts at for most of the upper body stuff, that's going to give us about still about 12 sets. Like his volume is high. Like I consider 12 sets to be pretty dang high for most naturals. Uh so with the pushing and pulling, 12 sets for chest, 12 sets for back. And then as far as direct movements, we'll have six total direct exercises for delts, biceps, and triceps through the week split up. And it and it works quite well. Uh the lower days, I have one squat and one deadlift day. Okay, one squat, one deadlift day. So why why are we doing it that way? Uh pretty pretty straightforward. Uh the main thing is I don't want him to be burned out, right? I do not want him to be burned out when uh we get to the leg presses because that's going to be our real volume. It's going to be our real volume. So on the one day I have him doing one top set of squats and then the other day one top set of deadlifts. Then we do leg presses. Uh then I want good mornings. Um I want standing calf raises, all that stuff. And then I want a back exercise in there. So, basically, we do pull-ups on the upper day and then we do uh some type of row on the lower day. So, I'm still hitting his his lats with 12 total sets a week, right? 12 total set. So, again, our volumes are high. So, this is not as low a volume as I do right now on an upper lower. Um, and the reason is he is not producing the levels of strength of of someone of an advanced lifter. I'm not as worried. my more advanced guys, we can get a we can get away with less volumes quite frankly. Like six six to eight sets of muscle group a week. Um when once you're a really advanced lifter, uh if you're pushing stuff hard can be a lot. So in his case, we don't necessarily need to go that low. So I'm trying to keep him up around 12, right around 12 total sets. And it's working pretty well. It's going to do what I want it to do. But I'm having him do some super sets and stuff in here more uh so that we can cut time down because technically some of his muscle groups were only getting nine sets before. Now we're taking them up to 12, but he never has more than six in one workout. And then stuff like uh legs were getting four each. So still for that quads is still going to be about eight sets a week. But we've also doubled up then on the calf work. Uh we've got doubling down on the hamstring work uh between between the good mornings and the deadlifts and everything. So again, our volumes are going up slightly for the lower body. Uh we have more frequency on everything. Um but you guys can see here I I didn't put a lot of the footage from the first two workouts because it's not that much difference. They're just smaller movements and I can change those up and which ones I put in here week to week. But we are rotating some movements a little. So the two days are not the same. his his two upper days are slightly different. His two lower days are slightly different. So, the upper days are different on the accessory mostly. Uh the lower days we're just changing the squat and the deadlift. Uh but as you guys can see here, uh we have bench press, we've got pull-ups, we've got decline dumbbells. Uh then I've got him doing press downs, laterals, barbell curls. So, so again, normal staples. We're not really adding new exercises for him. We're just changing the rotation up. And then some of his some of his exercises are getting uh hit twice a week. Important stuff like which ones are we doing twice a week? Bench press, pull-ups, uh good mornings leg press. Okay. So, so again, I've got his overall volumes a little higher, but I'm not making him squat and deadlift twice a week. So, we bench twice a week. We have one squat, one deadlift day. And we're only doing top sets just for overall strength development, but I'm not trying to bury him. I want to get more of his volume on the machines, right? For the lower body, I want a lot more machine volume because I just I find that works better if our goals are hypertrophy. Um, and we still have obviously squatting and deadlifting in there. And I and there may be a point where I take him back up to three sets, right, for a little more volume. um as he gets used to this sort of split, we may do that to add a little more volume. Uh because again, I can get away with that on a lifter who isn't as strong yet. We can absolutely get away with with more volumes on the squats and the deadlifts. Um and so I may take him to that and work that up as he gets used to this sort of rotation because again, I do want to bring the legs up. I do want to bring uh like his middle back up and stuff. So squatting and deadlifting more can definitely help with that. But I'm going to keep more of the volume for now focused on the machines. Again, we're going to work and then good mornings. So, it's going to be u leg press, calf raises. So, he's also changing gyms shortly. So, he sampled this gym out uh which is what we see in the vlog. He's like, "Yeah, my other one's going to run up. I think I'm going to come over to this gym. Um got way better equipment for our goals." Because quite frankly, I told him I don't like the machines that we have for the legs. I don't like all the equipment limitations. And it's like, so this gym is a better better fit for him now. is getting a little more serious. So, having stuff like a proper leg press or hack squat machine, just having proper machines for your legs when you're trying to get jacked, uh, kind of a big deal. So, you guys can see here on this day, we have u final day deadlift, leg press. Good morning. We do a standing calf raise and then I have him finish up with some uh incline dumbbell rows. But overall, good training week. Everything's in flow. It's going along how I want it. uh he's continued to make progress and we're just having to adjust for things like his work capacity, strength, all that stuff. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.