Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here once again. It is time for my client TZ vlog. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below. Be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you guys will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, it would also be greatly appreciated. So, we started off with an incline bench. Notice he almost got it, but he missed it. That was a PR. Like he got 225 last time we maxed on it um on that closed grip incline. He was so close, but you know, it happens. He also did tell me in a message he goes, "I've really had a lot of fatigue um the day before. Maybe wasn't the best time to try that." Um we did discuss some some stuff that had happened. Uh so again, I think that was a factor for him, but notice the speed off the bottom was great. He just couldn't follow through. So for max effort day here, we we do a lot of other pressing. Um we do uh pull-ups, right? Uh and here also we're doing weighted chins. So, you'll see that coming up. But we focus a lot on doing some back off bench work. Then we do incline benching for reps. Um, most of the stuff is about six to eight reps. Most of his supplemental work. Yes, we go a little heavier than some of my conjute guys. I might have guys like Chris who look in here and they're going to go, "Coach, coach, how come he does all that heavy work and I do so many tens?" Right? And they'll be like, "You're in a different situation and you're not used to volume." So, we got to build it up. Um, in this case though, and I think what people have to remember, like they'll see like, uh, Chris is big. Chris is big and Jack pretty dang strong. Uh, Ted has a lot more athletic background, more conditioning, so we do more overall volume and we tend to go a little heavier because we go for a little more neural drive due to all his sports stuff and he does plyometrics and other stuff in here, too. Um, so a little bit little bit different overall, but what's interesting, they're both big. They're both jacked, right? So, like you guys have seen both of them shirtless. We've done update pictures. They're both on conjugate. Chris is overall though bigger and stronger. Uh Ted's Ted is a little more cut up, a little more explosive and everything, but again, the difference is in what they do. Uh Ted's a multifaceted athlete and Chris just likes to be real big and strong, wants to get on the powerlifting platform. But the interesting thing is most of the people have commented like, "Well, they both have good physiques." So, uh we're doing weighted chins. It's rotation. I rotate around for him like the different poles we rotate through them. Uh and the reason for that I need to be careful of overuse, right? We want to be careful of overuse. Uh so again, the idea I like to rotate some of this stuff. I do keep some staple lifts in though. People will notice we obviously keep incline benching and overhead pressing in mainly because he really really cares about those a lot and two they carry over to a lot of the stuff that he does. Right. All right. And speaking of rotating movements around, um, right here, rotating tricep exercises in this case, you know, we did those heavy JM floor presses. Those are a lot, right? They're a lot to recover from. So, now we go over and do something light that still works all those pressing muscles in in the triceps, uh, in the arm. Want to make sure that we're definitely still hitting that lateral head, but we still want to get some long head in here, too. We don't want that to get underdeveloped. Uh, but again, great exercise. Put him on incline bench. do skull crushers on the incline bench. Works fantastic. Um, again, changing those angles up though all the time to avoid overuse. Um, this week, of course, I let him pick his own curls and I don't care because he has good biceps. He likes to just change his curls. We do a lot of volume. That's fine. Helps with overuse. This week he went with incline curls, which you guys know is one of my favorites. Um, I prescribed this to a lot of people. I do this pretty frequently myself. Good oldfashioned incline curl. Um, which again, I don't think is ever a bad choice. I always tell guys, there's a few dumbbell exercises that are are rarely a bad choice for any person. That's going to be just a normal strict barbell curl if you know how to grip it correctly so it doesn't hurt your forearms. Uh, dumbbell incline curl, alternating dumbbell curl. I don't think you can ever go wrong with any of those three. So, we tell look if you don't know what to do for your biceps, just pick one of those three and get good at it, okay? They're all great. Um, all right. Max effort cambered bar. Good morning. You got 315 here. We're happy with it. We've got a baseline on it so that we can go up from there and max. Uh so again, we start getting into 300 lbs on good mornings. I think we're in a good spot, right? We're in a good spot there. Um so again, now he hit this. He hit sets of 12 to 205 this week. So I told him, look, I want to go to 215 to 225 next. I I already sent him his sheet and he asked me, he's like, "Why are we going heavier on DE day?" I'm like, "Because you're getting strong at it fast. You're getting strong at it faster." So, if we're getting strong at it faster and this is addressing your biggest weak links on your lower body lifts, then I want to push it. I want to push it hard because, right, then we're good to go. So, all right. Then afterwards, he uses the pendulum squat. He likes to go to a dead stop on these. against coach. I'm fine with that. I'm big on a lot of dead stop type training. There's a reason I like deadlifts. There's a reason I I like AI like a lot of movements where I pause at the bottom and stretches, too. Um there's just something about bottom position movements, right, that build a different type of strength. Again, that's why I like the deadlifts. That's why I like the dead stop stuff, you know? Uh builds a different type of strength. So, doing a lot of these things works really well. So certain types of even machine movements, leg movements, dead stop training works really well. It's why a lot of phases I used to do a lot of pin layers. I'm not doing them at the moment. I'm doing more bodybuilder type rows. Again, just just something about building power when you have to come to a dead stop, right? Builds brute strength and I think particularly for him who does do some martial arts and other stuff and some grappling, not a bad idea. Dead stop training. So again, we're good with it. So I have I do paw squats right now myself. Paw squats and deadlifts every week personally. Um they're just in my normal rotation. But then after after that we hammer his posterior chain. So glute ham raises, different back extensions, reverse hyperextensions after good mornings. Lots and lots of work here. Okay. Glute ham raise though. This is what we do for him to make sure that we hit um that third head. I guess I'm yawning. I'm going to keep it in. we hit that third head of the of the um the hamstring that biceps forous we need to get that so we can't fully develop every aspect of the hamstring entirely off hip hinges uh you can develop you know the overwhelming majority of it but there is that one-third smaller head does benefit from from that knee work uh from that knee flexion so again we do that for him and then here he's doing some weighted back extensions so again we go heavy on posterior chain of course then here also then we have some Um, some nice wide wider stance leg presses. Again, Ted does a lot of volume. He does a lot of he does more volume than most of my clients. In fact, I not necessarily more than all of them have ever done, but I would say at this exact moment, he probably has has the highest training volumes of any of my lifters, you know, so he's up there. But again, highly conditioned athlete. And then we do GPP on top of some of this. he has a high step count with work um you know other the other sports he does and then of course we do pio and other things. So again like we do box jumps. So again, the volumes are high. And then we finish up to we go over to the dynamic effort days. After this, we do speed bench um against bands. And then this wave, we're just doing normal normal barbell, right? Just a standard straight bar with bands on the on the box squats. And then we're doing deficit deadlifts, deficit conventional deadlifts, uh with bands, right? And so people say, "Well, I don't get why the bands on the deficit different." Now, trust me, it's great for the strength curve. works really really well. A lot of my guys I routinely work deficits in for their dynamic effort work. But very happy with this week's work. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.