Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha strength and fitness. And once again, it's time for my client Alex's dad bod to daddy transformation vlog. A quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop a comment, it would be greatly appreciated. All right. Um, he's getting stronger here. So, if you guys know, we do an A and B workout. He's really one of my busiest clients in terms of his overall life. I actually have a handful of guys kind of in a very similar situation. busy careers, other active hobbies outside of training, kids, um, all these things, you know. So, in those cases, uh, I put a lot of them on these full body three-day a week programs because a lot of them have less than an hour to work out. Um, and almost all of them have home gyms. That's been the interesting thing. All the guys that I would place in that category, they have home gyms like this. Um, just worth noting. It saves time for them. But they all do these full body programs. And in this case, we got some PRs here. His benching, um, his deadlift, and his squats, they all went up for rep work on all this stuff. In fact, I think with the back squat, he's kind of like, man, I got like seven reps, you know, on this last set. He goes, I don't even know where that came from, you know? He's like, I got fives on the first a workout, right? We got fives with the the 325. He's like, we get to the end of the week. He's like, I got to knock out seven. I got seven reps on one of the sets and then six and six. Same thing. He's like his 200lb bench. We normally get five, sixes, he got sevens on it. So, it's like now we're seeing this stuff moving up, you know? So, we're we're seeing progress. So, for those curious, if you look at the workout A, this is what's done here. So, we do it AB AB. Um, so some of this the weeks here, you guys will notice the workout B gets done twice, sometimes it's A because we alternate two different workouts back and forth. Um, but then I program the numbers and he goes to like either failure or one rep in reserve. So, we have the first uh exercise in workout A, we go squat, bench, pull-up, curl. Okay. Now, I keep curls in there because again, as I've explained before, he's in t-shirts a lot. He plays in a band. He's dad, you know, so it's like he's in shorts and a t-shirt a lot. So accordingly, uh, living in a warmer climate, so we want to keep those guns, right? We need the biceps. We need a little bit of bicep. Um, and yes, he's good at pull-ups, but I always leave that little bit of bicep work. Whereas in with the triceps right now, he does so much pressing and then we do pull-ups, I'm not as worried. Although I could always eventually switch that over and say, you know what, let's pull the biceps out and do skull crushers. But right now, uh, we it's what we leave in there. And I like to let a lot of my dad bod guys do, you know, either biceps or triceps depending on what they need. Um, and we may go over to that eventually because we could argue, well, he's better at pull-ups than benching, so maybe the triceps. And we might do that one day, but for the sake of brevity and time, that's what we do, you know. Um, so that's workout A. Workout B, on the other hand, we do deadlifts. So on those others, we do three sets. We only do one set of deadlifts. Okay. So, for the other day, it's three sets of squats, three sets of bench, three sets of pull-ups, three sets of curls. Now, workout B, because deadlifts are more taxing, we only do one set, right? We do one allout set. Then I have him do incline bench, and then we do rows, and then we do the overhead press. Now, everything here is a barbell lift. All right? Whereas in the weighted pull-ups, a body weight, but then we throw in the reverse hyper at the end, and I'll get to that when we see it on there. So, I used to do pull-ups on all three of his days, but now I'm burying the stimulus. And it's like, well, we focus on on this one day. So, you'll notice there's a little more bicep dominance in the workout a because pull-up works biceps a little better than Rose does based on all the data and evidence. So, then we have the curl there. Um, whereas in the incline is going to work the shoulder pretty well. So, then, but then I throw his overhead press in here. So, really these days there is some slight variation in where the dominance is. Now both of them are very very serious chest intensive right same thing we have a squat day and then we have a little more posterior chain and three sets of squats covers all of our anterior stuff. So then the second day that even though this is all full body notice there is some slight bias in here because there tends to be you know um and a lot it's pretty normal on a full body program to do three or four lifts right and a lot of times they are alternated you know a lot of times they squat on all of them some of my guys squat on all of them with a little less volume in his case I really like to push that deadlift he's good at squats so I'm okay with doing them every other workout and just getting three sets in um but whereas and I want to keep all the chest pressing constant So, I have some other guys who, for example, they they overhead press. They don't incline at all. They alternate bench with overhead press back and forth on the A and the B. Okay. I have some guys if they really need to push overhead will overhead all four days. Okay. So, some sort of squat press and pull, chest press, and then overhead press. Um, so again, it varies depending upon where our lifter is weak. In him, chest is a little weak. So it gets and benching is a little weak. So we have that incline on that workout B. But I'm also not trying to just overuse um his bench muscles for him because again very very busy life. So it's kind of the way we're set up. And then on that day, what do we do? Well, we uh do the reverse hypers at the end. And whatever time he has left, he does up to five sets. So then we're back to the workout. A this is where we got some big PRs. He's just like, "Man, I'm on fire." It's like, I got seven reps on the squat. That's like a rep PR. Then I got six and six. He's like, I get fives with that weight because we only recently increased it. So it tells us squats coming up. He's like, my sleep has not been as good yet somehow everything's just kind of flowing. And I'm like, well, we just have good programming for you. So we got that on the squat. The bench had gotten out of order here. Pull-ups, same thing. He got like eight reps on one of those sets. So, the pull-ups coming along, the benching here. Um, he got seven reps on all the sets. So, again, he's like, you know, we're we're over into to PR territory, right? We're over here hitting PR. So, his bench may be going up, but I think a lot of it is the feeding it with that incline work and the overhead on the other day. So, it's like every other workout he benches, but then in between we're getting that incline. and that I feel like that newer angle, it's a little more novel for him, is really helping build all those muscles of his bench press. You know, they're helping build the muscles of his bench press, and that's what we need. Um, and then, of course, we finish up, you know, with his barbell curls here. And again, notice we do a pretty strict full range of motion curl. And and again, we just do a barbell. And I like a regular barbell curl, but I want to notice a couple things with it. Notice he does it the way that we talk about. He goes all the way up, but he keeps those wrists cocked back. Why? Takes that tension off the the form. A lot of times guys will say, "Oh, my forearms hurt when I do these and they're turning them into a wrist curl." Now, this is a more recent last 10, 15 year thing where people complain about it again, right? It's why the easy curl bar was invented, but we used to remember Arnold used to write about this and he told us about this way back in the day. So, my generation knew this. You just those wrists back and the problem goes away. You might have to grip it a hair wider if they hurt. you do it that way that we the forearm doesn't hurt, right? The forearm won't hurt in that case. So, there's your trick to it. Um, for those who have problems using um, you know, a straight bar like that, this is an easy solution. Just the wrist back. It takes all that tension off the forearm at the top, particularly if you grip it shoulder width or wider. And some people may need to go just a hair wider or some may need to stay shoulder width to keep it there.