Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And once again, it's time for my client Alex's dad bod to daddy transformation blog. Uh, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment. I would appreciate it so much. So, what we're doing now, these these are getting a little spaced out. People are like, you hadn't seen a vlog. It's it's because uh with a lot of stuff in his life, his workouts get slid down. Um, so sometimes we go instead of the two days, you know, between uh workouts, we end up with three or four every now and then. But that's one of the reasons we went with full body for him. And yet here he is making progress right right there. Six reps of 315. Um, so again, I alternate an A and B workout as you guys can see here. Um, so workout A tends to be squat, bench press, pull-up, barbell curl, right? We do three sets of each. I of course program the weight. Uh we work on progressive overload and it's very straightforward. A lot of people would say that alone is good. Like like what more do you really need? And I'd say for a lot of guys again guys who were just working on on transforming a dad bob that works. Keep in mind though guys like we bench like 250, he squats 405, you know, so we're in a good place. So even there, you know, we're doing work sets with 200 on the bench. Um, you know, we can do weighted, you know, got a 25 pound plate right there, right? We're doing weighted pull-ups with 25 pounds, right? He's able to crank out like nine. Actually, I think that's 30. He's able to do like nine reps on his top set, you know? So, it's kind of the stuff we we talk about with, you know, my dad bought strength standards. Only thing he hasn't really reached, he's not quite there on the deadlift. We've got we're moving up and the bench, but the pull-ups, he's there. I mean, he can do weighted pull-ups for nine. So, we know we can do body weight. Okay. We know we can get all that. Not a problem for him. Um, but we can hit the squat. We can hit the pull-ups. So, the B, you know, the bench and the deadlift moving up like it's all moving forward. Uh, but then of course we have curls in there. And, and I think, uh, the point here when it comes to stuff like, you know, dad dadb transformation. So, some people would be like, "Well, why do we have curls in there? What's up with that? Why do you got curls?" Um, because he does a lot of stuff out in the t-shirt. Okay. And we have so much pressing. I'm not even worried about his triceps anymore. Why? Because pull-ups hit the long head as far as that stretch goes. Um, so even that contributes, but we have bench. Then the other press days, you know, we have incline and overhead press. That's a lot of tricep work. Uh, but we'll get back to the curls in a minute. So, the workout B, we deadlift, we incline, we row, we overhead press, then we reverse hyper. Now, this isn'T3 sets of each. We do one top set of deadlifts. So, he alternates between three sets of squats and a set of deadlift every other workout. Um, his lower body is strong. Like, I'm not worried in this case of, well, we have a little more upper body than lower. You only have one lower body lift there. But he does reverse hypers on that same day. Um, so in his case though, you know, chest chest has been a bit of a weak link. So that's why we double down on all the chest pressing. So I have him alternate flat bench and incline, right? We want to build that whole chest. We want to build those front delts because that's really where he's weakest. That's where he's weakest, right? He's strong, pretty strong at curls, too. So the pull-ups are strong, squats are strong, deadlifts are strong. So again, it's it's a question of in this case just working his weak links. Um it's also having him doing obviously barbell rows off the floor and then he he does overhead press. Now the reverse hypers is of course as I will point out with those reverse hypers. Uh we do up to five sets. So it's kind of like because normally on the the other day we have 12 total sets like three sets of four exercises. that gets changed a little for the workout because I don't want him trying to do three sets of deadlifts. Not with his lifestyle. Um I I have lifters who who will do that. He's not one of them, you know, but then I have all the reverse hypers. So that handles the rest of his posterior chain. And because again, he has a time crunch. Uh the rule I have is work in as many sets of reverse hypers as you can on the day. The deadlift doesn't take long. You can warm up and then he do his top set, then jump to these other movements. But these are easy movements to set up and execute. You know, these three other movements, very straightforward. They're all barbell movements, too. So, notice that this day is it's all barbell, right? And everything is I mean, the only stuff that's not barbell movements for him is what? The reverse hyper weighted pull-up. Again, very simple, very simple, straightforward, and it gets the job done. Uh so over to that topic though uh with the curls and then his his weak links you know the incline in the overhead kind of a big deal for him you know so in a lot of ways it really is it's a lower body lift some sort of back pull and then a press. Now in his case though we do an overhead press as a final exercise and we do a curl as a final in the other days. Um so let's talk about that. So why then a curl? You know it's like why not tricep? We have lots and lots of pressing. So, you know, keeping in mind we have on between the two days we do three sets of three different types of presses. So, one day he gets six sets, did another three. But even the day where he gets only the three sets on the bench, we still have pull-ups that are still hitting that long head. They're working it after the benching. There's enough volume that his triceps in general are getting lots and lots of work. So then we come over to the curls because again guy who does a lot of stuff in the t-shirt, does some gigs, plays in band, plays plays league guitar, you know, just his overall lifestyle. He's going to spend a lot of time out kind of doing stuff in t-shirts. Well, think about that from again the dad bod thing. Well, you got to be able to fill out a t-shirt out and about. So, it still makes you look like you're fit and you lift. And as funny as that sounds, this is one of the reasons I think bicep training is so popular in the grand scheme of things, they're not going to matter that much when you're out shirtless compared to some of these other muscles. But if you're in t-shirts doing things in public, you know, your biceps and forearms are going to matter. people are going to notice. Even if it's only the bottom half of the the the bicep, having that that good insertion, all that built up is going to be noticed, you know, and all of this hits his forearms. So, that's that's another point. Um, and a lot of times, you know, someone might say, well, why don't you have forearm work in there? Well, we don't need it because we deadlift, we do pull-ups, we do rows, all raw. So, we get a lot of forearm and keep in mind even the barbell curls are going to work that. So, in that case, because he does all this stuff without straps, you know, we've got a lot of the t-shirt muscles covered. Okay? The t-shirt muscles are pretty well covered uh by all the pulling. Every workout, we have at least three sets of pulling. Okay? Every workout, right? Even the reverse hypers on top of it are going to be more pulling. You know, we have the raw deadlifts that's covered. And again, I think people forget that even those those big barbell curls like that, they still work some forearm. Definitely something about a barbell with that because of the nature of the way it swings out and forearm still gets worked pretty decently and it all adds up. But the other point there with those throwing some curls in, just making sure we got a little bicep and this stuff adds up. And and again, this is a reminder these are real people, you know. This is not a case of influencers on a bunch of gear with all the lighting and the nonsense. These are realistic results, you know. So, someone like him, he obviously looks like he lifts. Everyone can tell he lifts. I put up a picture him one time of like in one of my circles, and this is all even women who who train and are into fitness, and they all said, "Yeah, he's got a good dadbot. Like, he looks good." Right? They're all like he looks good and that's the point. So this is a realistic results for people who have busy lives, kids, careers, hobbies, you know, totally obtainable. And in his case, you know, where we at like think about a 430 435 deadlift. He's hit a 405 squat. He does 315 for sixes now, right? 250 bench. He can do weighted pull-ups. Okay, we're in a good pretty good place, right? For the for the for the dad bod crowd. That's real solid. So, you take those numbers and you go put him in a room hanging out and he's going to be the most jacked guy in most circles. Okay? And I think that's the point when we talk about these these obtainable goals for people with busy lives. And by internet standards, it's one thing, but but again, I think a lot of people would find someone like Alex relatable here. It's like, yeah, because he still obviously lifts and he still looks like he lifts. Most people are going to be able to tell, yeah, he kind of lifts a little bit of weights, you know, and and I think it matters. It socially, it absolutely matters in our careers and socially. And people forget that. In the real world, he's doing real good. And I think to a lot of people who chime in, this is very relatable. Very relatable.