Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and once again it is time for my client Gustav's vlog and um we've had to make a minor change with his training. Well, it's not a minor, it's a major change. Um his work schedule's got extremely busy middle of the week. Um he's kind of in a situation where he's like look I need to be able to for just for a little while it's going to be about six weeks or so, you know, train just on the weekends. Can we find a way to do an upper lower Saturday and Sunday and for me to keep my gains? I don't want to lose any of the progress I've made. And me as a coach, I'm like, this is why you're paying for a coach. We don't have to lose any gains. Let's let's focus on making some gains. Okay? And so what I've done, I've looked at and I've said, "Look, so you needed for the recovery purposes, you need to do the rows on the lower days. Let's take them to the upper days. Let's keep the uppers the same. We're going to push three sets of everything really hard. I'm going to take your squats to three sets. On your lower day, since we're only going to have one lower day, we can do three sets of squats. We can do three sets of leg presses. That way, we get six sets for every muscle group. So, what I've done, I've taken and streamline, we've taken his most challenging exercises and we've stacked everything in. Okay, we've stacked everything in. So, his upper days, we're we're going pretty hard now. Now, we do three sets of bench, three sets of weighted dips, okay? Three sets of weighted pull-ups, three sets of rows. Now, we have six sets in here, which is kind of our minimum. I tell guys, you know, where's our minimum of getting really, really good gains. I'm not saying you can't make gains on three sets a week, but we you really and truly need six, right? I always tell people, you know, 10 10 is about the baseline for your optimal, but if we want to get the majority of our gains, you probably need about six sets. Now, I have guys who make good progress on three-day push pull legs doing about six sets. his case, we're going to have to stack this stuff in, but he's only got to train twice, right? We do upper body on Saturday and then we get legs on Sunday. Okay? So, we do those. So, we got six sets for his chest and it also does hit triceps. We have those pull-ups, which will hit some biceps some, and then we have the rows, which are going to be also his back. All right. So, we've got two different angles of chest type presses, two different angles of pulls. Then, we come in and we hit the arms and delts. So afterwards, uh, we come in, we do three sets of barbell curls to failure. Now, is this really our minimum volume? Yes. But can you grow from it? In other words, if you do three hard sets of weighted pull-ups, three sets of rows, three sets of curls once a week, can you make back and bicep gains? Absolutely. Absolutely. Um, and hopefully no one argues against that. We've seen plenty of real world evidence. We got plenty of evidence in the lab. There shouldn't be any question about the ability to make some gains doing that. And notice he goes hard. Okay. So, the same thing we did bench press and we did dips. That's success for your chest. That's a decent amount of tricep work. So, then let's come in and let's finish those triceps. In this case, we're going to do some laying extensions. Um, notice the triceps working. Notice his arms have definitely gotten bigger now that we're seeing the sleeveless stuff here. Remember where he started. Eventually, I need to get him to do some some update pictures. He hasn't wanted any of them public, and that's okay. As a coach, I always respect that from a client, but I think um people would be reasonably impressed with what we've done in a few months, you know, uh it's because it's been a few months. We've definitely been at this a little while, right? We've made really good progress in terms of his physique and size, um just body composition. He's made nice steady, really steady lean gains. It's been very, very small amounts of weight gain, but it's been 100% lean, right? Uh, and it's it's come along. He's gotten stronger. He's gotten bigger. Uh, just better shape. So, that's been the goal, you know, because he is he is pursuing basically non-competitive natural bodybuilding. He's like, I just want to be a drug-free guy. He goes, I just want to be as jacked as I can with a good physique. But notice, you know, I have him do the big barbell lifts and weighted body weight exercises. Those are going to be our foundation. And then here I have him finishing up with uh with lateral raises. Again, are the delts being worked quite a bit? Yeah, right. The delts are being worked quite a bit um with the other stuff, but then we come in and we get these in to finish them off, especially with only having one day. We have one day to really get it done. So, we could argue that the benching and the rows and all that absolutely do hit the side delts. I believe they do, but we finish them with a lateral. That way, we know everything's been hit. All right, leg day. Three sets of back squats. This is where we start, right? Making him push the squats hard, taking him to one rep in reserve. Um, I could almost argue to make him go to failure eventually, but um, we might be what we need to do given one day, but I want him to get used to this sort of volumes first. All right, but again, this is relatively challenging. Nice hard last rep, right? Deadlifts. All right, we're up here for three plates and some change, you know, for work sets up at about four to six reps. four to seven reps. So again, uh we've worked the deadlift up here and this puts him kind of around that four plate deadlift. If I were to calculate his max based on his rep work, we got that four plate, right? We're there right now. Same thing with the squats. You know, we're over at two plates with some change, right? So he's not that far. He probably if we were to max him out right now, he's got a three plate squat or plate deadlift. So we're we're well into intermediate territory. Um, but for his case, we don't we don't care about maxing. But notice again, getting quality sets because we do just one set of the deadlifts. That's it. That's all he gets. We make it count. All right. So then afterwards, to finish up legs, we do leg presses, we do calf raises, we do leg curls. All right. So here's the idea. We're back over to u making sure that we work everything. So by us getting three sets of squats, three sets of leg presses. Now, where are we? Well, it takes up to six sets for his quads, his glutes, everything else. Um, and honestly, that's pretty good. The only other stuff we really do need to do is make sure we get some calves, make sure we get a little hamstrings. Um, and honestly, the deadlift, because we only do the one set, we absolutely, in his case, do need a little bit of extra hamstring work. You know, if he was deadlifting two or three days a week, I could make a case for not even needing it. But we do finish up here. We do three sets of the calf raises. We got a good calf raise machine. he could use the extra calf, right? I always argue that that squats and deadlifts can build calves, but it's it's for a lot of guys, it's not going to be maximal. They don't have my calf genetics and some other people's. Um, so again, some calf work for a guy wanting a good physique. Want to get a little bit of this in here as he's gotten a little more advanced, right? Get some direct calf work. We get some direct hamstring work, which you guys will see coming up. And so, so again, making sure we're getting kind of those minimum volumes. But again, this goes to show that when someone gets truly busy, if the training is hard enough and the programming is good, right? The programming is good. In his case, I use a lot of like um double progression and stuff. It's what I do for for most of his big movements, right? I kind of know what rep ranges where I want to see them, and then we adjust based on how strong he is across multiple sets. Uh, and then again, we finish up here with some hamstring curls. Again, this is enough for us to see some gains because he was he was worried he was going to lose gains. He's like, "Can we keep everything I've gained?" And I'm like, "We can make a little bit of progress actually, right? We can actually make progress here and we will." All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.