Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here once again. It is time for my client Gusto's vlog. A quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I greatly appreciate that. All right, so we got Gustoff over here on uh a 4day upper lower right now. Again, his goals, so I just want to be clear on this, his goals are not powerlifting. They're not strength. They are purely aesthetic. Um, but we're still rooted in the big four, right? We still squat, we still bench, we still deadlift, we still do weighted pull-ups, okay? We push these lifts. Now, in his case, because he has these goals, his program is going to be a little more split up. And we do, you know, more isolation work and more volume that a lot of my guys might, right? We don't we rarely go under about five reps uh on on those big lifts, okay? We rarely go under five reps. I try to keep him around five or six except some of his rep work on the bench. Uh but if we look at his first upper day uh very straightforward, all right, very very straightforward. So we have uh bench press, then he does pull-ups, then he does incline uh tricep extensions, curls, laterals, right? Three sets of each. If you look at that, the only thing missing like there's not enough back, but we row on his lower days, right? because he was used to less leg volume only having one leg day. We've gone to two leg days. Uh he can only handle so much volume on them. But at least we have the double exposure. But we do take advantage of that to do more rowing so that we continue to work on thickness. And I I really like doing that for him because I push his deadlifts a little hard and I don't want his back so fatigued uh that he uh can't deadlift from rowing before. Now we are running into some definitely some fatigue where his back is getting fatigued like I don't know I can't really handle the good morning twice a week. Um and and that's okay. So again we do run into the the volume issues occasionally for him and people do need to remember this is a drug free lifter right who does a fair amount of training volume. So need a context for that. He does sometimes get fatigue and he lets me know, hey, certain things are starting to hurt. They're getting uncomfortable, um, aches or pains. And so then we we adjust accordingly. But he trains hard, right? He trains hard. He does full ranges of motion. He pushes sets really hard like I ask him. So even watch the curls because he cares. Younger guy cares about his arms. Tell him to do a set of curls, you know, the failure. He really takes it serious. Right there he is. He's like pausing at the bottom and still doing more reps, you know? So he's he definitely is willing to train hard. He does it consistently and we've just made just nice good solid progress. There we go. Um so then of course then we finish up at lateral. So every muscle in the upper body got at least three sets. All right. His chest got six. Okay. Chest is has always been a little bit of a weak link for him. Feel like midback some of it the thickness is a weak link. So I really do a lot of stuff. That's why we're adding the extra rows in. Want to make sure those traps and stuff grow. All right, his his first leg day. Um, and we run out of space here to put everything. I didn't throw any of the calf raises in because started running a little long. Uh, we do back squats, right? And again, I've been having him work on depth. Now we're good and deep. He was going a little high on the squats and I've told him, "Look, we got to get deeper." Just like he's at a newer gym. Much much better equipped gym. It has a proper leg press, right? We've got a proper good leg press now. Okay. And since we have that leg press, guess what? He can go deeper on that, too. So, I'm trying to get him to go deeper and deeper on the leg work because every he's good at form in general. If you guys notice, he'll train hard, use uses pretty good form on everything. Uh, relatively clean. He he'll use a little body English on the barbell curls, but we all know that's more than permissible because he's he's training them hard. His biceps are getting all the work. His arms are coming along. All right. Uh so then after that of course we do we do good mornings leg press rows uh having do some uh some calf work also. So again didn't throw the calf work in but I like to throw the rows in so that we can at least see the form once a week on those. Uh right and I have some on the second one like we just we don't need this to run 12 minutes. So again good mornings. We've been pushing the reps pretty hard on this. That's his main hamstring. He does good mornings twice a week and then we do deadlifts once a week. All right, leg pressing. Again, the same thing. We're getting a little more range of motion on this machine than what he had on the other one. I mean, ideally, I'd like him to try to get deeper, but all things considered, we are getting deeper than we were uh happy with that. So, again, the only way he's going to get deeper though with that might be to go to a wider stance. So, we may adjust. Then, of course, he does barbell rows, other stuff. Second upper day is very similar to the first. Um, one of the biggest differences though, I take the incline out is we're getting plenty of shoulder work. All right. And we do need more chest. So, after flat bench on the second day, we'll do uh pull-ups and then we do dips. Okay. We were doing body weight. Now, I've got him going to weighted dips. So, he's strong on those. So, again, nice solid full range of motion, good form, nice quality work sets here. So again, uh this will help bring his chest up even further. Uh and the reason one of the reasons I do like dips for chest is it was just like declining that it takes some of the front delt out. People will say stuff like, "Oh, it's a it's a shoulder exercise, too." It uses less front delt than a bench and an incline uses even more. So the lower we go on those angles, the more the ratio shifts from the shoulders to purely chest. So in that case, you know, if your delts have been fatigued a little bit, you you can get more with a decline. And people have these weird ideas that decline or dips or whatever don't work the upper part of the pec major. They absolutely do. There's zero reason to think that they don't biomechanically or EMGs or anything else. Uh this is nonsense. The difference is you do get like more pec minor and a little bit bias towards the upper chest in theory with a barbell incline, but it's because again pec minor and front pelt get hit harder and stuff too. So, uh, over to, uh, here we also do press down. So, I threw these in mainly because so you guys can see the differences in the two days. Uh, it's mostly just pressing type muscles difference. I still have him do curls, barbell curls, I have him do laterals, all that stuff. So, then I replace those laying extensions with rope press down. So, he has has a little bit of variety through the week. So, his four days are all slightly different. They're not perfect clones on the upper, lower. And then we start with a deadlift. On the second one, he just does one top set to about one to zero reps in reserve. And then we repeat all the other stuff, the same movements, the leg press, uh the good mornings, calf raises, rows, all that. Again, deadlifting, he's been coming along. But notice we don't max out. We just do rep work. But we're up past three plates doing doing nice solid work sets with them. Uh which again, coach is happy with, right? As a coach, I'm happy with that. It's what I want to see. We're in a good place there. And then of course I have some footage of his leg press here at the end just to show the extra leg work. Uh so you guys can see that. Again, overall pretty productive week. Although he said his back is starting to hurt and get fatigued, so I'm going to need to adjust a little bit with those good mornings. Uh but again, at least we're getting better ranges of motion here on all the leg stuff at the new gym. Made him start squatting deeper. So pretty happy with that. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next