Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here once again. It is time for my client Gust vlog. But a quick reminder, if you guys would uh please drop a like down below, if you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment down below the video, I would greatly appreciate it. So, let's get over to Gustaf's training. Um, we've moved him over to a 4-day upper lower because we were having issues on his body part split with being able to maintain performance in those muscles uh throughout a workout. And it's what I tell people, look, more training volume does have potential for more growth until performance degrades. And if in a given workout you can't take long enough breaks, u then more and more sets is not going to help. In other words, if you're losing more than about three reps over what you can do fresh on an exercise at a given weight, uh we're no longer getting fast twitch muscle fibers. Okay? Sorry, you're not gaining muscle from it. That is just the reality of it. All right? About that five rep mark, completely worthless. So, in other words, uh let's say you've been doing, you know, back and biceps throughout the workout and you're doing a certain type of curl and there's a weight that completely fresh you could get 14 reps with. Right? Had you not done any other work first on that particular type of curl, barbell curl, dumbbell, whatever, and you're only getting eight or nine reps deep into the workout, you're not stimulating muscle growth, unless you're a novice. Okay? Sorry, you're not. This is just how it works. Your fast twitch fibers are too fatigued to recover set to set. So, you're back to all the intermediate fibers. They they have very, very little growth potential outside of the novice phase. So, this is what I mean by his performance was degrading. he was simply running out of steam. So now we've split it up to where, you know, he doesn't do more than about six sets for one muscle per workout twice a week. So, you know, this lets us get, you know, something something in that range. So, perfect example, upper body day. What do you guys see here? Uh, we see flat bench, we see incline. That's it. That's his whole chest workout. I'm not doing multiple exercises there. Um, then we come through, we do weighted pull-ups, we do some laying extensions, have him do some lateral raises, we do some curls. So, what do we get out of this? Well, we have one light exercise, but I have him training his lats all four days, his upper and his lower. We are doing some sort of back work. I'm counting rows can count towards to some extent some lower, but we do pull-ups on the pure upper day. So, we end up with about 12 sets for lats a week, uh, spread out. But in his case, look, we're doing six sets for chest, three sets for lats, three sets for triceps, okay? Three sets for delts. I have him do some laterals in here. I'm not including all of it. I don't want these I want these vlogs under 10 minutes. Um, and then of course, what do we do here? We do laying extensions, getting that that full extension with the long head. So, he takes them behind his head. And then I have him do strict barbell curls. Okay. Now, we know the pull-ups and other stuff contribute to the biceps, but I'm still going to have him do curls twice a week, but we don't need a huge amount of volume. We don't need huge amount of volume. We're getting six direct sets for biceps, triceps, and delts every week in addition to all the big compounds because they they do carry over, guys. All the benching with the barbells, the dumbbells, the other stuff, it's working triceps, but we do need some extension. So, having him do extensions one day and then press downs the other. Um, again, intermediate lifter, uh, worried about physique. So, in his case, he doesn't care so much about strength, so we don't go really low rep. I generally don't want him on other than maybe deadlift going under about five reps for squats, bench, all that stuff. So, our our program is built around squat, pench, deadlift, pull-ups. Okay. For his first lower day, we do squats for one top set. We do deadlifts for one top set on the other and then we go to all machines and and hip hinge movements, right? So his lower body day uh you know here we do back squats, we do leg presses, right? We do leg presses, which I didn't include that. I'll include it in the the next workout later in the vlog. We do good mornings. Okay. Uh then he does calf work and then some upper back work. So, usually I have him doing right now like seated cable rows is what he does on this day. Mainly because he gets nauseated with the barbell row. That's fine. He's not lazy. He deadlifts and does weighted pull-ups. So, it's not a lazy factor. I got a client who's just being lazy. I'm gonna call him on it. No, he threw up in the middle of rows. He's like ruining my workout. I'm puked. Can, you know, it's the higher rep rows I have him doing because we're trying to build muscle. You know, I've got him doing, you know, a lot of 8 to 10 stuff, a lot of 8 to 12 stuff. Uh so then after that we do good mornings leg presses, seated cable rows, um then some calf work, right? He's changing gyms here soon. So then we're have access to better machines like you guys saw in that last vlog. Uh but yeah, so having I'm having him hammering good mornings pretty hard right now. I'm a big fan. He was doing some RDL's and other stuff. Now let's take you over to the good mornings. Um they work. They're great. It'll give him a change of stimulus for a bit. Um and again, let's just progress on these. Build your low back, build your hamstrings. All right, second upper day. Very similar. We changed some of the movements a little. So, have him do flat bench and pull-ups. Notice these are these are our constants. All right, flat bench and weighted pull-ups are his staples. Those are anchor exercises. Those get done every upper body day. Now, we rotate some other stuff around to help with overuse and other stuff, but you know, three sets of bench twice a week, three sets of pull-ups twice a week. H we're not crazy on the overuse. He's not super strong yet, you know. And these are all done for relatively high reps. Most of this stuff is is A+ reps. So, we're not beating them super heavy, right? We're not be But he does train hard. We go real close to failure or to failure. Uh same thing, weighted pull-ups. He's got good form on these two. Notice how clean those look. He's got really good lats right now in the pictures. Eventually, he will do some afters. Um he's not comfortable with them yet, but his progress has been really good. He actually has a really, really good vtaper right now. But again, those pull-ups, look at that form, right? Good range of motion. He's pulling from a dead hang. He's gotten stronger on him. Of course, he's going to have lats. It's unavoidable. Um, same thing here. We want to do some some decline. It's just at a slight decline, just be able to be comfortable. We do a decline dumbbell. So, instead of the we do incline on day one, day two, I have him doing a decline dumbbell. Again, making sure we get that stretch in that lower chest. uh pecs have been a weakling for him a little bit. So, I do make sure we get some variety and I make sure we get at least 12 direct sets for pecs every single week. Uh because it's historically been, you know, like visibly a weekly. Keep in mind, he's he's training for physique purposes, not for uh powerlifting or sports. So, again, we have to look at that aesthetic balance because this is what he's training for. And he's a young he's like he's 20 years old and drug-free. Okay? So, we're building that base. But he is building that base. He He's gonna be real jacked one day because again, he's got good work ethic. Notice the work ethic. He tries to focus on good form. He does sets. He He does the sets hard. He puts in the work. He's consistent, right? He's willing to do what it takes to get there. But again, as I've said, he he is he is adamant about being a lifetime drug-free guy. So, that means we've got to build a strength base. Like you can't be weak and be jacked without steroids. You got to be strong. So yeah, we're going to put in some time on the squat and deadlift and stuff. We have to. We got to get that neural drive up. But you know, we still come in and do all the isolation and other stuff because he cares about quite frankly his physique and aesthetics, right? So we do deadlift on that day. Then we do leg presses. We do all the same stuff I described before other than I do a an incline dumbbell row on this day, which you guys will see coming up. making sure we're getting a little upper back. So, notice some of those secondary movements, you know, throughout the week, we do change them. So, we do a seated cable row, then we do an incline dumbbell. You know, the pull-up stays a constant. So, like for the chest, we'll do an incline, you know, we'll do an incline bench, and then we'll do a decline dumbbell on the second day. So, we are working those different angles. We're making sure that we are hitting every possible angle with sufficient volume to keep him growing, but we're also making sure we're not outpacing his recovery, right? because again recovery is everything. Uh but overall very happy with his his progress this week. He's been getting bigger, he's getting stronger, we're getting thicker. Uh so I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.