Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha strength and fitness and once again it is time for my client Alex's dad bod the daddy training vlog. Um for those who are not following we run a full body workout for him three days a week we alternate an A and B workout. Um this week started with a B workout and we need to be clear he is one of my most busy clients that I have. Okay. Insanely busy between his career, his family, um his other other passions. Like he's phenomenal guitarist. Actually has a a band also. They do a few gigs. Full-time career. Uh father of two kids. Like he's he's a busy busy dude. Um we don't even always get all three workouts in. So when we come to his training, we're our goal is to be efficient, right? We just want him to have the best the best dad bot playing the guitar up there with the dudes. We want him to have, you know, the the best dad bot and be the the fittest that he can, strongest that he can, uh, you know, to be a father, to be hanging out, you know, barbecuing by the pool and whatever. So, again, we just we want to look thick and shorts and a t-shirt. We want to be fit. We want to be strong, right? the the things that people want, you know, and it's stuff that I I tell guys, you know, let's set aside a lot of younger guys who are who are chasing just a physique. And think about in terms of of quality of life and just again, the reason I say dadbot with some of this is think about it this way. No one wants a weak husband. No one wants a weak father. No one wants a weak brother, weak son. Okay? So get strong. And in his case, you know, we we can squat 405. you know, he can bench about 250 right now. The benching is improving. He can do weighted pull-ups, right? We can deadlift mid 400s, right? So, so that's the point. Um, so it's just about him being strong, having a decent amount of muscle, and just being generally healthy. Eats pretty healthy diet, right? But we're not necessarily obsessed with having a phenomenal physique. Um, he's not really done much in the way of dedicated cut, even though his waist is smaller. We've recompositioned quite a bit. and the gaining that muscle because I did some before and afters at one point and he had gained three pounds but he's like my waist is down three inches but the scale is up three pounds in a year and a half of working with you know in addition to putting 100 lbs on his squat and deadlift right so there there's our context you know so in this case it's saying hey we're not chasing perfection we just want to be strong and fit so if you start looking at the workouts it's it's about efficiency he's got about 45 minutes he can squeeze He's in three days a week. He's built a home gym just so that he doesn't deal with commute time. He doesn't have excuses to not work out. He's like, I got everything right there in the garage. Um I can go in, get my workouts done. But we've got to be efficient. So if you look at um workout A here, which we're starting at this point in the middle of the blog, we started with a B, and I'll go over that in the latter half again. All right. Workout A, we do squats, bench, pull-ups, barbell curls. Now, people will laugh. They're like, "Are we really doing a barbell curl with this?" Yeah. You know why? Because he's in a t-shirt a lot. And you know what? A barbell curl, strict barbell curl is still a big exercise. It still builds stuff like your upper back and shoulders and things. It counts. Now, for people say, "Well, where's the shoulder?" Well, the shoulder works in workout B, right? We incline and overhead press. Okay? But A, we do three sets of squats. We're in about that four to six rep range. do three sets of bench press, three sets of weighted pull-ups. Some of the stuff gets up to about eight or nine reps, and then we we adjust weight. I run a lot of like double progression, but his his sets are not always consistent through the workout. He doesn't have a lot of time, so we're not taking five minute breaks here. So, yeah, we might start on weighted pull-ups with with nine, eight, seven, and then reach failure or even six on the last one. But the thing is, we're not losing more than two or three reps, and that's kind of the point. Um, so we do weighted pull-ups and he's got like 30 pounds there, you know, and so let's talk about that from just an overall health and fitness perspective. He's not a ripped dude. We squat heavy and yet he can still do weighted pull-ups, okay? He can do eight about eight reps on average with 30 pounds on a weighted pull-up, right? Overhand grip pull-ups. So he's got good upper body strength, right? And that's what we want. We want to be able to do weighted body weight type movements. We're strong at squats. We're strong at weighted pull-ups. Okay. But we do some curls because same thing, you know, um he's he's in a t-shirt a lot. He's in t-shirt a lot. And at the end of the day, having a little bit of bicep is not going to be a bad thing. I'm not worried about direct tricep work for him because we do so much pressing right now. And for him, it's just it's biceps a little more of a priority with that. But we do a lot of bit of pressing. So we bench on that day. And then workout B, we would do three sets of incline and three sets of overhead. So we get a lot of shoulder and tricep there. Again, thinking in terms of efficiency and that's what we're looking at, right? We're looking in terms of efficiency. Um, so his workout B is what you see here. What do we have? We do one allout set of deadlifts. We wanted about one rep in reserve. I just want him to go hard without his form degrading, right? We want the last rep to be heavy. So, he did 390 for a triple there. Okay. Now, he he he deadlifts like 430, 435. I think that's where our best single is. Okay. So, we do one set of deadlifts. We do three sets of incline bench. Okay. We need chest and shoulders here. And again, the incline carries over to his flat bench. I'm going to get eventually get his flat bench to 300. It's going to take time. You know, it's going to take time. But, you know, obviously his benching is his weakest lift of his big lift. Everyone's like, "Well, he's good at pull-ups. He's good at squats. He's good at But but realistically, it's not like he's weak on bench. It's just that it is his weakest link." So, that being said, even then, you know, he's he's like 180 something pounds. You know, a 250 bench isn't bad. Not bad at all. We got plenty of guys out here just want to reach that 225. I'll eventually give me enough years I I'll get him to 300, but it's going to take a lot of of work. Um, so what do we do there? We incline bench, which we'll carry over to that. We get shoulder, we get chest, we get tricep out of it. We do barbell rows on this day. Okay. So, we alternate all his movements really. We don't have a lot of overlap between his two full bodies unlike mine and some of my other guys. So, a lot of my dadbod guys, I alternate, right? We have a squat day and a deadlift day and we'll do different presses on those days. Oftentimes, different pulls, you know, some of them will pull up on all of them, some of them will pull up or chin up, some of them pull up in a row. Depends on what we need. But in his case, um, I'm alternating them because he's good at pull-ups already. And so then the rows gives us a little better carryover to the posterior chain. And it's just to avoid overuse because he's actually pretty good at pull-ups. Um, I don't want to get a lot of overuse on the shoulders. So, I'm not always having him do pull-ups on the days with all the overhead work. Again, trying not to beat the shoulders up too much because again, it's guy who's busy guy, right? We have limited recovery, limited time. So, again, I do think in terms a little bit with overuse for him and we think about this stuff. So, what do we do here? We row, then we overhead press, and then we do reverse hypers. And the reverse hypers is really based upon what he has for time left. It's like we want to get at least one set and if he has the time at the end of that workout, we try to get all five sets. And that keeps his lower back strong. Um because again, keep in mind he's not a spring chicken. He's a busy dad, right? He's almost 40 years old. We're real close. Um we're closing in on it. So keeping that low back healthy, keeping those hips healthy, keeping all that posterior chain healthy is kind of a big deal. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.