Hey everybody, it's Jason Waha here once again. It's time for my client Ted's vlog. Uh, quick reminder though, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to leave me a comment down below, be greatly appreciated. Thank you so much. So, we started his max effort upper off with closed grip pen press. Now, he chooses to only close grip bench. We just feel better for it for his goals overall. So, we just run with it. He wants a closed grip bench. coach going to have him close grip bench. So, we've gotten stronger and stronger here. So, 260 off pins will take it. A lot of people have noted his shoulders are crazy strong. His shoulder development is good, which is why, you know, again, he strict presses 200. He's incined 225 on camera, but uh we're okay with that. You know, he's not really interested in wider grip benching or the impact of it on his shoulders. Um so, again, we choose to just close grip and it works for his goals. So he also feels like he's got a press PR coming up. For those curious, he's about 190 right now and obviously pretty lean. So for a lot of our supplemental work, pretty straightforward. We do do a little bit of rep work on there because we only do flat bench there. We do speed bench on the other day, right, with bands. Um so we do a little bit of flat benching after we do incline bench. We do overhead press, right? And notice again, he has a 200 strict press. So doing stuff like 155 for rep work, pretty easy. Notice it's smooth for him. He has a very solid lock. He's got great shoulder, great shoulder mobility, right? Definitely a strong point for him. Uh but again, a young athletic guy. That's what we expect to see. That's what we want to see. Um so after that, we of course we do pull-ups, we do some JM floor presses, and he does some curls. Um and that pretty much is max effort upper day. Yes, it's a lot of volume. He's a highly conditioned athlete, so he does a lot of volume. Uh, but here we have our weighted pull-ups. So, again, pretty good at those. Also, notice if we do them from a dead hang, right? Again, great shoulder mobility, great overall strength. Again, very, very athletic. Um, again, he does other stuff, does martial arts and things. So, again, all his stuff, he also was a track athlete when younger. Uh over here we're going to work on the the JM floor press. So what we are doing now we realize we're just going to keep getting those triceps stronger. Everyone's he's got big triceps. He does, but he wants that closed grip bench to get bigger. You know, we'd like to crack a 300 close grip, okay? Is a is a very very solid goal. So we've definitely got the shoulder strength there. Pecs are just going to kind of be along for the ride with what we do for him with his training. So it's going to be a matter of just getting those triceps crazy strong. Well, this will do it. So, we're going to run this for a phase and if we start feeling it it getting beat up, we'll rotate it back out. But I figure, you know, about a three-week block of these and then we can rotate them. Then he always comes up with his own curl stuff. I threw them in here later. All right. For max effort lower, we did the cambered bar on a box. He got 355 on a low box and he's like, "Yeah, that was that was a little bit scary." Which is very very normal for that bar. Anyone who's used a cambered bar on a low box knows exactly what he experienced or like, yeah, that bar feels like it's going to get out of control. You know, it is it's that inability to stabilize it when it swings back, right? When when it swings back, it tries to pull you backward. So, like when the SSB pulls you forward, the camber bar will pull you back and it it can you have to stay super tight on that box or you will lose it. you'll you'll end up almost getting pulled backwards. Um so again, so when he's like, "Yeah, I felt a little, you know, little little dicey." I'm like, "Yeah, I know as a coach who's done that lift, I know exactly what you were talking about." And anyone who's done it will also. All right. So for other work, we obviously do machine squats, we do reverse hypers, we do glute ham raises, uh we do good mornings. Okay. All of our bread and butter stuff. We build posterior chain. We build that posterior chain up. Uh so again, this phase we've been pushing the SSB on the good morning. We were running for a couple months. Uh we were running the camber bar. Now we're over to the SSB. So again, get a little more T-spine because for him it's about building that upper back. We've realized and he's realized his upper back is what limits his squats. SSB work will fix that. So, we can also test the SSB back squat as a tester to know if he's ready to PR his squats. If he's used to squatting deep, he's got quads, he's got adductors. We're going to work the adductors and stuff a little more. You know, we're going to build some of that up, but right now that upper back upper back is what limits him. So, that's what we have to push. That's what we're going to do. But, we're obviously not neglecting the the quads and the adductors. So, even his sumo speed poles and stuff will help with that. But over here, of course, then we're going to have our nice uh wide stance belt squats. So, again, this builds our quads. It builds our adductors. And and again, notice most of the stuff he does is really deep. It is deep. It's full ranges of motion. Um we're going to work in some other machines though for his legs. So, we're going to have a little bit heavier work because he's getting strong enough we can do that like a lot of my advanced guys do to where we do some heavier stuff on max effort day and then we do really just repetic effort. Um but again here um belt squat. So that's again what were our accessories for the day. It's going to be u belt squat. Good morning glute ham raise reverse hyper. Okay. We don't always necessarily have room to fit all of that in on the speed days because we have speed squats and speed pulls. Um so I'm not going to throw too much uh the accessory stuff in for the rest of the vlog for that. We're just going to see all the speed work coming up. I did throw in the curls. He's like, he's like, I call him Teddy curls cuz he's like, his name's Ted. You're joking about him. Um, he's like, I been in my own type of curl. I'm like, if that's you want to do, go ahead. He's got great biceps, so he can do whatever he wants for his curls. He likes to change it up, and that's perfectly fine. I think people need to realize that, too. Curl is a curl at the end of the day, and as long as you're pushing hard, it's fine. As long as you're taking the sets close to failure and there's a general progression, you're good. All right. So, speed bench. Speed bench. Uh, we're doing dynamic effort against bands. Obviously, the weight on the bar is pretty light with what we're doing because it's all percentage based. And I like most of my lifters to be at around 50% of their max for speed work. I have math on how we determine that with bands and chains, uh, which I discuss with my people often to make sure they understand, uh, for our setups. And then they, of course, measure stuff. He's got fish scales and stuff so he can measure it. So again, speed bench, we do triples with 30 seconds break. And then he's like, "Here's the curl I decided not to mess with." It's almost like a barbell concentration curl, but it works, right? It's strict. He's got the mobility to do it. He's almost just showing off his mobility. He's like, "I just dropped down here into a third world squat." He's like, "Hey, coach, you're a Slav." And he didn't say that. Um, but I'm Slavic, so it's like like, why don't you do these, coach? like I'm I'm gonna be um called out on that. So speed pulse uh we do sumo against bands right now. So for this phase it's a sumo phase and then we're doing the SSB for the box. So and then we'll probably go back to a different bar for those when we go back to conventional. Uh so again we do speed pulls and then he does uh speed squats with the safety squat bar. So again, he's getting better at setting up his band setups and learning the tensions and how to do all those. Um, and it's not always easy to set up for him on the squat setup. So he's going to be working on that. So we just did straight weight this week. But overall, then the accessories are pretty similar to the upper days. Uh, but again, happy with it. So I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.