Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and once again it's time for my client Alex's vlog. Uh but a quick reminder if you guys will click like down below be greatly appreciated. If you aren't following or subscribed, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that. Thank you so much. Let's get over into it. Um Alex uh is one of my clients who his his vlogs are going to be a little different from some of the others, right? We run fairly low volume, fairly low frequency, and the reason for that, he has a really really busy lifestyle. we've already built a base. So, he's built a base already. Um, but now he's at a point where he's like, "Look, I just need to work on body composition, getting stronger, uh, whatever I can do inside of my very limited time." So, he has about, you know, 45 minutes, maybe an hour, three days a week. Okay? That's what he can work in to train. So, we do a push pull legs Monday, Wednesday, Friday. And this is kind of a standard uh template like of what I again I call dad bod daddy training for a lot of my my really busy guys who are dads uh busy careers uh busy lives who are like look I I still need to be jack I need to be strong um I want to look good I don't care about necessarily looking like a bodybuilder but I got to get thicker I got to get bigger um and I need to be at a reasonable body composition and that's kind of what we're talking about you know with with the whole dad ba thing you you know, uh, dad to daddy still want to look thick. They're not trying to be ripped or anything. That's usually not the goal. Um, they just don't want to be too fluffy and they want to have some muscle. They want to when they they go to some event or they're hanging out in an event, uh, you know, they're in some shorts and a t-shirt at the pool or barbecue, they still want to be kind of the jacket guy there. You know, everyone knows they lift. Uh so so what we do like in his case it's a it's a squat bench deadlift based program. So on our push day we do flat bench, we do incline, we do overhead press, we do triceps, right? We do three sets of each, right? So we have a pushpull legs, you know, kind of built around the big three. And I'm always going to be a big a big fan of the big three for muscle building. I'm one of those people when people say, well, you know, not everyone should squat, bench, and dead level. Why not? Okay. to me that the arguments people make towards it are kind of silly. And I've I've made entire arguments about why we absolutely should still base our programs around it, why it makes sense for the average person in general population to do them and why it makes sense for athletes and why why a good coach understands this. My only exception might be I get it in the context of a top level pro bodybuilder. Maybe they want to substitute something something else in due to whatever's going on with the fatigue of it. Okay, fine. But the these things don't apply to the average person. Average person going to get a lot out of the the big three. Okay, just for general strength. And the point I've always made, we know how to program them. We have tons of enormous amounts of scientific research. We have enormous amounts of coaching experience in perfecting these three lifts. Therefore, that makes them superior by default. Okay, because of the knowledge and information we have, all other variables being equal, they are automatically superior lifts from a coaching and a training perspective. Okay? Because we know more about them and we know how to make them work. Uh so by default, that makes them the best. Yes, the popularity makes them the best. All right, so what do what do we do on his pull day? We we'd usually just do one heavy deadlift single and then we come over and we just do lats and triceps and some delts. So for him right now, we do weighted pull-ups. We do barbell rows. I've already told many guys, man, like if you do get really good at those two lifts, you're already going to look thick in a shirt. And when I say that, people will say stuff, no, you've got to train other stuff. Nobody's told you not to train other stuff. And nowhere in that sentence do we imply only do those two lifts, that's all you ever need. No. But what I'm saying is if you get good at those two lifts as part of your overall program, you're just you're going to look thick when you're in a t-shirt. It it will happen because of all the lats and the traps and just that whole wider back and wider shoulder structure it gives you. You're just going to look bigger. All right. So, in his case, we do those, we do laterals, we do barbell curls, right? For him though, we we actually always put a lot of emphasis on the chest. Um, and the reason is his chest historically always been an area he wanted more work in. Feels like it's a weak link. Um, and I could always add more in even like at a certain point I could even take that overhead press out and throw more chest work in if we really wanted. All right. I could throw some pullovers and stuff in, which I might do at some point, you know, might do at some point. Uh, but a lot of my guys like this too. We like to keep that overhead press in uh, you know, just for the the effect on the body, right? Again, throwing that in with the big three. It's it's another big standing structural lift. All right. It'll just make you make you bigger, stronger overall. All right. Uh, leg day. Uh, of course we do back squats, right? And I have him go hard on good mornings. He's actually really strong at good mornings, but be aware he does kind of what we call a power good morning, right? So, he does his work set right now with 315 on the back squat. Um, his max, he's hit a 405 before under my coaching, but he was also training a little more. Like right now, we just we don't have the time for all that. He could probably still hit a 405 though if we had to. Uh, we got a deadlift PR a couple weeks ago just doing this training still because I threw it in. I'm like, he he can PR now. he's strong enough. But we do a power good morning. So if people don't understand that, they're like, why don't you keep the legs more straight and maneuver? Because you have to go really light and when you reach a certain strength level. So keep in mind if you can rep out 10 reps of 315 like this on the power good morning, what happens when you try to do your body weight to where you can bend all the way over? It turns into 50 rep sets. So it it becomes so light um that guys don't want to do 25 reps. They just don't. So in a case of someone like him, if we tried to use that form and we went down under his body weight, put 155 on the bar, it starts turning into cardio. Okay? And that's that's the problem. So we just treat it as a big power exercise. We do the nice wide stance. We allow um you know we just push the hips back and we leverage it up and it gives the the effect we still want. It absolutely will build massive hamstrings, massive glutes, will build your back will carry over to your squat and your deadlift and that's the idea. All right. Then for secondary quad exercises, we do lunges. Do alternating foot lunges. Um so again, we want to get a second quad movement in because we really only have three sets of squats in here. So again, coming in and doing something like this is really quick and easy to do. Afterwards, we get some additional stimulus of the the quads, glutes, abductors. Make sure they're getting more than just three sets. And then, of course, we finish up with the reverse hyperextension, which everyone knows I'm a fan of. He bought that budget titan model. I used to have this exact same one, if you guys remember. I gave it away um as a gift to someone when I upgraded to the Rogue, but I used to have this exact same model. It served me well. Um it's more expensive now. When I bought it, it was like $400 years ago and then what was that almost three years ago? I upgraded to the Rogue and I gave it away. Um, so yeah, uh, I'm a big fan of it for obvious reasons. We discussed why a lot. That's always throw this in at the end for now. This is his bulk. He's heavier on the right. I had some people not realize that. They're like, "Oh, he looked some people thought he looked better on the left." Like he's smaller on the left. That's more body fat and less muscle. He is bigger and stronger like a 100 pound squat and deadlift more on the right. And he's almost three pounds heavier.