Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha strength and fitness. And once again, it is time for my client Alex's dad bod to daddy transformation blog. And uh for those who have been following with Alex, very very busy guy. Uh we do a 3-day upper lower. Now he has to slide these down a lot. He has a lot going on. Sometimes he only gets two workouts in a week. So we basically just continue it wherever we're at. All right. We continue wherever we're at. So there he got like 385 for I believe a triple on the deadlift. Might have been a little bit more. Um so again I've been keeping him down in the high 300s right around 400ish. Um and he's been getting anywhere from three to four reps for that right now. Um but what we're doing with his training at the moment we run an A and a B workout. So the the B workout is what you see at the start because we go AB AB AB. So, you know, every other week you're going to get um each workout twice and the other one once. So, again, hopefully that makes sense. So, for those who are not understanding the workout A, which is a squatbased, and the workout B, which is a deadlift base. Okay? So, we might do Monday, Wednesday, Friday. So, A on Monday, B on Wednesday, A on Friday, and then it reverses the next week. So, we can follow the sequence. And so what you'll notice I have him do at the moment, uh, we do four basic lifts most of the days for three sets. Now, in the case of the deadlift day, we only do one set. I'm not trying to make my guys do multiple sets of deadlifts. And then, of course, we do reverse hypers at the end, though, to get the extra volume. So, every other lift with the deadlift and the reverse hyper, it's it's three sets. And on average, so if we go to the workout A, it's four exercises at three sets, right? It's a little different with the B because we only do one set of deadlifts, but the incline, the barbell row, and the overhead press, right? We do three sets. And what I'm having him do with these a little bit more, we were doing a lot of sets across. Now, I'm transitioning him into where we do a top set on the pressing and then we do a slightly reduced back off set. So, both the bench and then on the incline. So, you'll we'll have a couple different rep ranges there. Um, I usually have him doing, you know, a moderately heavy top set, you know, in about that four, five, six rep range, okay, on those. And then we do a back off work. Um, so his workout B is built around those three exercises, four exercises, I'm sorry, deadlift, incline, barbell, row, press, and then we do reverse hypers at the end. Depending upon what he has left for time, we do up to five sets. Now, the squatting, he's he's a little struggly this week. noticed his couple of those reps he's struggling just a hair to reach depth. Normally he reaches depth really well. He had a lot of fatigue this training week. Um so the numbers were struggling. We've been pring so recently up until kind of this week where he had a bunch of life stuff um interfer recovery mess with his sleep and everything. We've actually been hitting uh rep PRs, right? So we've been getting sets of like six plus on the the 315. So I bumped him up. So most a lot of his lifts have increased. Okay. Now, we're seeing just a little bit of a wall being hit, but I think it will sort itself out with a little bit of extra sleep, you know, over the coming few days. Um, get caught back up and then we we uh we're good to go. So, this workout A is what you see for the the second set of stuff from this training blog. So, we have three sets of back squats, right? Three sets of bench press, three sets of weighted pull-ups, and then we do a barbell curl. Um, now, so again, a lot of people are like, "This is all compound movements, yet you still have barbell curls. Why?" Um, as I've explained previously, you know, we have we have a guy like Alex who he's in a t-shirt a lot. He's doing dad stuff, right? Busy guy, busy career, kids, wife, has a band, right? Really busy guy. This is why he trains at home. He's like, I don't have to deal with traveling to a gym. I can have my stuff in my garage. um I can get my three workouts in and get back to doing what I need to do whether it's it's workrelated, father related, husband related, band related, right? He's got all these things to do. But in the case of this, it's like we just want to make sure he has some biceps, you know? And and this is what we talk about real training for for real people. Like these are realistic people. These are not physique competitors. These are not powerlters. Now, he squats and deadlifts over 400, by the way. He does weighted pull-ups, so he's pretty pretty strong, but he is he is not a competitor though. Now, he he does do some fighting uh sports recreationally. He does do BJJ also. So, again, kind of think about that. So, we need all those other big movements. We need the reverse hypers. We need the the squat, the deadlift, right? We need all the pulling, right? We need the overhead press. We need all that stuff. Um so, again, he needs to be functional. He needs to be strong. So, again, a perfect example. People say, "Well, how will you train someone who's busy and has all these other endeavors?" I mean, full body like this. This works great. These workouts take less than an hour. Okay, that's 12 work sets. And mind you, it's just curls for the last three. Squat, bench, pull-up, right? That's not long. And and you don't have to do a bunch of warming up by the time you get to the pull-ups and curls. Like, you've already done any warming up for the squat and bench. You're done. You can go straight to something like a pull-up straight into your curls. This workout's less than an hour. Same thing on his other workout. You know, we do one top set of deadlifts, does three sets of incline, does uh the press, does barbell row, and then if he has any time left, he works in up to five sets of reverse hypers. You know, anywhere between one and five sets depending upon what he's got left for time. So again, very straightforward. We're very press dominant though at the moment with his volumes because again we need to bring his chest, we need to bring his bench up. And so we kind of almost have the old school the old school 50s and 60s bench press approach guys used to build a big bench raw bench. You bench wide grip do a third of it uh flat third of it incline a third of it overhead press. Very old protocol but it's more or less what he's doing here in this situation. Just split up over threeday full body, right? But that's how the volume is distributed. and I'll let you guys finish up watching the rest of the the footage. You can see just kind of the all three workouts. So, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next