Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals about how moderating foods or saying not to demonize foods is not an evidence-based approach. Uh but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that so much. Thank you. All right, let's get over to the topic. Um you know, people get mad at me when I do this. are like, "Why are you brewing orthorrexic?" I'm not. Guys, these foods are not foods. And I've been saying this a long time. A bunch of refined garbage is engineered to be hyper palatable and addictive is not food. It's junk. Okay? It's it's poison. Um, we should be eating whole foods for the most part. And I'm not even saying an occasional cheap meal is a big deal, but it shouldn't even really be a weekly thing, you know, not not the real junk food. Um, and so, you know, we look at this and people try to claim that there's that they're an evidence-based, but it's all the flexible dieting people who are like, well, if you just count calories, you'll lose weight. But we're not talking about just weight loss. Um, when you look at the data, um, and like here at the end of June, a big meta analysis came out in Nature, right? Nature, this is a prestigious uh, research publication. 15 doctors were involved in this meta analysis looking at something like 90 studies and they did a deep analysis of specifically we don't need to go into the trans fats because trans fats are illegal in the US now and mo the biggest chunk of my audience is in the US um so I don't even I'm not going to go into that but they covered sugar sweetened beverages for those who don't know we call that soda or whatever in the US my British audience call them fizzy drinks which is really funny um but you know again soda or pop or cokes or whatever you call them. They did that and then they looked at refined meats, what they're calling processed meats. To understand what they mean by that, they're talking about bacon, sausage, right? The stuff full of nitrates and really high in saturated fat concurrently is what they're they're talking about. So, those are examples of the the two biggest ones. It's going to be bacon, sausage, salamis, things like that. Okay. Uh and when you look at this data, they determined wow that moderation doesn't work. Moderation reduces the harm. It doesn't remove it. You know, when you start digging through, they're like, "Oh, yeah. We found that very small of any amount of sugar sweetened beverages above zero." Okay? So, above zero would mean any per week or every two weeks. So, in theory, because it's hard to pin down, they're like, "We notice anything above zero, a minimum." So, one a week would put you there, right? one one soda a week of one sugar sweetened beverage said would it seem to have a minimum because it scales with amount a minimum so any amount above zero had a minimum increase of 8% in diabetes rates and a 3% increase in right cardiovascular disease. So basically they're telling you that if you have one soda per week your risk of diabetes goes up 8% cardiovascular disease 3%. This isn't zero. So when people are like oh having a couple here and there isn't going to hurt you as long as your calories are accounted for. Well that's not evidence basis. Meta analysis is saying uh no saying the opposite. Uh we got into the the refined meats and they determined something like 6 grams or 0.5 grams up to 57 grams a day. Do you understand how little that is? That's like half a slice of bacon. The moderate amount, the mo most modest amount. So again, if you have half a piece of bacon with your breakfast every morning, um they're like, "Yeah, 11% increase in diabetes, significant increase in uh colon and rectum cancer." Okay, like significant amounts from eating half a piece of bacon in the morning every morning. This is extreme moderation. So these people who are like, "Ah, you can work a little bit in." This is what the data is showing. This is evidence. And again, we're talking a largecale metaanalysis that's published in Nature at this point. It's very easy to find of people are like, why don't you link studies? I don't because I got a strike for it years ago. I will never link another study under my videos and I don't care. I don't care if people want me to. You can go find it yourself. If you really cared, if you actually cared about this topic, you probably already have read this. It's pretty widescale news. Um, but the point is, yeah, I'm not losing my check marks because people don't want to look up studies. I'm just not risking it. But back over to that point of u how can people then claim, oh, you can't demonize foods? Well, really? But all these PhDs can all these researchers, these medical doctors and and PhDs in nutritional science, they're sure demonizing it and saying, "Look, in even in moderation amounts, very small moderation amounts, we're still seeing measurable harm. The safe the safe intake of them is zero like any intake. So we can't determine a minimum safe intake. Therefore, the safe intake is zero. That's what they're saying. This is what the evidence says. Of course, some people will respond with, "Well, you know, doctors and researchers don't know everything." Well, I'm going to go on a limb and say that if a doctor, this is his field of study, and they're analyzing large amounts of data and looking at it, they probably know more than you do. No, they don't know everything, but who statistically who is more likely to get it right? This is what I ask people. You're right. Doctors don't know everything. They make mistakes. Scientists make mistakes. But if push comes to shove, most of you out there with your own backgrounds and your own knowledge, if it comes to knowing how much bacon or soda can influence diabetes rates, who's more likely to get it right, you or the researcher who just did a metaanalysis of 90 studies and did a deep analysis of it and came up with exact percentages of how much this small amount seems to increase it. Who's more likely to be correct just if you had to gamble on it? Right? So, when people say that silly stuff, it's like, okay, so if you had to gamble your entire home and everything you own, right? Like, so say a million dollars, like you owe a million dollars and they'll confiscate all your stuff if you if you lose the bet, who you betting on exactly. Yeah. You're not betting on the soccer mom, holistic uh medicine person, whatever gal, babe, gal, carnivore, whoever. You're not betting on her. You're probably betting on the the researcher with the PhD in the field. If you had something to lose, really something to lose. So, just stop. But this is this is what the data shows. This is what the evidence is that these foods even in small amounts are harmful. In other words, guys, looking at this, bacon and sausage and sugary sodas cause harm even in very small amounts. Measurable statistic increase of risk. So, who's demonizing the food? Is it me demonizing this stuff? Is it those of us who saying, "Hey, you should eat healthy all the time. It would be a good idea." Or is it literally the scientific evidence being compiled saying, "Hey guys, junk food is bad for you. Highly refined garbage, nutritionally void garbage like this is bad for you." And people say, "You can't put that on it." But the data says it's bad for you. It literally is bad for you. Therefore, it's bad food. That's not demonizing it. It's like saying, "Quit demonizing rat poison. Some of us enjoy eating it, right?" It's the same. That would be the same level of stupidity. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.