Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about the deadlift as a hypertrophy exercise. Uh but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment under the video, I would appreciate it so much. Thank you. All right. Um apparently this has become a topic of great controversy. Um, we see so many of these quote unquote science-based and evidence-based people claiming the deadlift is not great for hypertrophy. They talk about risk versus reward and and you know, you guys are standing here watching me at 48 years old, no injuries from it, deadlifting 5 85 there. I think my best set work set on camera here is 500 for five at some point in there, you know, and these are just just normal, clean, solid work sets. And you know, so to me, when people start talking about these injuries, I have to question, you know, why haven't you built your body up, right? Um, I think it's a safe exercise. I think it's a perfectly safe exercise. And, you know, the issue we have is when they say it's not great for building muscle, well, where is your evidence? Like do you actually have so the people who say this if do you have any studies that looked at the deadlift that found that it produced poor hypertrophy or do you have studies that have shown really robust hypertrophy and studies showing very robust muscle activation? Okay. Then we'll get into and discuss real world stuff in a minute. You know, we we all see lifters all the time, barring a few genetic freaks, you know, with amazing leverages. Have we not watched people just get thicker and thicker with deadlifts? I mean, haven't we all seen it? Okay. Right. Overall thickness. Now, it's not necessarily building your chest and stuff. No. But a lot of thickness to the posterior side of the body. Absolutely. But no really when you start looking even at studies and I'm not saying EMG studies uh are proof of hypertrophy. Okay, let us be clear. But what they do tell you is is activation. Okay, generally speaking, when you look at EMGs, you can at least tell if a muscle is being worked decently. That's what it tells you. Okay. So, what do they usually show? What what happens when they look at most of the posterior chain? Do hamstrings get lit up by deadlifts? Yes. Do you have a lot of evidence that other movements build the hamstrings more? Like when it's compared side by side, is there massive significant differences? Pretty pretty rarely. Well, what about glutes? Yeah, they usually light glutes up pretty good, too. Maybe not as much as a squat, but but they get lit up. What about the lats and the back? Funny enough, everyone always talks about the low back on the deadlift. Oh, it's all low back. Really? You're telling me the low back is a primary mover? You're telling me the erectors are moving the weight on a dead? You're telling me when you guys have seen me pull 600 lb and it's my erectors lifting it? Do you notice they don't even move? They're just a stabilizer. I want people to think about that. What do you think is moving all this weight? Okay, that's that's almost its own topic. What do you think is moving the weight? I mean, I'm moving 500 lb for reps for a pretty good distance. Something is doing it. It's not my traps, you know? They're not just I'm not shrugging it up, right? The erectors are not even really moving. They're just stationary. They're a stabilizer. Okay. But no, you look at this and it's like what happens when you look at the lats? I mean, if we looked at deadlifts and EMGs, if we only went off muscle activation, people would be screaming deadlift was king for lats. I don't think that it is. I think it contributes. It's definitely not king. Happens if you have a weak lifestyle. Sometimes you pull them. Okay. They're they're important. They're definitely an important muscle in it. But so if we go off of all the data, if if we only want went off of scientific data, would any person be saying a deadlift is not a good hypertrophy movement? Okay, so you've got to wonder, well, where's the evidence? Because the only I've only seen like one study that really measured directly hypertrophy on the deadlift, and it was a monster. It caused the most muscle growth in the study. Just a normal conventional deadlift with progressive overload caused the most muscle growth overall. Okay, so that's the only data we have. All the EMGs show it's amazing, you know, but then you also have to look at the question of compound versus isolation. People like, well, it's not isolating anything. But what about studies that have looked at compound in isolation? What have they generally concluded? They have generally concluded that compound movements cause just as much muscle growth in their primary movers as isolation does. There's there's no difference. That's then uses a defense of isolation movements, but I don't think that it is a good defense. I mean, I don't think we're questioning that isolation movements are capable of growing muscle. What people question is, can compound movements build all the same muscles you're isolating? Well, those the studies are showing generally yes. So, if you're going to take an evidence-based approach, you would you would look at that and say that, well, yeah, you know, but then their arguments become one of stimulus versus fatigue. Well, because we can't do a lot of volume. But keep in mind, a lot of these volume studies are questionable. They're very questionable because every study that's even looked at volume, three to five set, five sets a week is more than enough to cause robust growth. What's debated is if doing more causes much more. But again, I digress. How many people come in and do three sets of deadlifts so we can build a massive posterior chain from it? Quite a few. Are we pretending we can't do any volumes on deadlifts? Sure, it's it's harder. Yeah, it's tough. Yes, it's taxing. People say, well, you know, there's a cardiovascular system. Well, of course it is. Why aren't you in shape? So again, the question becomes when we say, well, you know, because it's like a squat, there's a conditioning component and and you know, you got to be in a really good shape to do any volume of deadlifting. So what you're saying is these evidence-based bodybuilding type guys are out of shape because if you're athletic and you do cardio and you're fit, this is not a problem. I run three days a week. I get out and run. I do less on my bike, but I actually go running. you know, right? I'm I'm pretty serious about that um as far as cardio and conditioning. So, I would ask the question, why aren't you in shape? So, we're now getting into a question of basically the whole bodybuilding argument against it is one of, well, we just want to be lazy and and not be in shape. You know, it's like, well, you know, it it it's it's a lot of work to get it, but it builds a lot of muscle. Yeah, you can talk stimulus fatigue, but the stimulus is enormous. You don't need huge amounts, but I've also had had periods where I did 10 sets of deadlifts in a workout. You I used to do it like every Friday. I get to do 10 sets of pulls, right? 10 sets of deficit deadlifts, right? I've done stuff like that. You don't think you get big doing that. Look at how my whole posterior chain looked back when I was doing that. You know, you'll get thick. Your traps get big. Your back gets your erectors get big. Your glutes, your hamstrings, your quads, forearms, everything grows. Every all that stuff grows, okay? You know, we could make the argument that what's not growing is going to be your chest and your triceps and and those things. Sure. I don't think biceps grow. I've seen people make a case for biceps. I'm not a believer in that sort of stretch mediated type hypertrophy. you know, see people make a case. But haven't we all seen it? I mean, everyone argues against it. Yet, all these Mr. Olympia swore by the deadlift, who had some of the best backs and posterior chains, all swore by the deadlift. The evidence, there's no evidence against it. All the evidence you have is shows that it's quite robust. The real world shows many. So, again, if the deadlift was so detrimental, like, oh, the stimulus fatigue is so bad that you can't gain muscle because you'll just be too fatigued. If that was truly the case, then why did so many natural guys like how come guys even before gear was a big deal or winning the Mr. Universe and Mr. Americas while deadlifting was pretty normal? Plenty of them did. They were not at a disadvantage. How come we've had multiple Mr. Olympias with elite deadlifts who deadlifted? If it was so bad, how did they win? How did they win if it was so bad? Okay. But so then the argument they're making, well, it's more for strength and it's difficult and and it can be taxing. So it's like essentially the counterargument is to not be in shape. Well, you know, guys who are not in shape, they can't do any appreciable. It limits it. Uh they can't recover. They can't. But it's like if you go and get in shape and you do deadlifts, you're going to be more athletic. You're going to be strong. You're going to have just a stronger structure. You're going to be more fit. You know, it's this really bizarre bodybuilding argument of being scared of having any function. Whereas and I look at this and go, what happens if you actually get jacked doing real big movements? Okay, what if you're doing squats and deadlifts and push presses and cleans and you know what happens if you start doing stuff like that for a lot of your hypertrophy and then you're like, well, some of those they're they're taxing so you might need to be in shape. So then you go run and get fit, too. Think about the difference between form over function. Okay? And I get it if you're competing in bodybuilding, certain arguments, but almost no one's doing it. 99% of fitness people out there are not competing in bodybuilding. And your your difference between a professional quality physique versus a good physique is completely lost on everyone who sees you. But think about form versus function, being useful, being harder to kill, being more resilient. Okay? So, if you actually built your muscle and you can build just as much doing all this bigger movements, more athletic stuff, actually going and being fit, you're just going to be allaround superior and better. That's my problem with these arguments. They're like, well, okay, so we'll we'll concede that it's equal, but it's not because we get all this other stuff. you're going to be stronger and fitter. It's not really equal, is it? And again, it almost feels like the people on the other end of these arguments are just lazy, useless people. They're lazy. That's what it comes down to. Sheer laziness. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.