The Asian paradox is a problem for people who think that rice is fattening. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Uh, but a quick reminder, if you guys would click like down below, it would be greatly appreciated if you would please follow or subscribe if you are not yet and drop me a comment down under the video, I would appreciate it so much. Thank you if you do that just to say hello or to give your thoughts on the video. All right, this is a problem. I mean, you have people who bring all this stuff up and they're like, "Rice is terrible. Rice is fattening. Even white rice, it's it causes diabetes. It causes um obesity. Causes all these different problems." Okay? They make this this point. And you know, here here's the issue with that. And I'm going to really debunk even even the best explanation people have who try to claim that it's a problem. Uh but then they'll claim, well, it's genetics. I'm going to debunk that, too. Um, no, this population has nothing special that makes them resistant to it in their genes. All right, so let's get over to that point. Um, we see this all through Asia, all throughout history for hundreds of years now, really. Uh, rice has been for most of East Asia, South Asia, but particularly you go look at all of East Asia. All of it. All of it. I don't care if you're talking about China, Japan, Vietnam, Singapore, it doesn't matter. Korea, all these different countries. Um, they don't have an obesity problem. They don't have a diabetes problem. All right? Yet rice is the single largest source of calories. And oftentimes it is white rice. It's not necessarily brown rice. People like, oh, they're having the unmilled. No, they do plenty of white rice, okay? They don't have these problems. And it's not an issue of, oh, they're all starving third world. Plenty of them are not. They have access to lots and lots of rice. All right? They're also, you know, fairly physically active. But here's the issue. These problems don't exist. These problems don't exist. Why? Because starchy carbohydrates are simply not linked with obesity or diabetes. They're just not. These are not problematic. Like when we really look at the science behind obesity, uh, insulin resistance, these things, starches are very rarely the problem. In fact, we don't even see it with wheat. Like, how many countries don't have an obesity problem that still do large amounts of wheat in the West, in Europe historically, till you start adding all the fats to it. Okay. Pasta, even to some extent, more traditional breads, not always a problem. And I would consider bread to be a pretty processed food. Personally, not usually on my to-do list to eat. It's not that problematic. We just don't see it. Of course, people try to make the silly things, well, our wheat is different here. No, no, no, no. Whatever genes or or proteins you think are in the wheat are still not what's causing obesity. You don't start storing starches and glucose as fats in humans because of that. It's not how it works. This will be detected in the lab. All right, here's the thing. Humans thrive on starches. This is our preferred primary fuel source. This is what we handle. Not saying we don't handle fats or proteins. We can, but we thrive on starch and we don't store starches as fats. We just don't. Never under the skin and only in small amounts uh visceral, right? So, this is not a problem. And it also doesn't cause insulin resistance. A lot of people are like, well, I keep the carbs there lower to keep insulin resistance down. But these carbohydrates are not the cause. meaning glucosebased carbohydrates are not linked to insulin resistance in humans. It's the more refined fructosees that are specific types of sugar are. Hey, it's the fructose load in the liver. Saturated fat is largely linked to it. Some cases certain sources of monounsaturated could be. But you know, you start talking insulin resistance outside of of obesity induced insulin resistance. We're talking about saturated fat, talking about refined sugars. This is this is what does it. And when I say the saturated fat, I'm not talking about you eating a sirloin steak. We're talking about the really fatty stuff. Talking about stuff that still wouldn't really exist without uh feeding it a certain way and and then processing it a certain way. Things like butter, bacon, sausage, like this. This is what we're talking about. We're not talking about a relatively lean cut of red meat. We're not talking about 9010 ground beef. We're not talking about sirloin steak or flank steak. That is not what we are talking about. Talking about fattier cuts maybe. But then these other things or to where you're just separating the fat out into butter, uh you know, lard, beef, tallow. These are problems. Now, seed oils are a huge factor for obesity, too, and I don't think we can discount that. But all these issues, you know, this is what's creating our issues. It's refined fats. Well, excess fat of any type, but then refined fats and refined sugars. It's not the starchy carbohydrates. You don't see it in these cultures, these massive countries of massive populations with all this rice. You don't see it. People will then they'll be like, well, you know, maybe those people just have a gene that resist it. Then explain bodybuilders. Okay. How many groups of bro pro bodybuilders, some of the greatest bodybuilders all on earth, all through the US, all through Europe, get absolutely shredded on chicken, rice, and vegetables. Hm. Lean protein or fish, lean protein, rice and vegetables, just like these Asian countries are often building their staples around, get shredded down to nearly zero body fat, no visible body fat left while eating this way. This is not an Asian dominated demographic. It's usually Europeans and those of African ancestry. That's usually who are all these top bodybuilders, not saying exclusively, but by and large, it's extremely biased. Okay? So, if these groups, which is in what people are claiming, oh yeah, they're the ones who current have all the starchy carbs that it makes them fat, then how do they do it as bodybuilders? How do bodybuilders get insanely shredded eating these foods every day and get down to body fat so low that they're almost dead and then have to regain some fat to stay alive after the show because it's not a problem. Okay, this nonsense is a is a debunked hypothesis. You have epidemiology of these entire countries with populations in the hundreds of millions or billions who don't have this problem consuming huge amounts of rice including white rice. You see it then at the level of bodybuilders the the most jacked shredded people on earth as a group tend to consume large amounts of rice. Individuals with the most muscle and lowest body fat usually of any any demographic of lifestyle oftentimes thrive on rice. In other words, people this is nonsense. And then when you go really look at the science in the lab, starches don't even really store as fat in humans and they don't create insulin resistance. This is a problem for this hypothesis. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.