The popularity of Ozmpic might literally end the health at every size movement. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys would please click like down below, greatly appreciate it. If you aren't following me or subscribe, click that button and do so. And please drop me a comment underneath the video, I would greatly appreciate it. Thank you so much. Now, I'm always harsh on on the Haze movement um for the reason of I am formerly one of them. Like, it's always used to justify obesity, right? I was over 300 lb when I was younger. Okay, I know, I get it. I'm this 220 lb guy at 48 who throws around 5 600 lb. But again, 25 plus well over 25 years ago, I was over 300 lb. I was out of shape. I turned my lifestyle around. So, I'm one of those people who say, "Look, no, no, no, no. This is nonsense." Um, but you know, the thing is before we even get into any of that of what doctors say because doctors think that movement is ludicrous. Absolutely ludicrous, doctors and researchers. So, but let's set that aside. You know, it's been a big social movement and it's been done for the purpose of trying to make people feel better and and and the kind of the thing I've always said, look, it's okay to love yourself at every size. Let me make that perfectly clear. Like you should still be valued as a human being. You should have self-respect. You should have self-love. You should have self-worth. And you should be seen as having value to other people irrespective of your size. That I agree with. Okay. I think that's anyone who disagrees with that, you're probably not a very good person. Let's just be realistic here, right? People have value. Human beings have value. All right, now we got that out of the way. Let's go get over to that point. Is it possible to actually love yourself when you abuse yourself and you have untreated trauma like I did that causes you to be obese and to overeat and to have binge eating issues and other stuff? I think that's a bigger question, right? That's a bigger question. Uh but as far as the health goes, that's nonsense. Every medical doctor, every researcher who looks into it will tell you that obesity itself is an illness. Okay? It is a medical illness. It will absolutely uh drive up all these other problems. Our three leading causes of death in the US are heart disease, right? Cardiovascular disease number one, cancer and diabetes. What does obesity have in common there? It enormously contributes to every single one of them on a massive scale. And it doesn't matter how healthy you think you are. When you reach a certain level of atyposity, a certain level of body fat, it will dramatically contribute to the potential for all three of those things and it will scale. So, no, it's not really possible. And so, people say, "Oh, you can't know." Yes, we absolutely can know. Um, and then we could even talk about inflammation in the body. Body fat literally is the site of an enormous amount of your inflammation in your body. a lot of your inflammatory hormones and everything are produced there. So yes, people who have extra body fat literally automatically by default have higher levels of inflammation in their bodies. They automatically feel worse. They're automatically prone to certain diseases. Okay? And that is undeniable. That is basic human biology. Again, all medical doctors and researchers agree with this. Again, does it mean you shouldn't love yourself or you have less value as a person? No. No. But it's not healthy. See, and that's where it's a strange things that people can't seem to differentiate this and it would literally make up nonsense like that. This goes completely against all known data and then the best research and that literally the the leading minds in the medical industry or the medical world are telling you no, it's it's not possible to maintain health at a very high level of body fat. It's just not. It will eventually destroy your health and it will automatically lower your quality of life almost immediately. So again, nonsense. But now that Ozimpic is becoming popular, you're seeing all of that movement for people to lose weight. Why? That's the interesting question. The why. And here's what I'm going to tell you. As someone who's dealt with obesity personally, lost well over 100 pounds, someone who's coached people through these things, someone who knows the struggles of this demographic personally, most of them feel that they can't lose the weight. They feel that it's impossible. So therefore, this movement is there to try to make them feel better about it. I mean, it's a nonsense movement, but that aspect of it, I get it's an attempt to try to help people emotionally cope with that, but then it's like to tell them, "Oh, you can be healthy at every size, and you can't." Well, you can. You you you totally can tell and know you can't be healthy at every size. Even too thin is unhealthy. It's like being too overweight is is unhealthy. This is not subject to debate. But it it was an attempt to make them feel better about it at least. But it's because they're like, "I can't lose weight. I've tried. I've done this. I can't stop eating." It's like, but a big part of that is one, they're not addressing the dietary habit in the lifestyle habit. Number two, they're not addressing the trauma. I've done whole videos discussing how our culture literally enforces us to be fat if we have untreated trauma and various mental illness that has not been appropriately dealt with in our current culture and society that is a recipe for obesity. So because they haven't addressed that trauma or the mental health side of it has not been addressed. No, a lot of them feel they really can't lose the weight. And it's and when I say a lot, I mean a lot. So along comes oimpic. Now all of a sudden they can control their appetite. Anyone understand the real premise of how Ozic really works? It's not an amazing metabolic enhancer. It ultimately shuts down your response to craving junk food and garbage and having a high appetite. So, if you chemically shut off, you see where we're going, your cravings to eat pizza and ice cream and garbage and sodas and French fries and cake and pie and it just doesn't appeal. It's not appealing to you anymore and you're very overweight. Guess what's going to happen? You're going to lose weight because you're not going to eat it. Like, problem solved. Ah, this doesn't look appetizing to me. And that's the thing. People go on the Ompic and at the doses that are being prescribed for weight loss, they're like, you know what? This pizza is just not that good. I don't really want that cake. It's just not appealing to me. Well, as soon as you're morbidly obese, you lose the urge to eat all this junk. It's just not enjoyable anymore. You don't crave it. You're going to start shedding weight ridiculously quick because that is why you're able to even keep the weight you're at, right? You can't walk around at 300 plus pounds uh without really eating a lot of stuff to stay there. Okay? But it turns all that off. So then bam, now there's an easy solution. And it's a solution that doesn't require them to address the trauma, to address therapy, to adjust their lifestyle habits, all of these things. So now it's an easy fix. So now that it's an easy fix, you're going to see the push towards that. And yeah, it will probably be an end to this health at every size. And I'm not saying Osimpic is the healthiest thing either. You know, I'm not saying that by any means, but it's certainly healthier than being morbidly obese. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.