People don't try to sell you the basics because the basics aren't sexy. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. Quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. And let's get over into that topic. So, I make this video a few times a year. You guys know that um because it's always done really well and I think people appreciate it and understand what we're saying here. But what we see over and over um both in terms of nutrition and particularly training, influencers are always trying to sell you the new thing, right? Because if they don't, they don't have any content. It's always, hey, we found a new exercise, you know, as as if without the drugs uh they have today that bodybuilders wouldn't actually probably be smaller than some of the guys uh from previous errors, you know, like guys didn't know how to build muscles. Like all these exercises didn't previously work already. Like weighted pull-ups have always built lats. Rows have always built the whole back. Deadlifts have always built the entire posterior chain and back. Squats and other and basic things like lunges and front squats have always successfully built the quads and the glutes. Okay, do we all get this? Uh bench presses always built the chest. Dips work great. Incline if you need more upper chest. So on and so forth, right? Biceps are one of the most simple muscles possible. Uh they primarily just flex the elbow. Okay, these things are not complicated yet. They're always continually in the pursuit of of new exercises. Again, pointing out that if you're taking sets to failure and the muscle involved is a primary mover and it's a really hard work set, you're probably not leaving many muscle fibers unrecruited. And if that's the case, then that means a lot of times too much effort into exercise selection doesn't matter unless something else is taking over uh beyond the target muscle and making it hard for you to reach failure with the target muscle. But even then, it doesn't mean it doesn't grow. It just means it may not be 100% optimal growth. Okay? It still grows like the basics work. The same thing with with uh various programming. You know, people want to stand here and argue about rep ranges and different types of periodization, and the reality is a lot of periodization is just voodoo to impress clients, to impress athletes or to distract your athletes. Man, how's that to distract your athletes while they get bigger? Like, if you're trying to get someone stronger, a lot of periodization was is there really was scheduled originally in three-week blocks around three-we oral steroid cycles by the Russians. Uh but when you set that aside, a lot of this stuff is just a distraction. You get them bigger, keep them training longer, they gain muscle, they get stronger. Um because size and strength are 90% overlapped. Okay? Yes, there's novel movement patterns, there's other things going on, but all the data is generally showed inside a given person 90% overlap. So, a lot of this periodization doesn't mean a lot of things other than, you know, maybe the end of it for peaking for some event where you need to have a wander at max be 100% peaked instead of 97% peaked. And it could matter a little bit, but but realistically, does that really matter for most people? You know, if you're strong enough to have built a 315 bench that you can come in and hit at any time, if you're not really being serious about powerlifting at a high competitive level, does an extra 2% or 3% matter? That's what 6 10 pounds more on the bar. That's what you get from all that peaking and stuff. And it might matter in that context, but outside of it, probably not. Um, so the same thing then with periodization. Look, things like basic just slow linear progression, extremely slow has worked for advanced lifters. Uh things like double progression, you know, literally just progressing, just picking even a given weight and just adding reps to the lift until it's it's too many. My god, I'm doing that with dips and benching. Here you see me trying to get to 20 reps on that 45 pound dip. I'm at 18, I think, in this particular video. Same thing with the bench. I got 18 reps. I'm trying to get to 20 with 225. just literally setting rep goals like can you get to those without reaching muscle failure, right? Can you get there without reaching muscle failure? When you reach that goal, you just add weight. I mean, how simple is this sort of progression? Uh same thing on the diet. All this idea that people have to be tracking macros, they need this or that. Really, people had no trouble getting great physiques, phenomenal physiques with minimal tracking. Not saying none, but minimal. Simple chicken, rice, and vegetable diets have worked great. And if people want lower carbs, hey, steak, eggs, vegetables, like I think the steak, eggs, avocado is a great combination. You can just eat simple stuff like this. You don't need any of this complexity, right? You don't need any of it. But again, particularly back with the training, everything is about, oh, we're trying to find this perfect lengthen position. It's like, look, does the exercise put any tension in the lengthen position? Well, yeah. Then you're probably pretty good there. And again, these arguments of these efficient rep for rep exercises on a muscle really are if you're doing subfure sets, you know, but before long, you have people focusing on these things and then doing huge amounts of subfailure sets. The reality, they just could have trained harder. They could have probably done fewer exercises, less total volume, and just trained really, really hard with what they did. This has always worked. It's always been successful. But again, everyone wants to push the junk volume. Why do they push the junk volume? Because if they don't push junk volume, they can't introduce 17 new exercises, right? Because if you're not trying to do 20 or 30 sets for a muscle group, you're probably never going to need more than two exercises in the same workout or week for a muscle. Probably not. Maybe maybe three in some some cases at the most, but that's because they're overlapping and hitting other things, right? Did anyone ever struggle to build a a big chest doing a correctly performed bench plus and then an incline after or a dip after? Hasn't that worked for generations? Really, you can't you can't get your lats to grow if you try dead hang pull-ups and then barbell rows or or pull-ups and then dumbbell rows. Or you could throw some pullovers in, right? You do a pull-up and then a pullover. Done. especially if you're deadlifting. So again, if we're doing all the other basics, a lot of this stuff doesn't matter because we're getting huge splash over anyway and then you have a main exercise just to make sure you hit it. I would argue that with your back, we can make one heck of a case for a pull-up then a deadlift or a deadlift then a pull-up, a deadlift then a row, a pull-up and a row. Has anyone ever needed more than those movement patterns to build a massive thick wide back? No. Not if they get strong at them and train hard, right? If you get strong at them and actually train hard, they work really well. You don't need six different cable angles. Never been required. And again, we're not talking about for people competing in bodybuilding. Everyone wants to over complicate this and bring up for bodybuilding, less than 1% of your followers, if anywhere near that, will ever step on a bodybuilding stage in their entire life. Trying to pursue that last half a percent of every plane and angle somewhere and dedicating hours and hours a week to it is insane. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.