The current trend of saying that high reps are not great for hypertrophy is actually kind of ridiculous. Hey everybody, it's Jason Baja here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Uh but a quick reminder if you guys would please click like down below. Uh please follow or subscribe if you haven't yet and leave me a comment underneath the video. I'd greatly appreciate it. Um and yes, this is all accessory work for me I'm doing in this video. Everything here is 10 plus reps. Some of it's as high as 25 reps, uh, you know, and a lot of stuff in between. So, here's here's the thing. Um, keeping in mind, I'm an advocate for doing lots of high rep stuff. And I know that sounds strange because everyone always thinks of blah as a heavy compound guy, uh, barbell lift, powerlifting, people who who know my my history of information and training, at least if that's what they know about me. Uh, but the reality is it's just simply not my philosophy. Uh, and keeping in mind I am big on maxing out. I have run long periods of time to where I max multiple times a week. Um, I have clients who max two plus times a week. Right? This is a normal part of my training philosophy. So before people say I'm not into lifting heavy, you know, I'm very much into lifting heavy. I don't see a lot of point in doing heavy rep work. I don't know what people think they're getting out of it. Um, and that's kind of the take-home for this. So, so for me, you know, I see these discussions and people are like, "Oh, there's no need to go over eight reps. Uh, we can do fives and sixes and get jacked." You're seeing a lot of a lot of influencers pushing this even on machines and other stuff. And and let me be clear, I do partially understand where they're getting this idea. Let me let me again reiterate. I understand the chain of logic. I understand what scientific evidence they are using to come to this conclusion. I don't think it's practical. All right. So why why do we think that? Now the argument being if we go off the available evidence we have then yes a five or a six rep set causes hypertrophy through the exact same pathway as a 20 rep set to failure does. Okay. We need to be clear. The tension on the muscle fibers is the same. All right. tension on the muscle fibers is the same. All right, everyone understand this? You either have direct tension starting from the first rep or two on the fast twitch fibers, direct mechanical tension, or you create enough fatigue in the muscle that all of the intermediate fibers get exhausted and then the final five, six reps or whatever all have to be done with the fast twitch fibers and then you get all the mechanical tension on them because the the intermediate fibers are no longer really assisting. they're exhausted. Okay. Now, the take-home here, um, couple different things. And then the the other alternative is, but you're also going to get the neural gains and strength from the lower reps. Uh, there's also some extra possible fatigue from the high reps. All right. Um, I think that the concern with fatigue from the high reps has been a little overblown, right? Um, otherwise we would even be saying stuff like, "Oh, we shouldn't even do cardio because it's going to that fatigue." Because cardio is going to be way more fatigue. You dude, you go do 30 minutes of cardio and then tell me that's not an enormous amount of of similar fatigue and calcium ion than everything else. Absolutely is. That we didn't say, "Oh, we should never do cardio." Well, intelligent people don't say that. Um, so I think it's been way overblown and plenty of people have built ridiculously amazing physiques doing tons of higher up work. It is clearly not an issue. Yes, there's fatigue generated there. Of course, there is. Um, but conversely, what about the the beating up of the joints and stuff we get from too much heavier work? I you do a bunch of heavy fives and sixes, you are going to feel more joint fatigue. Also, it limits your volume. So the same by that same token it's usually people who are afraid of volume or say look we don't want need a lot of volume who are also then worried about the higher rep stuff but I'm like if you can keep any volume that you can recover from is a good thing and you are simply able to handle more higher rep stuff before things like joints and the structures of your body are a problem. Uh, so I mean this is a big deal. Also easier to maintain tighter form, lower injuries when we're doing 10 plus reps. Don't get me wrong, guys, fives and sixes can be great. You guys know damn good and well you try to do a barbell curl for five reps and see how strict you can keep it. That would be my response. Same thing on barbell row. I mean, I've done some really heavy rows and stuff on camera. You know how hard it is to maintain that? So people like, well, if you just go to machines, it's fine. So, now we're back over to just using machines because you can't do the free weights strict enough with those those weights for those reps. Um, so now we're back over to you need a whole commercial gym with 57 machines. You need it for this training style and that's a problem if you want everything to be super strict. We're running into all these limitations being created that limit the equipment, limit what we have to do. You could just do 10 plus reps on all this stuff, right? including your machine stuff. Notice my machine stuff is all higher up, right? It's like sets of 15 right here. Sets of 20. All right, but that's the point. You're still getting all the same muscle. You're not beating the joints up as much. And it's what about the addressing the neural drive and strength? Do you guys really think you're going to get strong doing fives and sixes all day? Do you really think that neural drive from that is the key to getting insanely strong? No. You need to be doing singles. Okay. And all of us who who compete, all of us who've hit elite lifts, you guys have seen me throw up some pretty big numbers over the years here and there for a guy in his late 40s. You've seen a lot of my clients do more. I've had 600 700 lb squatter and dead or more squatter and deadlifters as clients who were not fat. Okay, look, your neural drive can be handled by Max Work. If your goal is neural drive and strength, you don't need your accessory work to produce that. Get under a heavy barbell and do a max squat, do a max deadlift, do a max bench press. If you're trying to increase absolute strength and you want the neural drive, you need more more power, do speed work. Done. I do both. Your hypertrophy work does not need to do this. In fact, doing fives to eights in order to try to get neural drive is extremely inefficient. It will never compete with heavy singles. So, you're trying to turn it into something hybrid when if you just came in and maxed out once a week, this whole thing goes away because the maxing out once a week would be superior for that exact goal. So why don't we instead of trying to take one tool and use it to do everything, why don't we use several different tools and the correct tool for the job to do it all efficiently. That would be my point. And then the same thing our our hypertrophy work needs to be volume and most of it can be 10 plus reps. In fact, I would generally advocate that unless it's a big structural exercise like a back squat or a deadlift. That would be the exception. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.