 The Bench Press is one of the absolute best chest exercises you can do. The research and history shows this. Hey, everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you about this today, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop a comment down below. I'd appreciate it. What I always find interesting is the counterarguments against this, because you absolutely have to ignore history, and people will say, well, you know, the bench just makes the bottom half of the chest a lot bigger, and it neglects the upper half and so on and so forth. That's not true in the real world or scientifically. And I'll survey what we've seen for 60, 70 years, let alone in the lab. So we need to be clear on some of that, or when people say, well, dumbbells work the chest harder. Oh, there's evidence of it. There's no evidence of it. What are you talking about? Like, I've seen people say that they're like, well, dumbbells are proven to stimulate the pecs more. Really? No, not really. If you've looked at the sum total of data, even EMG and different data, it's not the case. Right? You'd argue dumbbells might work the front delts more. Like, you could make a case for that scientifically, but not the pectorals. So stop and think about the real world. Go back historically and look at some of the people who had big, round full chest. And here's the other thing. Since when has big lower pecs, which usually goes with big upper pecs, ever been considered unesthetic? That's what I don't get. Arnold Schwarzenegger. Surgeon who, so let's go back and look. Those guys all had massive chests. Right? They had massive, massive chests. Before we got into as many drugs as they do today. Reg Park, when all they had was D-Ball, they didn't have the whole variety of drugs. Look at his chest. It's built from bench pressing. And did anybody look at that and say, wow, that's an unesthetic? Tell me Arnold is Surgeon who Bray that you look at and say, oh yeah, their chest, this looks terrible. It's just super bottom heavy. Well, they all built it with bench pressing as a primary. Like Surgeon who Bray was noted for being able to bench 405 pretty easily. He also was noted for doing tons and tons of really high reps of like 225. Right? That's what I had always read that Surgeon's main, he loved building his chest to do in like sets of 20 with 225. That he did quite a few of those. He did a lot of them. Look at his chest. That whole error of guys and what do they do? Wide grip bench pressing. Wide grip bench pressing. A lot of them did incline and stuff too, but they did put a very heavy focus on the flat bench. Because like Reg Park, they had great chest. Steve Reeves. Like where are these horrible chest from the era when bench press was considered king? No, they had great chest. Maybe people don't know how to bench press. Right? Then we go into the more modern era, Ronnie Coleman. It was always, yep, bench press, my favorite chest exercise. And I'm not saying bench is the only thing you ever need. But where are people getting this idea historically? Because some modern bodybuilders, because of the way they stack their drugs and other stuff get injured too easily, because they ego lift and they're dumb. Because seriously, when people say, oh, it's a dangerous lift, you watch how they perform it. Well, if you flopped around like an ass clown bouncing the bar and stuff the way that you guys do on any lift, you would get hurt. Have you considered that the only reason these guys are claiming it's dangerous is because people lift like complete ass clowns? Like a complete ignoramus? Well, if you did any exercise like that, wouldn't you expect to get hurt? You softly touch the chest or you pause on every rep. That's how you bench press. It's how you're supposed to do it. And competition, you have to pause it. It doesn't count someone who says I benched whatever. If you didn't pause it for at least a second on your chest, no, you didn't. You did not bench press that. Just shut up. Not to any real standard. This is the way people train it. But then here's the thing, you know, you look at studies, we show the bench press works the entire pec major. And everyone said, what about the pec minor? Do you know how small the pec minor is? People act like the pec minors like half or a third of the chest. The pec minor is about as thick as your thumb. It's a little muscle that runs under the top. All right, like when you see me doing the curls there, notice, see that little bit of a split? That's still the pec major, the pec minor is above that little split. It's higher up. It's a pretty small muscle under there. Okay, very small muscle. So again, it's not as big of a deal as people make it out to be. And the whole pec major is over 90% of the chest, including the upper chest. It's the overwhelming majority of the upper chest too. And dips work it, decline work it, everything works it. You know, and that's the problem. People say, well, what about dumbbells? If you looked at even the studies, so on, what's the reasoning, a deeper stretch? But it's not a stretch in the pec anymore. Did you know when they compared, they wanted to see in some studies I looked at, they wanted to see what would happen when they analyze and scan what was going on inside. You know, both EMG and then running like scans watching to see what the muscle did internally. On a cambered bar, so you go deeper, right? On the cambered bars, because I have a couple of them, you can get a much deeper stretch in theory. Deeper stretch in theory, so it must be more range of motion on the pec itself. Other than, no, it turned out not to be. What they found is that the pec doesn't really stretch any significantly deeper than what a normal barbell will let you do. What they found was the tendon in the pec stretched after that. So the same thing with the dumbbell is you're going deeper with it, you're stretching the tendon. And you know what the EMG showed? No, it didn't show more pectoral activation. If anything, it was a hair lower, the interior deltoid went up. So in other words, it turned it into a better shoulder exercise. So just because the joint moves further doesn't mean that the muscle always does. In that case, they found it just stretches the tendon. The tendon stretches a little further there. The muscle has pretty much reached its maximum length in position. For most people, pretty close to where the barbell touches your chest. So this idea of that is flawed. The same people will argue, oh, stabilizers detract, which is not true. So then you're going to pick an exercise with more stabilizers. Way more stabilization required. They're so inconsistent in their logic. It's ridiculous. But no, when you look at the real world, you look at studies, the bench press is one of the best checks. Chest exercises that I've seen plenty about. I saw Mike Isriatelle say that. I saw Jeff Nippard say that. These evidence-based goovers who are actually pretty big. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.