The average person does not need to count calories to develop a good physique by mainstream standards. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. If you'll be kind enough to drop a comment down below, uh please do so. I would appreciate that so much. Thank you. All right. I'm fully aware this is going to be a controversial statement and it in no way implies calories in, calories out doesn't matter. Simply pointing out there are plenty of people who've lost 100 pounds without tracking calories. There are plenty of people amazing athletes literally at the Olympic level who don't track their calories with phenomenal physiques um so on and so forth. And when I say impressive, I do not mean bodybuilder competition. I'm not telling you that you're going to get a million followers on Instagram. I'm not telling you that you're going to win professional bodybuilding competitions. I am saying to have a physique, even if you started super out of shape, let's say you started 50, 60 pounds, 100 pounds overweight, um any of these things, if you started even skinny, if your goal is to just look really good to the average person, like we're not trying to be impressive on the internet. If you just want a physique that puts you in the top 1% of say the population, that's your only goal and you're content with that. You don't want anything extreme. You just want to be in a room full of 50 or 100 people be most likely to have the best body. Just average assortment of Americans or whatever, right? And your age group. That's all. You don't have to count calories for that. And here's what I'm going to say. um because you're not necessarily having to bulk and cut or any of that. The average just to have a good physique doesn't require you to maximize everything 100% efficient. Here's what I'm going to say you would have to do. Follow good program. Just focus on hypertrophy. Focus on a good program that builds every muscle in your body. Okay? Because again, to be reasonably aesthetic, you just need balanced musculature. If you just follow a program that works everything, every muscle in your body gets at least a few really good work sets every week. Combination of compounds for you guys. Look, you want to train some more arms, go ahead. Okay? Any good program, right? Do some cardio for basic health. Just basic healthy stuff. Get out, do some cardio. Make sure you're doing enough cardio to cover your health basis. You're already at a big advantage. Like, you're in a good spot. Um, and as far as even diet goes, if you just don't eat junk food, like like literally if you just avoid junk food and garbage and just eat healthy foods, okay? Eat nothing but healthy foods. You don't add garbage to your food. You don't add a bunch of thousand calorie salad dressing. You don't pour butter. You don't eat butter. You don't pour oils on stuff. You don't add any refined sugars. you eat actual real whole foods, you know, I don't care even if they're they're higher fats or higher carbs, long as they're healthy, clean foods. You're not eating a bunch of saturated fat, not eating a bunch of refined fats. You're not eating refined sugars. You're eating plenty of of vegetables and lean animal protein. This is what I'm defining as healthy. Okay? Your default is eventually going to be towards uh recomposition on here. You will eventually get to a point like if you start doing that, if you're overweight, you're going to start losing fat. I promise you, an overweight person will absolutely lose body fat. Not saying they're going to get shredded. A skinnier person is going to see improved muscle growth on this. Okay? And here's the thing, this sort of setup is going to eventually bias you towards having a good physique. Now, a lot of people are going to be like, you might not be able to get huge because you're not going to then bulk if you're not counting. It's like, but are you trying to get huge? Like the average person just trying to look good and who's not using steroids is not going to be huge anyways. So, this is this is not an issue. Again, I don't think people understand. Too many people have been sold what's natural or not on the internet. Sorry, dudes. That's just not how it works. Nobody's walking around massive without drugs. So, we're talking the physiques that the average person thinks looks good. This is what this discussion is. Not talking about looking impressive on Instagram. Again, this is just to be in the top 1% of the population. We're not talking about getting a million followers on Instagram. This applies to men and women both, by the way. You will eventually get pretty lean. By pretty lean, does it mean you're going to be shredded? No. But to look have a good physique, nobody has to be shredded to have a good physique. You just have to have a lean amount of body fat. Okay? If you don't have love handles, right? And you have at least the outline somewhat visible abs. Doesn't have to be a full six-pack. The average person thinks that you're really lean. Okay? To the mainstream that is called ripped. I get that. to the bodybuilding world, that's called fat. So, if that's the goal, even a fat person will eventually get there. Okay? Terms of the muscle growth, just the training alone, that is your training stimulus. Okay? Does it matter that you're not getting to a 24 and a half fat-free mass index near the upper threshold of the natural limit because you didn't optimize bulking with your your calories or anything? No, doesn't matter. Cuz to look good to the average person, you don't have to be there. I can tell you right now, average height guy, if he's a buck 70 with a six-pack, he got visible abs at a buck 70, you're in the top 1%. Right? See where we're going with that? That's not that big by internet standards. That's tiny even for a natural. in real life. Uh that's pretty impressive. And that's the point to get to those levels. If you just want a good physique, it's going to cover it. And if you're just eating clean all the time and you're lifting and gaining muscle and doing cardio, you're going to get leaner over the years. You're going to get leaner and leaner and leaner to some extent. It's going to happen because you're going to default very frequently towards calorie deficits. And in other words, someone who is really physically active, it's kind of hard to get fat on chicken, broccoli, and brown rice. Okay? Or if they're doing even a lower carb, higher fat, let's say they eat a lot of nuts and seeds or whatever, not a lot of carbs. They eat a lot of avocados. So, they're still going a cleaner route. And you just pick a dietary approach that's just clean foods, whole foods with plenty of fiber, either healthy fats or starchy carbohydrates. you're dice rich in fruits, vegetables, you know, all that stuff, and you're eating fair amounts of lean animal protein, you're you're going to bias towards body composition. It's just simply going to happen over time. Like, people didn't get fat before all the junk food. Like, before things like refined sugars and butters and all this garbage and even throwing bacon and stuff in the mix, nobody was getting fat before all this. This is just not a thing. And people say, "Well, they were more active." Yeah, but we're talking about people who lift weights and do cardio. All right, you're already going to have a higher metabolic rate from lifting weights. That's already going to do it. You're doing some cardio, a little bit of cardio, you're already kind of back in that category. It's irrelevant. Completely irrelevant. And that's the point I'm making. Like average person, as long as they just get the training right, just get the training right and eat the clean diet part, you're going to eventually look pretty dang good by most people's standards. You're you're not going to look like other people. All right, guys. That's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.