The entire supplement industry is a scam. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness and I thought I would talk about this with you guys and gals today. If you guys would please drop me a like and a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Let's get over to the topic. Um, yeah, I said that and I'm not saying a few things like some protein powder or melatonin if you struggle to sleep or some potassium if you need extra electrolytes. We're not talking about these things. In fact, we're not even talking about minor vitamin deficiencies. But you know what? If you have a vitamin deficiency, vitamins are cheap, okay? Vitamins are insanely cheap. And half the time your insurance will pay for them. So that's the other thing. Why are you buying vitamin supplements? That would be the next question when that comes up. People say, well, you know, some basic vitamins. So why why are you guys paying for them? your your insurance will pay for them. If your doctor finds that you have uh an actual true deficiency, they'll just prescribe this stuff and you'll get medical grade that's actually tested half the time from the pharmacy. I'm just saying, guys. I'm just saying. And it'll be freer. Your co your co-ay on it may end up being cheaper than if you just walked in and bought the over-the-counter version. I'm just saying. So when people say that sort of silly nonsense, we're over to, yeah, a true deficiency will show on your blood work. Sure, you've got an iron issue. You've got a a vitamin D issue. No, you got to get it. Vitamin D is cheap. But do you see where we're going? This is the only stuff that works. None of this other stuff works, you know, and all the stuff that works is cheap. I mean, basically, what do we have? protein powders and a couple vitamins, extra strength fish oil, but even then to get a benefit from fish oil, it has to be the extra strength. So if we even look at studies on fish oil, like but you fish oil is a common supplement, the amounts people take don't make any differences on your blood work. So it's still largely a scam. Like you do understand in order to see a difference on your blood work, you need two grams of EPA and DHA even from fish oil. That's about 10 to 12 of the regular strength ones every day. The extra strength ones, that's like three of them. And sure, that can help with certain cardioesis can help with certain inflammatory markers. Absolutely. And doctors will prescribe that. Cardiologists actually prescribe that too, by the way. For for certain cardiac patients, sure. But are we really dealing with a supplement? Are we talking about drug level effects at that point? And again, we're not talking about the amounts that people take. If you're coming in and taking one or two of those regular strength fish oil soft gels, it's probably not doing much of anything to be fair based upon the research. All right. And then look at all this other stuff. All these vaso dilators, branch chain amino acids, test boosters, pre-workouts. Pre-workouts don't even work. They just get you high. They don't cause any gains. This has been studied. The preworkouts that were considered so strong that they have been made illegal, right? The ones that have literally been outlawed, you do know when they were studied, they didn't produce any results, right? They got you high. They got you a buzz like an amphetamine. That's all they did. They didn't cause any gain. People say, "Nobody gives you a good workout." No, no, no, no. Why do you want a good workout? It's always my response to this. What is the purpose of a good workout? To make gains. Let let me be clear. So, if you have a good workout versus a bad workout, but you get the same gains, do you see where I'm going with this? No. You took an amphetamine that got you high that made you think you had a good workout. You didn't have a good workout. You're a stimulant junkie. You're a drug addict. Not your fault. You bought into the the nonsense and supplement companies got you addicted to stimulants. So, who's to blame here? They marketed it, got popular, and they got you guys all addicted to a bunch of stimulants. And now you can't have a good workout without them. But whether you take them or not doesn't affect your progress because any potential better workout you get, they seem to because of the psychological arousal destroyed recovery. The net benefit when it's been studied, no no gains. Nothing. Over taking a pre-workout every workout for 12 weeks versus not taking one, zero differences in muscle or strength gains. Nothing. These are scams. Test boosters. All scams. Like the whole testosterone boosting thing has been debunked for years and years and years and years. And we're at a point where guys tea clinics are everywhere. If you want to optimize your testosterone, you go do a pharmaceutical and know this. Oh, but if it boosted, it's it's natural. No, it's not. Like, let let me be clear. Do you really think you won't get side effects if they actually worked? If these test boosters took you up to the same testosterone level that pinning 200 milligrams a week would, you will get all the same side effects. Probably more, right? Probably more because it wouldn't anything that can boost one hormone will boost multiple hormones. I mean, look at HCG. Does HCG have higher side effects than testosterone even at the same test level? Yes, we know this from pharmaceutical world. It makes your body produce more testosterone. It's a drug. It's an injection, but it also makes you produce more estrogen and other things. You end up with more side effects. So, this idea that, oh, if something makes my body start just producing huge amounts, which it won't, because you guys would all be getting gyno and stuff from it, right? All right. So, you see where we're going? Trying to replicate drugs doesn't work. What about all the healthosphere? The same nonsense. It's all scams. They outlaw anything that can replicate what a drug does. It just gets made illegal for for obvious good reasons. It's it's it's not even about greed. It's an actual safety and life-saving and efficacy reason. Because if you, for example, if you have an herb that can have a statin-like effect, and there's been one outlawed for that, can't import it. Statins are dirt cheap. You understand this? Like, nobody's making money off statins. Statins are so cheap at this point with insurance and co-pays and even over the counter. The companies barely make a profit on them. They're not big business. If you actually need a statin and you're taking an herb trying to regulate it that's inconsistent, you're going to put yourself at risk of a heart attack because it won't work every batch and then you're going to have entire months and six month periods where your your blood work is still bad because it's not strong enough batch to batch. It varies. It's an herb. It's not standardized. Therefore, it's literally dangerous to use it for medical purposes. you're going to you're going to have a heart attack is what's going to happen because you're not fixing the other stuff and you're not fixing it with your diet and then you're not controlling it with a drug that you need at this point. So again, the entire supplement industry is by and large a massive BS scam. Full stop.