Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about the biggest mistakes people make when trying to gain muscle. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, uh, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. Thank you. So, get over to the topic here. um when it comes to gaining muscle, there's a lot of very common nutritional mistakes um and training mistakes that people make. So, as far as the nutrition goes, people don't want to hear this. I feel people get too caught up in the idea of one feeling the need to gain weight too quickly and bulk quickly. Uh sorry guys, there's just no evidence that this causes more muscle growth. And in fact, all the available evidence finds it literally only causes fat gain. That's it. It causes nothing but fat gain. um and it's not necessarily making you gain more muscle even if you're leveraging more weight from it. And that point has to be taken home. And I feel like that needs to be addressed with the starting strength model big time because it still has its own popular followings. Um but uh definitely overeating too much instead of saying hey am I focusing on quality nutrition to facilitate my training my recovery and even staying at the same body weight if I have enough body fat and recompositioning or making very slow lean gains is a much more appropriate route and again making sure that your diet's built around uh quality carbohydrates healthy fats solid nutrients um and speaking of which I think the other thing I think too many people because again the industry has pushed it. And I've even had phases where I'm like, "Oh, it makes more sense." But it doesn't. There's no evidence focusing on too much protein. And I'm not telling you you don't need a high protein diet. Uh you do need a high protein diet to maximize muscle growth. You probably need animal source proteins. Again, let's be clear what some of the data has shown on muscle growth itself. Not looking at individual muscle protein synthesis, uh but actual growth. It's actually relatively hard to gain muscle efficiently without animal proteins. not impossible. It's just more difficult. So again, even then, I'm not going to tell people to go do an entirely plant-based. Obviously, animal proteins are extremely valuable. I eat them. I endorse them. But I think this focus of people thinking they need excessive amounts like the the number we throw out frequently. Well, one gram per pound of body weight, it's honestly higher than you actually need. And I'm not saying it's going to hurt your progress. Not saying it's going to hurt your progress. it's just unnecessary. And I think when we run into a point where so many guys focus excessively on getting tons and tons and tons of protein, um that it becomes a handicap in the sense of the struggle to do it, feeling like they have to do it, uh trying to to to hammer it down all the time, buying lots of extra protein shakes, doing whatever they need to reach the protein they think they need to reach. In the reality, it's much lower. All right, it honestly around 0.8 8 grams per pound of body weight is where all muscle growth. We know nothing beyond that helps. That's pretty much obvious in all the research on everyone from noviceses to Olympic level athletes and natural bodybuilders. Um without drugs in the mix, that pretty much is the upper threshold. And the actual amount for optimal for many people is much much much lower. You know, it's much lower. I'm gonna say for most grown guys out here. If you're getting at least 100 grams of protein a day and a sizable portion of it is coming from animal source, you're probably in the clear. Not saying you shouldn't go a little higher and try to get to those other numbers I mentioned, right? Not saying it would it's you shouldn't try to, but if you're if you're really stressing about it at that point, it's just it's not helping you. So, it's literally not doing much of anything u beneficial for muscle growth. There's other metabolic benefits to extreme protein overfeeding, but gaining muscle isn't one of them. All right. Um, so then training. Um, I think a big mistake a lot of guys make, not enough focus on big movements. Uh, any way you break it down, whether you're talking isolation or compounds, no study ever really finds that isolation movements build more muscle than the target muscle, right? the big movements are going to put the most muscle on you because they're working multiple big muscles, you know, and you get people who they forget that from an exercise economy perspective. They'll say, "Okay, but you know, maybe it's it's it's not optimal for this head or or whatever." Um, or it's not going to cause all the muscles to grow, but it always does, right? Every study that ever looks at a bench press or any chest press, they always find the pecs, the triceps, the front delts, they all grow. They always grow. Even the triceps from a wide grip bench, they always grow in the studies. So you when you're doing big movements, every single muscle involved grows, right? When you're isolating, only the isolated muscle grows. So, and I'm not telling you not to do any isolation, but you're training. If you're trying to actually gain muscle, notice I didn't say, "Hey, get really big arms." No, we said gain muscle. You need to be doing mostly big movements. You need to do movements that work lots of muscle. They need to be the foundation. All right. And I mean, I could give recommendations, but you don't necessarily have to follow those. But examples, squat, bench, deadlift, pull-ups, dips, right? These are big movements. Overhead pressing, right? Big big movements that work numerous muscles. Like what you should be shooting for is is most of your exercises need to work at least three muscles. If you really trying to get big, this is where you need to go, right? You want the bigger movements. are going to put the most size on you. Um, number two, not focusing on progressive overload and intensity. Okay, those are going to be your drivers. Those are going to be your drivers of hypertrophy. You know, coming in and just doing pump work and drop sets is not going to make you bigger. Not significantly. It's just not. Uh, with no drugs in the mix, I'm going to say drop sets probably aren't doing anything. What do I mean by drop sets? taking 10 seconds and dropping the weight and just continuing. Okay. Again, you're just burning out. You're not stimulating uh new muscle fibers in that set with the drop sets. That's what people forget. They're like, "Oh, I'm getting deeper fibers." No, you already reached that. If you reach muscle failure, you already reached all the deeper fibers. If you do a drop set and reduce weight, you're literally going back to the exact opposite. You literally not getting those deeper fibers because they're not re-recruiting again at any point in the drop set. So, you're just generating fatigue and burning out. And I have no problem with conditioning work. You should be doing cardio. You should be conditioning. But if you want conditioning, go push a sled, do a weighted carry, do some sprints. Okay? There's your conditioning. Conditioning doesn't need to be a triple drop set with curls. Okay? You're not building muscle from it. You're not building muscle just by chasing a pump. We build muscle by training close to failure. Our proximity to failure or going to muscle failure, right? And by progressive overload. We need to be adding reps and we need to be adding weight to our main sets. Not even talking about the little pump work you're doing at the end. I'm talking about your main movements. Right? Dumbbell row like I'm doing right there could be one of your main movements. Are you gaining reps? Are you focused on adding reps and adding weight to it while maintaining a full range of motion? Okay, that is how we get bigger. This is how we build muscle. So, the mistakes guys make is not focusing on these things. Not focusing on their big movements, not focusing on progressive overload, not focusing on high quality sets where you are getting to large amounts of fatigue, not just a pump, right? You have to be creating fatigue on those main primary sets. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.