The carnivore diet is the absolute most dangerous fat diet I have ever seen in my life. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and y'all a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to drop a comment down below to give me your thoughts or to just say hello. I would greatly appreciate that. Um, guys, I've been doing this a long time, right? when I first got into fitness, Atkins was really in vogue. Um, I remember the zone diet. Um, all these different approaches like this is the these are different things. I remember, you know, the whole 40 30 thing. Uh, we had the whole Paleo diet after that. So, I've seen a lot of these things come and go um over over the years. I've seen tons of this stuff come and go and become popular and invogue. And you know, the thing is, I've seen a lot of these things, and I've seen some people get hurt or have problems with really serious fat diets, but the carnivore is the absolute worst. And and it is being perpetuated basically by mad men. Um, and it's grown in popularity because a few famous people got out there and did it like Jordan Peterson discussed it. And, and yes, I will forever hold that against him. Like, and that people don't like that. They're like, "How can you say he's helped people here and there?" I'm like, "I don't care what other I don't follow his other work." To me, he is the evil person who got out there and promoted the carnivore diet. He made it more famous discussing your nonsense with his him and his crazy daughter. And I'm sorry, but as someone who knows enough about nutrition, I don't find her story credible. I don't find it believable. And I think she's crazy. And I think that he is too. U because again, this is not even what you do. That's not how you deal with the medical issue that she has. and he can argue well we did this with it all he wants but I don't see a team I heard doctors getting up explaining this okay that's the problem it's bunch of quacks and stuff you know discussing this stuff but I don't see any of her doctors getting up and saying oh yeah we think this is the best solution and this is what's helped her through it and in fact if anything this is why we have to jump on this plenty of medical doctors in the area of autoimmune issues have got up discuss literally she has an she has an issue that disappears on its own oftentimes in early adulthood. They're like, and I've seen an actual medical doctor who specializes in this field get up and say, "Yeah, the sort of of um autoimmune issue that she has, something like 70 to 80% of people outgrow it by the time they reach her age where she started getting better on their own. And it has nothing to do with their lifestyle changes. We don't even know why they just outgrow it. 70 to 80% of them, it just goes away on its own. So, do we see the problem with this guy promoting this and then people using that as a story? Well, it helped her with it really. Then how come the doctors who specialize in the field say she has an issue that just goes away in late teens or early adulthood with no lifestyle changes? For most people, it literally just disappears on its own. The symptoms just go away. You outgrow it. So you could find this out with a 15 minutes of reading and research yet this these people get up and then still promote this. I don't think so. I mean that alone is you could look at that and go you didn't go do research and find out that her medical issue. You don't know this. Your daughter has a serious medical issue and you don't know this already. So this tells me you're selling something. Who bought you? The the beef and pork industry buy you out? who who who bought you out to get up and tell this malicious lie because that's what it is. Okay, that's what it is with this. And so this this whole diet has been promoted and here's the problem. They are literally telling people not to eat fruits and vegetables. Let's let we don't even need to go so down the rabbit hole of excessive saturated fat, which we know causes problems. This this isn't even up for debate, but at least what do we know that some of the negative effects of high saturated fat intake can be completely offset with the antioxidants in your diet and fiber and everything else, right? Like we can make a case for people need to do a keto diet for whatever reason. Okay, fine. Keep your vegetables super super high and you might actually be pretty okay still. See what I'm saying? So, if someone is comes to me and says, "I insist I want to do a keto diet." I'm gonna be like, you need two pounds of green vegetables every day or a kilo of green vegetables every day. Broccoli, spinach, whatever. All right? It will help offset the actual a lot of the medical concerns because they are valid. Just because it helps in some areas doesn't mean it doesn't hurt others. And we we know that we know that with keto diets, some of the blood markers towards cardiac health improve and some of them get dramatically worse. So then we have to add up is it a net negative or not? That's a bit of complication, but we know the ones that get worse can be offset with enough green vegetables to some extent. So, you can blunt some of the damage of the diet while keeping the possible good effects. Okay, fair enough if you're willing to do that. But this crazy approach, they've removed this and they've removed the one thing that most experts agree is is key for a healthy diet, a balanced diet, removing risk of cancer, reducing cancers of diabetes, uh cardiovascular disease, all these problems, inflammatory problems, antioxidants, phytonutrients, fiber, right? This is we know this stuff. Same thing for immune system health, gut health, all that fiber. like plants, vegetables, vegetables, vegetables. This is really the key. Okay, they're like let's just remove it. Okay, this is the point where you have to step back and say this is a break point mentally for people essentially to accept that hypothesis. To accept that hypothesis, then you have to believe that all nutrition researchers around the globe are part of a vast conspiracy. You have to believe that for this to to be valid and that's a problem. So essentially, we're now at a point where all science bad, all science bias, all science has been bought out by some sort of global power. Okay? So this is an unhealthy thinking process. But by that same token, this same group will buy tons of biased studies that are clearly biased in their favor. Right? The few the stuff that supports some of what they say, when you go look at it, it all has very, very clear financial bias, literally paid for by beef and pork companies and so on and so forth. A lot of the stuff they site and it disagrees with the larger body of evidence. same thing. Uh some of the stuff that they they cite, medical doctors, right? Medical doctors who literally make their living selling books claiming that the mainstream doctors are all wrong have actually been the ones who authored some of these studies that again these people site. They have a financial bias. They're making their living selling books. Okay? And so then they're having people literally eat huge amounts of saturated fat, which is going to hurt them, combined with removing all the vegetables and fiber, the stuff that we all need more of for basic health. This is all we universally agree on. Most Americans do not get anywhere near enough vegetables or fiber on average. And we know this is killing us. This is universally agreed. And they're like, let's just remove the little bit that they get, right? This is insane. This is insane. This is deadly. And it really and truly has no place anywhere in the fitness world.