 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 사고 two of the biggest scams. And let me be clear, most of them are scams, but some of them were pushed and more pervasive than others. The big three I'm going to give you, and then I'll kind of explain why, are going to be testosterone boosters, branched chain amino acids, and pre-workouts. Now, we're going to get some blowbacks, and people are always like, but I used this or that, and it worked. Yeah, no, it didn't. It didn't give you a benefit. You felt something, you know, and we have to understand these are not the same thing. So test boosters, this one is obvious. Number one, most of them don't really work. The ones that have been found to do anything in individual studies are usually poorly done studies. They're not replicatable. Okay, so we need to be clear on that. They're absolutely not replicatable. And quite frankly, these supplements usually literally cost more than just buying drugs that boost testosterone production. And I don't mean even testosterone itself. I'm talking various, you know, drugs that are used by doctors to boost your production, right? There are other substances like pharmaceuticals that make your body start producing more testosterone. The problem is they all have really serious side effects. Okay, and that's kind of the crazy part. You know, you get people who are like, yeah, but testosterone will have side effects. But if my body is producing it on its own, and it's producing more, it won't. Yeah, that's, that's not actually true. I would go so far as to say that the sub the drug HCG, which is definitely used for this, has way more side effects than testosterone. Okay, way more side effects. It is, it's more expensive and has more side effects. So, you know, again, people are concerned with suppression. So they're like, well, I don't want to do take some suppressant. I just want something that'll boost it. Well, there are substances that do that, but they're all regulated drugs. And so here's what you have to understand. No over the counter substance that boosts testosterone is going to be allowed to stay on the market. So the makers of it know that. They're not going to go find a drug, a set of amino acids or herb or pond scum that actually works because it'll be pulled off the market because it's now producing a drug like effect. It's competing with, you know, pharmaceuticals, right? That's already a problem. The FDA will shut you down. Big pharma will shut you down because you're then interfering with what they do. So they don't really have an incentive to look. So they're all scams and, but they never actually work anyways. But the thing is, even if they did work, they'd have the same side effects of these other substances and they would still probably cost more than what people were paying for black market substances. And, and again, even if they did work, they will probably never work as well as things that are actually designed to do it. So it did, but they don't ever work, right? They don't ever really work. I remember a couple of them, deaspartic acid, all these endurance cyclists who were over-trained, who had low testosterone. Their testosterone levels went up on it when they took it on this team of like cyclists in Italy, but none of them have really high testosterone. They just went from low testosterone to okay testosterone. The problem is it wasn't replicatable and it was speculated there could have just been something happening with their over-training in a phase because the later studies were not able to replicate it. You had insurgent. I remember when, when Mark, a low blinder, pulled his whole insurgent thing and I made fun of it. And he used a case study of someone he knew who he gave him the drug, right? Well, I'm sorry, the supplement. And then he showed his blood work before and after. The guy still has low testosterone after. So he took a guy with really low, low testosterone who really needs TRT, gave him this and the guy's testosterone went up, but it was still clinically low. Like he still needed TRT even on the so-called test booster. And that was his in-house study. So it's like when your test subject while taking your test booster still has low testosterone, we're done. Pranscian amino acids, biggest scam. I got sued over this one. So everyone who forgot that, I literally got sued over branch chain amino acids. I stumbled upon the fact that, you know, it looked like there was financial bias in the only little bit of research on it. And I called it out. Gosh, like 2012, got sued in 2013 over it while living abroad. I got sued for that. And then it turned out all these, and again, it was the most widely pushed supplement. You go back to 2012, 2013, this was the supplement and everyone pushed it. All the people that you still follow, your influencers, your experts, they all pimped it. They all had codes for it, everything. And I'm over here calling it out, getting sued for calling it out. Then it turned out multiple meta-analysis come out saying it doesn't work. Occasionally you would still have a clown, why take it and I feel something? I take it to flavor my water. Like all these excuses because they don't want to feel dumb for buying in. But the data shows repeatedly, it's completely useless for anything muscle building or recovery related, completely useless. Biggest scam, big, big, big scam. And that's why I got sued because they knew it was a scam and I had a voice and it couldn't be afforded for me to be putting that out there. They probably made millions of extra dollars just by silencing me because I had a pretty big outreach and the fitness world wasn't as big back then. And I had 20 times the outreach I do now. I had to be shut down. All right. Pre-workouts, they don't do anything other than get you high and give you a buzz. That's it. So anyone who's using pre-workouts, no, you're just a STEM junkie. When they're studied, they don't cause any extra muscle growth or strength for the people who use them versus who haven't used them. This has long been proven. Essentially, pre-workouts are just an addictive supplement that's being sold to you to get you hooked on it so that you now need pre-workouts to feel like you have a good workout at $50 a month, right? Basically trying to turn you into an addict. And they've been known to have things like methanalogs and stuff in them, you know, when they're checked. It's just a big scummy scam idea. And they're not necessary. No one has ever needed a pre-workout in the history of the world to break a world record. People use drugs for that. Oh, but I digress. They're, again, an addictive scam. And that's the idea. And you don't even need to be psyched up or anything when you train, right? You guys have seen me come in and deadlift over 600 pounds while in my forties. Just calm and chill. There's no need to be all aggressive. Just lift the weight. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.