What is my dad bod strength standard? Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and I thought I would chat with you guys and J a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys would please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you aren't uh following or subscribed, please do so. And if you would be so kind just to drop me a comment down below to give your thoughts, just say hello, I would greatly appreciate it. Thank you so much. So, let's get over to the topic. Um, so my dad bought strength standard. I I put this out there and it's usually controversial. People are like, "You're crazy." Other people are like, "That's not that hard." People are like, "Well, the bench is really hard." The others are probably doable. So, you know, we come into to a lot of those topics. So, what is it that I tell guys and why do I say it? I say that an ideal to reach for for uh older guys, men over 40, right? And there's some caveats here, but it's a 315 bench. I've sometimes said we could counters to 300, you know, also uh 405 squat, 500 deadlifted deadlifts, and to be able to do 10 body weight pull-ups. And I've always said these are kind of admirable goals for this. Um, now when I say that again, people will say, well, you know, uh, why are you saying that that should be expected? Because most of us who are over 40, I'm assuming if you follow any of my work, you started training a long time ago. um or you're getting back into it and and you're like, I really want to put some years in. So, here's what I would say to people. These lifts are proxies for having a significant amount of muscle mass. In other words, for most guys, uh assuming, you know, average genetics and frame. Now, if you're a smaller guy genetically in terms of your your bone structure and and or you have some medical issues, I get it. But I'm talking if you're still fairly healthy. All right, those lifts represent pretty close to what most guys who have trained for years and they've reached at least 90% of their drug-free size that they could gain, right, with no steroids. Now, keeping in mind, uh, then a lot of people argue with this, but they they don't talk to enough people. I think the majority of guys over 40, at least in the US, who work out are on TRT. So again, there is a small edge there. Okay, I'm going to state that again. I have found in my experience, I think the majority of guys who are over 40, who train regularly, go to a gym, are on some sort of prescription TRT. Okay, the majority meaning more than half. Now, I don't have stats for that, but just based on talking to people and listening to stuff seems to be pretty much the norm, at least in the US. So, uh, when when we say all this, why why then give that as a standard to strive for because you've been training it all these years, you know? So, if guys say, "I'm nowhere near that." And it's like, "Whatever, I started working out. You're it's like whatever years ago, and I'm like, well, what did you do in the gym?" You told me you didn't do progressive overload on something for your whole body. and all that time you've been in the gym. So So what did you do? Jerk off in the the changing room or something? Like did you go to the gym to use the water fountain in the shower? What did you actually do? Because if you came to the gym regularly, I mean, and let's be realistic. Let's say you came twice a week, I don't know, over 15 years and you actually worked out most of the muscles in your body and you used progressive overload. So it during those years because again we don't need fast, we don't need optimal people hire me when they want really optimal gains without injuries, right? So we're talking optimizing. So, let's say you didn't optimize. Let's say you just came in, man, I made it two days of the week on average, some weeks three. Uh, but every time I reached failure with a given weight and I got the reps too high, I added some weight. And I I mean that like I really do mean that. Let's say you barely you only did a few free weights and you did a lot of machines and other stuff, but you trained your quads, your hamstrings, your triceps, your lat like everything got trained and you literally for years of it. Yeah. You just came and got onto all the machines, maybe did some free weights, you know. How did you not gain muscle? Let's say you did something as simple as, man, every time I got 12 reps on any of those machines, I knew I needed to add weight. And you just kept doing that over and over and over for years and years and years and years and years. You do realize you'd be pretty big, right? And that's the point I make with this. It's not unreasonable. Like these, this is a proxy for muscle mass. Okay? It's a proxy for muscle mass. Not saying you even have to be as big as I am, okay? But you guys have seen me on great days hit pretty high reps sometimes with some of those numbers. I've also done more like you'll see me kind of up in here 500 lb squat. I got a 585 deadlift and stuff in here, you know, through throughout the the clip, right? So, I'm a little bit above that. I don't do pull-ups. I do weighted pull-ups. Okay? But again, proxies for muscle. So, if you came in and you spent time gaining muscle and you didn't goof off after 10 years, 12 years, whatever, you should be relatively close to those numbers if you came in and worked on them. And so, you you you gained muscle and you said, "Yeah, maybe I'll get good at these lifts." But you actually worked everything. You don't have a bunch of weak links. You do know that you you'd be close to those numbers. And if you didn't do those things, that's the problem. And I know people who goof off. I know people I talk to people who goof off. And I'm just like, they spend so much time restarting and downtime and then they they follow really they they don't put the effort in to get big even though they claim they want to get big and strong. You know, they'll do goof off starting strength type workouts with no accessory work, no rep work. Okay. but they don't they don't really gain muscle, you know, not to the degree that they should. And then they wonder why they're not near those anywhere near those numbers. Well, that's that's kind of why. I'm not even saying that programming is bad. But guys, come on. You got to put some muscle on. But most guys are doing that. Most guys are coming in and doing stuff. So unless you're just going through the motions and never increasing weight or reps or anything, I just do the same workout. I don't ever increase anything. Well, but you're not actually training then. you're just maintaining, then these are reasonable. So, I don't think they're out of line for people who have spent all the way up into their 40s, you know, just base building. Just coming and doing base building. If you're are you actually training your hamstrings for 10 years, we're not you don't even have to powerlift to reach these numbers, guys. Is not is not what we're talking about. It's not necessary. But these are totally reasonable goals to aspire to. Totally reasonable. And that's the point. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.