Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about the importance of exercises that move your body through space. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, it would be greatly appreciated. Um, and when I make this statement, I don't make it lightly, but generally speaking, exercises, our weight room, our conditioning exercises, everything that moves your body through space are the most valuable exercises, hands down. And lately, we're getting coming out of certain evidence-based circles and and I'm going to call it very loosely evidence-based because it's not based on evidence. Um, specifically just in bodybuilding circles, evidence-based, it's everyone is afraid of stabilizers. They're afraid of moving the body. They want to try to lock everything in. Um, which is really kind of a silly thing because there's there's no real evidence even in their circles that isolation actually causes more muscle growth. Um, and there can certainly be a place for it. I want to be clear, single joint exercises um, absolutely have their place. Um they absolutely have their uses, but those uses are more of specializing in bringing up specific weak points or adding volume to certain areas um while not impacting overall recovery because you've done large amounts of workload already. Okay? But by and large, they should never for any purpose comprise the majority of your training. It just doesn't make any sense. Um, and when we start thinking of the full benefits of various exercises, right, all the wide variety of benefits going beyond just, hey, am I hypertrophying the primary mover, okay? Because I mean, look at a weighted pull-up. Think about how many muscles gets built doing this, okay? That's a lot of it's not just your lats. Think about all the muscles involved. They actually grow. And I think this is going to highlight part of what we're saying. The lats, the rear delts, the traps, especially that middle trap, lower trap, the rhomboids, okay? The long head of the tricep, the bicep, the brachiialis, the radial brachiialis, the forearm extensors, forearm flexors, your abdominals. Your abdominals grow. They get stimulus from this, right? This is a pretty long list. How about the upper chest, upper portions of the chest? All of these muscles are getting worked enough to cause a training response from one exercise. And you got to think in terms of the coordination. So when we start thinking of exercises that move your body, okay, they have by far the most growth potential. Nothing else is even close, okay? Because we're working a lot of these other muscles. they are getting enough work to actually grow. Okay? And I mean the the case in point, you'll see me doing sled work. You'll see me doing the the weighted carries here. I want people to understand you could actually gain muscle if this is all you did was stuff like that. Okay? So, let's let's step aside this whole idea of of trying to isolate stuff for muscle growth being benefits. If I had you do nothing but jumps and throws, right? You you guys see me do the medball tosses and stuff. Uh weighted carries like this, pushing a sled, pulling a sled. If you had never trained, you would gain significant amounts of muscle. You would gain significant amounts of muscle. If we did this stuff really hard for a year straight and progressively loaded it, you would gain enormous Okay? Does anyone not understand this? Are we in denial of this fact? Because we've seen it in plenty of athletes. We see I've known of of field athletes that are not even squatting. Sometimes they're going a year. Some of them they're like, I'm not squatting. I've been doing tons of sled and they have massive strong legs. Well, because the sled has a lot of the same benefits as the squat. But what you need to understand all these movements, they add degrees of conditioning. They add degrees of athleticism. Okay. When we're thinking of the full host of benefits, are we talking about gaining a little muscle or are you trying to actually be fit? And let's be clear, when people are doing this, I mean, stop and think about this. Guys are like, "Well, I'm trying to gain muscle." Do you really think squats don't put muscle on you? Do you really think pushing a sled? How about weighted chin-ups, weighted dips? Okay, listen to how many bodybuilders, how many professional bodybuilders for generations are like, "Oh, man." Yeah, weighted dips, man. They really built, man, I get a lot of tricep out of those. I've really built my pecs with those. Tons of them. Weighted pull-ups. Yeah, they're the king for my lats, my whole mid trap. They just all my forearms. They all blew up from those. Okay, are we in denial? So, again, look at some of these calisthenics guys who live on those sort of movements. How many of them are actually carrying a pretty decent amount of muscle? Whole lot of them. So, stop and think about this. Anyone who's like, "Well, you know, I'm just trying to get," you will gain muscle. Why would you not gain muscle from all these movements, why wouldn't you? But here's the other thing. You work all these wide varieties of stabilizers and pe So, people have this idea. They're like, "Well, yeah, but you're not working anything because of the stabilizer." Really? So, tell that to all those calisthenics dudes. You have really jacked upper bodies from all the pull-ups and chin-ups and and dips and muscleups and stuff that they do. A lot of them are really jacked. So, if your theory about, oh, let's cut the stablers out were true, they wouldn't be so jacked. Plenty of them are. But here's the thing. All these exercises that move you through space, they add a lot more to the table. Why? They add a lot of neural efficiency. They improve strength. They improve coordination. They improve just overall athletic ability. Okay? Because how much coordination does it take, right? Interuscular coordination, extramuscular coordination, you're using your body. So any of these exercises where you're forced to stabilize your body, a weighted chin up, a weighted dip, a barbell squat, a loaded carry, a deadlift, I mean all these things, even those leg raises, uh jumps, throws. We need to be clear, you gain muscle and get jacked doing these, but they work a wide variety of muscles and there is overlap. You have to understand squats and deadlifts grow the upper body. It's been found in studies, they even grow the upper body. Okay? So, if we're doing all these different movements, you're you're you can build tons of muscle. They bring the most to the table because they don't just build muscle. They build the muscle great, but they give you coordination. They also improve neuromuscular efficiency and drive, which again is going to increase strength because we're doing big heavy exercises, right? They're going to do way more for you. And a lot of these ones that move the body through space, these are the ones that build bone density. Okay. Builds your whole body and it builds your nervous system and it gives you the ability to perform. All right? It's going to give you the ability to actually perform and be athletic and be an athlete. So, when people say, "Oh, well, these aren't uh I do these other movements instead of those." No, these these are the most useful exercises. And again, let me be clear. I am not telling you never to isolate anything. That is not what we're saying. Not saying they don't have their place. That is not again not what I'm saying. Understand though that these exercises bring the most to the table. You're going to get the most total benefits from doing them versus anything else that you could do when you sum up everything that they add.