People who actually care about health are not going to have a preference in the seed oil versus beef tallow debate. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Uh quick reminder though, if you will please click like down below, that would be greatly appreciated. Thank you so much. If you aren't following or subscribed, please do so. And drop me a comment down under the video. I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you. All right, I'm just going to be blunt here. Um, this entire debate is absolutely insane. Um, and what I mean is every time you bring it up or you point out, yeah, beef tallow is probably objectively worse than seed oil. If we compare all the pros and cons side by side, people think that you're prose. And here's the problem. Like I I point that out. I'm not prose. It's not great. It's not something you should be consuming or cooking in. It's still when you measure it all out, it's less bad. But here's the problem. This is literally like taking the debate of, "Hey, man, cocaine isn't as bad as meth." Like, that's how that's how insane the debate is. Because let's let's be frank here. Nobody, nobody who cares about their health or their fitness or not having heart disease, being obese, having diabetes, cancer, is going to regularly eat fried foods. I don't care. Like, this is this is not something that fit people do. This is not something that anyone who genuinely cares does. And so, here's kind of the point I would make w with a topic like this. an occasional cheat meal or treat. Fine. Like I would say some people can get away with a cheat meal once a week. I can't do that. I don't personally do that. I can't. Like for me, maybe one a month at the most. Two a month I can get away with personally, but that's about it. And I rarely even do that. Um but but throwing that out there. But if you're doing it as a rare occasional cheat meal, there's going to be no difference. meaning you don't we're not worried about chronic effects of either one because it's a very acute at that point like no one gains fat from a single meal. I don't care how big it is. Uh it's going to be insignificant in the grand scheme of things. The same thing with overall inflammation. You're you might get some inflammation feel bad for a half day for a day. When you're used to eating really clean then you feel like a normal person again like currently what we see is normal. So, we're we're talking about acute versus chronic effects. And at that point, this is how fit people do. Fit people generally don't have more than at most maybe one bad meal a week. And that's kind of us pushing it. So, again, it's there's going to be no difference between the two at that point because it again, it is going to be a very acute response and it's the chronic lifestyle that affects you. Um, but that is very much the point. fit people don't stand around eating stuff like this. This is not a debate for them. So the whole topic is really talking at a population level. Um but let's come over to the point. We could argue a lot. I I am convinced beyond all doubt that I'm right on that argument, but it's I would still never have human beings eat it. Does that make sense? That for me that's the equivalent of getting up and saying, "Well, you know, rat poison is technically worse than ant poison. doesn't mean I think you should eat ant poison. And that's that's what I'm saying. This is this is not what fit people do because people who stand around frying their foods and empty fat calories get fat. And and let's overlook all the other stuff. We don't have to get into the massive debates about oxidative stress. We don't have to get into the massive debates about inflammation and all this. Um, I I could and I think it's relatively one-sided there, but we don't have to go there because here's the real issue. Obesity increases inflammation. This is not subject to debate. This is why the health at every size movement is not based on science. It's not based on reality. Excessive atapose tissue in your body causes a measurable and enormous increase in overall inflammatory markers. It is unavoidable. It will happen by default as you start gaining large amounts of weight. It will just happen automatically irrespective of what you ate to get there. So it starts to become a moot point when you factor in that these are the foods that make people fat. Right? Refined sugars which I do blame as a massive culprit uh create obesity through a secondary pathway. They're not actually stored as body fat and we need to be clear on that. Um they destroy metabolic health. Okay. So, when we talk about refined sugars, you're technically not getting fat from the refined sugars. You're not storing them to any significant degree as body fat, but they do absolutely absolutely destroy your metabolic health. Uh have negative impacts on your liver, your organs, things like that. Okay? So, your concerns are liver, pancreas, um impaired metabolic function. Well, that's bad. That's not good. So, I do blame for as far as the long-term culprits of metabolic health being destroyed. Yeah, refined sugars definitely refined fructose top of the list. But the actual fat gain process itself is coming from these foods. Like the actual body fat accumulation is coming from the seed oils and the butter and the bacon and the beef tallow. If you and if you switch the the seed oil for beef taller, you're going to have the exact same response. It's empty fat calories that make food hyper palatable and calorie dense. Like this is a recipe for disaster and you're going to get just as fat off either one. There's going to be no significant difference. I could argue based upon the metabolic world that the polyunsaturated fats will store a little less efficiently than the saturated fats, but at the end of the day, it's not going to be enough to matter. They're both still going to make you fat, and that's the issue. So, again, at a population level, we we need to be doing away with both. In other words, if you don't want your population fat and sick, we shouldn't be standing around arguing about what garbage to fry our French fries and stuff in. What garbage do we fry our foods in? What oil or fat do we use to fry our foods in? This is stupid. We say we don't eat this at all. This needs to be cut out. You want to get rid of obesity, you you don't allow fried food to be given to children. There's your solution. Uh, the crappy meals have to go or happy meals or whatever people want to call them. I call them crappy meals. Here's your problem. So, this is an insane argument. People who care about their health don't eat these things. So, we are literally arguing about we are literally having an argument about which of these really super stupid unhealthy fattening things is is is less bad. This is not a solution. Solution is to change our entire food environment and our food culture. There's your solution. Because this other is going to do nothing. It's going to do nothing positive. You're going to see no positive change from swapping these things back and forth. It's all going to be equally bad at the end of the day. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.