Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I thought I would chat with you guys and gals about the four cornerstones of strength. Uh but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Thank you. And so, um again, I've been coaching a long time. Um 48 coming up on 49 years old. Deently strong guy on raw strength for for a guy my age. and I'm decently fit. Um, and I've coached quite a few national level lifters, have athletes in different sports, strongman, Olympic lifting, different types of fighting. And here's what I'm going to say about strength. This is where I tend to agree with Louis Simmons. And I know for some people, um, even they see me doing a lot of these classic lifts. Um, they see me promoting raw lifting, you know, they're like, why Louis Simmons? Because he was smart and he knew what he was doing. Um, and he coached athletes in a wide variety of endeavors. And again, um I I really do think he paved the way with a lot of stuff, but he actually had four cornerstones. And I don't think we need to use his terms, the Westside terms, but I'm going to give tribute and say what they are. Um he called it maximum effort, dynamic effort, repetition effort, and GPP. Those are the four cornerstones. Okay, we see where we're going with this. Now, what do these represent to everybody else? What do we think of his max effort? really really heavy work, right? Generally stuff in the one to three rep range, but as he would say, it's it's one rep really. You know, how do we develop maximum strength? By lifting heavy weight, right? This is where you develop the highest rate of force production because that is what it is. Uh strength is measured as the production of force against an external object. Okay? So, we train that most effectively with max effort lifts, heavy singles. I mean, some people will say doubles and triples, and I'm not saying they're wrong. I'm not even saying doing rep work, you know, top end sets won't increase strength load. You you take your say your two rep max and you keep doing top in sets with it, you get it to three, four, five reps, your max is going to go up or we already know this. This is a given. But if you're really trying to maximize it, yeah, heavy singles, max effort lifting. In other words, let's take it over. Instead of taking the max effort, let's say lifting really heavy weights. So what are we really going to talk about talk? We're going to talk about heavy lifting, right? What's the corners and strength? Lifting really heavy. Okay. Then we need to focus on hypertrophy. Also doing rep work. Okay. Any form of explosive training. Instead of saying Louis Simmons is dynamic, how about anything that trains speed and power? Is that going to carry over? Absolutely. And then instead of even just his GBP, let's just say general conditioning. any sort of strength-based conditioning. Um, but again, that's still what what Louis Simmons called GPP. Okay? Whereas his SP for powerliffters is of course the max ever work. For those who don't know, that's general physical repairedness and then specific physical repairedness or sports specific training. So, so again, you saw me doing heavy maxes there, you know, heavy singles, right? Doing that all raw. Uh, so then what do we mean by repetition work? What do we mean by hypertrophy work? Well, perfect example. What do you see me doing over here? We're doing a supplemental lifts, right? This is not the bench press. This is an incline bench. But you get good at rep work. You get real strong and you build muscle on rep work on this on say how about weighted dips? How about incline bench? Right? Or even you could take a classic bench and do the same thing. Is this going to make your bench press stronger? Yes, it is. Bigger pecs, bigger delts, bigger triceps. Okay, get in and do rep work. And notice I'm not ego lifting this, right? It's only 225, you know, but what are we doing? Full ranges of motion, pause, control, no cheating, you know, get in and build muscle. Get in and build muscle. What else are you going to see me doing up? You're going to see me doing some weighted pull-ups. I'm doing them the hard way, too. So, it's like, you know, fairly close grip, long range of motion, dead hang at the bottom. Okay. Yeah, I can do a lot more weight if I do a different style, especially if I do neutral grip, man. But what about when I do the really hard version? And this is just let's just come in and build muscle, right? And this could apply to all your lower body stuff, too. I'm just giving examples of upper body here. Again, weighted pull-ups, they going to carry over to your big lifts? Of course they are. Of course they are. You're building lats, rear delts, traps, biceps, forearms, grip strength, abdominals, right? This good stuff. You want to get strong. Get weighted pull-ups. They'll carry over to all your big three. Do get real good at volume and rep bre on a weighted pull-up. You'll get stronger. Okay? Because again, muscle mass support musculature. Uh the more muscle you have, the higher force you can produce. This has been proven repeatedly in the lab. Muscle mass raises your strength ceiling. Hands down. This is not even debated anymore. Get bigger. Get jacked. You know, and these are perfect examples. I mean, two great exercises to get jacked. Incline benching, weighted pull-ups. Those will make most guys pretty dang jacked. You get good at them. Enough reps, right? Get real strong at your rep work, you'll get jacked and it you'll get stronger. Uh dynamic. How about over here I'm doing box work. You see me doing supply metrics. Anything that improves speed, jumping, sprinting to some extent. Yeah. Uh power cleans, snatches, speeds, speed work, dynamic effort work like Lu Simmons taught, speed boxes against bands and chains. Okay. It all makes you faster. All makes you more explosive. Does this improve your lifts? Yes, it does. And most coaches agree. Higher rate of force production. And we can do a lot more of it. You can only do so much heavy squatting. You can do a lot of boxing. Like for me right here, I did 10 triples within a matter of minutes. You know, when I did these, this is a lot of repeated high rate of force production. That speed is going to carry over to your list. In other words, you need to be athletic. You see where we're going with a lot of this? If you want to be really and truly strong, you need to be fit. So, you're going to see all that rep work. Weighted body weight exercises are phenomenal. But again, jumping, throwing. Okay. And then what do you you see me doing sled work, conditioning. Now, I run a lot, too. For those who are unaware, um I I usually do right now, um I do a 5K four times a week, uh barefoot for time. Uh so, again, I stay fit, but let's talk about the sled. The sled, your general physical preparedness, like especially a sled sprint, you'll get bigger from it. You will get bigger weighted carries, loaded carries, sled work, barbell complexes, kettle bell swings, strengthbased conditioning. Why? One, we get bigger from it. You'll gain more muscle. More muscle equals more more strength. You get bigger legs on a sled, your squat's going to go up. See where we're going with this? Get bigger on those weighted carries, your deadlift's going to go up. All right. A lot of my all my stuff you guys notice is all geared towards squats right now because squat makes everything go up for me. Um so again the sprinting here conditioning why faster recovery you recover better between sets. You better recover between workouts. You get bigger. You get more fit. You clear waste products faster. It allows you to train more effectively for strength. Okay. So, as Louis Simmons would put it, if you really and truly want elite levels of strength, you need to train all four of these components. And and I agree with that, and that's why I agree and call these the four cornerstones of strength training. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.