Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. Um, today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about chasing a pump versus progressive overload and understanding that they are very very different and only one of them stimulates growth. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribe, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. Thank you. And you know, this even matters for strength. You know, you guys see me doing some singles and stuff at the start, ramping up to some training maxes, a few of these lifts kind of kind of just through this video. Um, but the thing is, even then, hypertrophy matters. The bigger you are, the stronger you're going to be. Like, this is very much a documented scientific fact. Um, at this point in terms of just evidence, right? Lab evidence looking at lifters. This has been shown over and over and over relative to your structure and leverage. The more muscle you have involved with an exercise, the more weight you're going to be able to lift anyways. So again, this applies even to your maxes, okay? This applies even to your maxes because you have to gain muscle if you really want to be strong, if you want to maximize the potential. Uh so it it still all feeds the endgame of gaining muscle, getting bigger. Okay, we have to understand that. But let's get over and talk about that because we have to understand those mechanisms. So you need to understand there is a relationship between performance and strength. And when you understand that, it becomes very obvious why all the evidence always shows progressive overload is really the key to muscle growth. Because you kind of look at that and go, "Wait a minute, a bigger muscle is a stronger muscle. If it always has more force potential weight, the bigger the bigger you get, the stronger you're going to get." Well, yeah, that's going to apply to your work sets, too, isn't it? And I'm not talking about using leverages or cheating or anything else to do that. I'm talking about in the same range of motion, using the same lever, everything else. Yeah, it's the big factor. So, when people are like, "Well, I'm not in here trying to do that. I'm just trying to chase a pump." I'm like, "Well, why are you trying to chase a pump?" Because it feels good. Okay. I mean, I agree. Sometimes a pump can feel good. And even no matter what we do, sometimes you're going to get a really good pump. And there's something very satisfying about a pump on a lift, you know, like you do a a great set of weighted pull-ups to failure, you just kind of you're in your zone, you're like, man, you get that crazy light pump. You know, you guys know what I'm talking about. I get those all the time doing weighted pull-ups. Um, you know, you get that great chest pump. You do a heavy set of, you know, eight, nine, 10 reps on a on there on an incline bench, you're going to get that chest pump. But the pump should just be seen as a byproduct. It is not the driver of hypertrophy. You know, and people will say, "Well, I enjoy it. It's fun." Well, are you here to have fun? Are you here because it feels good? Or you here to make actual gains in progress? You know, are you here to actually get something? Because if you just want something that feels good, you could do an effective workout and you can go home and rub one out when you get home. Like, you don't you don't need to go to the gym or the weight room to do something that feels good. Okay? Because if all you're doing in the gym, if all you're doing in the gym is doing it, well, it feels good to get a pump. You're just in the gym to feel good. I mean, you're pretty much pretty much just jerking off anyways. It's just another type of masturbation. You know, that's all it is. And I'm just going to call it like it is. It's why Martin Berken called a lot of it epheronditis back in the day. So, and again, I'm not saying the pump is a bad thing. I mean, we all like to get a pump. I got a pump right here on this set of of of weighted dips you're watching me do right there. All the way down that deep range of motion, taking that set to failure, I had a heck of a chest and tricep pump. Okay? But that's not what drives muscle growth. Muscle growth is driven by work. It is driven by workload, progressive overload, progressive tension. And we have to understand when we say tension just not just, hey, can you lift more weight by cheating or leverage or or or shortening range of motion. Can we do more work? Okay. Can you add weight? Can you add reps while still taking sets very close to failure or to failure? Guess a bunch of those sets you just watched that I went to failure on that. I got stuck at the bottom, right? We get stuck at the bottom. That's failure. You should be very close to failure or reaching actual failure. But dudes will feel a pump and then think they've reached muscle failure. They're close to it just because they got a pump or a burn. No, that's absolutely absolutely not the case. People need to take even if you don't train to failure frequently, you need to do so sometimes just to know what it actually feels like. And I would say that even under a back squat or a bench, something that you're really worried about getting stable on, take them to failure every now and then just to know what it feels like the rep before you reach failure. Real good idea. A lot of your smaller movements, if you're not training to failure, I really don't know what you're doing though. But the progressive overload has to be workload. If your muscles are not subjected to a new stress, they have no reason to grow, right? They need to be subjected to a new stress and you can't just keep adding sets and adding volume that burns out real quick. Okay? Like right there, that was failure. Did you see the form breakdown on that final rep and then it came down and I could not come back up. I got stuck at the bottom. That's failure, guys. But you need to be progressively overloading to that often. So, you need to be able to add weight. You need to be able to add a rep. If you're not able to do that, you're not really gaining muscle. And I don't care how much of a pump you get. The pump itself is not a driver of hypertrophy, not a driver of muscle growth. It is progressive tension, progressive workload. You have to make the muscles do something that they are not capable of really doing because that's what you're looking at. A lot of what's happening with training is your body being afraid of you getting hurt. So a lot of the thickening of muscle fibers is applying a habitual stimulus to that muscle like chronically applying a stimulus to where your brain and your body is saying this muscle is at risk of tearing this t I am at risk of injury due to this work that this muscle is being subjected to and if I do not make it thicker I'm going to get hurt. Okay, that's what's happening is your body is responding and making it thicker as a protective mechanism against that trauma and that workload that you are subjecting it to. So that's that progressive tension needs to come in the form of adding reps or adding weight because even the adding the reps, you're reaching other new muscle fibers that are getting fatigued that were not getting fatigued early in the set. And as long as you're doing more work, you're getting tension onto onto additional muscle fibers. Even the ones that have previously grown, once they've grown, it's now easier to do that same weight and reps. So, if you're not adding something to the workload, they're not restimulating. They're not being put into a position to where they have to grow. So, it really is a matter of performance. That is what we are talking about. Subjecting the muscles to a higher workload, making them perform more so that they continue to adapt.