What is the single most important and probably only important key in determining if we are going to make gains or not? Uh, hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. I thought I would answer this question for you guys and gals. Uh, if you guys would though, please remember to click like down below. If you aren't following or subscribed, please do so if you enjoy the video and uh, drop me a comment down below with your thoughts on it. All right. Um, let's just be straightforward. Progressive overload. Progressive overload is everything. uh it's not even always about training to failure. It's not always about how much volume you're doing. Yes, those are factors in progressive overload, right? And I don't want to say that they're irrelevant, but in the context of if you are gaining muscle or not, it really and truly is about progressive tension on the individual muscle and on the individual muscle fiber. Um but I think where people get confused with the progressive overload thing, they get into all these other ideas. Well, what about training density? What about just adding more and more volume? Um, no, not necessarily. Because if progressive overload is not present, those things are not going to stimulate uh new muscle growth, especially if you're not growing at all. And when I say progressive overload, um, what we mean at the core of it is either adding weight or adding reps to individual sets. Now, that being said, that sounds pretty straightforward, but there is a little bit of nuance to that. In other words, it has to be actual progress at the level of the tendon and the muscle itself, right? Um because otherwise guys are like, "Oh, so if we just add weight to the bar and we just lift heavier, it's progressive overload, right?" And it's like, "Well, no, not always." Um in theory it should be. Yes. If your range of motion, your leverages, your form, all of that stay the same, then yes. But if you are adding weight at the expense of any of those things, you're not necessarily progressing, right? And I think this is where we lose the plot. And I think a lot of of less experienced lifters or just guys, guys, we like to ego lift. We know it. Admit it, you a lot of us ego lift. It's hard not to. It's just part of being a guy. I understand. I get it. I'm not going to hate on you for it. Look, we've all been there. I'm 48. I've been doing this a while. Um, we've all been there. So, if you are maintaining the form, yes, same form, and you're not cutting range of motion. So, notice here on that bench press that said I'm doing there, I'm doing really high reps at 225. Um, notice I pause on the chest on every rep. Notice there's no leg drive on that. There's no cheating. There's no bouncing. We're not stopping short of the chest. Okay? In that case, yes, if you were to add five pounds or even two and a half pounds to that set, right? Let's say you're doing uh sets of 10 with 225. It doesn't have to be 225. Let's take it down to 135. You know, for the other guys, a lot of guys are like, "Yeah, I'm over here trying to get basic information. I'm not cranking out sets of 10. Pause with 225." Okay. All right. Fair enough. U All right. 135. And you can do three sets of 10 really clean like that. No cheating, no bouncing, no stopping short of the chest. And you can add two and a half pounds. That's progressive overload. Okay. What about if you can add one rep to one of those sets? That's progressive overload. That is what we're talking about. You are working harder than you previously worked. And if you do that, you're stimulating muscle growth. Okay? Now, early on in your training, that's not so hard to do. Okay? That's not so hard to do, right? as long as you're not gaining too much fat. Okay, that's its own separate thing, too, isn't it? Dudes are like, "Yeah, but when I gain fat, those lifts go up faster." Yeah, because it changes the leverage. It changes the range of motion. It changes the leverage. But if you're barely gaining any body weight, so it's not necessarily body fat changing leverages, it's muscle. So, if you can add two and a half pounds, that's progress. If you can add another two and a half pounds, that's progress. If you can add reps, that's progress. In fact, what a lot of us do, um, as we get further into it, we do stuff like, uh, this is a very old school thing called, uh, double progression. Like, so you might say, well, instead of of of 10, how about I do three sets of six and try to add reps and get to seven, eight, and when I can get to 10, I'll add weight, and then the reps are going to go back down. People say, "Well, wait, if the reps went down, but we added weight, does it count?" Yes, as soon as you start adding reps again or you add weight again, right? because pro progressive overload is present. That is what we are looking for. Okay, that's what we're looking for. Now, it becomes a problem when form isn't always strict. And I'm not saying we have to have super strict form all the time. Okay, I'm not saying strict form is required for muscle growth. Let me be clear. You can do nothing but cheat reps and still gain muscle, but you it's harder to track the progress. And I think that's the thing why I tell less experienced lifters you might be coming for advice like this. You need to be really strict. And the reason is you don't have the experience under the barbell to know how much you're cheating. Right? You'll take a larger, more experienced lifter or bodybuilder who's been doing it quite a few years. They know if how much cheating they're doing. They know how much body English they're putting into that movement. And they know if they're cheating more or less. when you're still new to these movements, okay, you're not good at assessing that. So, you just may be cheating more and more and more, thinking that you're adding reps, that you're adding weight. And you may be, if the amount of cheating and assistance you're getting with that little bit of swing is the same, but it's also, are you taking tension back off the muscle too much with it, right? Are you unloading the muscle? I've seen guys do that. So, when we talk about progressive overload, you have to have that context. So, for guys who are still learning this, I I honestly recommend you learn to be really strict and learn to be very consistent in your ranges of motion. Make sure you squat all the way below parallel. Make sure you touch your chest. If you're doing a curl, try not to cheat, okay? Try not to cheat. Even if you use a machine, my god, let's say you use a machine. Make sure that you do that same full range of motion. Do the whole range of motion of that machine every time because otherwise you're going to start cheating. And it's the same thing if you gain weight really, really fast, that actually changes leverage and can actually take tension off the muscle because the extra fat that you're gaining can change leverages. That's actually pretty well documented as being the case, especially on stuff like a bench press or a squat where you can get a little squish. Um, so be aware of those things, but as long as you're progressing, you're good. And people say, "Well, how much volume?" We could argue about volume all the time, and I get guys say, "Well, what if I only did one set a week?" Well, you will only progress a short time on that. Then you're going to stop progressing. Guys are like, "But if I kept progressing?" Well, yeah. And if a frog had wings, would he bust his ass every time he hops? You know, that's a big what if, and it's a very, very unlikely, but sure, hypothetically, yes. People say, "What if I'm doing too much volume?" Well, you'll stop progressing. If you're doing way too much volume, everything stalls and then you'll know you're probably doing too much volume. Something you are not recovering from the volumes or the work density that you're trying to do. Maybe your breaks and stuff are too short. So you have to fix that. But at the end of the day, the key to gaining muscle is going to be about progressive overload irrespective of the movement. Now obviously that also assumes you're doing a good movement that's efficient and works the muscles, you know, right? Because that's an important factor. But if progressive overload, you're adding reps or adding weight consistently using the same form, the same range of motion, everything else, you're gaining muscle. And that really is the key to doing so. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.