If you want to get brutally strong, this is the formula you need to use. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys would please click a like on the video down below, um, I would appreciate it. If you aren't subscribed or following, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment down below to say hello or to give your thoughts on the video, I would appreciate that also. Thank you so much. All right, so let's talk about the performance elements that we want. You're going to see them demonstrated through here, starting with uh the max effort method. You'll see me max out on four different exercises. Um the dynamic effort method and then the repetition effort method. This is all popularized by Westside Barbell. The strongest gym in the world. Um, this was all innovated by Louisie Simmons who coached over a hundred world record holders in powerlifting and then dozens if not hundreds of elite athletes in a wide variety of other sports from MMA, UFC, all the way to Olympic sprinters and so on. Okay, he knew what he was doing. Uh, but the lifts you'll see me maxing here on is going to be a closed grip bench press. You saw me max out of 500 lb on a Camber bar. Good morning. uh 500 here on a Buffalo bar squat as raw as can be just with a belt and shorts on, no sleeves, and then a 585 conventional deadlift. I've pulled 635 in the past before. I'm a little older now. So, here's the thing. Combining these methods together, uh why the max effort method? This is king. This is king. Maxing out. And when you see me doing these, notice these are maxes. Do you see anything moving fast? None of these look like a warm-up. None of them look like an opener. Every one of them, the weight moves slow. That's how you know you have hit a max. Okay? It will move significantly slower than the 10 or the 20 pounds before it did. When you're ramping up, see that slow right there? You see a sticking point. Anytime you see a sticking point, you know you reached a max. That is what we That is what we are looking for when we talk about a max effort lift. for a single rep. You keep adding weight and you keep adding weight until it gets heavy. And you'll know it's heavy because you have a sticking point where the bar slows. You saw it on that deadlift. You saw it on the bench. Everything else. All right. What's our other thing we need? So that's the reason we do that is that's how we get strong. This is how we maximize strength. You have to learn to strain under a heavy load. And you don't get strong doing doubles, triples, five. I'm not saying you don't get strong. you will not get as strong or maximize it as much as a one rep max. And a one rep max on a box squat will carry over to a back squat or a one rep max with a safety bar squat will carry over to a a normal back squat more than doing a triple or a fivewheel with the exact same exercise because max effort work carries over to similar max effort work. Those those good mornings I just did that 500 lb good morning carries over to a squat and a deadlift. It will help you with both. All right. Uh, what about the dynamic effort method? It's how we develop speed strength. Um, we're working weights. I always say, look, we can vary. I know there's a lot of nuance to this. Let's just call it 50%. We could argue about how much band and chain we use all day long. Um, you're doing explosive work at 50% of your one rep max. Okay. Number one, it doesn't beat you up like maxes. You can't max. Like on average, you're really only going to want a max if you're not on a lot of drugs on about two lifts a week. So literally maybe a bench and a deadlift of some type, right? Different type of press and a squat of some type. So on and so forth, like about two lifts, that's about it. All right. The dynamic effort work doesn't beat you up the same, but what does it do? Teaches you to be explosive. Teaches you to be fast. It teaches you to blast through those sticking points. Okay? It also teaches you to set up and teaches you to find your technique because you were doing stuff like uh 6 to 12 one to three rep sets, right? With very very short breaks at around 50%, you were exploding as hard as possible. You're learning to move the weight fast. You're learning to move the weight explosively and you're learning to find the grooves that do it. In other words, because you were doing it over and over and over real fast, you very quickly find what toe angle on a squat or a deadlift give you the most power. You quickly find out if I if I take my stance in or out one inch, I get more power. If I move my grip in or out an inch on the pressing, I get more power because you're doing it over and over. And as you adjust, you find those spots. And when you find the positions to where you can explode the most, you're probably going to have the best max. Okay, everybody understand this? Hopefully they do. Do they all get that? The position to where you can explode the bar the fastest with that 50%. is probably the exact position you're going to have the highest max on because it's going to allow you to blast through your sticking points easier. Like watch here this sticking point right on this closed grip bench. Okay, so when you watch me do it, you'll see where it sticks near the lockout. So watch what happens there. So I want you to see me unrackck it, lower it down. All right, notice it blows off my chest really fast. So, I'm really fast off the chest with a close here. But notice that stick in the middle. Right there. That's my sticking point. All right. It teaches you to push through those. If I hadn't been doing any speed work, I might have stuck right there. Okay. I might have stuck because that's a very close grip. That was a that's my fingers are on the edge of the smooth there. So, that's real close. All right. Uh, so that's what we're looking for with that. And then what's the other stuff? What's with all the repetition work? So, in this I'm just gave you examples. You'll see me doing some some laying extensions for triceps. You'll see me doing some belt squats for, you know, quads and adductors. You'll see me doing uh some good mornings. Um then those good mornings are 315 for tense in this one. So you see me do good mornings for my low back, glutes, hamstrings. All right. So what's the idea here? Get bigger. A bigger muscle is a stronger muscle. Do not let anybody convince you otherwise. Am I saying the biggest person is always the strongest person? No. But for you personally, if your triceps get bigger, if your quads get bigger, what happens? Every study that's ever looked at it says that the force production will increase of that muscle at the tendon level. Doesn't mean you're going to be able to coordinate it. No, because coordination comes from this other stuff. We're talking about how much force can that muscle generate. is directly, and I mean directly proportional to how much muscle fiber hypertrophy you've gained. The total thickness of the muscle fibers that get recruited determine the amount of force it produces. Okay? Period. That is not even subject to debate. All this other stuff is what teaches you how to actually use it. Right? The max effort work teaches you how to use it. You got to get bigger. How do you get bigger? Bunch of bodybuilding work. Bunch of six to 12 rep sets. Bunch of six to 15 rep sets. So again, you guys all know this. If you want to get big, what are you going to do? You're going to come in the gym, you're going to do a bunch of work with six to six to 15 reps. You're going to do compound movements. You're going to do isolation movements, right? If you want to get bigger, you're going to think like a bodybuilder. So guess what? What do we do? What do you see me doing over here? Well, I need my chest and triceps bigger. Let's do some dips. Let's do some dumbbell presses. Let's do some tricep extensions for six to 15 reps. Why? Because that'll make them bigger. Every bodybuilder knows this. Everybody knows this. Man, I need my hamstrings and my erectors and my Oh, let's let's put 315 on the bar on those good mornings and do a bunch of sets of 10 reps instead of trying to do 500. You know, let's let's do that. Yep. That'll make your hamstrings and glutes and erectors bigger. What about those? Of course, those belt squats are a little heavier. Those are heavy for me. All right. You want you want bigger quads. You want bigger glutes. You want bigger adductors. Since you do some leg presses, you do front squats. You could do split squats. You do leg presses, belt squats, high squats. You're going to come in, you're going to do hypertrophy work. You're going to do bunch of six to 15 rep stuff on machine. Single leg exercises, easier variations, right? Of course you are. That's going to make you raise your strength ceiling on all these other lifts. So what happens when you combine these three together in a system? You get strong as hell. That's what happens. It's exactly what happens. You get strong. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.