I both love and hate the safety squat bar. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. U quick reminder though, if you guys will please like this video down below, I would appreciate it. If you aren't subscribed or following, please do so. And if you would be so kind, drop me a comment down underneath the video. Uh thank you so much just to say hello or give your thoughts on it. All right, this is a specialty bar that I have used for many years. Um, in fact, I used to use one 12 years ago at a gym I used to train at even early in my my YouTube days. Um, I used to even use one on camera back then. Uh, the safety squat bar is just a different beast. It's a bar that I like to use, but I hate this bar because it's so difficult. Um, and the reason it it's so difficult when it's when it's set up correctly, it pitches you forward. In other words, it's it's almost similar to a front squat except that it pulls on your upper back because that's where the bar is. So, this is one that it will push on your neck. It will make you feel like you're running out of breath. All because that weight is pushed forward. Now, some people would say something like, "Well, couldn't you just push up on the handles?" Well, yeah, but that's pointless to use the bar then. So, because the bar is designed to pitch you forward, you don't want to undo that. So you always put your hands over the handles and you pull down a little bit. Okay? So in other words, you never ever want to push up on this bar. Occasionally you'll get someone who who will do that. They're like, I'm almost as strong on it with a normal bar and it's like, yeah, that's because you're you're pushing up. The whole design is that it is there to uh make it more difficult. And and again, it works. So notice here uh perfect example. You see me doing good mornings with it, right? I've done 315 with another bar for sets of 10. This is only 250 pounds. 10 are crazy hard for me right now to do 10 reps of good mornings on that. But I can do 315 with a Cambered bar. Okay, so the same thing you watched me do a squat there, right? I did a back squat with 450 set my max right now is 500, which you guys have seen me do, you know, back like in January. Uh so again, 450 is everything I had. And if you watch the bar, notice that on my way up, my chest caves and I'm just struggling to try to stay upright. So people will then say, "So what's the point of that?" It forces you to build to build a stronger upper back. You have to have a strong T-spine. You have to have all those things to use the bar. Now the upside is extremely easy on your shoulders, right? Because you don't have to crank your arms back. So it really serves a couple of purposes, doesn't it? Okay. Serves a couple different purposes. All right. Um, number one, if you've been having any shoulder inflammation or whatever and you don't want to have your shoulders, you know, cranked back and everything or you've had any elbow inflammation or anything like that going on, this relieves all of that. Hence why it's called, you know, a safety squat bar. It's perfectly safe for your shoulders. It's perfectly safe for things like your elbows. Okay? And again, the reason for it, uh, because well, your arms out in front of you, right? Very, very easy on those, right? It's very easy on those. So, again, really nice for people in those situations. It's also useful for people in a cast. So, I've had clients who they've got their arm in a sling or their arm is in a cast from an injury or surgery or whatever. The safety bar lets them get in and squat cuz you can you can hold on to that pretty well that way still, right? very very effective because again no no no real stress on the arms, no stress on the shoulders. Um so really valuable there. But the other big thing is that force on the upper back and there were some studies on it that found um that even when the weight was slightly lighter because you're forced to use a lighter weight that the quad activation was the same. Right? Even when we do a slightly lighter weight, they got the same quad activation. It's because the bar forces you to be a little more upright with your torso. like you have to be. So therefore, you get really really good quad activation on it. Again, in some ways very similar to to a front squat. So the biomechanics on this are very much in in regards to the lower body in some aspects of it kind of like a front squat because you have to stay pretty upright, right? And in doing so, it lets you get a nice deep sink, gets a lot of quad activation, uh but the upper back just gets hit. And the same thing, if you're not careful, if your neck is weak and your traps are weak, when you go to use this bar and you start doing anything remotely heavy, uh, you get headaches from it. You get headaches from it. And for me, when I was at my strongest while doing videos, because again, I'm lighter now. I've trimmed down a bit. Um, at one time I had this bar up to 530. 530 lbs is my heaviest max I had ever hit with this bar. Uh, obviously my back squat was considerably stronger than that then. And so for me, what I found when I went that heavy, I blacked out in the middle of the rep. And it's because of the way it puts pressure on the neck. It puts pressure on the chest. Like that downward push of those handles. It just puts a lot of pressure up on your upper chest and everything. Um, and so it can almost push the air out of your lungs. Like notice how red I am right there doing the 450, right? That is due to that that pressure it puts on like the chest cavity and everything. So, I have when I did the 530 with this before, I I blacked out in the middle of the rep. I finished it, but you saw me stall for a second in the middle when I did it years ago. Um because everything went black and then I I woke up in the middle of it. The lights came back on in the middle of the rep and I drove all the way through and pushed it up and locked it out and racked it and then I saw stars for like a minute. And I know people say that sounds kind of dangerous. Well, maybe. But again, we're moving a lot of weight on a bar like this. you know, things are going to happen with your blood pressure, with your breathing. It happens. You know, it's normal when you're pushing like that. Obviously, we're not doing stuff like that every day, but it goes to show you that it's just a different beast. But one of the interesting things with it is it carries over. It transfers over. Um, and and I find this often times I've had lifters in the past who we we use one of these for a long period of time, right? And then they go back over to a straight bar like, "Oh man, this is easy." So, you know, whatever their squat happened to be um went up. So, you know, they they spent uh months and months using one of these bars, right? I had a client who only used one of these for like six months. He loved using it. We wanted to use it and he didn't care what his normal back squat was without it. And this got stronger and stronger. And first time he tested a back squat using uh you know, a straight bar after that, he hit like a 100 pound PR without having used a straight bar at all. In all that time, he gained 100 pounds on his back squat. Now granted, his safety bar squat had gone up a comparable amount, too. It had gone up like 80 to 100 pounds also, but the transfer was there, right? The only trick is you have to learn to get the bar in place again. You've got to get used to the bar being up on your back and getting the shoulders um and elbows and and everything locked in how you want them again. But once you get that down, the transfer over is is phenomenal. So, it's not like you get weaker by using it. In fact, you get stronger. And what most people find, um, I personally find it's about up to about a 10% gap. So, in other words, whatever I can squat with that bar, I can probably do close to 10% more when I go back to a power bar. So, again, great tool. Same thing for the speed squats. I like it on speed squats because you can set up really fast. You don't have to worry about getting your arms into place and getting the bar seated. You just get under the bar and just go just duck under it, push it up, unrackck it, and just run with it. So again, if you're doing things like speed squats, super super useful because you just get into position fast because we take 30 second breaks between these sets. Then you're not worried about getting the bar into position. So again, super useful tool here. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.