Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys about how the pump doesn't cause any lasting muscle growth. It's just not associated with it. Uh but a quick reminder if you guys will click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. Thank you. And let's get over to the topic. Now with that being said, do I like to get a pump sometimes? Sure. And I think all of us understand that. Let's let's be clear. When we have this conversation that the pump itself isn't really going to contribute to muscle growth, it's not even a sign of good muscle growth. Look, we all like a good pump sometimes. Let's let's be fair. Every last one of us who lifts, we sometimes enjoy getting a pump, right? Like, let's say I've done a bunch of heavy benching and some dips and then I like to grab some bands sometimes and just do 30 40 reps and get a hell of a tricep pump, right? So, I'm not saying pump work's not enjoyable. Doesn't feel good that sometimes it just doesn't feel good to finish a workout with some pump stuff, right? I like to do it. Okay, let's be clear. Like, I I like to I don't think there's anything wrong with getting a pump. In fact, it's sometimes very satisfying, right? Particularly muscle groups that, you know, lag. Like for me, arms lag. So, man, sometimes I love to just grab some bands or some really light dumbbells and just take that that worst muscle group, that lagging muscle group, and go, you know, I just want to get some blood flow to it. I want to I like to get a pump because it's satisfying sometimes to just say, you know, I finished up. I know that muscle needs some work and man, I just I like to get a pump in it. It's psychologically satisfying. It makes you feel like you did something. Okay. So, before someone says, "Well, Jason, that's why you don't have amazing arms." Guys, I chase pump work on my arms, especially tricep stuff. For me, as a power lifter, I I really like doing pump work for the for the triceps. Um, for if nothing else, for the blood flow and then for the tendon health, okay, but we need to be clear. Are we really getting bigger from that? Probably not. Uh, I mean, if they're going to failure, sure. If we're taking sets to to true muscle failure, there's probably a little stimulus there. Well, if we're doing it for blood flow, we're doing it for tendons in those muscles, right? Because there are benefits to that, but you're not getting bigger. And I think we have to understand that that these these metabolites and things are not necessarily associated with muscle growth. Okay? They're not necessarily associated with muscle growth. And I would suggest that even the real world um shows some of this and I think a lot of times people are associating that pump with with heavily enhanced bodybuilders and here's the thing that we know we look at muscle growth it's it's it's generally understood uh scientists researchers everyone understands that mechanical tension really is the driver of muscle growth. This is why a lot of times people on low volumes get good muscle growth. This is why some people, you know, who did some of the heavy duty stuff or who use variations of that sometimes, you know, people are like, man, they got they got pretty jacket. They're not doing a lot of volume or a lot of reps. Why? Because mechanical tension is the driver. They just got there quicker. Um, sometimes people need a few more sets to get to those hard sets. Some people mentally need that workload. Um, sometimes people want to do higher reps because it's more comfortable, beats them up a little bit less on the joints, but the end result is the same. What are we getting out of it? Mechanical tension. So, we have to understand this. This is why both approaches do tend to work pretty well. People say volume or intensity. Well, they both can work because they both can achieve the same ends. Okay. So again, we we can we can set some of that debate aside and go look why have both of them historically worked because they both get mechanical tension at the end of the day. Okay? They both get mechanical tension. We can argue the advantages of either one and I get it. Both people on both sides will argue that till they're blue in the face. And that's okay. I'd say that's a largely philosophical argument, isn't it? It's largely about preference and philosophy. People get pretty j dang jack jacked lifting moderately heavy, you know, five to eight reps for a few really, really, really hard sets. Plenty of dudes have gotten super jacked doing that, including pro bodybuilders even in the past. And others like to come in and they look to do more volume, more sets, more reps, but then they start taking them to failure. Same thing is if they start get fatiguing, we get mechanical tension applied. When they start reaching failure on those later sets, we're getting the same mechanical tension at the muscle fiber level. That's your driver of muscle growth. Okay? But the pump itself isn't. And the people say, well, how come this bodybuilder, and I want you guys to think about it, think about this real clearly with your observations over the years. So those of us who observed it for many years, how often do you see certain types of bodybuilders, they shrink when they come off their drugs versus the ones who keep size. You guys notice that? What I want you to think about is with the pump, a lot of times we're not chasing muscle fiber. A lot of times when you're just doing pump work, lots and lots of pump work, what are we getting? We're training transient storage factors, right? You're training for blood flow. You're training for glycogen storage, triglyceride storage, all these things, right? These are things that are enhanced by drugs, too. Okay? You guys notice the guys who run the slightly drier stacks, not as boofy, maybe not a lot of dandrall, or they're not throwing insulin and stuff in there. See where I'm about to go? who train a little heavier, a little less, they tend to keep all their gains even when they go on on a replacement dose or cycle off in the past. So, this really is about drug training. Honestly, the pump work, it really is this drug training. But they they make permanent gains. They keep it. A lot of times they're like, "Dude, he didn't get any smaller when he cycled off. How come this other guy lost 30 pounds when he cycled off? I don't get it." Well, think about the fact that a lot of these substances train storage factors, right? They cause higher storage factor, higher water in the muscle, higher glycogen storage, you know, particularly stuff like the 19 Norris trend deca, definitely insulin, okay? All those things. So, these bodybuilders who coming in and doing tons of pump work, what are they doing? They're training the muscles to have a synergy to simply hold more glucose, more water, right? And then they're t doing a training style that's facilitating that further. Man, they're really getting that pump. That muscle pumps up. They have a pump for a week sometimes, right? With all the stuff they're on, they're creating a synergistic effect oftentimes with all the stuff. Okay. But what happens when they come off all the stuff? They start shrinking and even that pump work, they're not able to maintain it before long like I'm not even joining the pump. I can't get the same pump anymore. Okay. What I'm suggesting is a lot of times the pump work is creating a very temporary response that is enhanced by the drugs. Both a dose dependent response and the type of stuff they're using. And what I'm going to suggest is that for the the natural lifter or the the very conservative uh enhanced lifter, you're not going to get anything permanent out of it. And you're not for the really enhanced guy because they're not going to stay on that much. But that's the thing. Notice that the guys who really train that way and who use plenty of drugs, they shrink like a balloon later because they're not really building solid muscle tissue with it. And I don't get me wrong, they're going to be big or temporary. And if that's what you're trying to achieve, by all means, but it's not going to cause permanent muscle growth itself. It is the hard sets take them very close to failure. Even if it's it's with a lighter weight, you've got to take them to failure with the light weight. Okay? Or you can do heavy weight and push them really hard with a high intensity. Okay? But it is mechanical tension at the end of the day that's going to cause the muscle growth, not chasing a pump. And if you're not going to have a synergistic effect, you know, with a bunch of drugs, that pump work is not going to really do what you think it's going to do. And even then, for the others, when you come off the stuff, it's still not going to stay.