Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about how these different goals are not in conflict with each other. They actually help create a synergy with each other. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. So, thank you. All right, let's get over into this topic uh a little more in depth. Um, you know, and I get too many people out here, they act like these things, you know, don't go together. They're like, "Oh, if I spend too much time on strength, I won't get big enough. I'll be shortch changing my muscle growth." Or they're they're over saying, "Oh, I won't be strong enough or I won't gain enough muscle if I spend time doing cardio and conditioning work." And look, um, I want people to look at two examples historically and step away from this. And I want to be clear, I'm not talking about people at the ultra elite professional level. So, uh, let me be clear, you know, but now then again, unless you're talking about NFL players, they're usually all these things, but we're not talking about people who are trying to literally break world records in powerlifting. I'm not talking about guys who are trying to win uh a world level bodybuilding championship, right? They're trying to get on the Olympia stage, which is not what we're talking about. We're talking about people who just want to be extremely fit and maybe be still be reasonably competitive in any of these endeavors. Be reasonably competitive in some sport. I don't care whether it's it's golf or tennis or powerlifting or strongman or bodybuilding, right? I I don't care. These things all still apply. All right. So, let's step back though when we talk about the synergy between these and look at two examples. Look at Westside Barbell. Okay. Louis Simmons strongest gym in the world produced over 100 world record holders in powerlifting. Okay. Um look at the old school like silver bronze era and even golden era bodybuilders. Okay. There's some things these people all had in common. They all had all of these things successfully. Okay. So that's something that people need to stop and think about. All right. Westside Barbell, they were most of them were jack. You look a lot of those guys. They were big, you know, and these guys are granted equip lifters and everything, but they were jacked. They were big, but they did lots of cardio. So, the things I want people to think about on the strength end, they're going to act like this interferes. Yet, you go to Westside and they're like, "Yeah, like 70% of our training is basically bodybuilding work and rep work, right? Accessory work. You go in there and they're they're doing tons of accessory work. They focused on muscle mass and hypertrophy all the time. the only about 30% of their actual lifting was geared towards um heavy work and speed work and all these things, right? Max effort work, dynamic effort. It was like 70% basically hypertrophy training and they all did conditioning. They did conditioning work, cardio work, sled work, loaded carries, right? They did tons of this stuff. They were all they're in shape and Louis Simmons promoted that. And this gym is producing guys who were just set aside the equip stuff. I've seen some of those guys bench 500 plus just in t-shirts still right these guys are you know squatting and deadlifting 7 800 lb without suits on still okay while doing large amounts of cardio type condition like conditioning highintensity conditioning work okay um take your old school bodybuilders they all did lots of cardio they all did heavy lifting they had phenomenal physiques they had lots of muscle they looked great yet they all did lots of cardio that didn't kill gains. Most of them were really strong. You go look at some of these guys like Reg Park had like a 500 bench, like a 700 deadlift. Same thing. Let's let's step back and let's look at even some of those the next tier up the later generation that golden air. I mean, Franco Columbbo Arnold, they had elite lifts. I mean, Franco Columbo, perfect example. So, let's let's really look at that and say, did the athletic training and powerlifting and cardio and boxing and all that stuff that he did, did it prevent him from winning the Mr. Olympia? No. He still won the won the Olympia. He's an Olympia winner and competitor who still competed, did powerlifting, still did the world's strongest man, competed in boxing, did lots of cardio, had been a boxer. None of that interfered with his ability to have literally a worldle champion physique. Didn't interfere. But you go back to the the previous era, those guys were all super fit. They were all super strong. There was no disconnect. And the same thing you walk into still places like Westside. So when people say this nonsense, oh cardio is going to interfere with my strength or my gains. No, it won't. Or or then the bodybuilders. Oh, I don't want to do too much heavy work. We just can't get enough hypergy. Really? None of these guys had a problem with it. Okay. And even if you go back, well, they were all on gear. Well, okay. So, so is everyone today though. But so, how about Steve Reeves and all those guys? They were all strong. They were all all did lots of cardio. They were all healthy and fit and still had at the time the best physiques in the world. Okay. Guys who were winning the bodybuilding shows in the Mr. Universes, the Mr. Americas, they didn't have a problem developing the best physiques in the world at the time while still doing all these things. So, the point I'm going to make, this stuff all feeds into each other. All right, the big one for guys trying to get strong. Trying to get strong. Hypertrophy work is important. Like size equals more strength potential. The more muscle you have, the higher your strength ceiling. We know that your contractal ability is largely dependent on the amount of muscle fiber cross-sectional area, right? Not talking about glycogen storage or the pot. We're talking about actual muscle growth from training absolutely carries over to your strength and one rep maxes. It's the largest determiner of what your max potential will be for you as a person with your levers and everything else. Okay. Same thing with cardio. Cardio feeds into all this. It helps gets you in shape, helps with recovery. The more the better in shape you're in, the better your recovery is going to be, the better your gains are going to be. So, the stronger guys, you need to think about this the same way that a bodybuilder needs to. Okay? Come over think of bodybuilders are like, "Oh, well, you know, I can't do too much cardio. It'll interfere with my gains." Really? No, it won't. It'll improve your recovery, right? It'll make you fitter. It'll make you healthier. Absolutely. Enhances your potential for gain. Same thing with the strength. Really, there's plenty of data showing being stronger, particularly with no drugs in the mix, is going to carry over to your long-term muscle potential. Higher neural drive, better muscle fiber recruitment. Even data showing heavy singles improve muscle fiber recruitment. Whole work sets of 10 improve performance going to improve potential muscle growth. This adds up. There's a synergy between these things. How about the people chasing endurance? Really? How come all the worldass sprinters at the Olympics historically all have 500 plus pound back squats? They all strength train. All your major endurance sport winners all the way up to tour to France do weightlifting, back squats, strength training, gain muscle. Really, it doesn't interfere with their endurance. All the best in the world do it. So again, we come over to the other end. People who say, "Oh, lifting really heavy or gaining muscle is going to interfere with my endurance." Really? Then how come the best endurance athletes in the world all do it? the ones who are making millions of dollars doing it in certain sports with all these contracts strength training and do back squats and lift. So why are they doing it successfully and still being the best of the world historically and you're not going to do it? It doesn't make any sense. There's a synergy between these things and if you really and truly want to be fit, you're going to do all of them and they work together. There is a synergy between training for all these things.