Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about how the supplement industry does not have a choice but to be a scam industry. It can't make products that work even if it wanted legally for the most part. Uh but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. Thank you. Um, it's a topic that upsets a lot of people and they're not always aware of it. But what they don't understand is that barring a few minerals and vitamins and we could argue how much those even work sometimes in their free form. Um, that's even a point of enormous contention particularly with a lot of vitamins. Just be aware of that. Uh, again, I'm not going to delve into all the the in-depth science and research on why separate vitamin C or vitamin D supplementation might actually cause cancer if taken large amounts by themselves. But let's just talk about products in general. And it doesn't matter whether we're talking about gaining muscle, burning fat, u various health effects. What you need to understand is that it's both in terms to protect the consumer uh from harm and even to protect the interests of of big pharmaceutical companies. Okay. What you need to understand is that supplements can't cut in on that. All right? And that's not just always for profit reasons, although there is definitely an interest in that there. Obviously, those companies are going to lobby for that. But it's also a safety concern and I'll give you guys a safety concern one. I think you'll understand the problem with with natural cures. Okay. Um, this will make sense to people. All right. And it's not this one is not even about corporate profits. And the reason is statins are just not that big of money anymore. So again, and I'll get into all the other I'll get into all the laws on the Supplement Control Act here in a minute. So that's that's really relevant to this. Um, so the law of the land in the US that the supplement companies have to work under because that's where most of them are based out of. So let's take something like uh like that red yeast, right? There's one of them that's been found to have statin-like properties. It is illegal to import that strand of it into the United States. You cannot even bring it into the country. People say, "Well, they're just suppressing natural cures." Uh, no. Yes and no. So, this is this is interesting. When people understand why medical doctors even kind of agree on this, it'll it will hope hopefully be an epiphany why the supplement industry has to stick to scams. They can't literally make stuff that'll help you. They can't use them. They can't bring them in. They can't market them. Um, and this is a textbook example. And no, statins are not that big a money nor statins have gotten so cheap that really they're not that big a money for the companies making them. Okay. And at the population level, they are beneficial. It's one of those I've heard doctors say that statins are at the individual level mediocre, but at the population level, you know, pretty useful overall. So, that's an interesting take I've heard heard cardiologists make on it. So, the thing with it is if your lipids and your cholesterol is bad enough that you need a statin, not getting your medication is actually dangerous, right? because you have to get your LDL under control. Okay? You have to get it under control. And if you don't, it's risky to your health. All right? You see where we're about to go with this? When you're getting a medication that does it, it's often in standardized form. Now, I would be the first to say you should be trying to to get your lipids in order with a better diet and exercise, right? A statin should for most people be kind of a last resort. I'm going to lean in that direction of, hey, an ounce of prevention is worth a cause of cure. Like, let's just get that clear, right? Clean your lifestyle up so that maybe hopefully you won't need the statin there. That's the perfect response. But let's assume you're not doing that and you you still need the statin. Okay? So, if you don't get it, you're going to be accumulating atheroscerosis at a faster rate if you legitimately have lipids bad enough to do it. So, why was this whatever red rice yeast? I forget exactly what it was. I remembered I'd researched it in detail at one time. Um, why then is it outlawed? Because it's an herb doing it. It's a plant doing it. And here's the problem. It's inconsistent. When you're getting the medical statin, you know exactly how much you're getting. 10 milligrams is 10 milligrams within a 1% margin of error. 1 or 2%. Right? We all Does everyone understand this? It's standardized. You know exactly how much of the drug you're getting. When you were dealing with something like a plant like this, the amount that's in the batch varies from plant to plant. Okay. Well, why is that a problem? Well, it means you're not going to consistently get your medication. So, if you're taking it in place of the medication, it's a problem. both in terms of side effects and the direct effects. All right. So, if you're taking it and it's not working because you're not getting enough, what's going to happen? Your health is at risk. For all those weeks where you got a weaker batch that wasn't working right, guess what? You're accumulating atheroscerosis. Well, that's semi-permanent. It's causing harm. If you're at risk of heart disease from it, this is potentially dangerous. So, in this case, if you're using this plant to try to do the same thing as a statin, it's only going to work when it works. If you happen to get a batch that's at the right potency, and if you don't and it's too weak, you're not going to get the benefit. So, then what happens? You're adjusting your dose to try to get it to where you want it. Well, what happens when you get a strong batch? Now, you have one that's too strong, right? there's going to be side effects like so just like with statins taking too much versus how much you need has negative side effects on the body right so when you see it from that perspective you realize okay this is a problem like this is a natural cure that is capable of producing these drug-like effects it's not going to be consistent so in batch to batch it's going to be all the way from ineffective literally all the way to potential uh you know risky side effects. So it was banned. You can't even import it because of that. So this is the problem with the supplement industry. So they are not allowed to make products or import products that are really capable of having pharmaceutical medicine level things because all medications have side effects and they have a minimum effective dose. And so dialing in something like that from an herb is just not workable. Okay. So this really and truly ties the supplement industry's hand. So what ends up happening if they do find something that works, government's going to step in, the FDA is going to step in and say, "Yeah, no, you can't sell this." Literally for that reason. Okay. The other end of it is that that the supplement industry has lobbying money and they got a law passed in the 90s. It's been the law of the land for 30 years now. over 30 years to where they're allowed to sell products that don't work. They just have to be careful about how they market them, how they advertise them. They also don't have to do safety or effectiveness testing because they don't want to find a bunch of independent studies showing that they work because if they work, they're not going to be able to keep selling them. Like just like we saw with the Fedra, they found one that really worked and the government came in and outlawed it and said, "You are not going to sell this." Guess what? There was a big study that showed it was a really actually a potent fat burner had a a significant impact on metabolic rate. It got outlawed. They said the government stepped in and said, "No, you're not going to sell this." Okay? And by that same token, they also gave them an exception. They don't have to do any safety testing. Okay? This means they don't have to make products that are safe. They got an exception because, well, they're not allowed to make products that work, so they should be relatively weak. So, they should be safe. So they don't have to test it. And here's the law that they were given. As long as they don't know they were unsafe, they can't retroactively hit them for it. So what they check is that if it turns out that a supplement is dangerous, okay? They let them go and say, you know what, you didn't know it was dangerous because there was no real testing. unless they find evidence. They'll dig through the memos and they'll look through records and they'll do internal checking and try to get insiders to discuss it, right? They'll try to get a deep throat in there and see if any of the people, the executives at the supplement company knew it was dangerous and it had evidence or signs of it. And if if they find that then they're in trouble because then they knowingly they're not allowed to knowingly sell a dangerous product or that they strongly suspect. That means knowingly. Okay? So as long as they don't do any real safety testing, they're not at risk. They are not in trouble. They know this. So, by that same token, supplement industry is not only is it required to do safety testing, it's technically in their best interest personally to make to not do any to just run with it and take whatever swamp algae they find and hope it doesn't really work and hope that it's safe and not test anything at all with any real testing. And the system and laws are set up that way for this industry.