Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to kind of break down for a lot of of younger guys who are newer to all this to understand why you don't really need to worry about what professional bodybuilders do. It really isn't going to be relevant or helpful to you to know it or try to imitate it. Uh but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, it would be greatly appreciated. Um, and and again guys, I'm saying this as someone who's been around this a really really really long time. I've been in the Iron Game over 25 years. I'm almost 50 years old. Um, coached quite a bit, seen a lot, talked to a lot of people. And here's the thing I'm going to note. People will worry a lot of times about what pro bodybuilders do and they don't understand that a lot of stuff they're doing is is heavily influenced by by their drugs. And what I mean is side effects of the drugs, certain beneficial effects of all the massive amount of drugs and things that they're using will impact the way that they train. It can even create limitations. And I think people forget this when you're looking at what they do for cardio, uh what some of them do for their lifting. So you you have to factor that in. It influences what they do a lot um in good ways and in bad ways. And number two, you have to remember they're gen generally in terms of muscle growth, muscle belly, structure. If they're on making it anywhere near the Mr. Olympia, you're talking about genetic aberrations, right? All right. And and and what I mean, take Jay Cutler for example. Hell, even take Arnold for example. Look at what Arnold looked like in high school. Step back and think about what Arnold looked like as a teenager and still compare that to the average guy who goes to the gym and uses uses anabolics. Okay, this should be telling you something, right? Take Jay Cutler. Do you guys remember photos of Jay Cutler as a teenager already lifting? So again, people are like, "Well, I'm going to emulate if this is good enough for Jay Cutler." It's like stop and think about that. When he was a teenager, Jay Cutler was monstrous. The dude was an absolute monster already. Okay. And I'm going to point out to people, do you think he's almost he's a little bit different? Right. this. We don't need to discuss whether he was even on drugs or not at that point. Let's just think about from a genetic perspective. Did people not understand that Jay Cutler as a teenager already had a physique that was most people will never obtain? Do you think that he possessed some great training knowledge? I want to be clear. Most people realize when they've been coaching or doing this for a while, it probably takes 10 years to really and truly figure out what you're doing. Let let's be fair. We all know it takes at least a decade to really get a good grasp of what you're doing. There's no way he had that back then. Yet, look at him. So, do you think it was any sort of advanced knowledge or do you think he was just a straight genetic freak? Okay. Now, accordingly, do you think he ever had to necessarily learn the optimal ways to train or do anything for the average person? People say, "But he got all these greater results, so he must have known something." And and I'm not saying he didn't, right? But just use this as an example. Not saying he didn't. He learned how to make his body. He learned how to make his genetic freak structure and muscle growth body that was already ridiculous potential. He learned how to make it respond. Okay? Doesn't mean that what he did is going to work for you. The form, the technique, uh the programming, it doesn't mean that it's going to work for everyone else because he might as well be a different species at that point. Let's just be realistic, okay? He'd never had to learn how to make gains for someone's who say a genetically average or a hard gainer or or dealing with these other issues, right? He never had to learn those things. He never experienced it. All of his training knowledge and experience was what he found worked really well for him with those sort of genetics. Okay. He found exercise forms and versions that really he felt he personally got a really good he probably had a really high body awareness. So, so let's let's be clear of that. Um, a lot of guys who are gifted athletes in different areas have what's called a really high kesthetic IQ. They learn how to move intrinsically for their body really effectively. They learn how to feel things move and movement patterns way faster than other people of what really connects for them. Do you understand that? So just because he even used a certain form, he found that if he did it that way for his particular structure, it really just dialed and everything hit just right. It might not be the same for you. that that's what worked for for him. And he probably was really good at finding it very quickly, a high level of body awareness. Okay, that's a genetic trait also by the way. Now, so you have those things and then you factor in then all the drugs. The drugs change everything and these guys are using a lot of drugs. So people need to understand a lot of times what they're doing is based around that and they also need to understand based on the research we have on on drugs um the volumes and stuff that people respond to uh the way that they grow any hard training is going to make most of those guys grow. So, we need to be clear. Usually the guys who are are professional bodybuilders, their genetic gifts plus their drug stacks, every one of them would still be pro bodybuilders if they never figured out how to train right as long as they trained hard. So, let's be clear. Long as they train hard and put tension on the muscles and got a pump, most of those guys are going to look freakish, okay? And that's just reality. That's just reality. Genetic freaks plus huge amounts of drugs. And keep in mind, that's something that some people pointed out. One of the genetic traits for pro bodybuilding is having a high tolerance to side effects. In other words, the pro bodybuilder may get a larger response to the drugs milligram per milligram and less side effects. See where we're going with that? You're not even going to be able to do their whatever drug stack they're doing. You might not even be able to tolerate the side effects of their drug stack. So, they not only might not they might gain twice the muscle from the same drug stack that you would while getting a tenth of the side effects. Okay? So, just be aware of these things and that affects everything that they do. So again, I would point out if you're trying to get advice, maybe get your training advice from coaches who help people with your genetics or average genetics or normal people get results would probably be a better use of your time than looking at what a pro bodybuilder did. And of course, I'm biased because this is what I do as a coach. But again, my advice, take it or leave it.