Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha's strength and fitness and today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about my dadbod strength standard. Uh again I bring this up and I use this as a proxy for where you should be if you have spent you know a lifetime in the gym, right? So when I say the dad bot strength standard, this is a a goal to strive for for a regular gym rat who is, you know, past about age 35 up into his 40s. Okay? So, and it works under the assumption. People say, "Well, that's unreasonable." Look, it works under the assumption you've been training at least 10 years. And what I'm going to say is muscle mass and strength are correlated. So guys are like, "Well, I trained for whatever." Well, you didn't gain any muscle then. Okay. If you're not reaching close to the this standard, you know, uh I'm going to question how valuable was your gym time? You've been training 10 plus years. Uh I will say to people, well, what did you do? Goof off? Like go read Martin Birkensitis article. What' you do? F off? What do you mean? You didn't gain any muscle? Because had you been coming in and just chipping away for 10 years, major noob gains, if you major new gains in your first year and you put on one pound of muscle per year, most of you guys would be reaching this standard, okay? And what's the standard and why do I pick what it is? And I'll discuss rep work proxies. What I've said for the standard is 315 bench, 405 squat, which you're watching me do sets of 10 with that right here. before people say, "Oh, this is about you. Shut up. You guys have watched me deadlift 500 for 9, 315 for five. I've actually hit 405 for 12 one of these days a few weeks back, you know. So, realistically, it's not about me. I'm way past this standard." Okay. So, for people love to throw this out here, and it's it's such a strange thing. I've hit way heavier lifts than this. Same thing with the pull-ups. I can exceed my dad bod strength standard for body weightight pull-ups with a 45 lb plate. Okay, so let's get over to what they are. 315 bench, 405 squat, 500 deadlift, and at least 10 body weight pull-ups. Now, I'm going to throw you guys out there some reps proxies because hey, I'm big on using rep work to build your maxes. I mean, I do tons and tons of rep work, right? I mean, even here, think about the chest and tricep stuff. What am I doing in this this clip alone? You're going to see me do like an 18 rep set with 225 strict benching, 18 reps with deep dips with a 45 pound plate, you know. So, we we do rep work, guys. So, if you want to use rep work proxies, um, I'm going to throw those out there. I'm going to tell you why these lifts are picked, why we're using them. All right. The standard for that if you wanted to do reps instead of maxes because not everyone wants to max out. I get that. All right. 225 for 10 on the bench. I know that's a lot. A lot of guys are like, "Dude, that's crazy." But if you got short arms, that's easy. And then the deadlift is going to sound crazy. See where we're going? So, it's it's about proportions. 315 for 10 on the squat. Okay. 405 for 10 on the deadlift. And I think that'll work for those. Obviously, we already have rep work on the on the pull-up. You already got rep work on the pull-up. So, I could I could almost take the pull-up and go, could you do a two plate pull-up if you had to? I don't know. That might be reasonable for a max, but I don't like maxing on pull-ups. I don't think it's smart. So, those are our proxies. But why those? Um, because it covers every muscle in the body. Between those four movements, we have every muscle in the body covered and we have a body fat check. We have a body fat check because if you're fat, unless you are in brutally strong, you're probably not doing 10 overhand grip pull-ups. Okay? And people say, "What if I want to use chin-ups? You're going to need to add five more reps." Chin-ups are easier than pull-ups. So, it' be 15 chin-ups. Okay, you're fat, dude. You're probably not doing that. So, again, I like to use that for the the people who say, "Well, you're you're out here throwing these big lifts out. Someone could just get fat, and that's not fitness." Well, no. There you're you're right. For the big three, sure, gaining fat will make it easier to just leverage your way up. No one's disagreeing, but you're not going to get the pull-ups done. You put on 50 pounds of body fat bulking up to reach those modest numbers and 10 pull-ups is not in the cards, you know. So, it's something to think about with all of it. But why do we pick them? Well, think about it. Every muscle is involved. Lower body makes sense. Squat tells us the squat and the deadlift make sure that our core is strong, right? We make sure our core is strong. Okay. Uh with those numbers, uh but your legs, your deadlift will tell you if your your glutes, hamstrings, and mostly your back are decently welldeveloped because you're not going to hit that those deadlift numbers otherwise. Squat, you're not hitting those squat numbers without good quads and glutes and a good strong core, trunk muscles. All right, the bench press, um, chest, triceps, delts. Okay, you have to have all three of those for good bench numbers. And then the pull-ups, your whole back and biceps. Okay, and your grip strength again. Uh, could we alternatively say, well, I prefer dips because I know you love dips. Could we have a dip standard instead of the bench? Oh, you guys are so scared of the bench press. Sure. 45 pound play for 10. If I got to just pick something, which I think is reasonable because I can usually do the same number of reps with a 45 on dips that I can do with 225 on a bench. They're very, very close for me if not identical. So, I think that's reason. Sure, you could come in and and we could do that. So, your standard in that case for rep work would be squat for 10, 405 deadlift for 10, a 225 for 10 bench, or alternatively 10 reps with a 45 lb plate, and then 10 body weightight pull-ups. You know, generally pull-ups are harder than dips. That's why we could count that there. If you wanted to make it chin-ups, then 15 chin-ups. And I think that's pretty reasonable, right? It's pretty reasonable. Now, for people who are like, "But a really skinny guy could get could hit those dips and pull-ups a lot easier." So, we're back over to now the skinny guy. Yeah, but they're not going to squat dead. The skinny guys, the super skinny 140 pound guy is not squatting 315 for 10. Like, we all get that. So, those numbers prevent the other. So, it's like the body weight stuff puts a cap on body fat and by having the leg stuff in, we're putting a cap on just being a really skinny guy who can do calisthenics. And this is again, this is the dad bot strength standard. These are reasonable expectations to tell if you wasted your years and years in the gym or not. Did you just jerk off watching girls on the treadmill or did you actually train? All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.