Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about how to develop a big back. Uh, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like on this video, it would be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following me, please do so now. And if you would be so kind as to drop a comment down below, I would greatly appreciate it. So, thank you so much if you do that. But let's get over to the topic. Let's get over to the topic of back development. Um, all right. I've always told guys, and I've had plenty of clients with massive backs. I have a good back. Um I always tell people they overco complicate back training uh tremendously. And and it's almost silly because I feel like they don't ever look at how they even the greatest bodybuilders have trained their backs even historically, you know. So let's step back into previous eras. We don't even need this current generation because people could argue, well, the drugs have gotten really really crazy and everything else. Sure. Um, so go back to other generations. What were they built on? Basics, pull-ups, ropes, pull-ups, rows, deadlifts, pullovers, the stuff you see me doing here. And and I want people to think about that. Go back and look at old training clips of guys who had amazing backs. I don't care whether it was Arnold or Franco Columbo or you go into later eras, Ronnie Coleman, Dorian Yates, if you want to go into more and more stuff being used. But the same thing when you look at a lot of really good natural bodybuilders, do you guys see any of the guys who have great develop back development ever really doing a lot of the silly nonsense you see people talk about like squeezing and holding, right? All these guys are obsessed with squeezing and holding, contracting in that shortened position, you know, with cables and and and machines and other things. And it's like um you know I would ask what what exactly do you think you're going to get out of that that you're not going to get out of some other movement before I jump into the other stuff you know like what we really want to do you know guys are like well you know that shortened position it's a contracted position like yeah but you're reducing the workload of what you're doing to hold that contraction. Okay you guys find that that's useful on other big compound movements because you're doing it on compound movements guys. This is not some isolation movement right? It's always on the big movements. Any other big compound that you guys really find that that's effective on, right? Any of you guys do that on a bench press, even a dumbbell bench, do you really feel the need to reduce the weight 20 pounds aside so you can squeeze it at the top? You're like, "Well, no. This is more of a length position exercise." Right. Exactly. Which is what rows and pull-ups and pull downs and all that are. They're more of lengthen position movements. They're not really uh that great a shortened position exercises in the sense that people are thinking of okay just like a bench press even when it's with a dumbbell isn't for the chest. Maybe a cable crossover might be. But now we're getting over into small isolation movements. So if someone really needed to squeeze their lats together against resistance and that happened on stuff like your deadlift, right? And that's going to be with way more weight. Like if you're doing rep work with say 405 or 450 or something on a deadlift and you see where I'm going with this, you're going to have that same contracted position with 400 lb instead of 50, you know? So, I mean, technically, if you really wanted that that and felt that it had some enormous benefit to muscle growth, wouldn't that make a lot more sense to just that would happen on your deadlifts and stuff, which most of us are going to do anyways? Of course. I don't think it's that important though, right? Same thing guys will start talking about trying to line the fibers up. Um, you know, oh, we're trying to line the fibers up with the line of pull with a one arm cable or machine. Okay, that doesn't work. It's on the other side of a joint. This is ignoring basic physics. Okay, you understand that, right? In fact, look at all the points of origin on the lap. You're not lining anything up. Like, you're lined up with any angle. I don't care how wide or close you grip it, you're still lined up with a bunch of the fibers. Look at the way that it fans out at those in, you know, origin points. And then the insertion points, it's irrelevant because it's on the other side of a joint anyways. Okay, it's irrelevant. So, what really builds a big back? Heavy pull-ups, heavy rows done for a stretch. And I don't even mean you need to swing all the way up over the bar. You can on a chin-up, but on a pull-up, you don't have to do that. Just go as far as the lat allows while keeping your chest up. Okay? Make sure that you stretch at the bottom. If you do that, you're going to get a lot of work in the Lincoln position. And then you're going to work the range of motion of the lats. We're not trying to chase a bunch of shoulder rotation. Not necessary. Not to build your back at least. And how many guys do you see out there who don't bother with the other? They're real strong or weighted pull-ups. They have big, wide, massive backs. And then how many calisthenics guys do you see who do all the way up over? I see that all the time, guys. Like, I learned to really do them this way. And you'll see their their footage and reels and shorts. What do you see? They don't usually still have a back. So, it's not really doing a lot for them to swing all the way up. They're like, man, I can get my nipples all the way up over the bar. It's like, okay, but you still don't have lats. It's not really doing that much for you. which is the point about heavy barbell rows, whether it's uh chest supported, whether it's standing, whether it's using a little momentum or cheating, right? Big barbell rows. Big barbell rows, king. Every single guy with a massive, just totally massive thick back, what do you see? They're usually really strong girls, especially guys with the thick backs, that back density, that back thickness. You guys know what I'm talking about? Where those traps in the middle, like they just almost eat their shirt. You know what I'm talking about? Not just the wide lats, that thick back all through the middle because the trap runs all the way down to the base of the rib cage. That's all traps, romboids, guys who are real strong at big rows, and I mean strong with barbells and dumbbells. Okay, big thick back. Think maybe those two things are your combination. I think that they are. And just get really strong at them. Progressive overload on them. What other would be the other finishing touches? How about deadlifts? Right. Build that lower back. Still build the traps. some isometric with the with the lats. Absolutely. How about pullovers? Old school. Old school. Do pullovers work the lats? Actually, they're pretty good lat exercise. Are we working a completely different angle from the other movements? Sure. So, do I think they can add a little bit? Absolutely. Could we maybe give a nod to some rear delt work? Maybe some trap work, other stuff, shrugs. Sure. All that stuff. I think we could give nods there, too. The bulk of the size is going to come from what? Pull-ups, rows. That's where the magic happens. That is where the majority of it happens. And if you want a thick, wide, just detailed back. That is where your focus needs to be. And not with silly nonsense like squeezing or worried about angles. Just get a stretch and get strong at those movements. And then if you need other stuff, I think we can give a nod to stuff like deadlifts. This improves overall density and thickness a little bit. Pullovers can be nice for a little more lat. And again, maybe some extra upper back work here or there. You know, something on a high incline or a rear delt movement or something that works the traps, you know, kelso shrugs, barbell shrugs, even even a little rear delt work. I think all that stuff has its place, but the first two, those are the king.