understanding progressive overload. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. If you guys would please click like under my video. Um, if you're not subscribed or following me, please do so and drop me a comment down under the video. It would be greatly appreciated. So, this is kind of a basic video uh for most newer lifters. This is stuff most advanced lifters know, but it can also be a refresher sometimes. Uh so when we think of progressive overload, people get this idea in their head that number one, it's not necessary for growth. And that's not true. Um they also get the idea in their head that it simply means just moving more weight through any means necessary, right? So in other words, people are like, well, as long as I get more weight on the bar, um then it's progressive overload. And they're they're missing the point with that. They're missing the point with that. Um the reason progressive overload is a critical part of muscle growth is because progressive overload is required to further tax uh the available muscle fibers, the deeper fibers that are going to grow. All right? And this is is pretty well understood now in the science and looking at the body. We have a pretty good idea of how this works, you know, under the microscope and in the lab. Um but essentially you have to take sets very very close to failure, right? you have to take sets very close to failure. Um, you know, within a few reps to really see significant muscle growth. And the problem with that, that means that if you're using the same form or whatever else, you're going to have to add reps or you're going to have to add weight regularly. Now, the the most basic form of progressive overload is is obviously simply to add weight to the bar while maintaining the same range of motion and same form. Um, now the problem is again people will assume sometimes if they just add more weight that it's forcing more muscle growth. Well, that's that's not necessarily the case. If you can do whatever the exercise is, I don't care if it's a curl, a bench press, a deadlift, uh, you know, whatever whatever the exercise is. If you can do 100 pounds for 10 reps, okay, and you add five pounds to it and you're able to get 10 reps again, that's progressive overload. if you didn't change the technique to do it. In other words, are you still doing the same range of motion? Are you still doing the same amount of cheating or strictness? Okay. So, notice like those curls you see me doing there, I'm coming down, you know, down to my thigh. Um, and I come up to my face and notice I'm having very very little movement of my torso. So, again, that's a pretty consistent way to to judge it. You know, if I'm doing the full range of motion and that I'm touching my thigh with it. Um, and then I bring it up to the face and I'm not swinging. See, that's very straightforward. But what happens if I start swinging? What happens if I start trimming the bottom out a few more inches and I don't lock it as far? What happens if I stop bringing it higher? Like what happens if we start cutting range of motion? Well, if you're doing that purely to add weight, no, that's not putting more tension on the muscle. The reason the higher reps start to put tension on the muscle, be a wonder at max puts tension on everything. But if you're not doing a one rep at max, we're obviously doing rep work here of some type. So the idea is that we fatigue all the intermediate fibers. And those intermediate fibers grow when you're a novice, but the longer you lift, they stop growing. And you get to basically just the fastest trait. Like you would think of as the deeper muscle fibers. You've been training a couple years, two, three years, that's going to be 95% of your growth is going to come from those deep fibers. And if you don't reach them, you don't grow. Let me be clear on that. If those muscle fibers do not get recruited and fatigued sufficiently, you just simply stop growing once you've kind of finished, you know, your novice phase. You've been training hard a year or two and it's going to get worse. Like, you have to get to those deeper fibers. Um, so the the whole point here is if you're adding weight, okay, you're fatiguing those fibers more because it starts to get easy. Like if if you're doing 10 rep sets, eventually it's going to start to get easy to do the same form with 100 pounds. You're going to have to add weight in order to keep it close to failure because otherwise, you know, that might have been in your 10 rep max at one time, but eventually it's going to be your 12 rep, your 13, your 14 rep max. you start getting up there, you're gaining very little muscle from tens anymore. I mean, you're gaining a little bit, but it's a lot less. So, usually the idea if we just add weight, okay? And for noviceses, that's what we do because noviceses can progress very, very fast. Like you'll notice most novice programs are like they're like come in and squat 3x5 or 5x5 and add five pounds every workout. They're like, what? You started with 100 pounds, you go to 105, 110, but you're doing it like three times a week. Like you're putting 15 pounds on the bar a week, right? In a month that's gone up 60 lbs. Two months that's gone up. You guys see where we're about to go with this? It's going to be over 100 pounds. So if you were doing 100 pounds, you get to that two-month mark, you're going to be at 220, 225, okay? Unless you were forced to reset if you were able to do it. So that's pretty rapid. And that's how noviceses we do. We just add weight. As you get a little further along though, you can't always just add five pounds. You just can't. So, we try to add reps because then we're getting that extra fatigue, right? And if here's the thing, people say, "Well, is that necessary? What if we're just getting close to failure?" This is the chicken or the egg scenario, right? Well, no. Because if you're gaining muscle, it will get easier. Let's be clear, a bigger muscle, the muscle fibers that grow. So, if you've grown those fast foot, those deep fibers, if those are growing, your strength is going to go up. All right. Your 10 rep max is not gonna be your 10 rep max anymore. And your 10 rep max doesn't doesn't stay the same. Like if you get stronger, if you could do 100 for 10, think of it this way. If you got strong enough, if you could do 110 for 10, then obviously 100 is no longer your 10 or a max. You don't be able to do 12, 13, 14 reps with it. See where we're going? So if you don't do those reps, we're not getting as much stimulus anymore because you gained muscle. So then you stop growing. You will outgrow a given rep and weight scheme. You will outgrow it. Okay? You will outgrow it. The only time that then might change is if you just keep adding more sets. But trust me, you don't want to do that. You turn into junk volume. A lot of times guys are like, "Well, I'll just do more and more sets with it." Nice. In theory, it starts turning into junk volume and wasting time. You could have just done the same three sets of 10 or whatever and added reps and when you get to 12 or something, you can add weight. And that's actually something I I recommend to a lot of people. But the idea you have to be adding weight or you have to be adding reps. Now, we used to believe a form of progressive overload was higher density, meaning well, you could take shorter and shorter breaks. And in theory, that takes you closer to failure. But here's what they found in the lab. That actually causes less muscle growth. So improving muscle density or work density doesn't seem to actually stimulate growth. And it makes sense. Why? Do you know why? Because the shorter breaks, those deep fibers haven't had time to recover. So once you've reached close to muscle failure, those deeper muscle fibers are too tired to to fire again. They will not recruit. Your nervous system won't turn them back on. Okay? So obviously the the later sets get harder. So that's what happens when you get weaker set to set to set to set deeper into a workout. It's because the fast twitch fibers aren't activating. That's why you're getting tireer. It's not because you did some cardio and you're tired that way. No, literally those muscle fibers are not activating anymore. They haven't had sufficient rest time. Now, if you were to take really long breaks, you probably could do 20 sets, but you might be taking 10 minutes between sets. You're having a 4-hour workout trying to replicate that performance. So, the the fat the lower density doesn't actually work. But adding weight, adding reps, if you're doing so without cheating or adjusting the range of motion, is progressive overload. You are subjecting the muscle fibers to more tension, and you are stimulating new muscle growth. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.