The carnivore diet is the single most dangerous fat diet I have ever seen in all my decades in the fitness game. All right, guys. It's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below. Be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, uh please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. So, thank you. All right, let's get over to the topic. Um, this is kind of one of those things where I've saw it pop up and then they they love to argue with me because I'm so pro- vegetable, right? I am one of the most pro- vegetable, pro- fiber people you will see, even though I actually love meat and dairy and I tend I eat meat and dairy every single day, by the way. Pretty much those are staples for me. Um, but because I've I've taken that stance, a lot of them came at me really hard. Literally made hate videos, pick fights, but I watched this group of crazies. They come through and they argue. They argue complete fringe science. They completely ignore meta analysis. They completely ignore studies. They completely ignore common sense. And when they do link a study, they will not realize it conflicts with most of the the data. And then if you look, there's actual sometimes bias in it. And they'll just keep linking it like it's it's uh you know this pivotal study on something like cholesterol or whatever. It's it's truly fascinating. Um, the other thing to watch, and so again, because they're going to come into this video, one of the things you guys will notice in a lot of the comments and responses you're going to see to this, what is it that they love to do? They'll argue with you things like seed oils and they'll argue all these mechanistic things like, so they'll read a little bit of science, right? And they'll read these mechanistic things that don't appear in reality. So they'll they'll literally try to push their diet based upon well you can't eat this or that because of this mechanism right and they'll describe something is that's a process that some of these whatever plant foods whether it's broccoli or a seed oil produces without realizing that when it's been looked at in actual humans um in the epidemiology or metabolic world none of these problems actually exist. They're theoretical based sometimes on some biochemistry or an individual cell or one marker somewhere. But when real food is given to people and it's studied, these problems don't even exist. Or the whole problem goes away if you just cook your food, right? So anyone who has some of these issues with certain anti-nutrients and stuff, cooking it, it just goes away. And this is what all the experts, researchers, uh, nutritionists, uh, even doctorates in nutrition point out like this. This is based on nonsense. Like just cook your food. If you're having any of these potential issues, just cook your food. It goes away. Uh, most of the the any of the concerns with anti-nutrients. And they also ignore that a lot of anti-nutrients have health benefits and antioxidant properties on top of it. But here's the problems we run into is the danger of it. So the people who push these diets, they pull this nonsense and I see the influencers who do it, the people who do it, they're like, "If it's so bad, then why am I not dead?" You know, that's kind of like um you know, when Rich Piana or guys like that who are now dead would use ridiculous amounts of gear. And I'm I'm not even against gear in moderation. I think gears can be perfectly fine or minor risk in moderation. Again, it's like red meat in moderation. perfectly fine. Um, you know, then you'll have a guy, well, if it's that dangerous, why am I still alive? You know, while he's using just grams and grams and grams of it and stacking it with insulin and recreational drugs and pain pills and, you know, then he drops dead in his 40s, you know, that's that's how it works. So, they pull this, well, why am I not in the hospital? And it's like, because you're accumulating atheroscerosis, it's not going to hit you for 10 or 15 years. And that's the problem. So you see a lot of the carnivores and you're seeing a bunch of the early pioneers in it are having to quit doing it due the health problems or they're ignoring those health problems. You see guys like Dr. Baker, he'll put up his LDL numbers and be in complete denial of it while cardiologists are looking at it going he is going to die from this and and I've seen cardiologists say that have done writeups on him and his blood work and say he is not a cardiologist. He obviously doesn't understand cardiology. He doesn't deal with heart patients like we do. He's a different field of medicine. This is problematic. What what his blood work is extremely dangerous. Okay. So, this is what all the cardiologists are saying who treat these people for a living. Real heart issues are like his blood work is really dangerous. Okay. And they'll pull this thing. Well, LDL doesn't matter. It's the large versus small particles. While completely ignoring that the small particle LDL, yes, is the biggest driver of atheroscerosis, but the large particles drive it, too. they're just not as prominent at it. They're less dangerous, but they still do it. And if they get high enough, they really cause a major problem also. So, they're in denial of the LDL situation. They're not realizing saturated fat is the driver. And they'll always bring up the stuff of, well, you know, but keto, ketogenic diets can be low saturated fat, high polyunsaturated fat. In fact, studies looking at ketogenic diets usually show that if the saturated fat is replaced with polyunsaturated fat, even the dreaded seed oils, which I'm not promoting. I don't want anyone think I'm proceeded. I'm not pushing it. But by comparison, even in those studies, they still have better health markers, better HDL, better LDL, better inflammation, better insulin sensitivity. Okay? But this is the stuff you see in them. The LDL is usually through the roof. It's problematic. This will kill you eventually. And the problem with it is people are like, well, you know, it is that bad and it's not reversible. That's the problem with arterial plaque is you accumulate it, it's there forever. So if you do carnivore for five years and your LDL skyrockets and you accumulate three or four times as much atheroscerosis as you would have with a with a different diet during those five years, that 20 years of damage is permanent. It doesn't go away. It's there forever. There's some discussion of how to reduce it, but there's never been a consistent way to do so. So, you are doing permanent stuff that you will not be able to undo later by fixing your diet. It's probably permanent. Um, so they do that and then they don't address the gut flora stuff. They completely ignore the fact that the fiber and the vegetables and all the stuff you need is is what you need for gut flora. Diversity of plants helps with gut flora, helps with with gut health. And we're like, well, it doesn't matter except that all the emerging research says that it does. Okay, you look at all the emerging research, healthy, robust, diverse gut flora does everything from affect immune system to mental health. It literally affects neurotransmitters in the brain. It will affect your immune system. It even affects your ability to fight off cancers in addition to actually be able to tolerate this stuff. So, what a lot of them are doing, some of them have damaged their gut because they've eaten really garbage diets and they have bad gut floor and they can't handle much fiber yet. So, they need something like a low FODMAP or something. Um, instead they go to this this crazy diet and they make it worse. Instead of working on saying I have to build my gut flora back up, they go on this diet and they go ahead and they kill even more of it off. It is difficult to reverse that. So, this problem, and this is what a lot of the people who've run carnivore, I and other coaches and trainers I know have met people who've run into other problems like now my gut's really messed up. But they're like, but the carnivore people are like, well, it won't matter because I'm never going to eat carbohydrates or plants again, so it doesn't matter, right? I don't ever need to be able to break them down properly or or deal with any of this. So, they start having health problems and realize they can't run the diet forever. You can't run it forever. It will be a problem. you're not going to be able to stay on it. And they'll say, "Well, this person or that person been on this many years, they haven't. This diet is not that old. It's a very new thing." So, like they're claiming there's people who've been on it 20 years. No, they haven't. It's less than 10 years ago that this was really pushed at all. So, no. And a lot of those people have already had problems and they've had to stop doing it. So, again, craziness. And it's causing permanent long-term health that's not reversible. And it's this big phase phase and fat. Oh, just try it. It's permanent damage. It's literally like saying, "Oh, just try heroin. You'll feel a lot better on it." Okay, it's that bad.