The stronger we get, the more we should focus on higher reps. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please drop a uh like and a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. And so again, one of these topics uh people are not going to always understand. They're not going to agree and they're going to be like, "But you know, all these novice programs, you had all these fives and and had all the heavy stuff." But here's the thing I'm going to point out, and this is something I've been fairly consistent on. uh you know for the last decade both as a coach and someone who informs stuff people are like man you do do a lot of like 10 rep sets these days I do a lot more um and that kind of goes with what I am saying and the same thing with clients they're like man a lot of your clients they do conjugate and stuff and they do the maxes but what most of their training is 10 plus reps like yes yes it is and when I was at my strongest on my squats I used to do 20 rep squats all the time like even here I'm doing 12 reps with 405 uh on a high bar squat, right? See that in the background at least at some point here in this video. Um so why what's what's the point here? And I think what people are missing it has to do with with beating up your joints and things. Yes, heavy weight benefits us. Yes, heavy weight makes our tendons stronger. Yes, it improves bone density. Yes, we get neural drive. But there comes a point where I would point out to people is that once you're really strong, your neural drive is high anyway. Okay? The same thing with a heavy weight. There comes a point where if you can rep 405 on a squat, I'm going to go over and say if you can do rep work with 365 on a squat, are you really getting bone density benefits in terms of really the stuff most people are pursuing by um adding more weight to the bar? I'll even do you one better. What if you can just rep out 315 on a squat? What's your bone density going? So, all these things that we're pursuing, yes, they're real, but they're they're going to scale in terms of strength and loading. Okay. And when we say a heavier weight, we we do mean that, you know, a heavy weight for a novice is going to build bone density. But there's going to come a point where, you know, realistically, are you really building more bone density and tendon strength by doing uh heavy singles with 475 on a back squat instead of doing sets of 10 or 12 with 315? Like, and that's the point I would make. People are are looking for these benefits. like, but they're already there. Um, and the same thing with neural drive. Once you're really strong, your neural drive is always high. Now, can you peak it if you need to go max or do an event? Sure. Of course you can. Of course you can. But a lot of these benefits of lifting really heavy in terms of the structural benefits and other stuff that we're pursuing, they start to diminish rapidly once you get stronger. But what doesn't diminish is kind of just the beating up the joints and stuff, right? Uh you know, same thing same if you think about the the benching. Like look at my relative bench strength. Yeah, you guys have seen me do 315 for sets of five paws on the bench this year, but you also see me doing like 17 18 rep sets with 225. Are we really building less muscle and strength with those high rep sets? No. What do you think is easier on your joints? And again, let's be clear. I mean, 225 on a bench, so I'm using this as an example. Is 225 on a bench press not heavy enough to really get the benefits of heavy lifting? I think it is for most men. And it doesn't matter what if you're doing 12 reps with it, 15, 25. What if you're stronger than me? Okay, you see where we're going? And I see this with a lot of guys like I I know some guys out there. Um I know a guy named Jared who's a RAW masters lifter, right? guy benches like 540 raw. You look at his training though and I see him doing stuff like sets of 20 with 315. Okay. [snorts] Are we going to and this is a point I would make. Are we going to argue that those sets of 20 or 315 haven't built that max? They haven't contributed to that strength. I think they have. Like that's crazy. Do you see where we're going with this? And it did. As you get and younger guys, younger lifters who are weaker don't get this. They're like, it's not a big deal. You know, remember I come and lift heavy. I can do triples and fives. Sure. But you're not strong. And as you get older and you get real strong, that stuff beats you up real fast, you know, because you're not that strong yet. whereas in the rep work doesn't and we're getting plenty of hypertrophy. Um you know and I will see the counterarguments from from some evidence-based type people who push the only lower reps for like well you know certain point high reps what they really mean is high volume high volume is just creating fake muscle and inflammation and stuff but the high reps don't because I mean are are we going to claim progressive overload's not getting you bigger? So, so at what point does 225 on the bench stop adding muscle, right? I mean, that's like a lifetime goal for the average starting out gym noob. Man, if I can get to that 225 bench, well, how many reps do you have to get to before it just turns into cycloplasmic growth and inflammation? they don't have a number because realistically as long as you're progressing on it, it's still a relatively heavy weight. So, I mean, I would say the same thing. You know, you take someone like like Jared and people will make that argument. Well, 20 reps says I don't. But are we going to argue he's not getting bigger from it? Like, at what point does 315 on a bench press stop causing muscle growth by adding reps? What rep count? At 15, at 20, at 30? I don't think that it does. We're getting into these are still big weights by by normal standards. And I don't think there's an upper end to that. I genuinely believe the muscle quality is going to be the same. And people will argue about fatigue, but do we care? If we're doing big movements and keeping our volume moderate anyways, which we should be doing for recovery, are we really worried that the higher reps are causing fatigue? No. They help get you in better shape. Right? They get us in better shape. They're easy on our joints and they get us strong as hell. Again, let me point this out. What if you've never done less than 10 reps in your life on a back squat and you build your back squat up to 405 or 20 reps and you walk in and start maxing, you're going to have an elite squat. There is no way you're squatting less than 600 lb. Okay? Possibly more. Even if you've never touched 500 in your life and you start ramping up and spend two weeks working on your maxes, be squatting in the 600s, within a week or two. And that's the point I'm making. So this this idea that this is not going to make you bigger and stronger is also silly. It works great. And the problem is we can't just lift heavy. Heavy being relative to your strength. Once you get really strong, even Louis Simmons and them, they did one rep for the upper body and one sing, they did one max for the upper and one max for the lower every week. Everything else was speed work and hypertrophy. So, even people running the max effort system, that's generally how they train. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.