Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about the fact that all rep ranges have value to us. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. Thank you. So, let's get let's get over to this topic. And when I say all rep ranges, that includes even stuff like this with a sled. I mean, this could count as as my gosh, a 100 rep set. Um, but it still has a hypertrophic and conditioning benefit. So to me, uh, you know, it's it's always been strange that people want to pin down, you know, one rep range for their goals and and coming from more of a a powerlifting type background, that's a very bizarre idea to me. Why? Well, because we think of a lot of strength athletes of uh we do everything from heavy singles to higher rep work for hypertrophy to conditioning work and restoration work, you know. So, so you go look at some of the traditional uh you know powerlifting gyms. Everything from one rep to 50 and 100 rep sets are done, right? So, that's a normal part of say you know the the hardcore powerlifting world that is normal, right? So, for me when I think of powerlifting I personally tend to think in terms of uh you know anywhere from one to 100 reps. Obviously, you want heavy singles for for that stuff and all the way up to conditioning work. You know, that's that's normal. Hopefully, everyone understands this, right? Does anybody out there not understand this? So, you think of strength athletes, this is what I'm doing here. Everything in here would qualify as powerlifting training. Okay? Everything in this video, this is all stuff that that powerlters would do. like we're talking elite powerlifters. You're not talking about a local fat guy who lifts heavy and maybe goes and does one regional meet. All right. So, that being said, um so to me it's a very strange idea that that people have this myopic view um of these things, you know, because again, think of of Westside's barbell stuff and then their interactions with CrossFit and think about what CrossFit does, right? So, if if we're going to be really fit and well-rounded, we need to stop looking at rep ranges as, hey, this is the right rep range. No, everything feeds into everything. And even the traditional hypertrophy rep ranges of 8 to 12. They're done out of convenience. It's just a convenient way um to strike a good balance for a lot of your work sets. So, why was it popular? It's not because it builds more muscle. Every rep range builds muscle. Look, those triples, these triples build muscle. Okay. The sled builds muscle. Like everything is building muscle. Like do we we we understand this, right? Everything is inducing hypertrophy if it's done correctly and hard. All challenging sets that are really hard build muscle. So that's a that's a ludicrous idea of thinking of specific, you know, hypertrophy rep range. Uh very very silly concept. But why was it done? Well, because it's convenient. It's not so heavy that it beats the joints up, but the reps are not so high that it turns into true endurance work. Because I think people forget that, too. It's harder to gain muscle with higher reps if you're out of shape, right? So, doing 15s and stuff, you know, like I'm doing really high rep squats here at this point. These are high bar squats, so this is a little little different. um these are a little harder, but the the idea that we're going to do higher reps to gain muscle, well, if you're not in shape, that's going to be a problem. So, this is where all that conditioning comes in. Um but the same thing, you know, uh heavy heavy work is going to help you gain muscle because it's also going to increase your neural drive. It's going to improve performance on the other rep work. Um, so even from a muscle gain perspective, uh, this this idea that these things don't feed into each other is is really quite silly. And I think people get too caught up in the myopic heavily heavily heavily enhanced bodybuilding world. And you can't really worry about what they're doing. That doesn't apply that doesn't apply to anyone else out there. And I think definitely those of us whose are pursuit is fitness, right? Who are not trying to bodybuild per se. Um, so you know, in my case, you guys see me doing this. I'm 48. I'm about to be 49 years old. I care about being strong, being fit, being athletic, being healthy. Uh, you know, I want good blood work. I want to feel good in the morning. I want to be able to run. I want to be able to jump. And I want to be able to move heavy weight. Like, I just want to be fit. And I think for a lot of people out there, that that appeals to them a lot more than, well, I'm just trying to look good. And yes, obviously we all want to look good, too. I think most people want to look good naked, but realistically speaking, if if you do squat, bench, deadlift, pull-ups, you run, you do sleds, and you eat a healthy diet, you're still going to look you're going to look better than 99% of the population, guaranteed within a few years. Like, it's that's unavoidable. And I think we have to remember that also. That's almost its own conversation. I feel like that needs to be its own video. Stop thinking that if you don't look like the Instagram model that other people who you're interested in are not going to find your body incredibly attractive. Okay, that's a strange thing that the fitness world has created because you go look at all the a lot of these highle athletes all over the world and plenty of people drool over their bodies, the men and the women both. They don't look like the Instagram guy or gal, do they? right? Not necessary. And again, people have lost sight of what beauty and attractiveness is or what just people consider sexy. Right? Uh but I digress. Back over to the point of overall fitness, okay? Quit trying to say that one rep range is all that you really need. And I'm not saying you can't. Look, if you're just trying to gain some muscle and you don't care about optimizing anything, there's nothing wrong with coming in doing three sets 10 on everything or let's call it 8 to 12. be fine. You can do on all your lifts. It's fine. But let's not pretend all rep ranges do not have value towards the goals. And especially when we want to be well-rounded. If you want to be really strong, you're going to need to do some heavy low reps. If you're trying to get really big, you're going to need some volume in your training. If we're trying to build tendons and work capacity and recovery, you're going to need some higher reps. Okay? There's going to be an a large endurance component. You know, we talk about hit cardio and other stuff, too. You don't think high rep squats does largely the same thing? Okay. Any of you guys ever done sets of 12, 15, 20 on back squats, deadlifts, things like Trust me, you're getting conditioning work. This all feeds into the other stuff, though, because I think we should do everything. I think we should do heavy work. I think we should all run. I run. I run at least two days a week, if not more. I get out and run, okay? Running, jumping, throwing, all of it. But again, rep ranges, it all feeds into your overall fitness. It all feeds into understanding that certain movements lend themselves better to certain rep ranges, right? If you're over here doing four and five reps on curls and tricep extensions, you're going to pay a price for that. your restoration work for tendons and things like band work and reverse hypers. You really think you do you really want to do fives or eights or tens on that? No, that that stuff needs to be 20 plus. It really does. So, I think that's the point people need to remember. All these rep ranges have value and use. Use them all. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.