Stop looking for special exercises to grow muscles. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you would please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you aren't following or subscribe, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop a comment down below, I would again greatly appreciate it. It could be to say hello. It could be to give your thoughts. So, thank you so much. All right, let's get over to the topic. Um, I see way too much of this online. Um, and I'm not saying we should ignore movement patterns. I'm not saying we should ignore biomechanics or that we should ignore studies or any of that. I want to be clear. Um I actually stay up to speed on all that stuff. However, some of it I do take with a grain of salt and we should. Um people have these bizarre bizarre ideas that, you know, they're going to find these magical exercises. Yeah. The reason you're not growing is because, you know, you're just not doing this cable row at this angle. Okay. I'm sorry, but that's just stupid. absolutely stupid. Um, and what I mean is never in the history of lifting going back 60, 70, 80 years has any lifter struggled to build a big back with uh weighted pull-ups and rows, whether it's barbell rows, dumbbell rows. This has never been a problem. Okay? No one has ever struggled to build big pecs with a bench press and dips. Now, am I saying dumbbells and stuff aren't useful? I never said that. But you do see my point, right? The issue is not that you aren't finding the correct exercises. Is that you're probably not performing the ones that you're doing correctly. You're probably not pushing progressive overload. You're probably not using decent form. You probably are just simply not doing it right. I mean, just like me, I've made tons of videos um showing how to make your shoulders stop hurting on a bench press, right? It's literally people don't know how to grip the bar. That's it. That is 95% of the shoulder problems you see in people on the bench press are because they don't know how to grip the bar. That's it. They're just gripping the bar wrong. They don't know how to lift. Like I've been training for 10 years and then I see the way you hold the bar. I'm like, well that's why your shoulder. You've been training wrong for 10 years. And it's not complicated. Just you need to know biomechanics. You need to know how the body works and perform the lifts correctly. Really isn't that difficult, guys. And stop looking at clowns online of what you think is good form and actually understand what good form is. Okay? Too many people get caught up in in and nonsense. Um, oh, you have to do the pull-up this. It's like, no, just get a dead hang, right? Keep your chest up and go to the top of range of motion to pull up where your scapula allow you. You don't need to try to swing up into crazy positions. Keep your legs behind you. Hang some plates. Go to a deep stretch. Bring your chest up as high as it will comfortably go. That's it. You'll build big lats. I promise you. Done. No one has ever failed to do this. Same thing bench pressing, guys. It's not You don't need a special chest exercise. And believe me, I like dumbbells. I like incline. I like dips a lot. Um, no one has ever really struggled with that. People who don't know how to bench press struggled with that. She's not holding the bar correctly. Probably bouncing it off your chest again. But you see this craziness? No, you should you should stop at 90. What? Just stop, guys. This is complete nonsense. Bring the bar down to the correct position. It won't hurt your shoulders. Learn to grip it correctly. Stack your wrists. Learn to break the bar. Bring it to your lower chest. Find the grip with. So again, we come over to that point. If you're trying to build your chest, please note I am doing some max effort stuff here with different grip rotations. Don't use this as the example. U because again, I'm doing different stuff for powerlifting purposes here and max work. Uh why don't you find the grip width to where you get the the longest range of motion at the bottom. Okay? where your elbows drop lowest, where your forearms are stacked 90° from the floor, the bar directly above above it and come down and touch your lower chest. That's it. It will build your entire chest top to bottom. People are performing the bench press in a way that's not working their chest. It's not the fault of the bench press. All the studies show bench to bench builds your whole chest top to bottom, upper, middle, lower, the whole thing. If you perform it correctly, okay? If you perform it correctly. Do you see the problem though, guys? People are not performing the lifts. Um, you know, same thing. They'll do rows, they'll do weird stuff like their back end isn't getting thicker and they try to they're trying to do weird things to isolate the lats on a row. Like, oh, let me swing it down to my hips. And it's like, okay, we have pull-ups for the lats. The row should build the whole back, right? Quit trying to make it something it's not. You see what I mean? Quit looking for these weird special things. Just bring the bar to your chest or the dumbbell to your chest. Go all the way down, stretch, bring it up. Whether you choose to cheat, whether you choose to be strict, you know, you can argue that all day long. Just perform the lift correctly. Stop looking for weird magical variations that you think are going to build muscles in different ways and just perform these lifts. Same thing we talk about curls all day long, right? People always look for the weirdest stuff. Really, has anyone really struggled with barbells and dumbbells and the easy bar to build biceps? Now, nice strict standing curl or you can do a cheek curl. Okay, lock it all the way out at the bottom. Bring it up as high as is as you can without taking tension off the bicep. Okay, same thing. Preacher curl. Full range of motion on preacher curl. You can get an easy bar, use dumbbells, incline curls or dumbbells. Has anyone ever failed to build biceps with these movements historically? I mean, all the greats, long before guys were sight enhancing like they do today, they all built biceps just fine. They didn't need anything special. They didn't need any special machines or cables or any of that. All right. Now, other machines I like I like a lot of leg machines. Don't get me wrong there. Especially reverse hyper. I think leg presses and stuff are great. But that's a basic exercise. again, someone who does deep squats and then does leg presses afterwards. Really, you'll build massive quads. Just get strong. Just get really strong at your squats and then use a leg press or a hack squat or a belt squat machine for a long deep range of motion, which that's where people mess up on the leg presses. They don't they don't go deep enough. Hey, problem solved. Posterior chain deadlifts, deadlift variations. Good mornings. I do like some some hamstring curl machines. I like the glute ham race. Those are useful because again, we're working a different function. But realistically, you tell me you get strong at at deadlifts and good mornings and you're not going to have massive hamstrings. Are you serious? You get strong at all those things, I listen, you're not going to have massive glutes or is this a real conversation? Again, everyone's looking for the weirdest stuff instead of just the basics. Now, don't use me as example on triceps. My triceps are weak weak link right now. But the same thing really, you telling me dips and tricep extensions and some some press downs don't build every single head of the tricep? Are we serious? I mean, is that a serious conversation, guys? Just perform the lifts correctly. That's it. The muscles will grow. You don't need special movements.