Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and today I thought I would chat with you guys and gals about the four exercises that will pretty much build every single muscle in your body to a greater or lesser extent. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I would appreciate that so much. So thank you. All right, let's get over to it. The obvious answer is curls. Curls are the only thing we need. Just do curls, bro. You'll be good to go. Because I think we all realize at the end of the day that biceps are the only muscle that matter. Everything else only matters if you're a powerlifter. Biceps are king. All right. The joking aside about that, and I did want to throw some in there before people say, "Oh, you don't do curls. You don't train biceps." No, I I train biceps. All right, but um four exercises that if I had to kind of narrow it down u that build the most muscle in the body and when I say this I I am not telling people again to only do these four. I'm saying that if you did nothing but these four or let's say you had a period of time where you had a really limited time crunch to only do a handful of exercises and you wanted to progress just really hard on four movements. you know, what if you could only get to the gym a couple days a week for 30 minutes or something crazy with your schedule? Could you still make progress in your whole body off of them? And I think the answer is yes. And these are exercises that I'm I'm very fond of. And I want you to note a few things with these movements. U everything I've listed is either a weighted body weight exercise or a big barbell movement, but technically uh all of them are weighted bodyweight movements. And I think that's a key factor here. So, if you look at the movements that I've selected that I'll be doing through this video, except for the barbell curl, I think we can make that number five, right? Can we can we make the barbell curl number five? All right, let's let's do that. But let's stick with my main four. Uh the back squat, right? The barbell back squat. Here I'm doing high bar squats. Uh you know, so again, obviously my narrower stance. I get better quad activation that way. And yeah, I'm doing 10 11 rep sets with 405. So, as an old man, um, so definitely up there, the conventional deadlift, and I know a lot of people are going to disagree with that. I don't care. This is my channel. This is my video. Um, I'm the coach. So, I'm going to go with conventional deadlift. I'm going to go with weighted pull-ups. And yeah, I do like I do favor in many cases the weighted pull-up over the weighted chin-up, except for if you're in the pursuit of bicep development. I do feel the weighted pull-up is a better overall exercise. Um, better overall development, better overall function, more useful, also less likely to get to get injured in the long term. Um, and then weighted dips. Okay. And I thought was interesting a while back I saw BPAC, who again he's got his PhD in exercise science, pro bodybuilder, and I'm not saying that's means everything, but I mean that's definitely some pretty reasonable bonafites. He had said a while back um that you know weighted chins and weighted dips will build the entire upper body. He's like you can build a pretty good upper body off nothing with those. He goes I'd probably consider throwing some lateral raises in. And and I I actually would agree with that because you may find your side delts. If anything is going to lag is going to be those side delts. And I think he's right there. That's the one muscle that's probably at the highest risk of lagging if that was your whole upper body routine. But keep in mind the squats and deadlifts build the upper body also. So why why these movements? Um you have to look at not only the primary movers involved but then you have to look at the splashover and secondary um muscles involved. Okay. So so the squat is pretty straightforward. What muscles are going to get most of the work and get most of the muscle growth? Okay. What do we think they are? Going to be the quads, the glutes, the adductors, the calves. These are all documented in studies. All those muscles receive a robust stimulus from the back squat. We we see substantial growth and substantial muscle activation both in hypertrophy and muscle activation studies from the back squat. All those muscles those are your big biggest muscles in your body. Okay. We also see secondary muscle growth in muscles of the trunk, the abdominal wall, the erectors, right? the traps, the hamstrings, and when I say secondary growth, they see some growth, and that matters. And people say, "Yeah, but it's a small amount." But it is growth. It is confirmed in the lab. So, we need to be clear on that. When we bring that up, they're still growing. It's documented in the laboratory to cause growth even in trained lifters in those muscles. Sure, the hamstrings get a lot less, but it's not zero. There have been studies where the hamstrings grew at only 15% of the rate of the quads on a squat only program. Well, that's still growth. All right, come over to the deadlift. Deadlift builds your back. That is confirmed in studies. People can argue against it all they want. It's been noted in uh MRI studies where they scan the upper body. The whole thing back got bigger from deadlifts. The lats get activated pretty serious even on EMGs on the conventional deadlift. It glows. It's one of the best exercises for your erectors, your glutes, hamstrings. Those all grow tremendously repeatedly when they've been studied. Build your calves, build your forearms, your grip, your traps, your abdominals, okay? They all grow. We can make a case some guys may see some bicep growth from it. And it won't be a lot. It won't be a lot. Let me be clear. That is such a secondary minimal, you know, that again. But we could do the barbell curls, couldn't we? That'll fix that. All right. But even the pull-ups will help there. All right. Let's come over. Pull-ups. Well, people think, "Well, pull-ups are for lats." Yeah, but they work other stuff. Pull-ups get even an overhand grip pull-up like I'm doing here works the biceps really effectively in every study that's looked at. Let's be clear on that. We don't even have, if you were to be forced to prove based on the evidence that a pull-up doesn't grow in the bicep as much as a curl, you would struggle to actually prove it with the available evidence. Let me be clear on that. By the way, I'm I don't believe that to be true. I'm saying just based upon the evidence, you can't actually prove that. It's close enough that it's hard to tell. But again, I'm not saying not to do some curls. And let me be clear, I I do barbell curls. I need curls for my arms to some extent, right? I struggle with biceps. Um, so but what do the pull-ups work? Yeah, they work the lats obviously to argue about the best exercise, but they work the biceps, the brachiialis, radial brachiialis, the forearms. You can build pretty big forearms off weighted pull-ups alone, especially with those deadlifts. Okay, traps, they build your abdominals. Fact, there's been studies shown they're as good as a crunches. What about other secondary muscles? Well, the the delts, the rear delts, anything that works the rear delts builds the side delts to some extent in every study that's ever looked at it. Maybe not optimally, but you see muscle growth. Upper chest, long head of the tricep. I've even seen Dr. might point that out that um for people who are doing enough lat work, you could argue that you may not need to target the long head specifically um outside of your presses and other extensions that it may it may get enough. It's a reason you get doms all the time. If you do heavy pull-ups to failure, you'll get doms in that long head of your tricep. There's a reason for it. How about the upper chest and the pec minor parts the upper portions of the pec major? They seem to get pretty good activation from a pull-up. Now, people say, "But it's not enough or they'll know." But we got dips because then you throw that last exercise in. Well, dips. How many people have argued over the years that the dip I've seen bodybuilding coaches, and I'm talking serious bodybuilding coaches claim in their opinion, the weighted dip is the best tricep exercise, hands down, ever. I've known guys who are putting guys on on high level bodybuilding stages who say that. So, we're going to argue it doesn't look at the biomechanics. It's a phenomenal tricep exercise. How about the pecs? If you go get the deep enough stretch, you lean forward at the bottom. Dips hammer your whole chest. It's arguably one of the best chest exercises out there. But then what about all this other stuff? Secondary muscles. All the muscles of the trunk, the core, the delts, the intercostal serratus. Okay, start looking at all this guys and realize before long once you combine these four exercises, every single muscle in your entire body top to bottom will get growth stimulus. Now, is it going to be optimal stimulus? Probably not. Yeah, you're going to possibly you're probably going to have a weak link here or there if this is all that you did. Sure, I want to be clear on that. But are those weak points still going to grow? Yes, they just may not grow in the proportions that you want. But how easy is that to fix that? You know, at the end of the day, let's say you're doing all this and you're just like, well, you know, uh my uh my upper chest didn't grow enough and my biceps didn't grow enough. Well, could you throw in some incline work and some curls? Well, yeah. Really easily. Be really easy to do that, wouldn't it? Especially since all the other stuff's covered. Wouldn't be that hard to do do a few sets of of of incline with a barbell or a dumbbell. Wouldn't be too hard to throw in some barbell or dumbbell curls. Not at all. There you go. Problem solved. All right. So, these four exercises will will pretty much build everything in your body top to bottom. And they all move your body through space. They all improve coordination. They all improve strength. They all improve athleticism. Right? This works.