Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness and uh let's get right into this topic. But if you guys would please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. All right, they and we all know who they are. It is these influencers, right? All these people who put out information, they try to tell you that programming needs to be complex so that they can sell you something. And I don't mean sell coaching. I sell coaching. I sell consultations. Uh, but I don't sell individual pre-written programs. I don't I don't sell apps. I don't I don't do any of that stuff because it's not necessary. Um, you know, even for me, a lot of times guys will come to me and do a single consultation call and we will just write a 12-week program for them in the middle of the call. One time we're done. Um, and I can give them all the advice as to what they have, what their needs are, and just put together a program. And it doesn't need to be ve very complicated for most people, right? you know, if again, if you're just trying to bench 315 and deadlift 500 and uh have pretty good chest, you know, and so on, probably not necessary, right? You're trying to break national records in powerlifting, okay, a little bit different. But if we're just trying to get big, training doesn't need to be that complicated. And the problem is guys have sold all this stuff of we need mezo cycles, we need periodization. And the funny thing is some of the best and smartest coaches I know out there um you know say things like look periodization is just voodoo. It's just voodoo coaches use to trick people. And this is what some of the really brilliant people out there I know. Um that's a quote from Alex Vata friend of mine who uh wrote the book the hybrid athlete was doing his PhD in biomechanics. um does ultramarathons, triathlons while squatting 600 pounds, you know. So again, u that's something he said and it's true. It's true. The reality is programming particularly to get big though is just not complicated. It is not complicated. You simply need to work at muscles through an appropriate range of motion with progressive overload and with good intensity. Okay? If you can do that on the programming end, you should be good to go. Okay? Right? As long as progressive overload is present, you're gaining muscle. And people have to remember that, right? They have to remember that. I would argue intensity is critical there, but intensity is what's going to drive the progressive overload, you know? And outside of a lot of that, it's really just fatigue management. But that's the thing. Complex programming doesn't necessarily give you fatigue management at all. If anything, it gives you horrible fatigue management. Okay, what do I mean by fatigue management? You need to make sure that you're you and with your current lifestyle are able to recover from the training that you're doing. Okay, you need to be able to make sure that you can recover from the training that you're doing. And if you train really hard, you're not going to be able to maximally recover from very much training. And if you can't do very much training, the programming can't be very complicated, can it? All right. Well, what do we mean? Um, a lot of what you're watching me do right here is pretty much just my power building stuff. Full body, three days a week, right? Single hard sets with double progression. Okay. When we start reaching certain reps, the reps get too high, we add weight, do sets to failure or close to failure, right? Double progression. That's that's almost all you need. No, I mean I mean that double progression will get most guys as jacked as they're going to get. Okay. What does that mean? Means when you hit a certain rep target, you add weight. In other words, let's say your double progression is six to 10 reps on an exercise. You're trying to stay between six to 10 reps. And that's a good number. Okay. What happens when you get to 10 reps? You add weight. Go back down to about six reps or so. Six or seven reps. And then you repeat the process. It's called double progression. And it works. Do your sets on exercises where it's not safe to go to failure. You don't always want to go to failure on squats and things, right? Get pretty close. I've done squats to failure, right? Like right here. This isn't failure. This is 10 reps. That last rep was hard and about one rep in reserve if that. Right? Got 405 for 10 on a high bar. Okay? That's all you need. So outside of that, you just look at what you're doing and say, can I recover from it? What's my fatigue management like? Is the volume I'm doing within my ability to recover the volume and intensity? And that's going to be the number one driver. But everyone else, they want to sell you messocycles. They want to sell you, hey, let's ramp volume up. And they're pretending like adding volume is a form of progressive overload. It's not. The evidence is really, really bad at this point that when you're actually training hard, all these high volume studies are done by quite frankly researchers who themselves train like They train weak. They train like They don't train hard. So accordingly, you know, their test subjects are not training hard either, you know, but but generally speaking, you find that if people are going to failure, you can't handle a lot of volume. But you don't need a lot of volume. All right? We've seen studies where doing just six sets, five or six sets a week to failure produced pretty much maximum muscle growth. And and plenty of older studies, those are the people who gain the most muscle, the most strength. by most strength meaning um they got stronger at their rep work, you know, their five rep max or six rep max, whatever went up. But that will also carry over to one rep max on it. We all understand that, right? If you got bigger, your one rep max goes up. Like if you're not peaked and haven't been doing maxes, your uneaked max will go up. Okay? If if if you've never benched more than 315 in your life and that's your max going into something and you spend six months getting really stronger in the five to 10 rep range and then you come back and test your max, it'll probably have gone up if you got bigger every time. It's very simple. You'll probably bench, you know, 325, 330. All right, the idea is the same there. Uh but as long as you're recovering, that's it. You don't need to be ramping volume. You don't need D loads. We don't need mezo cycles and period periodized blocks. None of it is necessary or even useful for muscle growth. It's just not a simple double progression, training really hard, getting really good at a handful of exercises, and then filling in your weak gap. So, if you're trying to get big, you may have some weak links. You know, you might have biceps might need some extra work or your rear delts or or your calves. Perfectly fine. get in and do some some extra isolation for them. Not a problem. But just progress on your big movements. Don't overtrain. Don't get overuse. Use good form. Getting big is not complicated. It really isn't. The only complexity comes in peaking strength and, you know, peaking for various athletic endeavors and interweaving them. But someone who's just trying to get big and then strong too probably on top of it. It isn't complicated. It doesn't require complicated programming and no one needs to sell you that programming. Even if they're coaching you, some of my best long-term clients, we run really, really simple programming for them. It's just accountability, me, keeping their fatigue managing, keeping them on point. I have guys who just do full body three days a week or I have guys who do very basic conjugate templates with four exercises in the max rotation. Right, done. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.