All right. So, let's talk a little bit about RFK's food guidelines. Right. So, essentially replacing the old food pyramid. We uh now have actually replacing my plate. Uh we have new guidelines out. So, hey everybody. It's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please drop me a like and a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Uh so, let's get over to the topic. Um, I've always said before the food pyramid really wasn't that bad. Yes, it was obviously very heavy grainbased. Uh, but for many people if you think about economics, it makes sense and grains can be a perfectly acceptable fuel source for humans in terms of healthiness. But I think the direction he has gone here is looking at more of cleaning up the American diet, right? So it's not so much when you look at what he's they're doing here because it's actually quite reasonable. Um, I only have a couple minor complaints, very minor complaints. Well, they're they're pretty big complaints, but I feel like they could easily be be scaled out. Um, but for the most part, they really I Okay, the funny part is my complaints of things he supports, if his guidelines are actually followed here, would kind of phase out the problems. Anyways, so it's it's kind of an interesting way to look at it, and I'll get to that in a minute. Uh, but what we're looking at is cleaning up the average American diet. and and Americans can we have the resources and food availability um to pretty much eat local foods without importing anything and actually staying well within the recommendations here. And what he's showing is that carbohydrates are a little bit more optional and if you're going to eat them, they need to be from whole food sources. Okay, but what we need to think about his pyramid people like, oh my god, there's there's red meat and dairy up at the top, right? But he's also promoting us eating mostly leaner red meats when you look at the guidelines. So when you think in terms of animal saturated fat being a problem, it's both a context of the totality of your total diet, how much saturated fat you're consuming and which sources because not all saturated fat is equal. So in other words, whole food dairy and this is where I would say butter is out. Butter does do horrible in the blood work. Whole food dairy is generally neutral or even in some cases slightly beneficial for cardiac health in spite of the saturated fat. This is what the overwhelming large amounts of bodies of research around the world show. In other words, whole milk, most cheeses, not not the heavily like you're thinking of as these really processed cheeses, but still whole food cheeses, right? We're not talking about these spreads and things or this plastic like products. Talking about actual cheese pretty well. uh yogurts that don't have sugar and other flavorings added perfectly fine. These things are all actually very very healthy. And the things that are going on with those whole foods relative to uh potential negatives from saturated fat seem to counteract each other very well in human clinical trials and in long-term studies looking at stuff. So the the whole food matrix in dairy seems to be protective against it. And when you do just butter which is really it's a refined food. So ghee would be the same thing too and and the beef tallow these are refined extracted saturated fats. These are a problem but in their and the research does show that but in their whole food sources dairy is is perfectly heart healthy. There's very little to zero evidence anywhere to suggest that this is a problem. the dairy is of the whole food type dairies even if they're they're highfat the full fat versions uh they seem to be quite quite benign to cardiac health and and be healthy u and so again plenty of data the overwhelming majority of it supports this red meat it's more of are you eating the extremely fatty red meats or you just eating steaks and leaner ground beef perfectly fine on the ladder it's the refined red meats that really get us the bacon the sausage message, right? The lunch meats, these are the things that are a problem. And we know this, the evidence supports that. But but eating a sirloin steak and having some cheese with it, perfectly fine. So that's up there. But then what else is up there? Fruits and vegetables. Okay, this is the kicker. So any concerns you have with these other things in the context of if you're not going overboard on the saturated fat and as far as the non-dairy they're recommending still staying under 10% of your total calories from saturated fat. In other words, you could eat a whole steak every day and you'd actually probably be within those guidelines. And we know that that whole food dairy fats is is relatively benign. So if we come over because it keeps saying focus on whole foods, whole foods, whole foods. Well, butter is not a whole food. Beef, tallow, and ghee are not whole foods. They're refined foods. They're pretty heavily refined. So, if we follow those rules of limiting the saturated fat, you know, to 10%. Again, making exceptions for some of the dairy and you stick to only whole foods, the concerns of, hey, you know, butter and ghee and beef tallow are healthy because they're not, they go away. And it's kind of like that whole point I've made with the argument of seed oils versus beef tallow. The the data is objectively shows that the beef tallow is worse. And this is where I'm going to break with him on. But here's the other thing. We shouldn't be frying foods anyways. We shouldn't be frying foods anyways. So, we've got a heavy and then he talks a lot about healthy fats. You'll notice in there you'll see avocados, avocado oil, almond oil, um you know, nuts, fatty fish is all kind of shown in that pyramid. Okay, these are all healthy fats. So a focus on protein and healthy fats is actually a completely viable strategy. The argument is in some cultures and nations it may not be economically feasible. In the US it is. In the US it is. And so this works well because then it would still be miles better than what Americans currently eat. And what does it really take us away from? Focuses on whole foods again including a liberal amount of fruits and vegetables is not carnivore. Uh carnivore is silly when we start removing those things. But removing refined foods, refined sugars, particularly refined carbohydrates, like refined sugars are absolutely devastating. We should it shouldn't even be legal in my opinion to feed them to children. Yes, I said that it should be illegal. It it's child abuse other than maybe holidays. Look, on Christmas or Thanksgiving, but every day, no. Absolutely not. shouldn't be a daily thing. Should be illegal. It's child abuse. But removing these things, removing all the various refined fats and oils, but that should include butter, by the way. Don't just say seed oils. If we go there, then we take the butter out. Hey, I'm in really good agreement with this uh with these guidelines. But refined carbohydrates, particularly refined refined sugars are a problem. Refined fats are a problem. Refined red meats are a problem. These heavily processed ones with all the nitrates adding that tend to be excessively high in fat and with nitrates adding which are carcinogenic. This is a problem. And if we break away from all these things, our our problems go away. In other words, if we get rid of all the the the various refined fats, let's just take all of them. We get rid of all refined fats, all refined sugars, all the processed meats. If all that stuff goes away, 90% of our concerns from nutrition and nutrition related issues as far as harming health go away. If we put the focus on whole foods and healthier fats and particularly again plenty of fruits and vegetables in there, right? you know, steak steak and avocado here, bros. Um, again, it's kind of how I eat. We're in a good place. So, it would it would be a a marked general improvement to the health of the entire nation. So, by and large, there's some minor caveats I have with some of what's in here, particularly promoting anything like butter and beef tallow needs to go away. Sorry. These these are these are true junk foods, too. But setting those those points aside, the guidelines themselves are pretty reasonable. They're pretty reasonable. They're based on pretty pretty good science and based on what on plenty of real world anecdotes of of people who are serious about fitness. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.