All right, I'm going to give my thoughts on fasted lifting as someone who's done it for years. Uh, hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today. But a quick reminder, if you'll please click like and drop a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, I don't always mention this a lot, make too many videos bringing this point up, but people who follow my vlogs know this. Uh, and and I got this originally from a good friend of mine who's just a ridiculously phenomenal physique, strong guy, drug-free, genetic freak. Um, he had said, "Look, you don't I train fasted all the time. It's fine." And, you know, it got me thinking. He's like, "You adapt to it." And then I started doing it. And then I found over time, yeah, I get great workouts fasted. And I've even done really high volumes of training. I've done powerlifting training. I've peaked for powerlifting meets fasted. Okay. uh just fine, you know, and and and when I say you guys have seen some pretty good stuff. I've I've benched 365 completely fasted on camera. I've done over 500 lb squats, 600 plus pound deadlifts, completely fasted just fine in my 40s, like into my well into my 40s. Um I've also done phases where I did really really high volumes of training. You know, I do lower volume now. I've done very high volumes of training just fine fasted. I've done two-hour workouts fasted. I have trained fasted on camera and then gone and run a 5K on camera before having breakfast in my 40s. It's a guy over 200 lb. So, so for me when people really obsess over, well, it's not sure we could argue it's not optimal for muscle growth. I don't think it significantly affects it either. All right. And I I feel that I get good workouts fasted. And I think that's something um that we have to think about too. A lot of us have really high energy turnovers, uh high metabolic rates. We eat a lot of food. Um and I prefer whole foods because I have an insane appetite. I prefer whole foods. Like I can't just eat uh refined garbage. I I get hungry from it. I'll overeat. I'll get fat. So for me, I found that I can't since I can't really do junk food. I had to eat whole foods before I trained. It created gastrointestinal distress. I personally find, and again, this is my personal anecdote. I get less GI tract distress, better focus, and good workouts. And again, it's not like I'm not moving respectable weights here, guys. I'm 49. I'm repping out pull-ups with a 45 pound plate here. I squat 405 or 1012 reps all the time. And this is all fasted. All right. And I I almost never eat before 10:00 a.m. And my workouts, depending upon, you know, the the time of day can be pretty when it's summertime because I train outside here in Texas. A lot of times I want my workouts done by 8:00. I've had times where I finished training at 8 and didn't eat till noon and and we do just fine. So So again, this idea that it's necessary or people discuss preworkout nutrition. I know guys who obsess over preworkout nutrition who can't lift anywhere near what I see guys in their 20s. They don't even squat 400 lb. They don't do any real workload and they're like, "Oh, I can't get by without all this huge glycogen stores." But you don't burn that much glycogen while you're lifting. Okay? [snorts] There's been studies on this. you burn about 15 grams of carbohydrate per hour when you're lifting. Okay? You you still have that much from the day before. Let me be clear. If you train for an hour and you need 15 grams of glycogen of carbohydrates stored, do you understand that even if you're on a low carb diet and you train fasted, how low those demands are? And I think people forget that too. You know, you just burn body fat in between or other stored fuel, right, in between your sets. Like you're not necessarily burning carbohydrate between sets. You're back over to fat burning if that's what's available for your body. Human body is amazing. Barring the the glycogen needs for really high intensity movements like the lifting and stuff, your body will burn whatever is available, glucose, fat, so on. protein in the worst case. Uh but so so people obsess over this and I always think it's fascinating is that I see people who aren't even performing at much of a level who make a big deal. They've got to have all these these preworkout meals and carbs. I'm like, dude, you know, you're squatting you're squatting 225 or six reps. It's not really even that much. Like you you burning one gram of carbohydrate doing that. It's like four calories. We have storage, guys. We have glycogen stores. And same thing, I'm training fasted there. Yeah, I'm looking pretty full, I think, in that dip video climbing down. That's on low carbs and completely fasted. Come on, guys. Um people make a bigger deal at a lower glycogen stores than they think. And I see people focus on all this and I think it's mostly to sell products. The pre-workout nutrition in or pre-workout nutrition. This is to sell products. It's to sell products and it's also psychological because people believe they need extra food to train when we know you really don't. Like guys, we're not burning that much calories during our lifting because people are convinced they need this and they need it. But once you adapt to it, there's no difference. So what what I found when I first started doing fasted training, I was doing really brutal workouts. The first couple weeks I I found it tough. And after that, my workouts were just as intense as they were when I used to eat beforehand. They were just as good. I'm talking reps sets volume, you know, and I was squatting over 500, benching well into the 300s at the time when I when I started messing around with it. It works and it's fine. And so this idea of people say, "What about optimizing? Quit worrying so much about optimizing muscle. Just get stronger. Get your protein." I prefer the clarity and better workouts I get. I prefer the better appetite control because otherwise I tend to become a fatty. You know, again, people have noted, they're like, "Wow, you used to be a lot fatter. You're a lot leaner now. You don't look just like a fat power lifter anymore." Um, yeah, the fasted training because I fast in the mornings and I prefer to train in the mornings. I get better workouts in the mornings, but I also have better diet adherence if I if I don't eat till later in the day. All right. Give myself a feed window. Um, and lots of people have results. Martin Burkham always trained it fasted. A lot of these guys have in the past. You know, even Kenobody trained fasted all the time. It's never really been an issue. It's not an issue. People do just fine with it. And I know lots of people who do. So, I think people have made much to do about nothing and trying to optimize every last drop of muscle growth whose whole lifestyle doesn't revolve and they're not going to optimize it anyways. If you enjoy training fasted, you get better workouts, knock it out. I personally do. If you don't, then don't do it. How simple is that? All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.