Worrying about the best exercise for any given muscle is a complete waste of time. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it so much. Um, and I think what people forget with this is that I'm not saying some exercises might not work a muscle a little better before failure. Not saying some exercises might not work certain heads a little better. But I think people miss the big picture here. Um, and I think it also tries to force people to focus entirely on on isolation without realizing uh there are going to be compound movements that absolutely produce 100% of all possible muscle growth in any given muscle. Okay, if pushed hard enough, but the fact of the matter is they grow multiple muscles. And I and I think this is what gets lost in this. And the reason everyone who's generally really big is does a lot of uh workload specifically and hard work on big movements. And there's a reason for it. They grow multiple muscles. So I and I I think this is why some of this uh doesn't matter to the extent that people seem to think it does. Uh because again, you should be looking at not what's the best exercise for just one muscle, right? And I get that we need to isolate some things. Now, let me be clear. I totally have value for isolation. I isolate some things. Like my biceps, I have to isolate them. I have to uh just for me personally, it just it doesn't work otherwise. Uh but a lot of my muscles that everyone think are so dominant, I don't I ever isolate. I don't ever even think about isolating them. I just lift heavy. So when it comes to to this, I think what we have to understand though, the reason it doesn't matter any data that you have on individual muscles growing more, it tends to be off of very very low volumes than on the individual heads um and subfailure sets. And I think that ladder is a really really big deal. Okay, it's a really big deal. Why? Because if a muscle is a primary mover, it is going to get a extremely robust extremely robust training response from any exercise in which it is close to failure or reaches muscle failure. Okay. Any exercise where you take a muscle and you get it to failure or within a rep of failure, when you start looking at the the way it lights up the EMG, even muscle growth patterns, it all goes up. In other words, th those weak areas of the muscle where we're like, well, it it stimulated this part a little less or it grew this part a little less versus this when we measured it. Um, they're usually sub failure sets. And what you find is that when you start training really hard, those things start going away. They also start going away as soon as volume starts to go up, intensity goes up. In other words, when we're we're looking at things like this, it's maybe people who are really weak with a low neural drive. Okay? Really weak with a low neural drive. So maybe they're still missing a lot of fibers in that muscle, but once you've built up neuromuscular efficiency, neural drive, everything tends to get stimulated really effectively and it's it's subfure sets. So yes, there's obviously muscle fibers in that muscle that haven't been recruited. But when we start looking even at big compound movements, when we start looking at data at them, as the intensity level goes up, heads of muscles start lighting up even on EMGs that were underactivated. Then we think of, oh, yeah, yeah, that that's not getting enough. It's a it's a weak point there. Well, until you uh you start getting really heavy and this has been seen repeatedly on the bench press studies on the bench press when they start looking at powerliffters who have a high neural drive on the bench press because well we do a lot of bench pressing so we're efficient at it. We're good at it. Okay, all these disparities start going away. All this stuff on EMG start going away. So even the study where I pointed out that extensions produced more long head and bench pressing produced more lateral head and the triceps were on fairly untrained lifters. When you start looking even say at at powerlifters when it's measured the stuff like tricep versus front delt versus pec activation when they check on an EMG on really hard sets like they've done it with six rep maxes they all start getting identical meaning that even the different grips don't really change the recruitment of those. So the same thing you start talking about that long head. Well, what happens in studies where you start doing really hard sets of bench, the long head for serious lifters, we're not talking noviceses, it starts lighting up. Why? Because you have a lot of neural drive. And therefore, when you have a lot of neural drive and you're doing really hard sets, even on compound movements, the less dominant heads in some of those primary movers, they start really lighting up. Do you see where we're going with this? see where we're going with this? And again, I'm not saying certain things may not give small advantages, but they're not going to be night and day. And I'll be the first to point out, look, there there's data showing that that a straight bar curl probably does work the bicep more than an easy or anything pronated, but is it going to be a dramatic difference? It's not going to be like double the gains. You need to understand this because once you start taking stuff to failure, uh things shift around. So we know this even on compound movements, your form starts changing. So you notice your form looks a little different sometimes on the last rep or two on say a eight rep or a 10 rep set. When you you hit failure, what happens? There's shifts. There's compensation in the form. Do you know why? Because the the muscles that are starting to fail are starting to fail. You're starting to reach muscle failure there and then other muscles take over. So your form adjusts. But what then happens to those other muscles? Those muscles that were further in failure all the sudden get a much harder rep. So when the form shifts, this is a dead giveaway that this is what happened. Okay? It's a dead giveaway that this is what happens. So again, these we get into these ideas of these these best muscles and tier lists and everything else, it's it's ludicrous. It's absolutely ludicrous because most of these differences are only going to be seen in novice lifters with low neural drives, usually in sets not taken to failure. There comes a point where if you're training hard enough, if you're training hard enough on a setto set basis, the primary movers, any of them and all of them in any given exercise are going to get a high degree of growth stimulus, you know, and if we want to argue all day, well, this other may give a little bit more and and it may, does it really matter in the grand scheme of things? Is it really and truly going to make as big of a difference as you think it does? No. A lot of times these differences you see in proportions in different people or more to do with their structure and their genetics uh than specifically what exercises they're picking unless their their training is just very biased towards certain muscles and away from others. Okay. All right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.