Building size is not the same as correcting a weak point. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Um, if you guys would though, please click like down below. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you would, please drop me a comment down under the video to give your thoughts or say hello. Thank you so much if you do that. All right, let's get over to the topic. Um, and I know this sounds like common sense, but in some ways it really isn't. Um, you know, often times people will we'll pick a lot of exercises to fine-tune things. Either we need have an aesthetic or a strength weak point. We have one head of a muscle that we really want to focus on. Uh, but we also have to keep in mind we do have limited recovery. And I think people forget that you're only going to be able to generate and recover from so much fatigue in a in a session depending on your work capacity, lifestyle, what sort of special supplements you're using. And I think that ladder is a big point for a lot of people. forget when looking at your favorite influencer. Um, so something to think about is, you know, you're only going to have so much so much recovery available. It's only going to be so much fatigue. And and I think people even forget, I've seen people point out, yeah, literally doing isolateral isolation work, uh, one arm or leg at a time does have its own set of of fatigue that will accumulate possibly even more than doing both sides. So, your weak point training, you can really only do so much of it. And I'll give you guys some some perfect examples. And this is going to be one people aren't going to like. Uh chest is a perfect example, right? Chest is a perfect example. Um and I'm a big fan of the incline bench. I think particularly for improving aesthetics, building shoulders, everything else, right? I think people know that I like the barbell and the dumbbell incline uh bench press both for powerlifting purposes as well as for a lot of my physique-based clients. But if you only incline bench, really look at the data versus other stuff where you make it a high priority, your overall chest is going to suffer. And you do need to remember that because you're throwing a lot of recovery resources into a big exercise. All right? Throwing it into a big exercise. And if you're someone whose chest literally struggles with development, I don't even think that's necessarily going to be a wise choice, right? People with certain physique goals who have a big chest already. Yeah, absolutely. And I think it can have a place. People who have a weak link in their bench, certain weak links, can the incline absolutely improve it? Yes, absolutely. So, it's a great exercise, but realistically, if your whole chest is lagging, I wouldn't waste a lot of time on it, right? I wouldn't waste a lot of time on it if your goal is a bigger chest. So, you have the smaller chest. Why? because it doesn't work the lower part as much and it's a movement that's going to use up a fair amount of recovery time. So you have to think about these things. So people say, "What do you mean?" So what would you do? Flat bench and weighted dips work perfect. So if you're looking for just entire chest development top to bottom, they work. And that's backed by plenty of research. Like people really think uh you know that that a flat bench or a dip doesn't work the upper chest. But every study that's ever looked at it found they did. Let me let me be clear on that. Every study that measured muscle growth found that the upper portion of the chest grew just fine from both of those exercises. Now, when we're talking flat bench, maybe you're not benching in a way that's going to build your chest. Maybe you're not using a grip width that works your chest correctly. Maybe your touch points aren't good. you know, you could be doing a lot of stuff wrong. And what I say with the bench, the bench is is is well documented as an overall chest builder in scientific literature and in the real world. Okay, we know that it is not even subject to debate. It's been studied over and over. It's that you may be benching too close or too wide for you to get the chest development that you want. Uh maybe you're not pausing. Maybe you're you're not pausing correctly at the bottom. Maybe you're bouncing the bar. Okay. And and realistically, I mean, even I personally found when I go ultra wide, it really does become more of a shoulder exercise, right? Something that I kind of figured. I made videos sounds like a contradiction because I used to say, "Yeah, go really wide." But but does that really and truly work? Now, it feels like it really works more delts. And that makes sense because it's putting the strain on the delt. So, for a lot of guys, you're going to find a little bit inside the rings, almost a medium grip bench. for a lot of people may be the ticket they need. And we we've seen that with some really big pro bodybuilders, too, haven't we? Yeah, I've seen a few who it's like, man, they have massive pecs and you look like, wow, they bench fairly close. Not a true close grip, but they're more of a medium grip. And I've seen some. So, that might be for you. And how do we determine that? Well, where where do your elbows stack the deepest? And again, perfect example, if you just bench in a way to where your elbows get to the lowest angle possible, you're putting a deeper stretch on the pecs. Either pause or do a very controlled touch and go. Guess what? You're going to build big chest. You're going to build a big chest. Combine that with dips with a forward lean. Your entire chest is going to grow top to bottom. Okay? Entire chest is going to grow top to bottom. Now, if you're someone then who you're like, man, my whole chest is filling out and I don't have an upper chest. Well, then by all means, incline then becomes a phenomenal exercise, but understand we're addressing a weak point. We're not building the whole muscle. Uh, you know, we can make the same case with something like a tricep, right? So, a laying extension is a great overall builder, one that gets the bar behind the head, the ones you guys see me do. Why? It works all three heads of the tricep really evenly. That's an overall builder. It's not addressing a weak point. It's an exercise that just builds the entire tricep pretty evenly, all three heads. Okay, understand that difference? So, if you're coming in and focusing just entirely on something that's only going to work the long head, you know, like a cable or whatever, uh, but you're not getting sufficient work for the whole thing, you are investing a lot of recovery resources into that. And I'm not saying you shouldn't do it. just simply simply pointing that out. So that's the thing to think about, you know, of when we start dealing with the weak point training. It should always take a little bit of a backseat in your training, right? And you shouldn't need to do multiple exercises for it, okay? Shouldn't need to do multiple exercises. Stick on the stuff that's going to build a really really big big like back, for example, like right there. You see me doing an upper back exercise. Yeah, I do a little bit of that on on uh just to work that upper back a little more on an incline dumbbell, but you have to use the big builder weighted pull-ups, normal barbell rows. Those are what's going to be the meat and potatoes. Okay? So, always remember that your focus needs to be on the big movements. And if you need something to fill in the gaps a little bit, you know, do it afterwards. And that's the point that I'm making. come in and understand that you don't need to spend most of your time doing that. I'm going to go out on a limb and say weak point training of of any of that nature should only comprise at most 20% of your workout, right? The majority of it should be geared towards just getting overall big, right? It should be geared towards just getting overall big and you're still going to do really, really well. If you don't ever bother with the weak point stuff, you're still going to be just fine. you just may not have a perfect proportion or you might not have every weak link short up for your for uh your top lifts, but you're still going to be really jacked and really strong. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. Hey, I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next