What six exercises will put the most muscle on you? Hey everybody, it's Jason Lawa here. Thought I would chat with you guys and tell us a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not uh subscribed or following, please do so. And if you would be kind enough to drop a comment down below um under my video, I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. Let's get over to the point. Um which six exercises are going to put the most size on you? Um, some people are gonna get really upset that I don't throw the the standing press in here. So, what I'm looking for for this is couple of criteria. Number one, when I say this, number one, do we work the most muscles possible? Now, obviously, your lower body lifts are not always going to do it because we got to have some upper body stuff. So, there's more upper body stuff than lower, just an FYI. Uh, mainly because the upper body is more complex. the lower body has way more total muscle, way more muscle, but it's less complicated, has fewer muscles. So, that's why you're going to see that in the movements. Um, but number one, does it work large amounts of muscles? Okay, if we're not working multiple major muscle groups and some stabilizers, it's not going to make the list. Okay, I I want to see at least a minimum of three big muscles as a primary mover. If you don't see at least three, not going to make the list, right? Number one. Number two needs to have a relatively easy learning curve. So that's why power cleans, power snatches, push presses, okay? All that's going to go out. Not saying they're not good. They have a steeper learning curve. Okay? And that steep learning curve in the nature of those movements also makes it hard to do any sort of volume with them. Uh to putting on size, right? Number two. Number three, they need to be easily progressively loadable with muscles being the most likely cause of failure. Okay? So, example, a pistol squat is out. Hey, because at a very quick threshold, you can't load it. And guess what? Your balance starts to become a limiting factor before your quads often times. Well, that's that's not good if we're trying to maximize muscle growth. So those criteria are work as many muscles as possible, but the lift has to work at least three primary movers as major muscles with some with stabilizers getting some decent stimulus. Okay? Easy to learn, relatively easy to learn, and then relatively easy to load with those three primary muscles we're talking about being what fails. Okay, so what do we got? You guys saw the first two. barbell back squat, conventional deadlift. Straight up, these make sense, right? These make perfect sense. Why? They work the most muscles. The only studies we have on hypertrophy with the deadlift show it grew the upper body quite a bit. Okay. Now, would I say that on top of these things, you need other stuff? Of course. I mean, you definitely going, most people are going to want some curls, some calf raises, maybe some sort of direct delt work, obviously, all that stuff. Okay. But outside of that, growth is pretty good. Why? Squats in the deadlifts will grow your quads, glutes, hamstrings, adductors, your low back, some of your upper back, your calves, all that. Your calves will grow from those. They're not going to maximize your calves, but they'll grow unless you go off EMG studies and then which which we don't. If we were to use EMGs as the beall end all, the back squat is the ultimate calf exercise. It beats calf raises, but it's an EMG. All right. upper body stuff. Lot bench. Okay. And this is an easy one. Anyone who doesn't understand this doesn't understand how to bench. They don't know the history of it. They haven't looked at the data. Okay. Works the entire chest, top to bottom, upper, lower chest. If you perform it in a way to build muscle, not saying bench like a powerlifter. Notice I am not necessarily power benching here. This is really in a way bodybuilder benching even though I'm pausing it with passive meat. Not using any leverages. I'm just using my chest. do a full range of motion but still getting the delts and triceps. Okay, bench press, king of chest exercises for good reason. And many of Mr. Olympia has stated this was their favorite chest exercise. Plenty of researchers have pointed out the chest growth is phenomenal. So is the front delt growth and all of that. Okay. And the tricep isn't bad depending upon which studies and stuff you look at. It's pretty decent. Okay. Uh, you'll see after this I've got the barbell row in there. It's not even my favorite back exercise, but the why the barbell row do I have in there? Because the number of muscles it works. It's the jack of all trades for the back. I think pull-ups and chin-ups are are slightly better for lats, but a barbell row actually gives you secondary stress to the lower body. Some of the posterior chain may actually grow from it. Lower back can, but it works the entire back. It works lats pretty effectively. It works traps and it works all three parts of the trap. It works the posterior delts, the romboids, all the erectors. Okay, it's a complete back exercise and it's kind of a jack of all trades because again, what are we looking for? We looking for specialization or you want the jack of all trades, right? And you'll get some bicep from it, especially if you're doing an underhand grip like I'm doing here. Yes, that's 225, by the way, guys. Yes, I grip it raw dog um with an underhand. So, that's in there. How about weighted chins? People are like, "I thought you love weighted pull-ups." I love weighted pull-ups. I think weighted pull-ups inch out the chin up for the lats. Okay. But if we're talking overall muscle, you can build damn good lats off of weighted chips, especially if you get the stretch at the bottom. But it works the biceps. Most of us are a little stronger, so a little better grip, a little better forearm. Um, the fact that we get that extra bicep activation while still working the whole back and the lats, weighted chins. If we're gonna have to narrow it down to, you know, which exercise puts the most muscle on you, I'm going to have to give the chin an inch out over the pull-up. And I love weighted pull-ups. Like, I have a hard for weighted pull-ups as a as a strength coach. They just get your back so wide. But, you know, chins can do the same thing. But we get that extra arm activation, probably a little better grip training, definitely better bicep training. Also gets a little bit of upper chest, some long head of the tricep, which can get neglected on some pressing. And then I'm going to throw, that's number five. Number six can be weighted dips because then we're shoring up weak links, right? Um, weighted dips are going to give you yet another chest exercise. It's going to give you another front delt exercise. And all these upper body ones are going to hit some splash over to the side delts. Am I saying they're enough to maximize it? No. But we're just trying to put overall muscle on you. You're always going to have some weak points. No matter what we pick, something is going to have a weak point. But a weighted dip, it's like a squat for the upper body. And it also works all three heads of the tricep. Not necessarily saying it's optimal for long head, but it works the long head more than the bench does. Uh we get a lot of chest. We hit the chest from a different angle. All these stabilizers get used. Okay. The weighted dip really brings a lot to the table. So, especially you pair that with a bench press, right? You pair that with a bench press, think of the the your your pecs and front delts are covered to a great extent, your triceps because we're getting a different angle on those triceps with the way it sits back there. So, again, uh these those two are really going to cover a lot of ground. Just like the chin up combined with the row, man, we're really covering a lot of ground. Okay, there's overlap, but we're getting we're getting a lot of u a lot done here. So, these are the six exercises I would say can put the most overall muscle on you. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.