Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And today I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about the inconclusive uh and conflicting research on training frequency and muscle growth. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Thank you. Um, look, I'm someone who's who's run the full spectrum of this stuff in terms of what I use, what I promote, what I coach, and I'm well known for early on most of my most of my um honestly uh fitness content creator career promoting fairly high frequencies. Although I did go over for a while and mess with body part splits and push pulled legs and um have clients who run those things. I historically tended to be a pretty high frequency full body guy or like 4day conjugate uh pretty much for the overwhelming majority. Um and I always went off of the uh you know the old school stuff that number one full body 3day a week was literally how all the champions trained before steroids uh became mainstream. Okay. It's how all the natural champions trained uh successfully. the ones who were winning. They didn't even care about splitting or any of this stuff. And and honestly, even the early gear users, so until anabolics came in vogue, uh no one cared about splitting stuff up, right? No one cared about it. Um and the argument then was made later that, you know, we had studies coming out showing, look, muscle protein synthesis stops, you know, within 48 hours. Okay? And I did see one study done on women that showed that my aribular growth stopped within 48, but cycloplasmic could go up to 72. You know, we we saw all this stuff and then so the point was well maybe all the the anabolics are extending the muscle proteins and just so the body part splits worked just fine. Um, and this has come into a lot of question. You know, that was a lot of preliminary data. And then I had kind of said, "Hey guys, um, you know, this is the reason I recommend this." And I'm not saying you can't make gains on body part splits. You certainly can. Although they tend to work obviously better for guys on hefty amounts of gear who want to just come in and annihilate a body part. And that was generally the prevailing thought was that if you're going to use stuff, you can recover from the higher volumes per session and you're going to extend the muscle protein synthesis anyway. So like and I mean recovery meaning at the individual muscle level, not your your system. Um but even then when I was at probably my most jacked, you know, not necessarily leanest, but most jacked, I was still doing full body three day a week. And I thought that was fascinating, you know, right around early 40s in terms of Jack Ro being uh putting out content, you know, and I switched over to other stuff obviously. Um, and then data started coming out and I had said at some point, look, I know guys who've gotten brutally strong, like highle powerlifters doing literally a squat bench deadlift day. Um, and we we've seen plenty of that, but they were also all on gear by the way, right? Not necessarily hefty amounts, though. That was the interesting thing. Um, so what came out later, we started seeing studies and we've seen guys like Shaenville produce studies showing look as long as volume is equated, frequency doesn't matter for muscle growth. Okay, here's the problem with all of these studies. Exercise science in terms of muscle growth is not the best science, right? They have low sample sizes, uh, poor poor selection, they're too short. And I'm not saying we can't draw anything from them. I'm just saying all of it we have to approach it with caution. We have to approach it with extreme caution. And I pointed out look a lot of these studies and some of these meta analysis are are saying based on their data that you know frequency frequency doesn't matter as long as volume is equated. Um the problem is with some of that though is that we have a lot of these conflicting studies um you know showing total sets with a reduced muscle growth. Um, you know, for example, we had at least one study coming out of Brazil where when they did control groups exceeding for some muscles exceeding five sets a week caused less growth and then and all muscle groups exceeding 10 like in a single workout apparently, right? Muscle growth stopped. Meaning not only stopped, it regressed. In other words, people who did some of the muscle groups, what we saw was that five produced more growth than 10. Some of them 10 produced more than five, but in every single one of those cases doing 15 or 20 produced less growth than five or 10 from a single session. So, we definitely have data that when no drugs are are in the mix, and these were women who usually have a higher volume tolerance, right? So this really creates some some conflict of saying well just sheer volume because when we're looking at the the individual uh sessions at least there were a couple studies that did this but then not much further went into that you know but it at least it indicates from those that hey there's definitely an upper threshold to where not only muscle growth stops in a session it may be detrimental and I have to wonder even for me look at the amount of sessions I did with 20 20 sets of biceps s in a workout or 15, you know, and ultimately my biceps didn't get bigger. My biceps were bigger when I did nothing but pull-ups in the previous years. Um, so again, pointing some of that out, you know, using myself in his example, my my thighs and my squats tended to be biggest when I didn't do more than six sets for legs in a single session. Like literally when I was hitting 550 and 600 squats with different bars, that's how I trained. Um the problem we come into though is that then there's conflicting data. I've seen Beardsley uh recently produce lots and lots of studies showing that when volume is equaled higher frequency double or even two two sessions a week is producing more muscle growth. Right? And a lot of it has to do with the way muscles drain. And I've seen him point that out. People have this idea that muscles don't shrink. Well, apparently some of the data is showing uh muscles can literally start to atrophy within a few days of the last training session, okay, for that muscle. And he's got pretty good data to back that. So, we run into conflicting data, you know, we run into conflicting data. And it's at the point where I look at and say, look, people can make gains on all these different systems. And if you enjoy a body part split or a pushpull legs more, you recover more, your joints feel really good, and you're motivated to train, I feel like that psychological motivation could be worth more than any possible muscle protein synthesis. But, you know, if I still go with my gut instinct and my hunch and the way old school guys trained very successfully before drugs, you know, I'm still going to tend to say, look, that 3-day full body, which is how I train again these days, may be the way to go, particularly from an organizational standpoint. And I think it flows, as I've said before, really well for people who may have to miss a workout or half a week of training because you'll have the least draining from each muscle. Um, every muscle is going to be stimulated all the time and there's probably way less risk of, you know, excessive junk volume for a muscle in any given session. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals uh next time.