 Training is only as complicated as you need it to be. Hey, everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would shout with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it so much. When it comes to the topic of training complexity, we do need to be clear. All training complexity is for psychological reasons. Now, am I saying that doesn't matter? No, it doesn't matter. Humans aren't machines, right? Humans are not machines. We have motivation issues. We can have boredom issues. We can have psychological stleness and everything with our training, okay? Understand that. But by and large, training itself from a physiological level is not complicated. And I see coaches even trying to claim, oh yeah, if you just do the Cernium exercises, you'll stagnate eventually. They'll stop working, progressive overload stops working. Yeah, there's not one single shred of evidence for that. Okay? Let me state that again. There is not one single shred of evidence for that. You wanna know how they pass that lie off? Cause it slows down. Cause it slows down. And in your head, if it slowed down, it's zero, but it's not. Are you taking sets close to failure or to failure? Well, yeah. All the muscles being worked correctly? Well, yeah, then you're stimulating. Because we gain slower and slower and slower the longer we train, or the longer you stay on the same amount of stuff, which could be zero, it could be 500 milligrams, it could be a thousand. I'm gonna assume obviously for most people it's zero. But even then, you eventually start to slow. Okay, we get to a point where the various intermediate fibers virtually stop growing. Only your fastest, which fibers are growing at a certain point. Yeah, again, understand this. Okay, understand this. It's just going slower, but in your head, it's nothing. And a lot of times complexity is needed to make you feel like you're making progress again. Okay, it's needed to make you feel like you're making progress again. But the reality is, let's say, I don't know, you're stuck at 15 reps or 315 on a squat. You've been stuck there for six months. If you keep going, you'll eventually get to 16. Like we understand this, right? You don't necessarily need more. You don't necessarily need to change things up to shock the body. Then none of this is necessary. Muscle growth is actually a very linear thing. And people can argue, well, progress is a lot. Yeah, progress is linear. If it's not, there's something going on. We shouldn't be backing down. If you lost a bunch of weight, that makes sense. If you went on a cut, okay, fine. But if you have a person who is staying, you're pretty much the same body weight or making extremely excessively slow gains in body weight for lean gains, you shouldn't be falling back. If you are, there's something happening with your overall recovery. Okay, that's it. But this idea that we have to continually change exercises, no, we do this for boredom purposes. We do it for psychological reasons. Even at Westside Barbell, if you listen closely, because Louis Simmons, what the rotating the max is all the time, do you understand he would make cases for the physiology of it? But when you really listened to lectures and he's talking to other coaches, notice if that goes out the door. When he's talking to an audience of lifters, physical reasons. When he starts talking to a group of coaches, particularly who are even coaching non-strength athletes, giving the lectures at universities to the athletic department, it always went back to the psychology. Why? Because changing exercises is for mental reasons. Now am I saying there can't be overuse? Yeah, there'll be overuse. But you're doing too much volume if that's happening. Let's be clear. If you're having overuse injuries, on a free weight exercise, I get on machines. It's easier to get overuse on machines because you're locked into the same pattern. But on free weight movements, weighted body weight exercises, no, not really. Shouldn't be getting overuse. And the normal variations will change that enough. Okay, your footing, your grip, different stuff is gonna be a hair different unless you were perfectly lining stuff up with marks all the time. Okay, on free weight exercises, it's far harder to get overuse problems because you're not locked in and there's gonna be a little variation. Something as simple as your footing a little different week to week, your grip a hair different week to week is enough to keep those overuse much lower. And again, again, how much volume are you really doing? Overuse is a product of excessive volume, sometimes combined with bad form with it. It's never one cause of injuries in lifting. People train too much. Okay. Now for someone who's new and then hasn't started the gym, that's not really the case. I'm talking about long timers. People are really putting in the work. But, and that's who we're talking about here. Training doesn't need to be complex. And look, I am well versed in every form of periodization. I've been discussing the different types of periodization for 12, 13 years in videos. I'm fully aware of how all of them work. The whole history of how mesocycles were developed, but I'm telling you, none of it is necessary. You can literally just do something like set rep goes, double progression. And double progression doesn't even have to be true. Double progression. You can literally go, every time I reach this target rep, I'm gonna add two and a half pounds of a small movement, five pounds on a big movement. Okay, that's it. 10 pounds on some exercises, right? Five to 10 on big movements, two and a half on isolation work. You can do that forever. Now you can choose to change those rep ranges you wanna work in, but it works just as well. Man, if people don't wanna hear that, and I can tell you as a coach, most of what I do is fatigue management. It's getting people to buy in. And I'm quite frankly, as a coach, I'm just tired of selling complexity to try to get people to buy in. Either they know I can get them jacked and stronger, they don't. And if they're not willing to buy in, I just don't need it. I don't need to sell them complex because it doesn't work any better. It's a selling tactic. I would rather coach than be a salesman. And it's the same for the information I put out. People need to understand how easy this is. You could take six, seven, eight exercises. Long as they cover everything you need, you could literally do double progression type approaches for 10 years straight. And you'll continue to make progress, assuming recovery, fatigue management, nutrition is there. All right guys, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time. Thank you.