Double progression is an old school uh progression method that happens to work. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and get a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. U and if you are not following or subscribe, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, uh please do so. Particularly if you have ever used any variation double progression here, uh tell me about it down below. I would appreciate it. All right. So, let's get over to this topic. It's kind of funny because I forgot this word was a thing and I've had people I'm gonna I'm gonna laugh. I've had people ask me about it in uh live streams and stuff and I'm like, "Oh, we don't need any complicated progression, blah blah blah." I kind of laughed, right? Um but I forgot that double progression is something I've literally written into programs I put in public and it's like, "Oh, yeah, that's right." Um, it's an old school, we're talking like 1950s and60s, it was routinely used. And so since we're talking about old school training, uh, right now, I think it's appropriate to do that. So if you guys remember a perfect example, people who followed my stuff a long time, remember when I wrote a b like the Jason basic program for non-athletes or the Jason B program for non-athletes, it was a double progression. Um so generally what this would mean because it is very difficult once you finish the novice phase um always to progress like nobody is coming in and adding weight every workout is it's simply not happening uh once you're done with the novice phase you can forget that happening so with with double progression what that means is you progress reps then weight right reps then weight um and so I I give this to a lot of people when I get on programs and so what you'll do with this you will take uh so let's say you picked five to eight reps let's say um here's a beautiful way let's let's talk about your compounds and your isolation movements okay so let's say a lot of your big big compounds you've chosen five to eight and let's say your isolation movements you've chosen 8 to 12 okay you guys ready here's how this works so any of those compound movements let's say you're doing three sets of five you're doing three sets of All right. Uh with with this sort of approach, with this sort of approach, what we would do, you start with five reps and you gradually add reps. Anytime you can pick up a sixth rep, you do so, right? So you you try to pick up a sixth rep and then you try to pick up a a seventh rep. You gradually add reps. And the idea is once you can get to three sets of eight on all the sets, what do you do? Well, you you increase the weight, right? You increase the weight. Now, does it need to be heavy enough to go back down to five? Sure, it could. So, you could assess based on on a one rep max calculator. You could say, "Okay, uh, we got there. So, I need to I need to add some weight, right?" And that might be how you approach it. You add a little bit of weight. Um, perfectly perfectly viable approach. You could add two and a half pounds. You could add five pounds to a big movement. Or you could go up and say, "Look, you know what guys? I did whatever I did 315 for 3 by eight. I can put 10 pounds on here." So, in other words, you add weight till it goes uh back down, right? And you could take it as heavy as going back down to five. If it's a movement and you're not doing a serious cut or anything and it's it's a movement like that, you could absolutely do that. And I think that's that's a perfectly valid and reasonable way to approach it. Uh, and I think this works really really well for people just trying to do slow lean gains. So, so your application for something like this, I think, is definitely once you finish your novice phase and you're doing what I would call like lean bulking or recmping most of the time, uh, because you're not going to gain a bunch of muscle and there's no need for you to do a real bulk and and so if you're not blasting a significant amount of magical supplements, an approach like this works, right? And so what you could do, you could take your big movements and you can do them in that 5 to8. Okay? Uh, and again, doesn't mean this is the only method. It just works really, really well for things like straight sets, right? So, if you're not doing that top set and then back down work, uh, you're not doing something like a widowmaker squat, you're you're not doing any sort of titration there. Um, as far as pyramiding, okay? It works really, really well. Now, some people will do it even for pyramiding type sets, but that's going to be a little more complicated, isn't it? Right. So this is a relatively simple approach and you can just do it on all your sets if you want or if or alternatively alternatively if you are doing uh something like just one set of a movement like deadlifts okay it is a perfectly viable approach right it's a perfectly viable approach and it absolutely works and it can work and it works just fine. Um, so again, it could be the it could be the same sort of thing. It could literally be the same sort of thing. So, so let's say you're doing that with a deadlift and you're doing a five day. Same thing, just your one set when you get there, you increase the weight. All right? And then you would do the same thing with the smaller exercises and those are going to take a long time obviously. So, let's say with a barbell curl, you're doing uh, you know, 8 to 12. And I like this sort of setup for for compound movements or for small movements, right? An 8 to 12 works really good for your isolation work or a 10 to 12. Okay? Works really well even as a 10 to 12 because a lot of your isolation, you may not want to go down to eight, but at 8 to 12 works also. So, what you would then do the same thing, you add reps. So, let's say you're doing barbell curls with 75 pounds, you know, and let's say that's about eight reps is about all you can get for three sets. So, then you just work on that for an extended period of time of getting a ninth rep, a 10th rep. And when you get to the 12 reps, what do you do? you add 2 and a2 pounds or add 5 lbs. Whatever it takes for you to get down to around that 8 to nine rep range again. And it's and again, that's the idea. Every time you get to 12 reps for for all three sets, it's time to increase that weight. All right? And it's again, this works extremely well. Has a great track record of success. Uh it's been used for decades. And and for people who are just chasing hypertrophy and a physique, I think it works really well with picking something like that. You know, picking a couple of rep ranges for your different exercise types and just running with it on that. Again, my opinion uh works works extremely well. It works extremely well and I and I'm a fan of it. Uh absolutely a fan of it. Uh so again the the whole idea here is to have continual progressive overload but this is progressive overload for the for the more advanced lifter. Um and by more advanced we don't mean you need to be an advanced lifter right that you don't have to be advanced per se. You could simply be uh you could simply be someone who uh has finished their new gains and they're not doing any sort of serious bulk again because keep in mind we're not getting the fat leverages without a serious bulk. It's purely lean tissue. Uh and again it works very very well. All right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.