Training is only as complicated as you need it to be. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Uh when it comes to the topic of training complexity, uh we do need to be clear. All training complexity is for psychological reasons. Now, am I saying that doesn't matter? No, it doesn't matter. Humans aren't machines, right? Humans are not machines. We have motivation issues. We can have boredom issues. We can have, you know, psychological stailness and everything with our training. Okay, understand that. But by and large, training itself from a physiological level is not complicated. And I see coaches even trying to claim, oh yeah, if you just do the surnum exercises, you'll you'll stagnate event. They'll stop working. Progressive overload stops working. Yeah, there's there's not one single shred of evidence for that. Okay, let me state that again. There is not one single shred of evidence for that. Do you want to know how they pass that lie off? Cuz it slows down. Cuz it slows down. And in your head, if it's slowed down, it's zero. But it's not. Are you taking sets close to failure or to failure? Well, yeah. All the muscles being worked correctly. Well, yeah. then then you're stimulating because we gain slower and slower and slower the longer we train or the longer you stay on the same amount of stuff which could be zero it could be 500 milligrams it could be a thousand I'm going to assume obviously for most people it's zero but even then you eventually start to slow okay we get to a point where the various intermediate fibers virtually stop growing only your fastest switch fibers are growing at a certain point again. Again, understand this. Okay, understand this. It's just going slower, but in your head, it's nothing. And a lot of times, complexity is needed to make you feel like you're making progress again. Okay? It's needed to make you feel like you're making progress again. But the reality is, let's say, I don't know, you're stuck at 15 reps of 315 on a squat. You've been stuck there for six months. If you keep going, you'll eventually get to 16. Like, we understand this, right? You don't necessarily need more. You don't necessarily need to to change things up to shock the body. None of this is necessary. Muscle growth is actually a very linear thing. And people can argue, well, progress isn't. Yeah, progress is linear. If it's not, there's something going on. We shouldn't be backing down. You know, if you lost a bunch of weight, that makes sense. If you went on a cut, okay, fine. But if you have a person who is staying at pretty much the same body weight or making extremely excessively slow gains in body weight for lean gains, you shouldn't be falling back. If you are, there's something happening with your overall recovery. Okay, that's it. But this idea that we have to continually change exercises, uh, no, we do this for boredom purposes. We do it for psychological reasons. Even at Westside barbell, if you listen closely, because Louis Simmons with the rotating the maxes all the time, do you understand? He would make cases for the physiology of it. But when you really listen to lectures, when he's talking to other coaches, notice that that goes out the door. when he's talking to an audience of lifters, physical reasons. When he starts talking to a group of coaches, particularly who are even coaching non-strength athletes, he's giving a lectures at universities to the to the athletic department. It always went back to the psychology. Why? Because changing exercises is for mental reasons. Now, am I saying there can't be overuse? Yeah, there would be overuse, but you're doing too much volume. If that's happening, let let's be clear. If you're having overuse injuries on a free weight exercise, I get on machines. It's easier to get overuse on machines because you're locked into the same pattern. But on free weight movements, weighted body weight exercises, no, not really. Shouldn't be getting overuse. And the normal variations will change that enough. Okay. your footing, your grip, different stuff is going to be a hair different unless you are perfectly lining stuff up with marks all the time. Okay, on free weight exercises, it's far harder to get overuse problems because you're not locked in and there's going to be a little variation. Something as simple as your footing a little different week to week, your grip a hair different week to week is enough to keep those overuse much lower. And and again again, how much volume are you really doing? Over overuse is a product of excessive volume sometimes combined with with bad form with it. It's number one cause of injuries in lifting. People train too much. Okay? Now, for someone who's new and hasn't started the gym, that's not really the case. I'm talking about long- timerrs, people who are really putting in the work. But, and that's who we're talking about here. Training doesn't need to be complex. And look, I am well-versed in every form of periodization. I've been discussing the different types of period periodization for 12, 13 years in videos. I'm fully aware of how all of them work. the whole history of how mess cycles are developed. But I'm telling you, none of it is necessary. You can you can literally just do something like um set rep goals, double progression. And double progression doesn't even have to be true double progression. You can literally go every time I reach this target rep, I'm going to add two and a half pounds of a small movement, five pounds on a big movement. Okay, that's it. 10 pounds on some exercises, right? Five to 10 on big movements, two and a half on on isolation work. You can do that forever now. You can choose to change those rep ranges you want to work in, but it works just as well, man. And people don't want to hear that. And I can tell you as a coach, most of what I do is fatigue management. It's getting people to buy in. And I I'm quite frankly as a coach, I'm just tired of selling complexity to try to get people to buy in. Either they know I can get them jacked and strong or they don't. And if they do, they if they're not willing to buy in, I just don't need it. I don't need to sell them complex because it doesn't work any better. It's a selling tactic. I would rather coach than be a salesman. And it's the same for the information I put out. People need to understand how easy this is. You could take six, seven, eight exercises long as they cover everything you need. You could literally do double progression type approaches for 10 years straight and you'll continue to make progress assuming recovery, fatigue management, nutrition is there. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.