Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about something that I see a lot of. In fact, I got tagged in a post by actually someone that I'm friends with. He's another guy who puts out content. Seems to be a pretty good coach overall. You know, I got tagged in in a piece today of his to where he went on quite a discussion about injuries and and lifting heavy and doing the big three, the squat, bench, and deadlift causing injuries over 40 and that the juice isn't worth the squeeze. So, I want to talk to you guys about that. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I'd appreciate so much. And you guys will see, I'm going to preface this at the start. Everything in here is recent footage. Some of this is earlier this year. Some of this is is earlier in the year. Um, the squat and the deadlift here are the two heaviest ones. I'm 48 years old. These are all done this year. Okay. You saw me do a 3502 second pause bench. I got 500 lb on a back squat. Technically a little over because the bar is like 52 lbs, but we'll I round it down to 50. We'll just call it 500. 500 lb back squat with no sleeves, no shoes. Uh 585 deadlift. Nice clean deadlift. I do have shoes on, so it's not just a belt and chalk. I'm wear I'm wearing boots on it. So, but that doesn't give you an advantage. So, and then you'll see me doing lots and lots of different squats, deadlifts, rep work with 500 on those, lots and lots of rep work with 315 on the bench. Um, squats with different weights, box squats with over 400, you know, pause squats, all sorts of stuff, right? Just various squats all through here. And all of these are very, very recent. I just grabbed a bunch of recent footage and loaded it in. And here's the thing. I'm 48 years old, okay? And I don't want to always just use myself as anecdote. I want to be clear. I coach a lot of older lifters also. I'm pretty good at masters lifters and I get guys on the platform um in their 40s. Like I coach guys who compete in powerlifting. And so to me um I no I I don't agree with these ideas at all. I think they're ludicrous. And people say but it's not necessary. Well nothing is necessary. But there are enormous merits to these exercises. They bring a lot to the table. And you know, when people have all these injuries on these movements, I've got to question what they're doing. And I think this has to be said because people will bring up the various injuries they've had and I'm like, "Well, what drugs were you on? Were you wearing knee wraps on the squats? Super tight sleeves? Were you using Tren? Were you using aromatase inhibitors with crash D2? So, were there drugs involved? What did your overuse look like? What's what does your form look like? Because to me, this isn't normal, right? And I'm really big on fatigue management. I'm very big on form for a lot of my people. And I want people to note, look how my form looks on all this stuff. Notice my benching, right? Good form, good fatigue management, not grinding crazy maxes that you are not strong enough to handle. All right, these are all a big deal. like this is a big part of the game. And and I would say this to people, you have to think about this stuff, you know. So, do we need to be more worried about injuries as we get older? Of course we do. And no one no one who's in their right mind would say otherwise, you know, but people always spend as, oh, it's just a being being hardcore. No, it's not. It's just about training and being smart. And I get it. I do a lot of crazy stuff with my training that people think is is really hardcore. the barefoot running, barefoot sled stuff, you know, all the stuff that I do. They're like, "You dude is ridiculous." But to me, it's not really about hardcore. It's just just training, guys. It's just living a fitness and athletic and a training and strength lifestyle. Okay? And and I think that's a big part of it. Um, I'll discuss that in a minute, too, of why thinking it's not super hardcore is kind of a big deal. Okay? because I I think there's a lot to that because the same thing, think about guys like Michael Hearn, he still looks crazy heavy. He's not hurt. You talk about being hard on your shoulders. Incline bench can be harder on your shoulders and flat bench. The man's inclined at like 50 years old is incline 405. Okay. Doing a reverse grip benching was like 455 for reps and stuff. It's an old man, but he's not hurt. So, I'm gonna I'm gonna touch on that in a minute, but I want people to think about the fact of Yeah. Should you be more worried about injuries? Of course. So, shouldn't you be worried about machines? Shouldn't you be worried about preacher curls? Shouldn't you be worried about isolation movements? Okay, because let's let's be honest, is the big movements what everyone always gets hurt on or do they get hurt on isolation movements? How many guys have been injured and needed surgery from a preacher curl? If you were to add it up and go talk to 20 orthopedic surgeons who repair weight room injuries, ask them how many biceps they've repaired from what exercises. I promise you preacher curls and sheet curls will outnumber deadlifts, right? That should tell you something. How about tricep extensions? Literally injuring triceps. Okay, people have to think about the ego lifting applies to all these lifts. Okay, you don't think people get hurt on dumbbells and machines? Have we not watched catastrophic injuries on both? Have we not seen people get really hurt on machines? Haven't we seen 20some kids get hurt on machines? You don't think overuse from machines is real? Let's be honest. Overuse and ego lifting and stupidity doesn't care what lift you use. Doesn't care what lift you use. Yes, these exercises let us use a lot of weight. Therefore, that's where, you know, the concern is it's a lot of weight involved. Sure. But what if you use good form? What if you use safety arms? What if you listen to your body? What if you adjust your diet? Okay, these are things you need to be looking at because let's again, let's be honest. If those things aren't on point, you're going to get hurt doing preacher curls, too. You're going to get hurt on machine chest presses. You can still rupture a pec if you're getting serious overuse. You're doing stupid stuff and cheating, maybe doing it half reps and then one of them slips and goes all the way and you've got some tendon inflammation already because your diet sucks because you drink alcohol or you eat junk food, you don't eat enough antioxidants, so on and so forth. Okay, you're you're at risk of injury. So, this is stuff you have to think about. Get your diet on point. Get your fatigue management on point. Get your sleep on point. Don't abuse your body. You can't afford to as you get older. Things like alcohol have to go. Let's just be again be realistic. Inflammation it causes causes more injuries. Okay. Stuff that we need to think about. So, you have all that, but then what else? What do you notice about the guys who stay in the game who are strong? Everybody who's super strong and over 40 and without the major injuries, look at them. There's some things we all have in common. We all train with good form and we train calm. You don't see any of us psyched up. You don't see any of us screaming and slapping ourselves before a heavy lift. We don't get psyched up. We just come in and calmly lift. I think that matters. I think that high degree of psychological arousal, guys needing to blast slayer or whatever really super hard music they need, taking the preworkouts, being stemmed up, okay? Instead of being in your place of zen, because notice how calm I am on all these lifts. We're just real chill. Real chill. And you'll notice the same thing with everyone. Why? because you're focused. You're not using bad. You're focused on your technique and you're focused on controlling the weight. Nothing's done ballistically because that'll hurt you even on a machine. It's not the exercise sometimes. It's the execution. And so people say, "So why still do it? Why take the risk?" Why would you say that for all those things? Why would you go heavy on a machine then? Because strength matters. These big exercises put strength on you. They build tendons. They build bone density. Okay, these big movements that we're doing, these are the ones that are going to give you the most health benefits. So, if you're saying, "Hey man, I want to be super fit and healthy and athletic getting older." This is the stuff that builds bone density. This stuff is going to build all the tendon to your body, not just the muscle. This builds the structures of your body. This is important. The same thing on neural drive, maintaining that neural drive. Big heavy lifts improve neural efficiency, neuromuscular efficiency. That stuff degenerates with age, too. Okay? You want to save off different neurological disorders and possibly even things like dementia, Alzheimer's. These big movements matters. I had a little snafu there. I hit the uprightes. But notice if we just cleaned it right up because I'm calm because I train so calm. Something goes a little bit wrong. You correct. You continue. Okay? It matters. But these these are the exercises you need to do. Okay? This is the stuff you want to do. And if people don't think it's a possible, look at all the people who are in their 60s, 70s, and 80s who still compete in powerlifting just fine. They're literally maxing out in competition on these movements unheard all the time. You just have to be smart. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.