All right, the current research is all showing that TRT does not have any negative uh health effects cardiovascularly. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Now, when we are having this conversation, uh we do need to be aware no one's talking about blasting gear. So, just stop every time the topic of TRT comes up, which means testosterone replacement therapy. Um, keeping in mind way way way way more men are prescribed testosterone in America for low testosterone than there are men who are using stuff to gain muscle. Okay, we are talking about TRT. We're not talking about a guy blasting a gram a test and calling it TRT on the internet as an influencer. Okay, let us be clear. That is not what we're talking about. That is essentially guys just lying. So, so if a guy is doing that and he says, "I'm on TRT, bros." That's called lying. Does that make anybody understand that, right? Everybody understands that. Let's get that out of the way because of the comments that people are going to leave and the the criticisms of this video. No, that guy's not on TRT. He's called an effing liar. That's not TRT. Okay. Uh but when we look at the the latest data, I just saw Minnow link and a bunch of stuff on that. The newest studies show there's there's no association with actual real TRT from a doctor and any sort of negative cardiovascular effects. Keeping in mind we had a largecale study done a number of years back that I discussed with you guys also where it showed that men who go on TRT have about a 30% lower stroke and heart attack rate. Now that's correlation. That's not necessarily causation, but we could look at some causation and it makes sense. And when people say, "What do you mean they just went on?" So if I go on TRT, it's going to lower it. Well, no. do you qualify for TRT? They're like, well, well, no, then then no, it's in men with low testosterone. That's what they looked at. When they looked at men, a large scale study of men who had all been diagnosed with low testosterone under 300 nanogs per deciliter. And they compared over like a fiveyear uh period of time all those men, the ones who chose not to do TRT versus the ones who did who had been diagnosed, they found that the men who went on TRT had about a 30% lower rate of strokes and heart attacks. Now, there's not any real multivariant analysis there, but here's the point we would make from that. Is it arguable that testosterone and then even the estrogen is cardiorotrotective in the normal range? And that's the point. Uh there are negatives. I mean lower testosterone is part of getting older part of the aging process. And when people say stuff, well, we should just grow old naturally and gracefully. Well, then get your cancers and diabetes and and die and sarcop. Do you see what I'm saying? That's silly. So you're when people say that they're saying I just want to get older and sick. I want to suffer all the negative effects of aging even though it could be prevented, you know, uh by a co-ay by my insurance from the shop from my doctor. Like do you think about how stupid that is? No. Really think about that. Well, I just want to grow. I just want to get old and waste and die. like, well, what if you can slow a lot of that down? That's kind of the entire point, right? That's the entire point. Nobody cares that it's natural. Um, and I I hate that idea because if we're going to use the term natural, in our natural environment, the average lifespan of our species is 35, right? Mother nature wants you dead at 35. So if you're talking about natural, nothing artificial, no no modern technology, no modern medicine, none of these things, then the average human lives to be 35 years old. Okay. In paleolithic times, so that's what you're saying. Well, as someone who's 49, that sounds pretty dumb to me. Like I look at that and go, "Yeah, you're an idiot. You're a complete blithering And only someone who's like 22 would even utter such a dumb thing. And this is the funny thing. I see all these guys who make a big deal about this stuff, but you're in your 20s. Like, your attitude is going to change. And and realistically, what's going to end up happening when you get older, if your testosterone starts declining and you're not enjoying it, and then you go, "Man, I'm going to go get on TRT." you're going to feel really dumb. But that's okay because we are dumb in our 20s. And I'm saying that as a man at the age of 49, we were all pretty dumb in our 20s. I get it. It's just that we don't know how dumb we are. We don't know how profoundly ignorant we actually are because we don't have the life experience to understand it. Okay? And that's the issue there. And again, what's funny and and I promise you tons of these guys now who are militant about this stuff and they throw a temper tantrum and make a big deal 12, 13, 15 years, those same guys are going to go get on a shot of testosterone potentially and then they're going to be like, "Oh man, this is wonderful. This is great and they're going to just forget about how militant they were." And so it really is silly. And this is the point I would make um to men who are getting older. Stop listening to this B. Stop listening to silly goofball guys, you know, who who don't have low test yet. They're not older. Or you'll get the older guys. Well, I never had this problem, and it's because no, you're a statistical outlier. You got lucky uh with things with your genetics. Yeah, your lifestyle is probably a factor, but there are plenty of men who eat healthy diets, they don't drink, they don't smoke, who still end up with low testosterone, you know, by 42, 48, 52, whatever. It's very extremely common. In fact, it's it's by and large the majority. Yes, lifestyle plays a role, but when guys say that, they're misunderstanding. Oh, well, just because you got statistically lucky, you know, you got statistically lucky with a specific gene doesn't mean everybody else did. So, quit giving other people advice. You know, it's the same same for me. I'll get guys who are like, "Oh, man. I got these amazing biceps. Uh, like I didn't have to do this or that. I don't see why your biceps aren't bigger and they just have great bicep genetics." Whereas and I would look at them and go, I have like 17inch calves and I don't train them. So I don't see why anybody trains calves or you know you see how silly this is. Stop. Nonsense. But by and large, the data shows that not only is is TRT when appropriately administered by a medical doctor, which is what we're talking about, not only impro potentially cardiorotective, but all aspects of your life and health improve, right? It is a life improving medication. You know, and the argument, well, you're just but then people are addicted to pharma and this. It's like you're addicted to modern technology anyways. are the stupidest argument I always hear. Well, what happens if there's a massive collapse? Well, you know what? If if if your entire medical treatment and life is is be built around what's going to happen in a full economic collapse, um that's also dumb. So, you're just not going to improve your quality of life because you fear a hit the fan scenario. That same person better have 30,000 rounds of ammo and water filtration on hand or I don't even want to hear anything they have to say on the matter. Just stop. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.