TRT is men's health and I'm going to present a lot of info here and I would ask for people who disagree. Uh before you disagree actually to listen to my points in their entirety. Uh but I'm going to chat with you guys about this. Please drop me a comment and a like. Um I would appreciate it so much. [snorts] U all right. So when we get over into this topic, there's been more and more and more research done and what we keep finding and and I saw even men the other day posting a bunch of new studies on this u that there are no health negatives, right? It's perfectly cardiovascular safe. Any health benefits that people on TRT are getting from from actual TRT, please note, we are talking about TRT, not blasting gear. So when I say TRT, I don't mean YouTube TRT plus natty bro. No, I mean TRT, a replacement dose optimizing your levels through a medical doctor. Okay, it's what we're talking about. And even people can argue, well, what about these tea clinics? That's been thrown into the statistics. Okay, let's be clear. That's been thrown into the statistics and there's still found on average to be no issue. So any any health issues you have uh from the prescription come from the rest of your lifestyle. [snorts] Meaning people who are healthy uh they're perfectly fine. And when you look at the largecale studies, it's been noted, and I'm going to bring this up because there was a study of over a 100,000 men done quite a few years ago, like five, six years ago now, that men who went on TRT had a 30 to 40% lower rate of stroke and heart attack than those who choose not to go on it. Men who qualified, okay? doesn't mean if you're 20 years old with a 600 nanogram per deciliter that it'll reduce that. But if you're middle-aged, you're over 40 with anything resembling clinically low testosterone. That is what the stats show. And that's substantial. Like that's not tiny. You know, people will say, well, maybe people who go on TRT probably care about their health a little more. I don't know that they actually do. I've met guys out there who don't really work out and they drink and everything else and they go on tea or tea, you know, because they've won it for bedroom purposes, their business, other stuff. Uh, so again, this is the point and and also people love to bring up, well, I don't have low test. It'll be always these outliers. They're like, well, I'm 47 or I'm 53 and my testosterone tested right here. Do you understand how stupid of an argument that is? And we need to be clear on that when people make these arguments. Because you don't need a medication, nobody does. Okay? If that is going to be our criteria p for prescribing medication, then we should just let everybody die. If that is our criteria for prescribing medication and determining if people need it because there's some people who don't, then we don't ever need to prescribe anything. Just let everybody die because they clearly don't need it because you didn't. Right? So if you don't need a statin, then this other person with high cholesterol doesn't need a statin. Just let them die. Right? That's your argument. or because uh you don't need insulin, the type 1 diabetic doesn't. I don't need it, therefore they don't need it. I mean, if we're going to do that with medical treatments in general, let's go so far as to say, "Oh, this person who needs a heart transplant, but I have a healthy heart, I don't need a heart transplant." They don't need one either. See, because I live a healthy lifestyle and and uh it but that's not true either, is it? How many men with with low testosterone eat healthy, don't drink, don't smoke, work out? Plenty of them. So again, these arguments are coming from a place of absurdity. But if that is because there's a few guys out there who post this stuff that they believe they found the answer, well, I do this and I don't have that problem. It's like, okay, what about the million other guys who also eat healthy and and and work out around the world who still have low testosterone at your age? You got lucky. Okay? And that's what these guys are forgetting. You got lucky with a set of genes that that gave you producing testosterone longer later in life. You got lucky. That's it. Um so again the data is overwhelming and most guys who go on these things they see dramatically improved quality of life. It is about quality of life through modern medicine. Um and again when people say yeah but uh medicine it's it's poison we shouldn't take any any drugs from a doctor we don't need to okay but the people [snorts] have lower strokes and heart attacks and are healthier who go on this particular medication. So that argument doesn't work. You're not arguing from a point of stupidity because some medications have toxicity in the body and and we need to be careful of taking any drugs. You're not going to take a drug that has been statistically shown for those who need it to lower stroke, heart attack, depression, anxiety, body fat. If that's the case you're making, then you are a who needs to stop giving advice. Just shut up when intelligent people are talking. Just stop because you are a Let's be clear on that. If that is your position, well, because it's medic, except that you're going to live longer and be healthier on it. [clears throat] Again, optimizing testosterone. The other arguments then people make, well, I don't want to be dependent on the system or big farmer. You already are. Every aspect of the system, you don't have a job, you don't have electricity, you don't have fuel for your car, you don't have anything without this system. just stop. Unless you live off-rid deep in the woods, you are dependent on the system. In fact, even if you do and you you come into town to get a new knife and you're not making your own knife out of steel and a for, you know, you're you're not hand forging every tool that you you use, you're still dependent on this system. So, just stop. And then as people say, well, what about Well, if something happens with big pharma and the supply, there's an enormous black market. And here's the other thing. You're not going to be more dependent on testosterone than you already are. If you already have low testosterone and you lose your supply, [snorts] okay, you just go back to having low testosterone. you're not necessarily worse off than had you just not done it at all. But at the end of the day, people forget if there was a supply drying up or whatever happens. It's just unlikely. Supply and demand in Western countries like the US and most of my audience is American on all my platforms. So, I'm not concerned with these other arguments. I don't I don't have time for it. Most of my audience on every platform is American. Sorry if that offends anyone else. So that's who I'm mostly talking to on this topic. Unless your countries change. All right. The supply and demand is not going to dry up. Men are still going to want it. And at the end of the day, if that becomes too problematic, the black market is still absolutely enormous for people who still wanted to obtain it. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.