There can be a lot of health benefits to healthy fats, but it doesn't mean that they're going to help you stay leaner. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, uh, be greatly appreciated. If you aren't following me or subscribed, please do so. And please give me a comment underneath the video just to say hello or to give your thoughts on the video or your take on it. Uh, I would appreciate that. All right, let's get over to the point. Um, this is something I've told people many times that we we know this like this has been covered so deeply in the literature in the last few years. Uh, humans do not store anything but dietary fat as subcutaneous fat. Therefore, not even I'm not talking about losing weight. We're only talking about preventing fat gain. Okay? Because any calorie deficit is going to strip body fat. Doesn't matter what you eat. you eat a really highfat diet or really a high carb diet. That's not the point. We're not talking about weight loss. We are talking about fat gain. They are not the same thing. They're they're different topics. Even though they might seem related, they're really they're really not. Uh so here's the point. You only pretty much gain other than a little bit around visceral areas and organs. you don't gain fat other than the fat you eat. Okay? And a 100% of it under your skin uh comes from that. Therefore, it stands to reason that even if you wanted to eat a lot of food, you could technically eat large amounts of carbohydrates and particularly large amounts of protein, even in theory, that should be creating a calorie surplus based on your normal maintenance at maintenance calories because again, calories in and calories out impact each other. Like people forget that in the equation. But if your dietary fat is excessively low, you're not going to gain any more fat than the amount of fat you eat. In other words, if you only ate 17 grams of fat today. I'm throwing a random number out there. You're going to have less ability to gain fat than if you ate 50 grams or 60 grams, right? Does everyone understand this concept? That's your only real potential for body fat gain. And it can accumulate relatively quickly. I mean, I think we all understand this um because we don't get fat from our individual days. We get really fat from just accumulating it over extended periods of time, weeks, months, things like that, right? You you're not going to gain much fat in a week. People like, I gained 17 pounds. Yeah, but it was water. You you didn't gain 17 pounds of fat in a week. It's never been done in a human. like a pound in a week is pushing it pretty hard. It can be done. I mean, you could exceed a pound in a week. You got to really work at it. No, that's not a challenge. Not telling you to try to do it, but it it's it's relatively difficult to gain more than that. You you got to you got to be putting some effort into it. Um, so it's that accumulation over time. So in that context, yeah, a really really really low-fat diet uh is going to be associated with very very little fat gain. And and we see that not just if we look at what happens in the lab, we can look at the metabolic work or we can look at population studies and see that cultures with extremely low fat intakes like 10% or lower, they don't have an obesity problem. It just doesn't occur, right? it just simply doesn't occur. But I don't mean that you can stand around consuming enormous amounts of table sugar, but it's not what I'm telling you. So again, people love to extrapolate crazy ideas. I'm assuming you're eating actual food. So not stuff like that. But back over to that point. So we look at that and say, "Okay, that makes a lot of sense. So does that mean we should never be eating fat?" Well, no, that's not true either. There there are this is why when we talk about these things, we need context for it. Um, and I'll go so far as to say that, yeah, if you're going to do an ultra low-fat diet, your diet better be super healthy. What do I mean? Um, excessively low fat intake, this is why I'm saying you better be eating food. Um, will reduce vitamin absorption. A lot of your fats, soluble vitamins, people say you can't absorb them. No, you can absorb them. Absorption's reduced. All right. Do you see? Do you see where we're going? What do we mean? vitamin D, vitamin E, vitamin K. Um, some some forms of vitamin A. All right. Uh, here's the thing. If your fat intake's really low, you absorb less of them. Doesn't mean you don't absorb them. You see where we're about to go with this? Your diet better be pretty healthy. Better be pretty whole foods. It better be foods rich in all these vitamins and minerals that you want. Um, would be a really good idea. Okay, be a really good idea. So, there's that to factor in. All right, what about some of the anti-inflammatory properties? Certain healthy fats can reduce inflammation, particularly omega-3. Okay, your diet's really low in fat. You may be lower in these. Um, HDL cholesterol, your good cholesterol. All right, if your dietary fat's too low, you're you're not going to have a very high HDL. you're just probably not. You need good healthy fats for that. Um, now is that always a problem? No. I mean, if your LDL is low and your triglycerides are low also and you're active, it may not be a problem. But what about in the context of if one of those is high? So, and that and that's what I would say to think about too. Okay. if your diet is so low in fat that your your HDL is really low, but maybe there's some stuff in there you shouldn't be eating. This is what we mean about eating a healthy diet and your triglycerides go up. All right? Maybe you've been even though you're eating mo mostly naturalish whole foods, maybe you've been hitting the honey a little too hard. Your triglycerides are going up, right? You don't have good HDL. You have low HDL, high triglycerides. Well, that's that's not good. You see where we're going with this? So, what I'm saying is there are different benefits to certain fats. Certain fats have health benefits. They can improve certain health markers. They can help with certain types of inflammation. Uh they can help with a lot of things. So, when we have this discussion, it doesn't mean that well, you know, everyone should should just avoid all fats. No, that's that's not what we're saying. What I'm saying is if your goal is a body composition end, right? If you're trying to stay really lean, but you're trying to maximize muscle growth, dropping your dietary fat as low as you can possibly get away with and if necessary, add a small amount of fatty fish or some fish oil to get your omega-3 is a viable, very, very, extremely viable strategy because then all of the calories you're consuming are more anabolic, right? Carbohydrates do fuel muscle growth better than fats do. Protein definitely fuels muscle growth better than fats do. Uh so in that context you are creating a more anabolic environment for muscle tissue for training performance and minimizing your abil body's ability to gain fat. Well that's that's a really good situation if you are in the pursuit of body composition. what you need to be aware of. You may be losing some of the potential health benefits and even anti-inflammatory benefits or recovery benefits of certain healthy fats. You might even you might even develop some vitamin deficiencies if you aren't careful. So that's what we are saying with this. So again, there's nuance to it. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.