Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness and today I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this idea of a natural limit because it's a real thing but I think people misunderstand it. Uh been a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below if you would drop me a comment also I would greatly appreciate it under the video. Thank you so much. Let's get over to it. Um, I've talked a lot about this in the past and I think people don't understand when we say this. It's not meaning a hard limit. Like when we talk about some of this data going back and saying, look, a 25 fat- free mass index is is pretty much probably uh, you know, a drug-free limit for a lean guy. And then when you see people who point out, well, there are a few exceptions in the pre-steroid era. Well, not really because when you look at them and the body fats that the person doing the math thinks they were at, they really weren't at a 25 and a half. You know, they're they're thinking, "Oh, yeah, you know, they're 10% body, but they're not. They're like 14 15%." Like, if you look at those pictures. So again, realistically, when you go look at those set of studies that looked at this and they found that up in the 24s was where pretty much on fat-free mass index, right, the 24s were largely where 23 to 24 point something was where all these national level professional natural bodybuilders were. And then the same set of studies found that even the average steroid user like gym rats who were admittedly on steroids for a prolonged period of time had a 24 and a half. So yeah, when people start exceeding 25, they're they're pretty much it's a pretty safe bet that they're they're on gear. Okay, but keeping in mind the average gear user in those that same set of research was 24 and a half. Okay. So understand that that has to be understood in that context when we're going to have that conversation. Okay. We have to understand it from that perspective. U so when you realize that you realize it's much smaller than that. So people say so so if I just do whatever I'll just get to my natural limit. Well no your natural limit is a practical limit. So, we need to understand that most of you are you're never going to get to 25. Okay, let us be clear. There are plenty of natural professional bodybuilders in the 23s, 24 point something. In fact, that's that's pretty common. I would say the majority of them are under 24. Okay. So what what we need to grasp here is you're going to have both a genetic limit, a muscle fiber limit, and then you're going to have a hormonal limit. You don't stop gaining muscle. So we need to be clear unless you have reached a point in in hormone decline, testosterone decline, reduced IGF-1 production. Eventually, you get old enough to where you can't really recruit all the muscle fibers anymore. Your nervous system won't even get to the upper threshold muscle fibers, the one that get the most growth. like but we're talking well up in the 60s 70s m you know very elderly individuals you start having nervous system limitations. Okay. So for any given person your ability to grow muscle is going to reduce and eventually you're going to reach an age where you can't keep everything that you have. So it's like which what's the natural limit there? Well the natural limit is dependent upon you know your your hormone balance. How much how many actual anabolic hormones do you produce? How many you know what do you have in terms of muscle fiber, muscle fiber distribution, your frame, right? There's all these factors. So, it's a moving target and that's what people are not grasping. You don't really stop gaining muscle. In other words, if you start training at whatever age, you're going to gain muscle for 20 years, right? It's not unreasonable for someone if they start young enough to gain muscle for 25 years. It's just it's going to be less and less and less and less the longer that you go. So the the natural limit is more of saying at the most extreme end, the genetically gifted probably aren't getting past about 25 on the fat free mass index scale. And if you don't know what that means, go to FFM my calculator, right? You'll find lots of data on this. calculators. So that's that's what we're talking about. Okay? That doesn't mean that that's your limit and it doesn't mean there's a hard limit. And so kind of what I would suggest to people is for your specific genetics and lifestyle and everything else. The time that you start is going to be an enormous factor. When you start training is going to be a factor. And it's a lot of guys don't want to hear this. They started late. They're like, "So, I'm just screwed." Well, yeah, but you made that choice. Okay, let's be clear. Let us be clear. We have to accept our life choices. Every one of us because you chose to start lifting at 27 years old or 25 or 22, you made a choice to start as an adult. You made a conscious choice. Okay? You can't get upset at the life choices that you make affecting your long-term future. And that's just a reality. And you can't change it. So people say, "Well, that sucks." Well, no, it doesn't suck. You made the choice. You went and did other stuff that you enjoyed. When you were 12, you went and played video games instead of doing sports. Okay, you made you made that choice. You could have been out there running and jumping and picking up stuff or doing push-ups and finding a sport that you like. You could have done all that. But instead, if you chose to do something else or play video games or whatever it is that you chose to do, you you made that choice. So yes, that is going to limit your potential of where your natural limit is because of the practicality. Because if you started exercising or being super fit at 24 instead of at 12, you lost 10 years, you know, because you probably would have started doing resistance training at some point there. You gave up 10 years of progress. Okay? But that's a choice that you made. That's a choice you made. Did you enjoy the other stuff you chose to do? Well, okay then. Then don't complain about it. But no, you're not going to compete with the someone who had similar genetic potential to you who started playing sports at age 12 and maybe by 15 or doing some resistance training or body weight exercises or in the weight room, right? Yeah, they have a heck of a head start on you. There's going to be epigenetics involved, more training time. So yeah, if they had already built a base by the time they finished high school and you didn't get under the barbell till you were 23, you made that choice. But yes, they're going to have an advantage on you. That is who is more likely to get close to that 25. If you started late in life, let's be realistic. If you started later in life, you started lifting at at 24. Okay, [snorts] it might take you whatever number of years to get to, you know, 23 and a half fat-free mass index or 23, right? You might spend the next five years after you reach that 23. Let's say you start at 24, you get there at 30. Okay? for you to get to from 23 to 25 and a half might be the next five years of your life to get to 20 23.8 ate fat-free mass index, you might dedicate another five years. Well, you're now 40 years old. You see what I mean? And so, you may not even ever reach the 24. You definitely may not reach the 24 and a half. So, the people who are going to get up into those echelons, it's not like you stop gaining, it's just that it's going to chip away so slowly, you're not going to reach those tiers. So when you're talking those those 24 and a half and up fast free mass index natural that's the people who started in their teens at some point who are genetically gifted above average for gaining muscle. Okay. So do do we understand this? These are people who started exercising or sports or training in their teenage years of of some type and were very very fit and athletic and possibly had already started lifting before they even reached adulthood who were also above average. Like that's that is where it lands. So we need to be clear. You don't have a hard limit. It's a practical limit because you can only gain you're going to have diminished returns every year. You're only going to have so many years of training, be it 20 years, whatever it happens to be, before eventually you're going to have hormonal decline. You're going to have aging effect. You're going to have things that happen in terms of your hormone, your aging, uh, you know, even genetic damage, nervous system as you get into your 40s, 50s, 60s, 70s. Okay? So that's what we mean by there there not being a hard natural limit. But when we say stuff like the 25 and up, it's because approaching even getting close to a 25 is an extreme territory in and of itself. You've entered extreme territory. And so that's what's going on. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.