If you have to choose between overtraining versus undertraining, undertraining is generally going to be the better option. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would uh chat with you guys about this, but a quick reminder, if you will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, this is less of a problem obviously for noviceses, for people who are weaker, who are just starting out. We all understand this. Um, so I need to be clear. A conversation like this assumes you have built a size and strength base already. Okay? So I do want to be clear on that. Uh, people who are really weak, they don't they don't have much force production. They don't have uh large amounts of neuromuscular efficiency, it's very difficult for them to overtrain. Okay. Now, they can do it through just pure lazy junk volume, but then it's because they're just doing junk volume and no good stimulus and just kind of wearing their body out and not putting effort into it. That's a little different. But in general, what we're going to find is this idea that there is such a rapidly diminished return in terms of muscle growth and training stimulus for every set that you do, right? be on the first set like it rapidly diminishes. Obviously, first set's going to be a pretty dang good chunk of your growth. U pretty dang good chunk. Second set's going to be more and then by the third it's starting to taper considerably than every set after that has just simply has less growth potential in the same workout. Again, one reason why full bodies always worked well because the volumes tend to tend to be a little lower per muscle group at a higher frequency. So you end up with a really good u overall training stimulus and then you know repeating that stimulus because we don't grow for a week straight from a workout at least not without anabolics. U so so again back over to the idea of overtraining versus undertraining. Well what people don't factor in when they hear that they're like okay but if I do more what's going to happen? Like if I do more I'm going to get every last bit. I'm not leaving any gains off the table. Okay, and that's a nice idea. It's a nice idea, but what if it affects your recovery? Okay, in other words, maybe you did get a slightly better training stimulus from that workout, right? Maybe the extra work you did gave you 3% more total training stimulus. All right. But what if it interferes with your recovery? Because you don't grow immediately. So the longer the recovery takes, uh, you know, particularly things like the muscle damage and things, the longer it takes those to get initiated and get into the process, the less your muscle growth is going to be from a given workout. And then we have to have to factor in is it affecting future workouts. Okay? In other words, if you were training so hard in a given session that those individual muscles are not recovered in time for your next workout, what's going to happen? Well, you're going to have reduced performance in that workout. If we have reduced performance in that workout, we have a less potential for growth stimulus. So, we might have gotten a little more from one, right? We got more from one, but then what? We're going to get less stimulus and maybe no growth from the next one. Or what if we get a couple workouts deep into this? Before long, if we're underreovered every single session and we're no longer able to progress anywhere, we may be getting uh no real muscle growth. Okay, so this is a factor. If it's affecting the next workout, well then people say, well, we can just space them further out. And that's the idea with the body part split. And hey, that's that's great, but you're leaving potential off the table. In other words, if you're only subjecting a muscle to a training response or a training stimulus once a week, um, but you're trying to get as much as possible out of that one workout versus doing it twice in a week, you're going to gain less muscle, right? You're going to gain less muscle. And we got start going to two or three or or more times. we start going to three or more, we can get into big debates in terms of evidence. We can get into pretty large debates in terms of evidence of growth potential, but once definitely definitely cannot maximize muscle growth. Now, you can I'm not saying you can't make really good gains, but do you see where we're going with this? We're playing balancing recovery. So if you're if you're overtraining from a single session, you know, at the level of any individual muscle, what's happening? Well, you're having to reduce frequency in order to get uh growth. So you're leaving gains on the table. So we're back over to the point. And I always say people like, look, we don't have to optimize muscle growth. Any muscle growth is better than optimal, but we're okay here. But understand that when you overtrain, your volume start getting really, really high. You have to reduce the frequencies or you stop gaining muscle. Okay? The same thing happens when we start trying to add too much in. What happens? We hold back. I've tested this myself. Even when I'm think I'm going to failure, I try to do large amounts of sets for a given muscle at any time. We all hold back compared to fresh. If we know that we we here's your test. Go take some of the work sets you've been doing and then come in one day and go, you know what, for this exercise, I'm only going to do one set and I'm going to go as hard as possible and I'm not going to do another set afterwards. And you don't hold anything back. Anyone who's done this knows exactly what's going to happen, and we don't like to admit it, but it's true. We thought we were going really hard on those sets, but when we only have to do one set, what happens with our our eight rep max or seven rep max? How about our 10 rep max? Boy, it starts turning into 11, 12, 13 reps. So, what does this tell us? are we subconsciously hold back no matter how hard we try to do otherwise. We hold back if we know we're about to do a bunch bunch of volume. It's part of the human nature of training, right? Observe this firsthand. But then we come over to the other point. Well, what about if you have to del load? Well, that's that's lost muscle growth. I'm telling you right now, you don't gain muscle on the D load weeks. I used to think you did. You don't. There there's no evidence at all that you do. If you're forced to take a D lo week and and do non effective work sets just to maintain movement patterns, it's just kind of the idea. If you don't train at all, you're really screwed. If you're having to de lo, you're losing a whole week worth of muscle growth in that phase. Had you just held back a little bit and not pushed to the point you had to de lo, you would have got more muscle growth. And my point here is not that we have to optimize. My point is we are literally doing more volume trying to optimize and then it costing you muscle. And that's the point I'm making. Right? There's that. And then what about the injury risk? That's the other big big factor. Right? More work equals more potential for overuse. And it's not a big deal when you're weak. What about when you squat 500 pound? Like like you're like me, I can squat 500 plus pounds for a single. You have any idea how quickly I can acrewue overuse have the potential to especially at my age? Okay. And that's the other factor. Overuse injuries will put you out. They'll make you not you'll have to train around those injuries. Eve the pulls, the strains, everything. They cost you muscle growth and they risk major injuries.