Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here representing Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about um understanding why size and strength are so massively overlapped. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciate it. If you're not subscribed or following please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it so much. Thank you. Um and in the case of some of this I think what has to be pointed out immediately. Don't use examples of extreme outliers or people lifting fake weights. This gets brought up a lot. Um particular when I put these statues up on Facebook. I've had people who are pretty much um known for not lifting real weights. Like it's very obvious um what's happening. U you know they'll bring up like Anatoli who who is a comedy guy, right? He does parody skits. He's not actually as strong as he kind of makes out to be. you know, we've seen his powerlifting results and he does a lot of skits. Um, but you know, he's a just under a 500 pound deadlifter, which is by no means crazy weak, but he's, you know, like 165 lbs. It's not unheard of, right, in powerlifting meets like this is not like it some insane strength. Um, and no, he doesn't actually deadlift 600 lb or any of that. He does some stuff with some bumpers, a little fake plates, really really whippy bars with straps on sumo. That's that doesn't mean you can actually walk into a competition and deadlift 600. Like I think his best deadlift in a meet was around 450 lbs, a little over, you know, which is decent, but it's not, you know, 600 pounds, right? So I think people forget that and everything he does is bumpers and he has actors in there. Like it's all skits. He's not necessarily stronger than these guys who are showing up in in the skits, you know? It's all for comedy, right? It's just comedy. It's not reality. It's satire. It's intended to be entertaining, right? You're not supposed to actually really and truly believe in the real world. You know, he's stronger than these big juppep guys. Okay, so again, I mean, he's a he's a mid 400s deadlifter and, you know, his squats in the high 300s, you know, so he's not, you know, some weak, you know, person, but he's, you know, again, this is just comedy, guys. It's just satire for fun. Um, the powerlifter guy pretty much common sense would have told you he was a fraud with the benching. All right? And I don't need to cover all that again. Um, I think all of us who were serious lifters realized what was going on. He got called on a lot of stuff and he refused to step up to the plate. Um, he refused to ever be tested in a real environment because he was making money off of the ad revenue, you know, off his fake bench pressing. Um, so that aside though, um, people have this idea and and they're not looking at the data. They're looking at what they're seeing is outliers and they'll be, "Well, how come this bodybuilder is weak?" Well, the bodybuilder is probably not weak. You know, this comes up to you see one of these really jacked, really, really jacked pro bodybuilders actually try to lift something heavy and they're like, "Oh, they're lifting all this light weight until they they go to lift something heavy and then like Kai Green was a perfect example." than he does reps with 405 on an incline bench. Okay, we understand how elite that strength level is, right? And the people will say that, well, they look bigger, but they're not necessarily bigger than the fatter power lifter. You're seeing the fatter power lifter literally might have as much or more muscle or the big strong man when you realize, oh, they're lifting more than them because they're way bigger. You stand them next to them. Oh, they're taller. They have more fat, but probably just as much muscle. and fat leverages help certain lifts too. We know that the squat, the bench press benefit from body fat. The deadlift doesn't. Um, so the anecdotes don't really work. You know, they don't really work. It's just kind of nonsense when you really go look at data that's been found. There was that big study that was done um big metaanalysis um which everyone from Shoenfeld to Knuckles and and and Minnow and all these people they compiled all their data that they were doing of different stuff comparing size and strength and DEXA scans what they all determined when they looked at it they measured a bunch of serious powerlters bunch of serious bodybuilders tested one rep maxes ran them index scans and do you know what ended up happening all The researchers when they were looking at the DEXA scans were able to come up with formulas and estimate the max squad of the individual they were DEXA scanning with about a 10% margin of error. Meaning if they did that DEXA scan and they said, "Yeah, I think based on my calculations, this guy has a 500 squat." It would be guaranteed that when it was tested that guy's squat was between like 455 and 540. Okay. So, do you understand that they were able to do this off of a DEXA scan? Literally scan their body. They were able to look at their levers, their moment arms, and the amount of muscle on them and figure out how much they could squat off of a scan of their body. meaning the physical structures of the amount of muscle they had in proportion to their height, their levers, their moment arms, the length of arms and legs and torso and stuff. They were able to come up with formulas where they could predict their squat fairly accurately. Same thing when they took a bunch of elite powerlifters, they took them up at like a national level meet, they threw them in a DEXA skin and their totals in competition were in perfect order. Meaning they placed in terms of their total on like 10 lifters in the exact order of their fat-ree mass. Meaning the one with the most fat- free mass had the best total. the one with the second highest fat-free mass had the second best total and so on and so forth. You know, the same thing when other studies have been done when we remove all the technique, all the the neural drive. Um, you know, when people have been locked into devices with really recent studies, stuff done in the last couple years to where they could really get in and measure an MRI the size of a muscle and then they lock them into a machine, the 10 rep max, meaning it's good proxy for strength. How many reps, what weight can you hit 10 reps and fail on rep 10, right? was completely directly correlated with the thickness of the muscle. So when a muscle's isolated, it's not even like a 10% margin of error. Like they can literally take a measurement of the the lean mass in a muscle, measure it, and it will perfectly scale with size based upon the length of the the lever like the arm or leg or whatever it's attached to. Okay? It's a perfect scaling. It's a one to one when they they look at it. Meaning any increase in cross-sectional area will give a direct proportionate increase in say the 10 rep max when locked into a machine and the muscles forced to be isolated. Okay. So what does that tell you? That most of your strength is going to come from size. Okay. At the level of the tendon it's almost guaranteed. So what then what are we dealing with with other differences? Difference in leverages differences in coordination. So, so a lot of interuscular coordination, extra muscular coordination, a lot of that is skill. We call skill. That is what we mean. Finding the right technique, levers and learning to coordinate everything to where your muscles all kind of fire in the order and pattern that you want them to to move the weight through that pattern that you're trying to do. There's a skill to that. That's why practicing lifting heavy is a skill. Okay? And all that skill and stuff accounts for a relatively small percentage compared to the amount of muscle mass that a person has.