All right, let's talk about using the big three for rep goals for bodybuilding purposes. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Uh, but a quick reminder, if you would guys would please click like down below, I would appreciate it. If you are following or subscribed, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment under the video, I would appreciate that. Thank you so much. All right, let's get over to the topic. Um, so this is kind of how I like to approach things. If I have people who are like, "Look, I don't want to ruin conjugate. I'm not putting them on conjugate. It's not it's not their bag. Maybe they're not mentally uh the right system for them in their bodybuilding only, right? So, how do we use the big three? How do we use a squat, bench, and deadlift there?" Meaning, they're not a powerlifter. They're just trying to get really, really jacked. And we're not going to do conjugate because I put bodybuilders on conjugate before. Um, we we do rep goals. We do rep goals. So, what I like to do with those people, we treat the big three obviously is hypertrophy exercises, right? The squat, bench, and deadlift are phenomenal exercises for size. And the research shows this over and over and over and over and over. Like anyone who pretends that the squat, bench, and deadlift are not amazing muscle builders cannot claim to be evidence-based. Okay, what do we mean? The squat beats the hip thrust for glute development and quad development. Okay, is that a debate? Remember, everyone used to have all the EMG studies. Oh, the hip thrust is all that is so amazing. And I think the hip thrust and glute bridge are great exercises by the way. I program them sometimes as a coach. However, when six sets of of them are done side by side in studies, the glutes grow more from a deep squat. Okay, that's not can if anyone has evidence to the contrary, feel free to produce it. But we know that this happened when it was done in a study in women. You know, fair enough. Okay. Well, maybe in men it would be better. I don't think it will, you know. I don't think it will. So, you see where we're going with this? Anyone seen the only hypertrophy study done on the deadlift, conventional deadlift? It was a monster. How come pecs get get great hypertrophy and triceps to some extent at least one head, two heads on the bench press in in research. Okay, so just stop. All right, that being said, rep goals. So, usually what I like to do, like if we're going to push it all the way to the extreme, I'll take them up to a 10 rep set goal, right? I'll have them do sometimes only one set of these exercises. We can do three, man. That's where it gets crazy. I don't want to do that high reps. So, if we do three, um, but you know, if I have someone with limited equipment and they want to get jacked, I can definitely do a 4 day upper lower. Like if they're going to really push the limits, they want a really really serious I'll have them squat bench and deadlift twice a week on an upper lower for up to three sets. Okay, but that's an enormous chunk of your your volume at that point. Okay, that's probably a third of your training volume and it has to be. But rep goals, so even just taking top sets and setting goals and saying, "Okay, uh let's work with with 225 and let's just build it up and we'll do other exercises." A lot of times I'll have them do a single set of these if they have access to a full gym. I do one set, but we set a rep goal because these are exercises that at appreciable volumes, at least on a set for set basis, we know that we're growing. Okay? They are proxies for muscle growth. In other words, um if you can hit bigger eight or 10 rep sets on these movements, you know that you have gained muscle. Okay? And when anyone tries to say, "Oh, I don't I don't believe that." It's like, "Really?" So, I mean, let's set aside back work and lat work. I got to get the pull-ups in here, too. Show me a person walking down the street. Take any guy who can bench 315 for 10 reps, squat 405 for 10, like a full squat, and deadlift 500 for 10 reps. And you see that guy walking down the street, right? I don't care what their weight, their body fat. I don't even care. You take that person and you tell me that they're not gonna be a sidewalk cracking mofo. Okay? When that person walks through the store down the street in a t-shirt and shorts, whatever, you know that they're jacked before anyone says, "Well, their arms are." Yeah, but ain't nobody mentioned. Nobody has mentioned 315 for 10 reps who doesn't do arm work somewhere on top of it. They're just not. And they probably have triceps. Show me a guy with with small triceps who can do that. We're not talking about leveraging a one rep max with a giant arch on an illegal wide. If you can do 315 for 10 reps on a bench press, you're going to have big triceps. They're going to hug the sleeves of your t-shirt. Okay. Context. So, you show me someone who can do this and I'll show you a guy who is probably the most jacked guy walking down the street anywhere in that crowd. Guarantee you. Like, everyone is going to notice that guy lifts, they will. Unavoidable. So, rep goals because they're a proxy for muscle mass. Not only will those stimulate growth, but the higher your eight or 10 rep max backs is on your squat bench and deadlift, the more size you're going to have. You are flat going to be bigger. And they're proxies for size. Because it's one thing to leverage a one rep max say, well, they got but I'm talking about full clean reps. Show me anyone anyone who can move respectable weights on those movements for 10 reps who isn't jacked. They're jacked. they're going to be jacked and everyone listening knows they're going to be jacked, right? You guys can't even dispate dis dispute that. You can't debate it. You know, I'm speaking facts. So, what I like to do is take rep goals, you know? So, again, someone who only has bodybuilding goals, I don't necessarily have to have them do really low reps. We can take something and and that's a a four or five rep max and I can just have them push it till they can get 10. And I'm fine with doing that. Are they still going to be strong? Yeah, absolutely. I mean, I can take that that same thing down a plate. Show me a guy who can who can bench 225 for 10, squat 315 for 10, deadlift 405 for 10. Okay, see where I'm going with that? They'll be jacked. They'll be decently strong, right? They're still going to have a strength base. That guy's probably going to bench 300. They're going to squat over 400. They'll pull 500 for sure. So, they'll still have a strength base. So, we can still get to those sort of strength standards we're talking about doing that also, right? I can take that down a plate. But, I like to use that also. All right. How many reps can we get with 225, 315, 405? I think it works really well if they're mature enough to do them clean. All right. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.