Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I'm going to chat with you guys and gals briefly about the two most uh crazy fat diet cults and that's going to be vegan and carnivore. And in my opinion, these these two ideologies are pretty much the same thing. There's a slight difference though between them um in the sense of the mindset they're coming from in that vegans try to pretend that they have a moral framework uh to work from. But in reality, I've noticed a lot of them it really they pretend it's all about animals, but ultimately it's not. It's about u them projecting their moral superiority. It's it's about a certain type of narcissism. Uh and most of them really and truly again it's about it's about showcasing that and it's again a distortion of reality because they really know when you show them the math they're not really helping animals. It really is about putting on a show for them. Uh whereas in carnivores are coming from a mindset of of ex of conspiracy theory and questioning authority and questioning any sort of um you know science right that everything is government bad anything organized bad. So it comes from a place of extreme skepticism to the point of conspiracy theory. So these are kind of the prevailing mindsets used to drive them. But the truth is when you set that aside um they're pretty much the same thing. And what you actually find and I've seen more and more cases of early on uh when the carnivore diet was fairly new and it is new. We need to keep in mind it's not something that existed a long time ago. People pretend, oh, we've been doing it for thousands of years. No, we haven't. No, we actually haven't. Humans have never been true carnivores. Like, our species has never there's no reason to believe we were ever true carnivores in the sense of what they do of primarily uh meat calories, particularly pasture-raised meat and dairy and stuff, and no plants or fiber like this. That has never been humans. Um, but they'll, so we set that aside. It's a fairly new diet, right? It's really only been kind of pushed by a couple uh pseudo experts and quacks online, but many of which have dropped the diet. They can't even do it anymore. Uh, they've been pushed online. And so, when it was fairly new, what we saw were a lot of vegans who got health problems from veganism. Well, obviously, anytime you're restricting huge amounts of of things in your food, you're going to have health issues eventually. you're running the risk of malnutrition, different imbalance, different problems. Um, there are vegans who had health problems who were going over to carnivore in droves. Okay, now we're finally reaching a point, and I've seen it in my own comments. Someone chimed in in my comments the other day saying, "Yeah, they got really hurt with gut biome issues doing carnivore, and they kept it up longer. They realized they're having problems, kept doing it too long. Now they're they're really struggling to readapt uh because of the gut health issues it created, and it will create gut health issues. that's setting aside the long-term atherosclerosis. The the gut biome uh problems are very real from the lack of fiber. So, what we're finding more of now, and I'm seeing it on my own social media, I've had some some people have seen in some of the groups, at least one of them came over, followed my my Facebook, um who is a vegan who is a former carnivore. Why? Because people are getting health problems now from following the extreme carnivore. So, what do a lot of them do? They go over to vegan. And why? Because it's the same sort of people. It's in a very extremist mindset in people that says I have to have a special exclusionary. I have to be part of a special group or a special extreme diet. I can't just be a healthy fit person. I have to be part of a very small select group. And it's something that they need for their their ego, for their mindset. uh that people do this because they need to feel special and then they need to be extreme in what they're doing. Um and it's they don't tr I think most of them deep down truly don't believe that it's actually going to get them in the best shape because we we don't see that. We all know what gets people the most jacked and lean and strong. And that's again bro types diets uh heavy on carbohydrate, plenty of fruits and vegetables than animal source protein. Right? This is time proven over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over. The overwhelming majority of people with phenomenal physiques, phenomenal athletic performance, this is how they eat. It is the most successful. Everyone know and everybody knows this, right? Everybody knows this. This is not even debated. That's why it's rather funny um that these these groups even exist. So, they really are fringe groups that grow and grow through their own movements on the internet. Um, but again, the reality is anyone who's looked at anything knows how people eat who who are in truly good shape, right? And it's generally the way I described. Generally the way I described and and again, we all know this fact keto people struggle to get jacked. Vegans struggle to get. All these people historically struggle to get jacked. These are sometimes successful weight loss methods. I ironically though, a lot of the people with the the the keto end don't even ever get get remotely lean. And I don't even mean people say, "Well, you're not super lean." No, I'm not going to say super lean. I've seen plenty of keto people for decades who struggle to get under 20% body fat. Okay, which makes sense. They're they're pouring down massive amounts of saturated fat. Okay, they're pouring it down. Uh so the problems that we run into is that ultimately neither diet is going to be successful for people in the pursuit of body composition. Let's set aside the the various health claims. But what I will say is no, it's going to be difficult to have ideal health if you have deficiencies as a vegan. We all know this common sense. You're not getting enough animal protein. You have to supplement tons of things. And if you don't, you will have health problems. And the problem with a lot of the vegans is I've I've met vegans and there stuff like, well, I don't really need that. If you really go look, we we got our B12 here or there, so I don't need to supplement it. Like, they really and truly buy into the fact that it's healthy, not just the the ethical side, which again, this is a problem. You have to take great care to not have deficiencies on that type of diet. you know, you're going to get uh potentially uh omega-3 deficiencies, definitely B12, definitely iron, things like that require supplementation, right? So, if supplementation didn't exist, vegans could never be healthy. Okay? It would be impossible without the existence of supplements and at least supplements added to foods to be healthy on a vegan diet. Like, this is understood. Hopefully, it's understood. It's problematic. Um, same thing with the carnivore end. Uh, you're never going to be truly healthy. That elevated LDL is the the the big one and they are in denial of it. But we see it even in like that recent keto study. Uh, they also the fact that the no fiber, the cancer risks from the low vegetables, low fiber going to go through the roof. Uh, gut biome issues are going to be a problem. But they pull the line of, well, it'll be okay. I only need the healthy gut biome when I if I want to eat fiber or carbs again, and I'm never going to do that. Delusional mindset. Sure, you're messing up your ability to eat a lot of it in the future because your your your gut could have permanent issues. So, you're basically making a lifetime commitment potentially and but that's what they're claiming they're going to do, but they're not because once you start having those other problems, you're going to have to quit doing it. But ultimately, yeah, they're both crazy calls and they can't they're always going to be difficult to build muscle or make gains on. Um, the vegan one obviously due to the the protein. Your whole life has to revolve around protein to gain muscle as a vegan. It has to. The only vegans who successfully do it, they have to obsess over protein intake. It's not, hey, I can just eat a healthy plant-based diet. No, they have to obsess over protein or muscle. It really is a problem. they're having to gonna have to really focus on getting enough in because the lower bioavailability and the lower protein content. So, they're either living on shakes or they're obsessing over protein in their food. They're going hard in the soy. They have to. Um, the carnivore is the issue. They're going to run into the lack of carbohydrate going to be hard to to get optimal training in. You're going to struggle with glycogen stores. You're going to struggle with insulin sensitivity because of the saturated fat. They're always going to struggle to have good in proper insulin responses. they're going to tend to overproduce insulin. Um, and we see that in the deep keto diets with highsaturated fat. They all have they they're insulin resistant as a general rule in their blood work. Elevated fasting glucose, elevated fasting insulin. We see this every time. You're seeing the same thing in carnivore. All right. The insulin resistance they're developing in their muscle tissue. They're going to have they're going to have larger insulin responses than people on carbs sometimes just from the protein. but they're going to be insulin resistant from the huge amounts of saturated fat. So, we tend to see their things like fasting glucose and stuff tends to be high. They're they're all pre-diabetic very very quickly. Well, that's not an ideal environment to gain muscle. So, you're going to find a lot of the carnivores struggle with muscle. They struggle with gaining muscle. They struggle with gaining size unless they're on lots of drugs or they're and they're hammering down pounds and pounds and pounds of meat. Okay? And that's the ones we see get away. Not the ones eating the bacon and the butter who build any real muscle. It's the ones eating four pounds of meat a day and using steroids, okay? They can get away with it. The other guys, uh, not so much. But again, they're both crazy crazy cults. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.