Vegan and carnivore diets are ideologies that have zero place in health or fitness. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, and I this is stuff that I've said many times and people get really upset at this and they're like, "Well, this whatever fixed my chronic health problems." And it's funny because these two groups go back and forth. I've met numerous former vegans who went carnivore and magically fixed all their health problems. And I've met people who had now now that carnivore got popular, people who've had major problems with the carnivore diet, have gone vegan and magically fixed all their health problems. We understand how stupid this is. Um, and let me be clear. If the carnivore diet itself, meaning you're cutting all the vegetables and fiber out, if you're having any positive benefits from that part, not saying getting rid of all the refined junk and eating meat isn't uh couldn't help some people depending on what they were eating. But if specifically cutting fiber and vegetables out of your diet has any benefit, it's because you have destroyed your body. you have done something really horrible to your body to destroy your destroy your gut lining, gut biome, uh something else. You you've either been a serious alcoholic or you've destroyed your gut with horrible horrible bad diets like you've done something insane, self-inflicted that needs to be reversed. And this diet is that diet is not going to fix this. And what we see is more and more people already in the long term having problems. So let's let's be clear of why neither one really work. Um and poor people say but but one person or this person got great result but they're they're a tiny minority. People have followed far more balanced eating approaches whether it is a lower carb approach or a higher carb approach. Far far far far more people have successfully done those while having great health. Okay, these are well documented. Um, you know, and here's and obviously any balanced whole food diet uh works, but let's discuss the biggest issues like right up front of why they don't work. Okay? So, if you care about body composition, let's talk vegan, right? Let's talk vegan. Even a supplemented vegan diet, because let's be clear, if you don't take supplements, vegan diet will absolutely destroy your body. Like, we do need to be clear on this before we even get into fitness and muscle building and body composition. Okay, vegan diet absolutely requires supplementation. People say, "Well, what's wrong with that?" Well, I don't think we should necessarily need supplementation to be healthy. I think the idea is kind of um problematic. Like, if you're having to take a bunch of synthetic vitamins to not have dangerous deficiencies, this is a problem. And when vegans argue otherwise, well, the problem is you can't. you and even the best doctors out there who push vegan diets tell you yes, you absolutely have to supplement or it will seriously hurt you to be a vegan. Okay, but let's set all that aside. Let's talk even the protein. You care about body composition, lower injury rates, being more athletic, animal protein is absolutely king. Like it it is so superior by such an enormous margin. that again there's no comparison and especially we get into body composition improvements from protein overfeeding absolutely and I think what people forget is when things have been compared uh so any of the studies that looked at various vegan protein what they usually find is you have to have highly specialized vegan protein powders to get even close to the level of bioavailability ability and muscle protein synthesis that we get from just normal animal protein. You have to like it's not even optional, guys. Like this is not oh no, this is what's been noted. I' like I have friends who do who work in these fields and they publish this research and they're like aha. So this perfectly balanced leucine enriched soy protein powder got within 90% of the quality or 95% of the quality. But this is a completely engineered protein that you've had to consume. This is not just eating normal vegan foods. Okay, this is problematic. Like if this is what, you know, so again, getting the quality of protein is a big deal. And they love to downplay it and argue it, but the real world and the lab show over and over and over that uh it is a real problem. Okay. So again, people say, "Well, it's an ethical sense. Well, quit bringing your pretending your ethical stance is part of fitness. Just stop. Just admit it's bad for you and you're doing it for your ethical reasons and you're willing to sacrifice your body for these animals and just call it that. Let's tell everybody how crazy you are and move on. Just admit to it. All right, the carnivore. Where do we even even start? Um, I don't think that the lack of carbohydrates is the biggest issue. Um, you can you can function quite well in many cases on very low carbohydrate. Not necessarily zero, but very low. Not a problem. It's the lack of fiber in the vegetables. Um, this is this is an insane literally insane position. There is zero way to sustain your health long term with no plants, no fiber. Um, and they love to argue, well, without carbohydrate, you don't need fiber. This is this is again an insane position because fiber is about gut health, gut motility, gut biome, not just about the absorption of carbohydrate. Okay? Uh, the complete lack of antioxidant status. And they'll go on and on about crazy stuff like anti-nutrients when a lot of things that are anti-nutrients literally have health benefits and anti-inflammatory benefits. Okay? We should all be eating large amounts of plants, right? The evidence and support of the antioxidant phytonutrients fiber is ubiquitous and enormous around the world. Like at this point to even claim otherwise, you now have to say every university, even in countries that are enemies and their universities don't really in that close, they're all part of a big conspiracy. Okay. So, we're at that point. In order for the carnivore to actually be healthy in regards to that and the vegetables and things to be a problem, the entire world, all universities at the world level have to be part of a global conspiracy to make you eat spinach, to convince you to eat some spinach. Okay? Do we? Again, this is crazy. It's an ideology and it's crazy. Has nothing to do with fitness. Just stop. Same thing with fiber. the evidence for fiber being beneficial. Um, it scales with intake in terms of average health improvements all around the world. Country after country after country, study after study, university after university all find this. Plants, fiber, vegetables are generally good for us and good for our overall health. So again, this this nonsense, just as crazy as the vegan thing, has no place in actual fitness, guys. It has no place in it. Um, and we really really have to just accept that. Look at these two groups, this crazy cult ideologies, because that's what they are. They're not health. They're not fitness. Um, even if some cases in them, there may be some unique benefits to certain aspects of them, as a collective, they are not. All right, guys. So, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.