Both vegan and carnivore diets are inappropriate for gaining muscle or strength. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Um, quick reminder though, if you will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you aren't subscribed or following, please do so and drop me a comment down below underneath the video. U, thank you so much. All right, so let's get over to this topic. You know, people follow these sort of diets for a variety of reasons. um whether it's ideological, ethical, and yes, I have seen people who pull an ethical carnivore. Don't even get me started on that. Uh or for various health reasons, but I'm going to set all of it aside because quite frankly, I don't care. It's completely irrelevant to what I do on my channel um for any of that because none of them are going to be optimal health. Let's just be realistic. There's there's potential deficiencies in both. So, anyone who's claiming that, you're a Next, we're done. All right. Um, the ethical end, I don't care. It's irrelevant to what I do. Not my problem. You deal with it. Just don't come to me and say that, hey, you know, now I can't gain the muscle or strength I won't or try to pretend that either one are appropriate because they're not. And I'm going to discuss kind of the breakdown of both of why. Um, and it should be obvious, but it oftentimes isn't. Uh, but let's let's discuss this for a moment. Um, a lot of people have a fair amount of success losing body fat on both, but that is not the the topic here. Any calorie deficit or anything that reduces total uh, you know, calorie intake, which both have the extreme potential to do, will help you lose body fat. Okay, no argument there. We all understand that this is the case. Every reasonable person accepts this. These are the two most farthest extreme apart diets yet because both reduce refined foods to some extent. To some extent, not necessarily both. There are people who eat tons of junk food on both. Um they reduce refined foods and it limits food groups. Obviously this can cause a reduction in energy intake which in turn you know you lose weight, you lose body fat. Not difficult to understand, not unbelievable in either case. perfectly perfectly uh reasonable to expect that that's what would happen. So, that being said, let's talk a little bit about muscle growth. All right, vegan flat out. Not only do we have nutrient deficiencies to deal with, right, this is understood. Nutrient deficiencies to deal with oftentimes requiring supplementation and if it's not met, already a problem. The issue is the protein intake, protein quality. People will argue all the time, well, this one study found an increase in in muscle protein synthesis from this vegan shake and blah blah blah. Okay, fine. But when we do studies on actual lifters and we measure this, what we are finding is that it is extremely difficult for existing lifters when they're put on a balanced vegan diet, even trying to take protein intake fairly high with sports dieticians, registered dietitians helping, they struggle to maintain muscle and strength. Okay, they struggle to maintain muscle and strength. They even keep what they have already built on a more appropriate diet. This is understood. Um, more often than not, any of the athletes, lifters, other people who go vegan and are successful, they built their base on meat. They built their base on meat and dairy already, and then they switch to the diet. more often than not they abandon it um because it starts to become problematic. This is this is the the norm, by the way. This happens over and over and over. Uh then they get cited as being vegans or plant-based and then they eventually abandon it. Um one of the few exceptions would be someone like Patrick Bombino or whatever who never reached a high level in his sport. Um strongest vegan in the world as the vegans all claim. Never made it to a world level event in his sport. uh his strength sport being strong man. Uh so not a particularly successful competitor. And then when you look at his diet, the guy consumes like 25 pills a day. Literally lives on enormous ridiculous amounts of vegan protein shakes to even pull off what he is doing. This is absurd. It's problematic. It's difficult. Uh so again, the most extreme example you have, the guy literally lives on supplements. Lived on supplements. still was never that particularly successful in spite of all the obvious drug use and everything else involved. I mean, and this is like one example and everything he had to do was was even more extreme than everything uh people do on just normal sane diets. It doesn't work. It's and it's inappropriate. We've seen it repeatedly. It's a well-known and well-observed fact that that vegans struggle with gaining muscle and strength. That's why the ones who are successful are so few and far between and they still never really make it to the top. So because again the diet is limiting. All right, carnivore. Um this should be obvious. Let's set aside nutrient deficiencies, the lack of fruits and vegetables, phytonutrients. Uh we know these are all relevant. We know these are relevant. All right, a few things to consider. Yes, it tends to have large amounts of protein. That's a plus in its favor. high bioavailable protein. Um the problem is the lack of carbohydrates. The problem is also the the long-term often times impact on insulin sensitivity. Um the excessive amount of saturated fat. Let's let's cover that before we get into the lack of carbohydrates. Reduced insulin sensitivity. Uh we see this with their fasting glucose, their fasting insulin. It's oftentimes bad. All right. This alone creates a bit of a problem with the anabolic response, anabolic signaling. Um, again, we come over to it's usually the excessive saturated fat starts to become a problem here. We've we've seen this in lifters over the years. We're definitely not optimal. May not be a super big problem, but it is going to be some loss of optimization there. Uh, the big one, uh, the the excessively low carbohydrate intake. Um, we we have data on this. When carbohydrates go as low as they're doing to nearly zero, it is very difficult to maintain performance, very difficult to gain muscle mass. This is something many of the carnivores have noted. They struggle to gain muscle. We come back over to um the same ideas of but this carnivore over here, that carnivore is Jack, except one, they're obviously on lots of drugs. Number two, how many of them built their muscle beforehand? Okay. It seems to be the norm just like with the vegans. Um Sean Baker a perfect example. He was bigger and stronger before he became a carnivore. Now granted we say, "Well, he's gotten older. He's he's, you know, past 50 years old. He's going to lose muscle and strength." Yeah, fair. And that's a perfectly valid point if his, you know, but the problem is people can't say, "Well, he's got muscle and strength, but he was bigger and stronger a decade ago. He was bigger, stronger 20 years ago. He was a world class level, national level competitive powerliffter who was eating a more balanced, appropriate diet. So he already built his muscle. He hasn't maintained all of it. So even if he did lose some and then regains a little some muscle memory, he is still not where he was when he was younger and on a more appropriate diet. Generally speaking, the the insanely low carbohydrate that they are promoting, it's been noted repeatedly in the research as a problem for athletic performance, repeatedly a problem for muscle gain. And if they're going to be in denial of this, then they don't get to be in denial of the, you know, the vegan situation. These same people will harp on about the vegan and the low quality protein, and they'll look at the data and be like, "Aha, see, till it comes to their diet, then they're hypocrites." All right, it's inappropriate. Both diets are inappropriate for this goal. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.