It is impossible for a vegan or carnivore diet to be optimal for gaining muscle. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you will click like down below, it' be greatly appreciated. If you are not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you would be so kind, drop me a comment down below the video. Uh thank you so much for doing that. All right, let's get over to the topic. Um, and and yeah, I'm going to stick to stuff like this because this is what my channel and page are mainly about. I'm not super into just the general fitness or weight loss, even though those are things I do help people with. For me, this really is about gaining muscle, about gaining strength. Uh, you know, it is it is about being the best version of ourselves. And so, even though some people might lose some weight or some body fat on these sort of diets, uh, we already know they are not optimal for health. We've discussed this in detail. Uh but definitely the concept of maximizing muscle mass, you will never ever ever do that on either one of these. And if you manage to pull it off, it's going to be insanely difficult. Meaning meaning usually large amounts of supplementation, uh even more restrictions and limitations put in place. And let's kind of break down why that is. All right. The the vegan one is very very obvious. The issue is getting total protein bioavailability to maximize muscle growth. Uh so what you find is that and this is again we have studies that have looked this on trained lifters they tend to start losing muscle on vegan diets. Okay. So almost every jacked vegan that you see who's remotely jacked they all started eating meat. They went over to vegan for a while and then most of them drop it back out. Um and again my idea of jacked is going to be different for some vegans. I'll say that and I'll have vegans who will they'll link someone and I and I will tell them flat out. Even at 48 years old, even when I'm in my 50s later, I'm 48 now. I wouldn't be happy with that amount of muscle. Like even when I'm 55 years old, you know, the person that you link, I I I just personally would not be comfortable being that small. So to me, you know, again, their best versions they come up with, I'm just like, dude's 160 pounds. Um, even if I stripped down contest lean, I would be a lot more than that at almost 50 years old. I'm I'm not comfortable with that, guys. That is not impressive in any way. Um, you have a guy who gained a little bit of muscle. It's nowhere near optimal. It's nowhere near where he could be if he simply ate meat and dairy. the same guy completely drug-free could probably realistically put on another 10 15 pounds of muscle over two years just by changing his diet. So, no, it's it's a always always always bad examples. And even they'll show guys on gear and I'm like, "Yeah, but every everyone I know who uses gear uh who's a vegan and I've known some, they have to use higher doses, okay? they need more drugs and they still don't get, you know, the same results. So, it's like it's just ridiculous. And it and it comes down to muscle protein synthesis. Uh and and that really is the issue. It's it's the fact that they struggle to get enough bioavailable protein without just consuming large amounts of shakes. And vegan protein shakes are usually not the best tasting. So, that that becomes their only route, right? And when I mean bunches of them, I mean because of the lower bioavailability, u you know, you start seeing cases where in addition to their normal vegan food, they're knocking down 100 plus grams from shakes every day. But it's like, man, if you do that on a carnivore diet and you start knocking down 100 extra grams of whey shakes, man, you're going to start stripping body fat down. As you get into the protein overfeeding studies, you get all sorts of crazy results. They're having to do that. They're having to do that just to beat the bare minimums, okay? Because because of the lower bioavailability, a lot of them are needing 200 plus grams of protein a day at their minimums to even gain sufficient muscle at all. Okay? Because again, you start looking at bioavailability. Um, and then we have all the GI tract distress and everything. We're trying to get this much plant protein. It's it's becomes difficult, very problematic. Then the issue of they have to supplement all sorts of vitamins, B12, and everything else. Um, again, problematic, problematic, and they're very, very limited in their food choices. Then if they're trying to gain muscle, getting enough protein, getting high enough quality protein has to become uh an obsession where the meat eatater is like, I'll just throw a pound of chicken in somewhere. Done. Um, so again, and then we also see the higher injury rates among beacons, and I'm not going to get into all of that. And I think that comes down to to lack of collagen synthesis. Uh, again, on the on the protein synthesis end. All right, carnivore. This one should be obvious. No carbohydrates. Straight up. You are going to gain less muscle at no carbohydrates. Carbohydrates, insulin are insanely anabolic to muscle tissue. They're not. It's not anabolic particularly to fat tissue when you lift. Again, why you see in the bodybuilding world the leanest, most jacked people on the face of the earth, pro bodybuilders pretty much abuse insulin. Okay, that doesn't stop any of them from getting ripped. Just pointing that out. So over to that point, um, lack of insulinogenic response from the carbohydrates, lower glycogen stores, uh, lack of recovery from no antioxidants in your diet. Okay, you're going to have much higher oxidative stress. And they try to pull this nonsense, you know, with their crazy crazy. Well, since we're not eating all the PUFAS, we don't have oxidative stress. It's like uh you do realize when this has been studied in the lab in humans, poffas don't actually particularly increase oxidative stress, but even even the the crappy horrible seed oils you really shouldn't be cooking in don't actually do that. Not not in a real human being when you start measuring it in the body. So this is nonsense. So they think because they're cooking in staple oils, which you know people shouldn't be cooking in oils and fats anyways, that they are somehow some have some advantage. No guys, no, you are not recovering. You're going to have higher oxidative stress in your body. If you talk about a diet that will create oxidative stress, avoid all fruits and vegetables. Now you're going to have crazy oxidative stress, way more than anything you could possibly hypothesize from seed oils. Um so again this affects recovery, lack of carbohydrates, uh then their dietary choices because they tend to load excessive amounts of saturated fat into the diet. We know this produces insulin resistance been repeatedly demonstrated. Um insulin resistance then means higher fasting blood glucose. That's why you always see that in these groups like my fasting glucose is high but not it's like no it's because you're insulin resistant. That's why you have high blood sugar. You're insulin resistant. Even though you don't even eat carbohydrates, you have high blood sugar. insulin resistance is critical for muscle growth. insulin is foreshadowing tissue into the muscle. Same thing. Dudes get crazy jacked on more balanced diet. An omnivore diet with plenty of carbohydrates. I see guys who do this and they go on a bunch of gear. They get pretty big. Then they go over carnivore and get leaner and pretend like the carnivore diet built that they had. It's like, dude, you ran test trend and huge amounts of carbohydrates for 5 years straight. Just stop. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.