Veganism is a mental illness and it has no place in fitness. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Um, and when I make that statement, I am talking about the mindset itself of it. Uh, obviously vegans get some things right. Right. Excessive saturated fat depending upon the form and what else is eaten with it. Sure. Absolutely. a problem, but it's not all animal products. So, the problem is plenty of plant-based products cause disease and problems as well. All right. Sure, they get that part right. Should most people be eating more fruits and vegetables? Yes, absolutely. Plenty of vegans don't do that themselves. So, again, there's plenty of junk food vegans and French fries are vegan, which is something nobody should ever eat if they care about their health at all. And they eat stuff like this. Plenty of them do. So let's not pretend it is really about fitness. In fact, it makes fitness more difficult. And that's a point I want to make when people say, well, you know, I used a vegan diet and lost. Okay, you know, but any whole foods diet makes it easy to lose weight. Nothing special about veganism. In fact, it's easier to lose weight on really, really high protein, right? large amounts of animal source protein themselves have been shown to uh potentiate [snorts] additional fat loss and better body composition and muscle retention. So again, complete nonsense in regard to any of that. So the idea of when I say that it it is a mental illness is the worldview that it comes from, right? It it's a denial of reality. It's a denial of human nature. It's a denial of human history. And quite frankly, it's a denial of of optimal nutrition for us. Uh humans are are absolutely cooked food omnivores, right? This is what we evolved from. This is how we developed. This is how we know that we developed our brain capacity and intelligence that we have as modern humans, right? Cooking our vegetables and then eating animal source foods, right? for that additional protein and essential fatty acids and things. So, so this is enormous. This is an enormous part of human nature and being a human. And their counterargument is always, well, you know, that's an an appeal to nature in morality. And it's like, well, no, you're in denial of reality with your morality. And and I do understand that that's an argument uh that yeah appeal to nature is not necessarily uh any sort of ideal way to determine morality. However, they're in denial of nature completely, right? And they present something that is largely impossible and undesirable for the majority of people and they base it upon their anthropomorphization of animals. Right? You'll what I want people to notice is that vegans project human qualities repeatedly onto animals to the point to where they hold them at the same value, the same cognitive ability, everything else. And and the simple reality is no, we're we're not the same. And by that same token, they don't hold animals to the same moral standards that they hold humans to while still trying to anthropomorphize them, right? They want them to be equal in value in all ways, but they only want humans to follow that, right? They don't seem to comprehend the fact that most animals, including herbivores, are opportunistic feeders. They absolutely will eat other animals live given any opportunity. Pure herbivores who have, you know, nothing involved with carnivore, omnivore in their anatomy. We've all, anyone who's been in nature or around livestock and stuff, we've all seen this, right? We've all seen this. We've all seen cows eat birds. I've seen it. Cows will eat birds. Most herbivores given an opportunity will always eat protein. Why? Because we biologically know that protein, high quality protein is fairly difficult to get, right? The nutritional value of it makes it worthwhile. And and the thing is is that herbivores can survive without animal products. Okay? They can survive without it, but given an opportunity, they'll still eat it given a chance, right? Put in a position to do so. Right? So again, the the nature of of biology, the nature of the food chain, the nature of nutrition, but again, they'll argue, well, they're they don't have the moral concepts that we do, blah, blah, blah. Well, no. The majority of us don't see it like you do, so most humans don't have the same moral concepts that you do either. But again, they want to hold animals to a different standard while still wanting them to be seen as completely equal. Right? This is cognitive dissonance and it comes from mental illness and a distorted worldview. And we see this, there's plenty of studies that find that vegans by and large as a demographic have far far more mental illness than even the general population. Okay? [snorts] Just like other groups within society, we'll see that. But vegans are one of those categories where you see extreme amounts of mental illness. and whether it's caused by the diet or people with mental illness are drawn to and I think it's a combination but we do see it and it's very very obvious and I think the point that that vegans need to understand and all of us who look at their arguments need to understand their need to be part of something extreme and different to have that moral superiority is already a sign that they're psychologically abnormal. there's already something wrong with them because they have that need for whatever is going on with their psychology to be different and better than the rest of humans. And that's a big part of it. And they'll pretend that it's about the animals, but it's not. It's about their own narcissism um or their own psychopathology, right? And that's usually what we see. And then for others who it really is emotional, it's crippling. those who really and truly have this this empathic uh love of animals who do become vegans and I don't think that's the majority of them. It's a crippling mental illness themselves. They have such a distorted world view that they can't handle reality and they're they literally are crippled with anguish from it. And again something you'll observe with vegans. So, what you're going to find is that veganism is generally just a collection of mental illnesses. And as far as fitness goes, it's literally harder to gain muscle. It is literally harder to have optimal vitamin intake. It is literally harder to get the things that you need to be at the highest levels of fitness and performance on a vegan diet. So, it's anti-fitness. So, when again, people try to say, "Well, I'm using it for health or fitness." Well, that's stupid. It literally makes it more difficult. You're doing a restrictive diet that takes out almost essential foods to optimize health and fitness and removing them completely over a bizarre moral ideology based on mental illness. You are actually making it harder. Every one of the people who um are attempting to be really fit while following a vegan diet without fail, every one of them will get better results if they included some lean animal protein and lean animal products. And remember, at the end of the day, without supplementation, all vegans will die. They will have nutrition issues, major health problems, and will eventually die from dietary deficiencies if they do not supplement anything. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.