Volume versus intensity is really the wrong debate to have. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not following or subscribe, please do so. And if you would be so kind to drop me a comment down below the video, I'd greatly appreciate it. Thank you so much. Let's get over to the topic. Um, for some reason, this always comes up in uh bodybuilding circles. You don't ever see this in strength circles. Anyone notice this? Like among the top powerliffters in the world, uh, and the top powerlifting coaches and strength coaches and strongman coaches and NFL players, you don't see this. It's only it's only a bodybuilding circle thing. And here's the problem with the idea. They're acting like you could isolate muscle growth down to one variable um, in terms of the external training and you can't. So if we're going to even look at the topic, you have to understand what drives muscle growth, right? We're not necessarily talking about what drives your one rep max. Although muscle growth is key consideration, most important variable you can affect. It's just that there's other variables that will increase strength, too. Neural drive, technique, all this stuff. All right. What causes muscle growth? Mechanical tension on the muscle fiber. Okay? Do we all understand this? And notice I didn't say on the muscle. We're talking about the muscle fiber. If you want a muscle fiber to grow, and there are millions and millions and millions of them, even in your bicep, okay? Smallest muscles you're working with still have millions of fibers all the way from slow twitch up to fast twitch. We all get this. Uh the slow twitch don't grow once you've been training a while. By the way, the longer you've been training, the more your training has a bias towards the fast twitch. In fact, after you've been training a few years, 99% of your muscle growth is going to come from your fast twitch fibers. That's just reality. We know this studying humans. All right? But how do you make a muscle grow? You you apply tension to that fiber. If that muscle fiber does not get recruited and contract, it doesn't grow. Okay? You have to apply tension to the fiber that you want to grow. All right? So, what does that mean? Well, that means that muscle's got to work hard. You have to have some form of progression present uh for for difficult work to occur. In other words, uh your fastest twitch fibers only turn on when your body requires you to. Some of those fibers only work on certain muscles through certain ranges of motion or angles, right? Just like you see me doing a pullover there. long head of the tricep doesn't always get fully recruited. There are parts of it that will not activate on a bench press or even a closed grip bench. But a pullover or certain types of extensions will work that head. So that's an example of what I mean. All right, when you understand this, right, different heads and muscles have functions and so therefore unless those functions are are used, all the fibers will not always be available. All right. So obviously number one you have to actually work the function of the muscle fibers you are trying to recruit. Number two the work has to be hard enough that your body gets to the fast twitch fibers. Okay? The more repetitions you can do with the fast twitch fibers in a workout, the more they're going to grow. That is how they get stimulus. The problem is you're not going to hit them too many times. In other words, um, unless you're working out for 5 hours, you're not doing 30 reps, 40 reps, 50 reps with the fast twitch fibers. Not happening. Okay? So, this is what you need to understand. U, fast twitch fibers need to get as many reps as they can be subjected to in a workout. But any reps that don't subject them to tension, don't cause them to grow. And we're not worried about the others. So when I say the fast twitch, you have to understand because as you get more advanced, that's the only thing that's growing. We don't care about the other fibers unless you add new drugs to your stack, in which case they'll start growing again. If you're natural or you're not upping your dose, we don't care. All right. So back over to that point, you got to get tension to them. So, do you guys understand why the volume verse intensity debate is is ridiculous? Do we understand this intensity? If your intensity is high, you'll get to the fast twitch fibers for a much larger chunk of the set. We all get this. If your intensity is low, you're going to get to it possibly not at all in the first couple sets. As you accumulate fatigue, you will eventually get to it with really high volumes of training. Okay? Again, does everyone understand this? All right? Because the early sets are too easy. You you may not be getting them if the volume's really high, but the intensity is low. Eventually, if you do enough sets, you will start getting to them more and more and more on every set. So, it's not a question of volume versus intensity. It's a question of how efficient do you want to be with it. All right. The same thing as volume gets too high, those fast twitch fibers need rest between sets or they will not activate again once they get tension applied to them and they're fatigued. All right. When volume gets too high and they're not recovering, they stop activating. It's also does everyone understand this? So, you're eventually going to get to a point in a workout where if you keep taking doing more and more sets in order to get to the fast twitch fibers again, you may need 15 minutes between sets. Well, you want to spend 10 hours in the gym trying to get 10 extra sets. This is this starts to get ridiculous. So again, understanding that there is a finite amount of volume that you can do in a workout and still reach those fibers and the rest of it just becomes junk volume. So So really realistically what I'm telling people is probably your upper threshold is going to be somewhere between about 20 and 30 reps in a workout that hit a fat the fast twitch fibers in any given muscle. That's about it. How you choose to get there with intensity versus volume. So, keeping in mind probably about the last five, four to five reps in a really hard set. Okay, that's what's going to hit the fast twitch fibers. I mean, obviously a one rep max or a three rep max is going to hit it on every rep. Okay, but let's say you're doing eight reps to failure about the last five. Okay. So, that's about what you're looking at. About 20 up to about 30. And 30 is really pushing it. Quality reps, high quality reps in a workout for a muscle group, assuming you are working the functions necessary to reach those fibers. Uh, so how you're getting there, it's not a volume versus intensity debate. It's how are you balancing your volume versus intensity for muscle growth. That is the actual real question we should be asking here. That's the important one and that's what's going to determine uh you know your muscle growth stimulus. All right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.