Is volume versus intensity more important for muscle growth? Let's answer this age-old question. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will hit the like button down below. Um, I would greatly appreciate it. Um, if you aren't following or subscribed, please do so and drop me a comment down under the video, whether it's your comments or just to say hello. Thank you so much. All right, let's get over to the topic at hand. Um, this is one that we need to address a lot and and the ironic part is not that we need to address it. This is this is very well understood by all the best coaches in the world. It's that it is an argument still among the layman. Okay? It's it's a massive social media point. It's a point in like the bodybuilding world, the bodybuilding magazine world going back to before the internet. And people have have not um particularly who are less experienced have not really figured this out. they still ask this question um even though they really shouldn't. And here's what I mean. They're both critical. So, so when someone starts asking which one is more important um this is like saying what's more important for you to have air or to you to have water? Like, well, I'm going to die without both, but I mean, I guess I'll die faster without air. But do you see the point? You're dead either way. So it's it's the same with the volume versus intensity discussion. Without sufficient amounts of both, you're not gaining anything. Like so so it's a non-issue. If these are not sufficient, not even say they don't have to be optimal. If they're insufficient, there's going to be no muscle growth, nothing. You're not going to gain anything without both. So when people say, "Which is more important?" So what are you trying to do? Prioritize one and and this is where people run into problems, okay? Because when you prioritize one, either one, you go into stupid extremes and then people start they get, how do I put it? When I just told you that both are important, people cannot lose the dogmatic mindset of once they decide one is more important, they tend to believe the other is irrelevant, which is again, well, since air is more important than water, I'm not going to drink water. Water is more important, I'm going to try to hold my breath. And and I know it sounds silly, but people tend to take these philosophies. And and here's the reality. Progressive overload um or pro even proximity to failure are are critical to muscle growth, right? You have to and this is study after study after study as well as observations in the real world. Unless you're really like a very much a novice or you've drained and are coming back. If your sets are not close to failure, you're not going to gain significant muscle from them. And they need to be close to failure fresh. meaning meaning in other words once performance degrades in a workout which is where we're going to get into the volume problem they're not doing anything either uh because your proximity to failure is no longer reaching the upper threshold muscle fibers. All right. So, so what people are calling intensity is they mean proximity to failure. Uh in sports sciences intensity means how much weight is on the bar. 500 pounds is more intensity than 480. Straight up. That's how it's defined. How closer to your your one rep max percentage of one rep max and how heavy is it? Um, so back over to that point though, well, yeah, you need you need proximity to failure. You also need progressive overload. So, it's this whole idea of well, you know, do we need progression? And that pro progression can can be in the form of adding reps. It can be in and know people say, well, how about adding volume? No, not necessarily. Mm- because optimal volumes are optimal volumes. So, yeah, we but we absolutely have to have progressive overload. We have to have proximity to failure. And you have to have either the weight increasing again without cheating, meaning the weights increasing on the same exercise. Cutting 10% of the range of motion or swinging is not the same exercise. It's a different exercise. Always remember that. It's not the same movement anymore. Cheek curl is not a curl. It's a different movement. All right. And it's still a valid exercise, by the way. All right. So, you have to have this. It's it's it's absolutely essential if you want to see muscle growth other than if you're a rank novice or you're on enough drugs. Okay? And that's where this stuff gets clouded, too. That's where it gets clouded because everyone they'll see someone who's on tons and tons and tons of drugs. Well, I don't they're probably not the best source of of training uh knowledge for you. All right, but let's come over to the other end, the volume. So, people hear that like, aha, so as long as I'm progressively overloading, and I hear this all the time. I can do just one set a week. Okay, this is stupid. This is stupid. And here's why. Number one, you will eventually reach a threshold of where you can't grow off of one set a week. All right? So, when that happens, you'll stop progressively overloading. You you'll you'll be stuck. That's it. It's not going to move. You're done. People say, "What?" Yeah. So, when you quit growing, when it's no longer enough volume, that's it. You the progression will stop. They're like, "If I can keep progressing." Okay, that's like saying uh you know will will my my uh debit card keep working indefinitely no matter how much I spend as long as the cashier keeps accepting it. Well, yeah, till you run out of money and then it's it's going to not work anymore. Very very I know, maybe a bad analogy. You have to have volume. And yes, more volume usually produces more muscle growth up to a point. Here's the here's the caveats. One, are you recovering from it? Two, are you getting overuse injuries? Like, if you're hurt, that's going to interfere with with gains. Okay, but are you recovering? Well, if you're adding volume that you're not recovering from, then no, you're going to you're going to see less muscle growth. Okay, it's going to produce less. This has been demonstrated in the lab before too. So yeah, recovery is everything. All right. Number two is performance being maintained with the volume. In other words, are your upper threshold muscle fibers still being recruited or are they too fatigued to continue? Well, if that's the case, you're not growing either unless you're a rank novice, you've d-trained, or you added more drugs to your stack. And remember that that that ladder is usually how bodybuilders and other people get through bad programming. They're like, "Well, I stalled and it's not working. Let's just add some more drugs." Hey, it worked. I don't got to fix the programming. I don't have to fix the volume. I threw another couple hundred milligrams in or another drug and uh fixed the problem. Okay. Yeah, it's a simple solution to get around bad coaching, bad program. I'm not saying it's a good solution, but that that's how they do it. All right, but yeah, volume has to be present. It's not going to scale linearly, but that that volume does need to be there. And yes, every single study that's ever looked at it found three sets produces more muscle growth than one every time. Right? So again, we get into those factors that volume matters. It absolutely matters and you're going to grow more from more volume with those other caveats. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.