volume versus intensity. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not uh following or subscribed, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that also. Thank you so much. So, let's get over to the topic. This is really one of these age-old bodybuilding questions. Um, this really it's been answered by a lot of research in science already. It's also answered by understanding observations in the real world, you know, but people keep asking this like they're either or situations. Um, without understanding these are both sliding scales or like what's more important, volume or intensity? And the answer is both. You need sufficient volume relative to the intensity that you're performing to stimulate muscle growth. Um, and and I could narrow it down to essentially effective reps. What do you need in a session to make a muscle growth? Like once you're no longer a true novice or you're not blasting a new amount of gear, you up your dose or whatever. So let's say everything's kind of constant. Your hormone profile is constant, right? No real changes in testosterone, IGF-1 production, anything. So wherever that happens to be you know completely natural or enhanced skill. All right to stimulate growth you probably need for a muscle and this could be applied to heads of muscles really right probably at least 15 effective reps at least 15 effective reps to really get a solid growth stimulus. And I'm gonna say it's probably right, this is gonna some people are going to be. It's probably gonna cap out at around 40 effective reps. I don't think you're going to be able to get more than say 40 effective reps in a workout. What are we defining as an effective rep? Well, when people use this this scale, they're talking about how hard are you working on a set, right? They're not talking about intensity in the sports science which is percentage of max. So how hard are you working? And we we would classify a set that reaches failure like you you fail. It's 100% 100% intensity. Anything beyond that we're not going to apply it at all because there's no growth response for most people. Um barring again the other change in hormonal environment. So let's keep this keep this uh the same. So up to failure. You reach muscle failure. you probably get every motor unit and muscle fiber out of that exercise that you're going to get. Now, some exercises are better than others, meaning you're going to work different parts of the muscle or more of the muscle with some exercises and ranges of motion than other. Make sense? But for what you are working, the heads of the muscle that are being worked and everything, that that's it. You're pretty much done. When you reach muscle failure, that means all the fast switch fibers stopped. Well, the thing is th those faster twitch fibers, the ones that get most of our muscle growth, they're really only being reached barring dynamic effort work and stuff. We'll set that aside, speed work with bands and chains, totally different beast. Uh, when you're about approximately five reps from failure. So, in other words, let's say it's your 10 rep max on an exercise, right? See where we're going? 10 rep max, probably around rep six, we're starting to get to actual stimulating reps. The rest of the reps are warm-ups. Uh, five rep set. If it's your true five rep max, it' be all five of them. But if it's your sip max, it's only the last four. See what I'm saying? And we're just using this as a loose guideline. We don't know that it's exactly five. A lot of people say that's really arbitrary. Uh, true. And there's limited data to support it, but it gives us a working platform to work off of that seems to work pretty good in the real world from what we can observe. Okay? And just like when we we look at uh different EMG studies, the upper uh those fast twitch fibers only seem to be reached with weights exceeding 85% on the first rep, which tells us we could extrapolate that to other reps and say that's right about where we need to be about five reps from failure. Okay. So, see where we're about to go? Oh, man. Well, how do we get to those fibers? By exhausting the intermediate fibers. And the the slow switch and the intermediate switch fibers have to be too fatigued to keep lifting the weight. So, we can do that just by loading more weight than they can handle from rep one. We can do it by doing a work set that does it. Or we can do that by doing large amounts of volume that keep fatiguing them until later sets we get there. Okay. So, we're going to skip the really heavy because we're not necessarily trying to do triples here for volume. All right. If you are going to zero reps in reserve, you don't even have to reach out. By the way, the rep that fails does not cause muscle growth. Okay? We weren't recruiting the fast hybrids are dead. They're pretty much dead to us at this point till you've had sufficient rest to to get them to fire again. All right. So, what happens here? What happens here? You need about three sets. So, you know, if it's your 10 rep max and you can manage to hit it three times, you've reached those 15 reps. Like, you've got a really good growth, you're probably going to grow pretty decent off that. Okay. Now, people say, "What if I can't reach 10?" Uh, then those reps don't count. And here's why. because you're not rested enough for those fast twitch fibers to fully recruit again. So, if we start losing too many reps, your your breaks between sets are too long, you're getting less stimulus. You're not getting as many total reps with them. U so, and I think that's a fair way to to to extrapolate it out. So, the same token, let's say you leave one rep in reserve, you know that I say it's about the same thing, right? about one rep in reserve, we still got five five or so. You're probably decently well off at three sets. Now, if you did six, you'd probably nearly maximize it over the course of a workout. See what I mean about about that? That maybe 40 or so. Um, that's kind of the upper threshold, but we see that in in different studies about about eight heart sets in a workout, we don't see anything stimulating beyond that. Now, they're not not as hard. Sure. But then we come over to to the the other extreme. What happens if you don't have any reps uh in there? Well, you can do enough volume that you'll get there eventually. In other words, we reach the fast faster twitch fibers by fatiguing the moderate uh the intermediate fibers. So, let's say you're doing 15 sets or whatever your biceps or your chest or whatever. The first five exercises, you don't get within five reps of failure. You're just pump pump, right? There's a little bit of a burn, but you really don't get close. Or maybe you're five reps reserved. You get one effective rep. See what I mean? This this is going to take a while. Now, eventually you'll you'll fatigue those intermediate ones enough to where the later sets we start getting they're like, "But I'm failing on the last sets." All right, fair. But but it took you a while to get there. So, if we're going to do something like that, like you're leaving four or five reps in reserve from what you could have gotten, it might take you 15 or 20 sets to get a really good training response. And a lot of people say, "Oh, nobody should plenty of people train like that. You see it in gyms every day. Why the average person train?" Pretty normal. So, this is what creates the argument. So the answer is at the intensity level you're willing to train, how much volume do you need to stimulate muscle growth?