You do not have to moderate junk food. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not following or subscribed, please do so. I would appreciate that so much. Thank you. And if you guys will let me know down below how many of you have gone over to pretty much just clean eating um and have been happy with it, like which I have personally. I've been nothing but thrilled with it. So, let's get over and talk about this. You know, we I I did that other video recently talking about how foods are engineered to be hyper palatable. And we had this whole period of time where everyone talked about, well, you know, as long as we track all of our macros and count our macros, you know, we can work in the treats in the junk. And they would try to tell you there's something wrong with you. If you don't moderate your junk food, you have a bad relationship with food. You know, that's honestly just addiction speaking. That is really food addiction on their part. And the reason I say that all these junk foods are engineered by scientists to be hyper palatable to make them hard to moderate. It's because they can't give them up that they want to project onto other people that if you can't moderate the junk that they feel that they have to have or that you can be happy without it, your life is incomplete. Okay? And I want people to think about that for a minute. Does anybody not understand that before Twinkies existed, the emotion of happiness existed? Did you know that your taste buds were satisfied before pizza ever existed? Humans were happy before that. It happened all the time. Okay, happened all the time. And here's the thing with it. A lot of people, in fact, I wouldn't say a lot. I would say if we go off statistics, somewhere between 60 and 70% of people cannot moderate these foods. They just can't. personality types, uh, the way that we handle dopamine and other stuff can't moderate them and it's not really a workable situation. It's like telling people who are prone to addiction to try to moderate alcohol or to moderate heroin. You know, there are people out there who actually can use heroin off and on without getting addicted. Okay. Does that mean that everyone else has a moral weakness? No. Just means they're really lucky and that they don't get addicted. They're super lucky. That's it. So, you know, here's the point with this. You can be happy without these foods. You do not have to try to eat them. And for a lot of people, it turned into a stressful thing, right? And in my case, the the last time I had any real junk is uh on Christmas. And I planned it ahead of time. I walked in with a game plan. Said, "All right, it's going to be Christmas. I'm going to eat all the treats. I'm going to have my pie and I'm going to have the cookies and everything. I walked in, fasted, ate some lean protein and vegetables first and then I jumped into the stuff, but I didn't eat till afternoon and of course I fast anyways. The net result I gained about one pound from all of it and within 3 days it was gone. You know, it worked out great. Um, but that's oneoff occasions. That's not trying to moderate on a regular basis. Okay? And here's the thing, your taste buds change. And I think this is the biggest problem that people have here with their forgetting your pallet and your taste buds change on like a 21 day cycle. Actually is a data I saw many years ago every 3 weeks and they'll can change multiple times over several different three weeks. Okay. As you reensitize your pallet to stuff, food tastes good. And it's like for me, so what I did today, I ate brown rice. So, to make my brown rice and sweet potatoes taste amazing, knowing how palatability works, a lot of people would say, "Do brown rice, there's no way to make it taste good without adding a bunch of junk." Really? You sure? My brown rice, chicken, and sweet potatoes cuz I had other vegetables in there. You know, I made it taste delicious. I put soy sauce in it and a little bit of local honey. Now, I've said to people, straight honey isn't always good, but if you add fiber to it, a moderate amount of honey actually isn't a problem because the fiber will replicate the matrix of a whole food. You soak it into that brown rice, right? Same thing for me. People say, "Well, the soy sauce." Soy sauce is fine. Yes, it's salty, but what about when you're sweating a lot? I'm I'm out doing cardio every day. I train in a hot garage. I am literally having to add sodium and electrolytes to my water and everything to not dehydrate with the amount I'm sweating this summer. So, guess what? What do you think I did? I think that brown sweet potatoes and I put some soy sauce in it when I cooked it in my Instant Pot and then I put, you know, about 100 calories of honey on it. Okay, that local honey. Well, that then soaks into the fiber. So, it ends up reaching the the lower intestine. A lot of it ends up just getting fermented correctly and you got some antioxidants and benefits from it. So, guess what? What do you think that tastes like? Pretty dang good. We got salty and we got sweet, but I did it without any real junk food. I took brown rice and sweet potatoes and chicken. Made them taste like restaurant stuff. Okay. And that's on the extreme end. I mean, white rice tastes good. You get used to it, honestly. Just white rice with a little salt, water chicken, some vegetables in it actually tastes pretty good. Same thing, a little spices on your chicken, right? I'm finding these days a little paprika, a little garlic, little creole seasoning when I bake all my chicken breast, just plain chicken breast, delicious little spices. Knowing how to take low calorie spices that don't have a bunch of oils or refined sugars added to season food resolves all these issues. Okay, it resolves all these issues. And the thing is, our pallets adjust. When you stop giving your pallet all the junk and hyper palatable stuff all the time, what do you think happens? Your taste buds reensitize and the other stuff tastes good. If you haven't had any refined sugars or artificial sweeteners in, say, five or six weeks, it's like like people haven't tried this. Try drinking a glass of milk. You'll think there's sugar added to it. Okay. bite into a piece of cantaloupe. If you've had nothing sweet for six weeks, so two cycles of that 21 days, you've had not a single drop of anything sweet. So, your sweet taste buds reensitize, try biting into a strawberry or a cantaloupe. It's going to taste like a mouthful of table sugar. Okay? So, do you see where I'm going with this? Once your pallet gets used to whole foods, the flavor goes up because your taste buds are reensitized anyways. then we're eating healthy whole foods. We're not eating a bunch of junk. You don't have to moderate these things to get taste, right? You have to let your taste buds right? Then you don't have to deal with trying to moderate these foods. Most people are going to overeat and binge on and other things. You don't have to give money to the companies making them to support it. You break their supply and demand. And if you just learn how to season and how to cook your food, it's an absolute game changer. Okay? And it's not that hard. A little bit of correctly applied spices go a long way. Okay? I mean, even with normal oven baked chicken breasts, like everyone, that kind of dry. Well, no, I throw it into my other stuff, but no, not really. Not if you cook it at a high temp and that outside gets a little crispy. The inside will stay a little juicy. Just don't bake it too long. I bake mine really hot, like 450. Um, throw the right spices on it. Works wonders. Knowing which little bit of sweeteners and things to get away with stacking the right fruit with stuff. Learn how to cook people. It will resolve these problems.