Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about the fact that your training split is less important than your consistency. Uh but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below be greatly appreciated. Uh if you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down under the video even just to say hello I would appreciate that also. Thank you so much. Uh let's get over into the topic. Look, we could make a lot of arguments about efficiency and programming. We could make a lot of of arguments about uh practicing movement patterns, neuromuscular efficiency, uh muscle protein synthesis. But I think something that needs to be said here is about consistency and what's going to be enjoyable to you to where you're actually going to do it. And and let me be clear, I you guys have seen plenty of my clients who've got amazing results doing every type of different programming. I've I've had people do full body. I've had people do upper lowers. I've I've had people do uh four day upper lower conjugate. You guys have seen me program people with uh pushpull legs, even body part splits, right? I've programmed all these things for clients. You guys have seen results in them. We've seen all this stuff, right? We've seen all of this and I've produced people with extremely strong lifts, great physiques, everything else, right? I've put up plenty of client testimonials, plenty plenty of vlogs. We've seen all of it. So, people say, "Well, well, what's best?" I don't think there is a best. Now, could I make a very very strong case for 3-day full body, 4 day upper, lower in terms of practicing movement patterns? Yes. Could I make could we make a very strong case for it in terms of muscle protein synthesis? Yes. Now, could we make a case for body part splits in terms of not beating up maybe joints and stuff as much due to movement patterns being spread out? Yes. See where we're going? We could make a very strong argument for every one of these, but here's what I want people to think about. You have to think about what are you going to do consistently and what's going to work with your lifestyle. Okay? Um, in other words, when people start even trying to say, well, what should I pair with what? I don't know where where do I put should I put uh biceps and and back together? Should I put or should I put biceps behind chest so that it gets more exposure because maybe the biceps are too weak from the back work? Like people come up with all these convoluted complicated questions, right? And they're really looking for answers in terms of what's going to cause more muscle growth and it's really kind of silly when you think about it, right? Because people will will stand there and argue this stuff and they'll discuss it. Well, my reason and it's always physiological. Look, if you're if you're on a body part split, you're not doing it for physiological. Okay, let's let's be clear on that. Body part splits are not beneficial from a physiology perspective. Maybe you can make a case for that if drug doses go super super high. Okay? Can maybe make a case for physiology. There's no physiological reason to split your training up at all. It is entirely psychological. Now, that being said, when I say that, people hear, "Well, you're saying it's useless." No, that's not what I'm saying. I said it's psychological. Do we understand that? They're mental end of it. There is no physical benefit to any of that. But so, don't argue or worry about the physical things. Well, from a physical perspective, should I pray here? No, no, no, no, no. If you're only concerned with the physical, just do high frequency. Do do full body three times a week. Okay? We could make the strongest case for physiology, neural drive, and muscle protein synthesis by just doing full body three times a week. And then if you need to isolate your weakest point doing that like if we're going to go off of straight biology, physiology, sports, science, it it makes sense. But what if you hate it? Well, then it's going to be horrible. See where I'm going? What happens if you really enjoy body parts? Plus, what if you come in and like, I just feel more motivated to train If I do my all my chest in one day and I come in and I do 10 to 12 really hard sets for my chest once a week. I bench, I incline, I do my dips, I do my flies, okay? Or or chest and triceps. I do that then and then I do some extensions, right? They're like, I like to come in and just hit my chest and triceps really hard. I I do flat bench, I do incline, I do weighted dips, I do flies, and I do skull crushers and press downs. It takes me two whole hours, but I really enjoy it. I feel focused. I feel like I've really worked my chest and triceps, and I'm just very motivated to do it every Monday versus, well, I'm going to come in and bench press three days a week and then do some extensions. Now, physiologically, could we make a strong case for that ladder? Yeah, you're gonna get stronger quicker. Progressive overload is going to be quicker. Potentially better muscle protein synthesis, better performance session to session. Right now, are those going to be a massive difference? No. Versus that motivation. And I really and truly enjoy it. A lot of guys enjoy that other type of training. So, which one you going to make better gains on? You're coming in like, "Man, I really I just I hate benching three times a week. I hate cover even if I alternate it with incline. I just it's just I I don't like that. I just feel like I don't do enough in one session. Even though technically I know I do, you know, three sets of pressing, three sets of triceps, and I'm done with all my chest and triceps for the workout, and I'm I'm on to squats and, you know, legs and back. It just it doesn't feel like enough to me. I really feel like I get in and I just feel better and I work more. Well, which one are you going to be more consistent with? If you enjoy that that split more with that focus on a muscle group and that's usually the mo we need to be clear that's generally the reason that's the motivation and it's a very common one. Are you going to make better progress? I think you're probably going to make slightly better gains on the body part split. It's not that it's physically superior. It's that for you and your mindset, you're more driven to be consistent to just consistently have good workouts. But that's the other thing, too. If you're going to do that style of training, you can't afford a bad workout because those muscles are not going to be hit again for over a week. For a week, you have a bad workout. You got a problem. Okay? So there's that to think about. Then we come over to stuff like conjugate. A lot of conjugate is psychological. Okay. I've gotten really strong on conjugate in the past. Super strong. You guys have watched me close grip bench and in my 40s, mind you. You guys have seen me deadlift 635. You've seen me close grip bench 365, stuff like that. All on conjugate in my 40s. You know, not at a crazy high body weight either. you know, not like 260 pounds or something. Um, I've had clients who you guys have seen squat 600, bench 400 on it all. You know, it works. A lot of it's psychological. It's also because you're doing max effort, you're spacing that max effort out, right? It's about recovering from the max effort work and then just getting really big and then focusing upon different recovery curves through the week. Now, how much of that is psychological? A whole lot of it. Because then we get the the mental aspects of the repractice of setting up of the speed work, but we only have to deal with the true fatigue or those true maxes. Two workouts a week, right? Then we rotate those movements so that we don't get overused and so that we don't burn out on them or we psychologically detach from maxing out. That's a big part of it. So people need to understand that too. Um even conjugate training is largely about psychology. Louie always spun it oftentimes. Oh, we do all this for these physical reasons. But when you really look at what he says behind the lines in the deeper discussions is for psychologically programming your athlete. It's a mental game. And let's not pretend that doesn't matter. How many world record holders did he did he coach? Like a hundred of them different points. The strongest gym in the world. So when we have this conversation, I'm not saying psychology doesn't matter. It clearly matters. But we do need to understand these things are done for physiological reasons. I mean or for psychological reasons. Physiologically, we could make a case for full body all day long without splitting anything up. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.