Carbohydrates don't store as fat, but what does that even mean? Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Uh, quick reminder though, if you will click like down below, I would appreciate it. If you aren't following or subscribed, please do so. And if you guys would drop me a comment down under the video, uh, I would appreciate that a lot. Thank you. It can be just to say hello. It can be your thoughts on the video. Um, okay. So when I make this statement, uh this is based upon ridiculous enormous amounts of evidence in the lab, the metabolic w and everything in humans. It's not about my opinion. Um I have definitely successfully used low carb phases in the past. In fact, I I lost 50 pounds once doing ketogenic diet when I was younger at a certain point. So I I want to be clear when I make these statements. We're talking about evidence. We're talking about the body. This is not this is not even about my personal preference or opinions. Okay? So again, let's set that aside and be objective. But realistically speaking, when you look at the totality of the evidence, humans do not store carbohydrate as subcutaneous fat. Uh this has been researched. We can when overfeeding occurs, we can store a small amount of it as visceral fat. But here's the thing. It was tested because the speculation was because of the way the liver processes fructose um everything else that even table sugars might stores more visceral fat than other ones in overfeeding. Turns out they don't other than it will be more biased towards the liver. Okay, so fructose will raise liver fat but it's not going to put three pounds of it on you. Okay, and that's the difference. uh but yeah carbohydrates only in small quantities store as uh visceral fat around your organs. They never store under your skin and obviously neither does protein. Uh and this has been determined with carbon isotope testing at this point to where researchers have taken the different foods and added done this and then tested it to see and scanned where it stores and goes in the body and all of the fat under your skin seems to come from dietary fat that you ate. does not occur through denovo lipogenesis. All right? Does not occur. It all comes from the fat you eat. So, this gets confusing for people because they're kind of like, well, you know, how come when I was eating all these other carbs, I gained weight. I gained fat. Well, you could have gained a lot of bloat, but you gained weight because you ate fat with it, you know? So, so here's what it comes down to. Yes, calorie surplus itself will cause you to store dietary fat that you eat. And it doesn't matter where that surplus comes from. I'm going to say we could exclude protein because that's been studied and actually you can't seem to create a surplus. And like the three studies it tried, they failed to be able to create a surplus with protein or any weight gain. Like when hundreds of extra grams were added, that doesn't occur. So let's set that aside. That's a whole different crazy conundrum with thermic effect and nutrient partitioning. Um other than to say protein is pretty dang awesome. if you don't want to gain fat, which may be the reason some people on some of these high calorie, more ketogenic type diets don't gain fat is because they're eating excessive amounts of protein. That's a but that's a whole different story. That's a whole different story. Um, so when it comes to uh that that's what causes it like the fat that you eat and and again that's why again when fat goes really high obviously you're going to gain more fat because you have more available of what you can store. Um when you overfeed carbohydrates to the point to where we create a large excess of energy. Uh the amount of fat you gain becomes entirely dependent upon how much fat you eat. that that becomes the only factor because at a certain point you don't create an extra surplus. So like let's say you're you're already at a you know a 700 calorie surplus and you know 500 calories of it's coming from fat. When you start adding another,000 calories of carbohydrate your your surplus doesn't actually go up. And I know that sounds crazy to people. Uh but that's because they don't understand how carbohydrate surplus works. It's it makes some strange changes in the body. So what they have found in carbohydrate overfeeding studies. So let's set aside the the the carbon isotope testing. Let's look at just the think about the different studies where they forced extra carbohydrate down. Um they've done ones where they've taken women because women again much smaller, lower maintenance to where they've added 1,500 calories of extra carbohydrate to their diet just to see what happens. They only stored like one gram of it as fat, by the way, in their organs. It was such a tiny microscopic amount. So people are like, "Well, what happened?" Their metabolic rate skyrocketed. So when you overfeed carbohydrates, your body goes into strict carbohydrate burning mode. So notice I said overfeed. So yes, if you're overfeeding anything, you're not losing body fat. Let's just be clear on that. That's kind of the whole idea. Overfeeding means calorie surplus. So we are forcing more than you're burning. All right, everyone understand that? So when I say this, it's not saying you're going to lose body fat. It's saying that you won't store any of the carbohydrate. So what ends up happening when they do this, their metabolism, and I'm using that word loosely. I don't mean their base metabolic rate. I mean their energy turnover goes up like 1,200 calories. What? And I know people say that's crazy. You can't. I'm like, yeah, it totally can. And it does. And it doesn't in the lab. So as I would say at that point our opinions on it are irrelevant. If we take something and we do it and measure it in the lab and the equipment reads it and measures it the only opinion you could have is was the equipment broken. My opinion I think the equipment might have been broken every time consistently. See what I mean? Because you can't have an opinion and say, "Well, there's no or I believe otherwise." Like, well, so your your only opinion becomes to have any opinion other than the energy turnover goes up would have to be all the researchers lied in every study that's done this. Well, that's a serious claim. That's that's liable. Like, you go saying that publicly, you could be sued because you technically are. You're slandering you're slandering them. And that's cause you problems. Uh cuz again, and it's also stupid. They have no reason to lie and risk fraud charges and everything else on something like that. Come on, guys. Stupidity. Science. Fraud's a big deal. Um but or the equipment was broke every time. Uh pretty unlikely. So, uh and when you look at cultures that eat really high carbohydrate, really low fat, they're not fat. So, it kind of it jives. It makes sense, right? We don't have an obesity problem in East Asia. Uh so what happened? Why is the energy turnover going up? One, the thermic effect goes skyhigh. The body doesn't convert carbohydrate to fat efficiently. It's not what it's trying to do. It's not good. It wants to make carbohydrate, not make new fat. As a general rule, we get plenty of fat in our diets. So what what transpires here is thermic effect goes way up. It starts forcing extra glucose into the the nucle the mitochondria of your muscle cells. Your body turns into a furnace. It just starts burning through energy. You're sweating. The body temperature will go up. If you're not careful, you would just excrete heat. You will sweat to cool back down, right? And goes up, fidgeting goes up. So, in these sort of situations, the amount of fidgeting and extra moving that people do burns hundreds of calories. in addition to hundreds and hundreds of extra calories just burning off as thermic effect. This is what happens. Now, people say, "Oh, well, so you must be burning through body fat." Well, no, you're not. You're not burning. Your metabolic rates going through the roof, but because you're you're only burning all that glucose and then burning it off as excess heat, your body has no need to burn body fat in that in that scenario anymore. It has no need to burn dietary fat. So you store most of the fat that you eat at that point. Very straightforward.