Recovery is everything. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. And quick reminder though, if you would please click like on this video, I greatly appreciate it. If you aren't following or subscribed, please do so and drop me a comment with your thoughts or to say hello down under the video. Uh thank you so much for that. All right, let's get over to the point. Um recovery is everything and I cannot stress this enough. Uh, you know, I get people who they see kind of what I lift. They know my age. You know, I'm almost 50 years old. Um, I move some pretty heavy weight. Uh, relatively uninjured. I don't hurt when I wake up in the morning. Uh, I don't always have the greatest mobility on every movement. I think we agree on that. Uh, but otherwise, pretty much injuryfree, pretty much painfree. is a is a considerably older lifter at this point who moves decent weights. You know, 500 squats, 600 deadlifts, stuff like that. Um, so something that I will say with a lot of that recovery is everything. Like if you're trying to stay injuryfree or stay in the game, you have to focus on fatigue management. You have to focus on recovery. But I'm going to go out on a limb and say for the younger guys, um, the same thing holds. You know, I see that with my my clients in their 20s. I mean, I do have clients who refuse to get their lifestyle and older. They party hard and to say that their gains are absurdly slower than my people who don't do those things would be an understatement. Um, you know, and again on similar type programming, same quality of coaching. I mean, for example, uh, a client like that, it would takes them three years to gain what some of my other lifters in the same age bracket gain in six months. and and but they accept that reality when they decide to party and live a harder lifestyle. Uh but again, I've noticed a pattern there. And people will hear that and think that that's extreme or they think I'm kidding, but I'm I'm actually dead serious. So, when it comes to recovery, what are we talking about? Talking about a few things. We're talking about obviously your training. Looking at your training and saying, "Okay, how much is too much?" All right. It's why I tell most of you guys about about 12 sets a week for most of you per muscle group is going to be the upper threshold. Now, it's it's hard to estimate where that is. Obviously, we start throwing speed work and max work in, right? But I mean I would also say well if you're doing a bunch of speed work and max and and speed benching and speed squats and stuff you might need a little less for pecs and quats you know would would kind of be my answer to that particular dilemma of course right because that's the dilemma we then face uh but you know so in the case of example of what I'm training right now um you know I I train about six sets a week for my pecs right now not counting the max benching Not counting the speed benching, but that speed benching hits PEX pretty hard. Uh so just giving you that as an example. Giving you that example, but those are hard six real hard sets. You know, they're they're uh repping out two plates all the way to dips, which you guys will see coming up. But it's not it's not all about me. It's it's really about you. So, what I tell a lot of you guys, yeah, about six sets, you know, uh, you know, twice a week or 12 total sets in a session, if you're going to do a body part split, um, that's the upper threshold. And I'd say a lot a lot of my guys get good gains on about eight or nine sets on a body part split like my pushpull legs guys. So, that's what we mean. High quality sets, but not just coming in and doing endless amounts of work. Um, it doesn't work. And I've I've run the gambit of the different volumes of training and I can I can say with absolute certainty uh I don'TNE make my best gains when the volume is really high. Uh and in fact I could I could almost say I see very very little even beyond about six sets a week of my actual hypertrophy work for a muscle. That's where most of the growth happens. And when I go beyond that, I sometimes I might get a little more I feel like. Uh but it's it's much the same with uh with a lot of my clients, right? Just things I've observed. And and I think the exception where where that comes up for people is because certain people do really higher rep stuff of really short breaks. So they're low quality sets, meaning and I'm not against really high rep work, but those short breaks um you get a much lower stimulus, right? you're not hitting the upper threshold fibers always on every set when you do that because they haven't recovered set to set. So, in that case, yeah, those people get away with a lot more pump volume, but it's also not necessarily giving them much muscle growth, but they they might be fine on the recovery end. But if you're training really hard, yeah, you got to watch the total volume. you have to if you're going moderately heavy sets real close to failure or to failure uh about 10 to 12 sets per muscle and maybe have one weak muscle that gets a little more again that's about all you can tolerate that's going to be the upper limit the rest of it the diet absolute diet nutrition sleep so and notice I didn't even mention supplementation it's not even a factor supplements are a way to try put a band-aid on a garbage diet. It's not the best approach. So, no, I'm not going to say supplementation unless you're talking about something that comes in a syringe. All right? But if you can buy it over the counter, yeah, not really. So, nutrition. Nutrition. Are you eating high quality food? Are you getting sufficient protein, sufficient carbohydrate? All right. Is your antioxidant status really high in your foods? which means lots of vegetables, lots of fruit, decent amounts of fiber, right? All this stuff that we need for recovery, high quality protein. Are you getting a one and a half grams per kilogram of body weight as a minimum uh of mostly uh high bioavailable animal proteins? Right, there's your key. Are you getting enough sleep? And and again, I find this is a problem. You know, a lot of times I get clients who they're used to really high workloads and getting them to scale back can be hard until they start pulling stuff and they're like, "Okay, maybe training six days a week isn't ideal for me." Right? Some of them, they want to do five. They shouldn't even do five. I mean, you have to have a pretty perfect lifestyle to do five days a week in my opinion. This is my opinion as a coach. My opinion, someone's been coaching for a real long time. someone with 25 years in the game. Yeah, very few people are going to be able to really tolerate that for long unless your lifestyle is super dialed in. So then we come over to how about you focus on the lifestyle and training enough to get really really good gains for most of you. That would be the better option. It would be a much better option. injury rate goes down, overuse goes down, you recover better. Because the thing you have to remember back over to that point with the junk volume, any training that you do not recover from, you will not grow from, right? And you have to remember that point. So, yes, train hard. You have to be careful of your total volumes. And I'm not saying you can't do a 2-hour workout four days a week cuz sometimes when we're going pretty hard, we need long breaks between sets. You know, people say, "What about the conditioning? Go do some cardio." The weight room is not where you get your conditioning. It's where we gain muscles, where we gain strength on the under the bar or under the machine. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.