We only grow from the training that we recover from. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment below, I would also appreciate that. Thank you so much. All right, guys. So, when it comes to training, um, what we have to think about in terms of recovery, I'm not necessarily talking about what's going on in the workout. Uh yeah, I mean I can make a case for junk volume itself and the specifics of why certain sets in your junk volume are producing no meaningful muscle growth. Uh but that's not really the point because our recovery is relies upon a lot more than that. Okay, our recovery relies on a lot more than that. So yes, that can be a factor. junk volume itself can create demands that interfere with recovery and we do have to think about that. But um we need to look at all the lifestyle factors. In other words, if we're underreovering from our training, we're just simply uh hindering our growth. Um and when I say underreovering, our sleep, our rest, our stress management, the quality of our diet. And this is why I tell people eating clean itself, eating clean is not necessarily about being leaner or more ripped or losing body fat. It really isn't. Um, can it be useful? Yes. But we can still eat pretty clean and gain fat and bulk just fine. I mean, realistically, some some of us have insane appetites and have zero trouble gaining weight on a 100% clean diet. In fact, I have to eat clean year round because I have a crazy appetite and I used to be over 300 lb when I was younger. Um, so you know, obviously that's not always what we're talking about, but we can think in terms of recovery, inflammation. So, a diet that supports controlling inflammation, high in antioxidant status, keeps insulin sensitivity high, all that stuff, that's going to affect your recovery, guys. Right? If your diet is loaded with anti-inflammatory uh uh compounds and antioxidants, your recoveryy's got to be better. And no, you can't supplement your way through that. You know, people like, "Oh, I'll just take a bunch of vitamin C or what a single antioxidant." That's actually not viable. That doesn't actually work. Um and researchers generally agree on that. If anything, it can cause oxidative stress. It can cause problems. Contributes to cancer. Like you don't just go, hey, let's just mega dose a vitamin. Yeah, that doesn't work. So, but whole foods because of the the antioxidants found in our whole foods, some some whole foods have literally hundreds of different antioxidants in there. So, when we talk about that, we're talking about the sum total combined wide variety antioxidants. It's why it's good to eat more than one type of fruit and vegetable, you know, throughout the week or the day. Okay? It's very very beneficial for that reason. And the same thing a lot of your whole foods have antioxidants. I mean brown rice has antioxidants in it guys. Uh some even things that are considered anti-nutrients even have antioxidant properties. So this is an example of what we mean. Okay. Quality diet. Is your protein sufficient? Your carbohydrate intake enough to really get the best glycogen stores? And I'm not saying you can't replenish glycogen stores on lower carb diets. It's a lot more efficient and a lot quicker on higher carb diets. This is examples of what we mean. Um and so a perfect example would be you can handle higher training volumes in general if your diet is high in carbohydrate, high in whole foods, high antioxidant status. Uh because we recover better and and I think this is something that we have to talk about with the gains of recovery. If you recover faster, you can train more often. All right? If you recover faster, you can get more high quality volume in a workout and still train at the same frequency. In other words, um people are saying, "Well, I'm already training. I do an upper lower four days a week. I do three three day push pull legs, whatever. I don't need to change my frequency." So, how is that recovery affecting it? Well, it's affecting your your growth from session to session. Okay? and it's going to affect what you can tolerate in the workout. Okay? In other words, if your recovery is is better due to your lifestyle choices, you can handle more actual hard sets in a workout and grow from it because you're going to recover better. So, think of it that way. You can handle harder total weekly workloads if your recovery is better. Now, a lot of times people are like, "But I'm not trying to do that. I'm trying to run whatever, you know, moderate volume and just get the most out of it and keeping the frequency the same. So, it's like, okay, true, you may not be be trying to change those other benefits, but let's also come to the other point. If you're not recovering still between sessions, your performance is going to suffer. And that's a dead giveaway. You know, you you get people who um they're like, "Man, my my workout sucked." Well, that's a dead giveaway that you're not recovering session to session. something's not right. I mean, now if you're dieting and losing a little muscle, that would explain it. But if you're not, you don't have something like, oh, I'm cutting right now, so I'm I'm lo possibly losing a small amount of of muscle tissue, and that also affects recovery, too. Um, if your performance goes down session to session, you're not recovered. I guarantee you that. That's what it is. Something is wrong in your recovery. And if your performance goes down and we're and we're not recovered, that means the workout was inferior. Because if we lost a little muscle and we're still working at maximum capacity for the muscle we have, well, that's going to create new stimulus and rebuild some of the muscle you lost. But if it's a recovery issue and your performance degrades, some of you, a lot of your training is in is junk volume again because you're simply too fatigued session to session to get the fast twitch fibers and upper threshold motor units to activate. In which case, your workout sucks. You're weaker. Your work sets are not as good. Like, man, I normally do, you know, whatever 200 lbs for 10. I do 185 and I only got eight reps. See what I mean? That's an example of that was pretty much almost a worthless workout. You're underreovered. So, it's it's not just a case of well, obviously the faster recovery equals faster gains and so on, but if you're underreovered and you're not recovering from a workout, you're not only not growing as much from it, but then you're you're underreovered for the next session and then you're getting into training sessions that aren't stimulating muscle growth at all. And that's that's getting close to an example. Okay? If you can do 200 lbs for 10 reps on a lift normally and you get to that workout and you can only do 185 for eight, you may not be growing at all from that session or it might be so minimal that it really was just a maintenance session at that point to try to hold on to some muscle. So keep that in mind. That is what we mean when when we say this too. Uh so again that's a dead giveaway. You know people are like um how do I know if I'm recovered? Is it that I'm sore? Well no. Your performance will show it. Okay. If you're losing strength between workouts, you absolutely are not recovered. Just flat out. All right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.