When we only do one set, we train harder. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate. Let's get over into this topic. Um, this is something I have noticed both as a coach uh and as a lifter over time is that if we're trying to take sets to failure or close to failure or beyond failure, one of the things that I have always found um is that even if we're doing sets to failure, right, if we do three sets to failure, we always hold back. We we feel like we've reached failure, don't we? Right? So, in other words, what I mean is we'll we'll take an exercise to where, yeah, man, I I got 11 reps or 12 reps on the first set. I failed. Rested a few minutes, come back, get 10 or 11, rest a few minutes, get, you know, nine, 10, something like that, right? And we feel like we went really, really hard in doing that. And we probably did in the final set. We probably did take it to failure, right? We probably did. because we did seem to reach momentary failure and and and I've observed this. But then what happens when we go down to one set? Okay. Or the other thing is if we're trying to go to failure, a lot of times the second set we get more reps. I've had that happen to where I'm like, man, I got right at failure, stop, and then I'm like, the second set I'm going to go all out. I've done that before, like on dips, right? And I felt like I was at close to failure or within zero reps in reserve. Got 10. Come back in two or three minutes and then get 13. If I go, I'm really going to take this set to failure and get 13. Okay? In in other words, this is what we do. It's a very routine thing for us that we do as lifters. Um, and it's a pattern you're going to notice. But then if we go down to one set, all of a sudden we start getting reps. I've done that again. Taken taken a weight like that to where well, you know, I've gotten 10, 11, maybe 12 on a dip or a weighted chin up or or whatever the lift happens to be. All right. A deadlift, but then we only do one work set. Like let's say we come back a week later, all of a sudden we're getting 15 reps. Anyone notice this? If you know that's the only set you're going to do and in your mind you come into that set with the focus of I need to make this count. I'm going to get as many reps as I can. Even if we do almost little mini rest pauses where we rest one second. How many more reps do we get? What about a smaller exercise? Small exercises. What ends up happening, man, we pick up five reps, six reps. That 12 rep max starts turning into a 16, 17, 18 when we just take half second breathers between reps. We [clears throat] start getting to what we thought was our old failure or close to. Um, I've noticed it true over and over and over. Why do you think that is? And I think what it is is that psychologically we hold back. And I've noticed this and this is my biggest issue with higher volumes of training. I've done phases where I tried the crazy tri high volumes of training. Have I not? Especially, you know, I was doing a bodybuilding bro split for a little while, okay? Or an upper lower type setup like that up to, you know, up to six days a week. I was doing 30 40 sets of muscle group. But when I look at the performance, most of those sets were more than five reps from failure. Even if I thought they were to like even smaller rooms, I thought they were to failure. Till you take those volumes down and you're able to replicate those sets, that's when you know something is wrong. Right? When you're able to replicate it or even pick up a rep on the third set, you're not training hard. And that's something I've said previously before I even started messing more with the one set thing. I've said that quite a bit in the past. And again, I see it in my clients. I see it in my lifters. I see it in other people. We have way more left in the tank than we think we do. And that's always interesting even though we're sure we hit failure, but it's because we hold back. We psychologically hold back if we know we have to do a bunch of sets. And we all do it. We're all guilty of it. Even though we don't feel like we are, we're sure those are limit sets. Or, you know, if they're not a limited, like, man, I know that I didn't really have another rep [clears throat] until we start cutting the volumes down. And as soon as you cut down from doing 30 sets a week down to 10 or 12, all of a sudden, man, you start picking up reps. That's probably due partially due to better recovery, but that set quality goes up because you quit holding back. But even then, you're convinced and this shows you how much we hold back based upon volume. I've I've made those observations. Yeah, I'll I'll do that. And then when I've cut down to the the lower uh volumes, what happens? Oh, I'm picking up a lot of reps. And it's like, aha, now I'm really hitting my limits. I was really holding back. Now I can see it even though it didn't feel like it at the time, but it's because subconsciously we know that we have to to complete those workouts. When we cut down to only one set, the same thing happens again. So how far like if we're doing that 30 sets for a muscle or even let's say we're doing 15 sets for a muscle in one workout, like on some sort of split, 15 or 20, how much are we really holding back that first 10, 15 sets? We're not putting anything into it. We're convinced we are. In our mind, we are, but we subconsciously hold back. And then you realize when you cut down to one set, how ridiculously you were holding back. when you go over to to lifting weights and you're able to uh take stuff that on the higher volumes, the same dumbbells or whatever for your isolation stuff or 10 or 11 rep sets, but then when you only do one set, when you've scaled it all the way back, that same type of curl turns into 20, 24, 25, 26 reps. But the the performance you were were putting out on those 15 sets workouts, let's say you were doing 15 sets of curls in one workout or 20. And then you realize none of those sets compared to that fresh when you just do the one set, you weren't even within 10 reps of failure. But in your mind, you you were you you've trained hard. It's interesting because we're all guilty of this. And when you start scaling the volumes way way back, you realize a light bulb will click that man, my god, am I holding back. [clears throat] But I'm sure I was hitting failure. And we see it with our clients, too. We see it with our clients because we don't hold back even our non-failure sets. Because if you look at that and go, "Well, wait, if I'm hitting failure on 25, even if I just done 24, it would have been 11 or 12 more than I used to do." So even then when we only do one set, we still get way way more done because we're we're walking into it with the mindset of this set is everything. I'm going to push it to the edge. And then all of a sudden, you're far stronger on your rep work because you know you don't have to do anything else after. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.