What is junk volume and how do we know when we have it in our training? Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciate it. If you are not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, um I would greatly appreciate that. Thank you so much. Let's get over to the topic. Um junk volume. The concept of junk volume is any work set uh in your training that doesn't stimulate muscle growth. Okay. Why do we lift weights? Stimulate adaptation. We're either trying to improve neural drive and I think this applies even more so for neural drive. So junk volume uh anything actually even when you're anywhere near junk volume, you're doing literally nothing for neural drive. So we can just completely rule that out. So let's talk purely about the other. We are lifting weights for the purpose of gaining muscle. Okay, that is the reason. Even if you're trying to lose body fat, you are lifting weights to gain muscle, to speed your metabolism up, and to retain muscle and everything else. So that is why we lift weights. That is the primary goal. And it's the same with the other stuff. So, so any adaptation that's not causing muscle growth is almost certainly uh not causing any of the other benefits we want. bone density, tendons, so on and so forth, neural drive. So again, junk volume, we are getting no training response. We're just burning through some calories. And there's a certain threshold where I'm like, if you want to burn more calories, go take a walk. Okay? You don't need 17 more sets of cable curls to burn calories. It's not burning that many. So junk volume, any set that does not produce a training response. All right, this now this gets very nuanced. Um, as a novice lifter, you're not going to have junk volume. Okay, so we we need to be clear on that. Junk volume is very very hard to achieve your first few months in the gym. Uh, because everything makes you grow. Okay, when you're a novice lifter, you will get bigger doing a few push-ups. If you're completely sedentary novice lifter, doing some jumping jacks and jumping up and down will probably cause muscle growth. Okay. So, in in that context, let's let's just push people aside in their first three or four months of lifting. As long as they have any progressive overload of any type, and they're they're going to gain muscle. Some ways will make them gain muscle five times faster than others, but they're going to gain muscle from anything they do almost. They're they're untrained noviceses. So, let's just throw them out of the equation. So, for everybody else, uh once you've been training a while, you're all your intermediate fibers. You have like oh 20 something types of muscle fibers, maybe more. You have everything from your slow switch fibers that you use just to basically walk, right? Slow switch fibers. You just walk down the street, get up and walk 5 feet. That's slow switch fibers. You're using nothing intermediate at all. Then you have different intermediate ones all the way up to your fast twitch. They're all capable of muscle growth, which is why if you are in a wheelchair, your legs atrophy and someone who walks has bigger legs than someone who doesn't do physical therapy in a wheelchair. Okay? Because walking itself causes the slow switch fibers to grow. But there's a very very very limited growth capacity for slow switch and then intermediate and so on. So the further you go up the chain through these various intermediate fibers, um, they have a longer and longer growth time. meaning some of your your slow switch fibers you can max their growth out in a couple weeks. Okay? Others you can max out in a few months. You have other fibers that'll max out in a year or two. And and beyond that point, they don't grow anymore. So really, it's only the fast twitch fibers which comprise a fairly small amount of our fibers. Even fast twitch dominant people are still slow twitch dominant. They just have more fast twitch than the average person. That also means more long-term growth potential, okay? But it's not as as much as people think it is like like it's not going to be roid like gains. Um which incidentally roids will cause the other muscle fibers to grow that stop growing. Just an FYI. So over to the point, um you're not getting the fast twitch fibers you're not growing. Fast switch fibers get fatigued. So, here's a perfect examples, and this has been found in studies. Really short breaks to where you lose performance causes less muscle growth. What's interesting, people like less muscle growth? And and it's like, you want my prediction? Like, let's say you did three sets and you took 90 seconds and you lost four reps. So, let's say you started with your 12 rep set, you hit failure at 12 reps and or or at 10 reps or whatever, right? The second set you hit failure at six and then the third set you hit hit failure at four or five if you only took 90 seconds, right? With a true 10 rep max. In those studies, guess what happened? When they run longer breaks, like three minute breaks, and you're able to replicate their performance, the people all gained more muscle. Why? Because you didn't get the fast switch fibers on the last two sets. You really did one work set. Okay? For growth purposes, the reason they gained more muscle, they only did one work set. The second set might have caused a little growth, not as much as in the long break group. Okay, see where we're going? Third set caused zero muscle growth. Absolutely nothing. They did nothing. Therefore, they grew less. Whereas in in the longer the longer break group, guess what? They grew from all three sets. Why? Because the fast twitch fibers recovered. So, if if you're getting five or six reps with your 10 rep max, it's because the fast switch fibers are not being engaged. There aren't enough of them recovered enough to do it. So, if your breaks are too short and you're losing performance like that, it's jump volume. If you do a drop set, it's jump volume. Like a a 30 seconds and you go down the road curling or moving the next lightest dumbbell, that's all jump volume. Doesn't cause any muscle growth. Just burning calories unless you're on a lot of drugs. Okay. So, I'm assuming we're talking naturals or lowd do steroid users for for purposes of this information. All right, that's jump volume. So, when you're in a workout, when you start losing performance, you're getting into junk volume. So in other words, let's say you've done multiple exercises for a muscle group and you get to an exercise to where you cannot replicate your fresh performance with even close of it. And I would say the judge is about four or five reps. So, in other words, um, if you're having to go so light to get even a a nine or a 10 or 11 rep set that you're using weights that you could do 15 plus reps fresh, that's a perfect example of jump volume. You were not growing from those sets. Okay, make sense? So, in other words, let's say you did for biceps, let's say you came in and you did some chin-ups, then you did uh, you know, barbell curls and different types of dumbbell curls or whatever, and you get over to a to easy bar or whatever for your curls. Okay? When you get to that, if normally you can do 100 pounds for 12 reps, okay, see where I'm going? But when you grab a 100 pounds, if you could do that fresh, but you grab that 100 pound bar at this point in the workout and you can only do six or seven reps with it, so you have to go lighter. We're now into jump volume that your fast twitch fibers in your biceps and brachiialis are too fatigued to continue recruiting. You're over to your intermediate fibers. You're getting almost no muscle growth, if anything. This is what we mean by jump volume. So, anything you do for that muscle and the rest of the workout is junk volume unless you rest long enough to get the performance back. So, people say, "But couldn't you just rest longer?" Yeah. Um, but are you going to do a 5 hour workout? It's like, "Well, God, exactly." So yeah, if you're up to the point where you're going to do that much volume and let's say you're taking, you know, seven, eight minutes, 10 minutes between sets once you get really deep into this workout, sure, you'll you you're not in jump volume now, but you're also in the gym for four or five hours, okay? Understand the difference. Then you have to find a way to recover from all of it. And if you can recover from all of it, great. You'll be fine. But if you're losing the performance to get the volume, this is junk volume. You are not growing from it. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.