What is the minimum volume that you need to make good gains? Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, I'd greatly appreciate it. If you are not following me or subscribed, please do so. And if you would be kind enough to drop a comment down below, I would also greatly appreciate that. Um, all right guys. So, when it comes to the volumes, you know, I've I've looked at a lot of stuff over the years, and I've even said in the past in theory people could get away with one set a week, but I do I did just mean novice lifters. Um, and I've run the full gambit. I've run 20 sets, 30 sets, 40 sets a week. Um, I've ran clients at pretty high volumes up to 20 sets. But if I'm going to be really honest, I agree with some of the coaches who say people can absolutely do really low volumes and still make gains. Um, I have plenty of clients who do six sets a week who are not novice lifters, late intermediates to early advanced lifters. I'm going to say, look, if if you're under 200 lb and you can squat 400 lb, we're going to call you, you know, early advanced lifter. Um, so that's that's what we're talking about. So in that in that context uh I have plenty of people who do that and and I've noted over the years I tend to agree with some of the older research that showed that five to 10 sets was pretty optimal for a lot of people and that a lot of people when they exceeded that made less gains and we have a whole I understand that in the whole evidence-based community there's a certain circle of researchers that are very vocal that have go to the other extreme Um, but here's the problem with that one. There were other circles of researchers showing otherwise. And I've just observed myself over the decades as a coach. I'm just going to be frank. I have never seen a drug free lifter make decent gains on 20 plus sets a week. I've just I've never personally seen it in 26 years of doing this. And and I could be wrong. There could be some out there. I've just never met them. I've never seen them. I've never worked with them. There could be some unicorns. So, that's my problem when people bring up that stuff. And I generally find the opposite. I've taken clients who were completely stalled doing 22, 25 sets of muscle group a week, who were making zero progress for months on end. Zero progress. I took them down to 10 sets and all of a sudden they start making gains. So this affects my opinion of this and and if it was a one-time thing, you know, if it was something that only happened once or twice, I could understand, okay, maybe these are flukes. But when you've done it as a coach 10 or more times, 10 or more times, get people who are stalled doing that sort of volume, making zero zero progress, and you take them down to like 10, and they start making gains, and they make continuous gains for six months straight. after five to six months of nothing, you know. So, in my observation, I think about five sets a week is kind of your minimum for for good gains. Five total sets. Now, what am I counting as five sets? Well, well, I'm gonna count as five sets. Uh, you know, if you're only counting maybe half sets from a big movement, right? So, maybe maybe at least three of that is direct and you know, probably at least some other exercises that are half sets. So, example of what I would consider, let's say you're doing pull-ups and rows, right? Do three sets of pull-ups, three sets of rows. Yeah, that's that's six sets for your lats. Is it sets towards biceps? Maybe. I think we you could probably count towards maybe half sets or you can count half of it and then three sets of curls. Okay, that's going to be about five or six sets equivalent for for all those muscles, right? For lats, possibly for rear delts, you know, definitely biceps. So, that's what I mean by that sort of volume. Okay, that's what I mean. I find that that works. Um, or if we want to think about five direct sets, so let's just take that out of the equation and say, okay, you're doing rows, right? Let's say you're doing five sets of rows a week, you don't count it towards biceps and five sets of curls. Okay? I I think if you're in that territory, I think you can still make good gains if you're training really really hard. Hey, the same thing. Um, you know, five sets of total chest presses a week and then five sets of triceps. Okay. Yeah, I think we're good there. Um, I personally for a lot of things these days really just do three sets twice a week. For some muscle groups, three to four sets. So, it's a little more than the five. Um, and here's here's been my experience. I find that about that five to six set mark. I find most lifters can make really good progress there. Now, what we could argue about is is it optimal progress? Maybe not. Is it good progress? Yes. Is it consistent progress? And I think for a lot of guys, that's the problem when it comes to to these sort of discussions on these volumes. They're like, "Well, I'm doing something over here and I'm making zero gains." Well, well, this isn't what we're talking about. You're not going to see zero gains at these volumes if you're training hard enough. You shouldn't. Okay. So, that's the first thing. You know, usually when I get guys who are like, um, I'm not making gains. Should I add more volume? And it's like, no, that's that's adding volume should never unless you're at a below that threshold. Like, if you're doing one set a week, I get, okay, yeah, you should probably be increasing volume. You should probably be doing three or five. You know, one set a week, yeah, that's that's not going to get it done. But it's this idea that guys have that they're doing enough volume and they're not seeing progress or like, should I add more volume? No one has ever said that to my know like even the the ultra high volume researchers are not saying that. Let me be clear. All those researchers to my knowledge all admit yeah people the research shows people can make decent gains on five sets. They all agree on that. Even even non- novice lifters, people who are a little more advanced, they make some they can make decent progress. All they're claiming is that the 20 sets or 30 sets will be more, not that you go from zero to making gains. So, let me be clear. Unless you're at rock bottom volumes, ridiculously low, you're never in a situation then to where your volume is the reason you're not making gains, your diet sucks, your sleep sucks, your training intensity sucks, maybe your exercise selection sucks, your execution. something else is wrong. It's not your volume. Because if you're doing like five sets a week and you're not making any gains, there's something else happening. Your diet's not sufficient, your sleep isn't sufficient, or you were just training like a Okay? And I usually tell most people 10 to 12 for the majority of people is the cut off. I find most lifters, unless they're recovery, is super dialed in. going past 10 to 12 sets a week, they usually make less gains.