Paleolithic humans ate around 80% plants, 20% animals. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, um, if you guys will click like down below, be greatly appreciated if you're not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below letting me know, uh, what you think about this, if you were aware of this fact or not, um, I would appreciate that. So this is is one of these cases where um you know people try to appeal to nature right they come up with these ideas keep in mind that is considered to be a logical fallacy the appeal to nature and that is because something is away in nature that's the way it should be or it should be healthy or whatever else right because it's natural it's healthier whatever you're perceiving is natural like organic food must be healthier because it's more natural right that's called an appeal to nature fallacy um is is an automatic with no evidence to support it. It's just that it's just because it's more natural, it must be healthy. So, what we see is a lot of people who say, well, you know, caveman ate this and that, and what they're describing is caveman, they still mean humans. They're not they're not talking about other species. Um you know then when that gets brought up though you know we had that controversial study uh done out of Tel Aviv uh saying that um sorry Homo erectus which was not what we would think of as humans you know was a hyper carnivore at like 70% meat all this stuff right keep in mind that is not accepted as universally true um it's that is a very controversial uh finding of that of a single study from one university but that's not us that is a completely completely different species. They don't have like an average IQ like us. They're probably no more intelligent than your dog. Okay, maybe less um in some cases. And I I mean that maybe as hyperbole, but they are not at you know we are thinking of as a human. Uh so it's a different species. Uh but the thing is you know when you you look at evolutionary patterns yeah we know we originally came from actually fruit vors but then we you know over time we develop through different different things the ability to become what we would think of now as cooked food omnivores right our species any way you want to break it down is a cooked food omnivore and I and most of us accept this we know GI trackwise we know brain development everything that's the case we are generally cooked food eaters we eat both plants and animals it's how we thrive we generally do best in that environment. But setting that part aside, when you look at the historical trends, like humans were not these massive carnivores, like not what we think of as a paleolithic man, right? So that's usually what people mean by cavemen. They're talking about paleolithic era humans going back, you know, up to 200,000 years, right? Before the modern age or the agricultural age, you know, several thousand years back uh within, you know, in less than 10,000 years, right? So when you you look at that, yeah, we didn't have uh rearing of livestock. We didn't have crops and everything through those times as far as we know during paleolithic times. So humans were essentially hunter gatherers, right? Well, huntergatherer tribes when you really start looking around the world, they're not all meat eatating. It's only in a few very isolated regions that don't have a choice, you know, like the Inuit and stuff who uh were metabolically horrifically healthy based on the the records we have and what we can find. So, they're a horrible example and they don't count most of our ancestors. The overwhelming majority of us, 99.9% of humans have no ancestry in in humans. So when we start looking back at u you know historic stuff we start finding yeah it's around 80% plants okay 80% plants around 20% animal and that's going to vary like what some of the carbon isotope uh testing has found that in some regions it was as low as 70% plants up to you know 30% animal products right that's on the high end and then in others as much as 95% plants. That's 5% animal. But so there's your point. So what what is our range? And this vary depending upon what we can find in different fossils or or remains and test them. The isotope is going to vary depending upon the region. It's going to depend upon what time period through there it happened. It's going to depend upon what season of the year, right? Because it's this food is going to vary over time even in a given region and from region to region of course, right? the same plants and animals and foods don't exist in the same ratios year round or century after century thousand years apart they can be different not going to be the same same time of year it's definitely not not going to be the same in different regions of the world you know so when we start looking at this on the different continents our average is around it's you know anywhere from 5% animal source up to about 30 that's still a minority but we need to make a note it's always omnivore so we go back and look at paleolithic humans whether it's 5% or 30% at the two extremes of kind of what we're finding with the bit of data we can find of animal source it's still always omnivore it's still always at least 5% animal right but it's always at least 70% plant it's it's always cooked food it's always both plants and animals right but what were they eating well when we go back and look you get all these people who pull this nonsense of well they didn't have grains but they did Every time we find remains of a paleolithic human on any continent, we find grains in their stomach or their GI tract. There's always grains. Grains exist in nature. We cultivate them in large amounts, but grains have existed for all of human existence. We've always eaten them. Okay? But what we find the big time what we hammer down when you start finding what is consistently always eaten, any grains they could find, root vegetables are massive, right? humans have been making for tens of thousands of years. It looks like we've been making stews out of any root vegetable. Any roots we can dig up, we cook the heck out of them. All sorts of tubers and roots. Like that is actually massive in our history. And we see the same thing with a lot of indigenous tribes, too. Man, we dig up any sort of edible root or tuber. We cook the heck out of it. We make all sorts of soups and stews. We throw in whatever meat we can find with it. So, that's actually big. It's almost we joke meat and potatoes, right? That's been staples. Okay. So, any sort of root vegetables, any sort of grains, insects, grubworms, bugs, and then any meat we can find, any sort of an land animal, any sort of bird, any sort of fish, we ate the heck out of it. Whatever we could find, but that was always a smaller percentage. Animal protein is extremely So, I want to make that clear since I'm such a target. No, I'm not trying to be vegan at all. We need animal protein. Like, but it was hard to come by. Hunting was not always successful. Big kills were rare. Like we're not out here hunting woolly mammoths every day, guys. So, you know, a tribe or whatever might not get a big animal for a week or two at a time or less or or even longer, right? So, we got what we could and we always try to get any animal protein in that we could, but it was oftent times bugs just as much as that. Eggs, eggs were a big one. If we could find eggs, those are always a big deal. So any meat we could find, any eggs we could find, any bugs we we ate bugs, but root vegetables, grains, berries, right? Nuts, seeds. So this is where so you really go where were most of our calories because we could only get so much meat. The meat was all lean. So what did they eat? Because they only could get lean protein meat. Like fatty meat didn't exist. So it was literally tubers, root vegetables, any grains we could get, any fruit we could find, any nuts, any seeds. That is what we thrived on. And then any other edible plants. That is what humans ate for tens of thousands of years as the primary. Okay? And this is what the overwhelming amount of evidence shows. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.