What are the signs of overtraining? Hey everybody, it's Jason Baja here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Uh, if you guys would though, please click like down underneath the video. If you aren't following or subscribed, please do so for me. And drop me a comment down under the video just to say hi or to give your thoughts. I would appreciate that so much. Thank you. All right, let's get over to the point. Um, look, I'm big on recovery and I am one of those people who disagrees with this nonsense of people say, "Oh, there's no overtraining. There's only undereing and undersleeping and blah blah blah." Look, this is provably false. Uh, sports scientists, sports doctors um have found this is a diagnosible medical condition. Uh, serious athletes overtrain all the time, right? uh they reach overtraining syndrome which has its own host of problems. People get rehabdo to where when they're they're breaking down so much protein in their body they start peeing blood out. Okay. People tear stuff. We rip stuff off the bone from overuse injuries. These things happen all the time. So when someone's uh utters that nonsense, they do not know what they are talking about. Um, and it's generally people who every time they start to feel a little overtrained, they just up the dose, bro. They just add another cc to the syringe, add another couple pills to the stack. Okay, that's not an option for everybody. That's definitely not an option for people who are drug-free, and it's not an option for people who want to moderate their use if they aren't drug- free. Um, so you can't just do that. Plus, that sounds good in theory till something breaks. we come over to that overuse injury side. You can't use that as a solution. You're burning the candle at both ends. Now, you're like, "Oh, I'm overtraining. I'm I'm I'm getting overuse signs, inflamed tendons. Let's add a drug to the mix that makes me feel better and stronger so I can push through and that makes me stronger. Let's just snap some stuff." Bad idea. All right, but back over to the point. What are the signs and symptoms of overtraining? uh some of it general lethargy, general fatigue, right? That's one of the things you're going to notice. Um you're just not feeling your workouts. Okay? This is your your nervous system kind of telling you it might be time to consider backing down a little bit. And I'm not telling you to delo. I'm not a fan of de loss. Telling you you need to cut your volume and your intensity hair. Um but that's usually a giveaway. You're starting to get real stale in those workouts. Even if you change something, oh, let's change some exercises, you're still there. You don't get a pump as easily anymore. Coming in, you don't get a good pump. You don't feel the muscles the same. Those are big signs. All right. Um, how about we start getting increased doms on the same programming. So, so that's a big one. Um, and I usually tell people DOMS themselves, too, really serious DOMS is a sign that your programming itself isn't ideal. You might want to fire your coach. Uh so one of the things to think about with this is even if you get a little bit of DOMS every now and then, okay, but all of a sudden you didn't change the program. You're doing the same work, same intensity, same volume, and you start getting more and more DOMS, right? This is a problem. These are signs that you're on the edge of overtraining. You're probably not overtrained yet, but you are approaching it. it is time to consider scaling back a little bit what you're doing. All right, as it progresses and gets worse, what are you going to notice? All right, some other things. Um, you're going to notice more inflammation around tendons and joints, right? You're going to have tendons that hurt more than usual. Right? This is signs of overuse, localized overuse. Again, byproduct of certain aspects of overtraining. So, definitely over localized overuse. your patellar tendons hurt, maybe your elbow tendons hurt, things start to hurt, joints start to hurt a little more, and you're starting to notice it. All right? To the point you're like, man, maybe I should put some sleeves or some wraps on it. Uh, bad idea, by the way. Worst worst habit people have ever come up with. This is again how we end up snapping stuff. All right, these are giveaways. This is a sign that there's problems. What we start seeing next beyond that, all right, immune system starts to go down. You get colds easier because overtraining will compromise your immune system. All the elevated cortisol will compromise your immune system. Uh you're going to start sleeping less. You're going to start experiencing insomnia at night. Um you you'll also notice if you get your resting heart rate checked, your resting heart rate will be elevated a considerable amount. So if you're normally 60 or 70, it might be like 90, 85, something like that. Your resting heart rate will go up. Uh at the most extreme ends, you will start getting muscle cramping at night. When you are trying to sleep at night, things like your hamstrings or your lower back will start cramping and wake you up in the middle of the night. Okay? You will also around the time you start getting those cramps, you will absolutely see a decline in strength. Meaning, no, you you won't just stall because stalls happen. Your strength will start to go down. So, in other words, let's say you can normally, you know, bench 275 for five reps, right? Let's say that that's that's like a really heavy solid work set for you. Or you can do, you know, 225 for 10 to 12 reps. You come in, you try to get 225 or 10 to 12. You get like five reps and get stapled like a spotter's having to grab the bar on rep six because you can't you can't you can't lift it. It just sticks on your chest. 275. Let's say you can do it for five. You come in and that that first rep feels like a one rep max and you grind it out and you're like, "Man, what happened?" Right? Uh deadlift, let's say you deadlift, you know, whatever 500 lbs and you're warming up. You grab 405 and it sticks on the floor. You have to go back and make a second try to break it off the floor. Okay? And you're like, "Dude, this is like 80% of what I deadlift." All right? These are all clear signs of overtraining. If you are experiencing these and this is this is the progression of it. But what we see on the front end, you're not motivated when you get to the gym. Your motivation is down. You you need to start taking a pre-workout extra caffeine. You got to crank the music up. Okay, this is not a good sign. This is a sign the fatigue management's getting bad. All right, so that's your first signs. You're losing motivation and you don't get a pump. Again, you don't get the pump. You don't feel the muscles working to the same degree, right? You start getting a little more sore. These are the early warning signs. Like, this doesn't mean that you are overtrained yet. Just an FYI. It means you're on your way and it's time to start adjusting, start changing things. Uh because in the long term, like actual serious overtraining uh is a is a medical issue. In a worst case, can put you in the hospital. Um and again overtraining also particularly at the overuse side for injuries can eventually snap tendons or cause such severe tendinitis that you have to use sleeves or wraps for six months just to train that joint. Okay, this is a problem. This is stuff that we can avoid by just a little bit better fatigue management. And keep in mind, I'm not telling you guys not to train hard. You guys see me squatting 500 lb as a 48-year-old man. Believe me, I believe in hard training. But your body has limits and you have to respect them. And if you don't respect those limits, your body will make you respect them whether you want to or not.