 syeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeyeye triceps and your hamstrings. Like this is something many powerlifting coaches will tell you. Yeah, hit your triceps and your hamstrings if you don't know where your weak links are. Be perfectly fine, right? What about everybody else? What about the guys who are not powerlifters? Because most guys just want to have a good physique. They want to look good naked or at the beach or in a suit or in a t-shirt and shorts, right? They want to be fit. They want to feel good. They want to be strong. They want to be capable, okay? This is most guys and really, really younger guys. I don't care about the lighter. That's because you're really young. You get up into your, get to 35 and your attitude will change real, real quick on that lighter point. Oh yeah, being, feeling good and being strong, right? It's going to matter a lot more. It's going to matter a lot more when you get a little bit older. So let's just go with that. And that's my, most of my audience is not 18 or 20 years old. That's not my, the audience I appeal to. So that being said, let's, let's come back over to those. So, so what are most of those guys? Well, I would say a couple, couple of ways you could look at it, right? A couple of ways you could look at it. A lot of times you guys would be like, so just train biceps. Well, not necessarily. You know, if your biceps aren't lagging, that doesn't necessarily need to be, you know, what you need to, need to isolate. And that's a whole different topic, right? As far as me having done tons and tons and tons and tons of bicep isolation and still never having great biceps. All my best muscle groups are ones I've never bothered to isolate. I just lift heavy, right? But I digress. Back over to other people. Most, most guys. I could, I could give you two cases. If you don't have any weak links, you don't need to isolate anything. You can, you can make that argument. Sure. You can make that case. All right. Yeah. Just train the big movements and get stronger at them. If everything's balanced. Um, or we could make the other case of given that most guys are nowhere near their muscular potential, but prioritizing delts wouldn't be a bad idea. Cause I've said that for a long time, guys, you were chasing more of that classic aesthetic look. Um, V taper, wide shoulders, small waist is really what gives you that, that look. And if you're already doing big movements, your lats are going to grow. Like you guys are doing pull-ups and deadlifts, right? Like if you're on a basic program, cause I would tell a lot of guys, look, your basics, you know, do squat bench, deadlift and a chin up or a pull-up. You'll be pretty good. Well off. So you're already doing deadlifts and pull-ups of some type. Your, your lats are going to grow. Right? We all understand this. So if that's the case, uh, I'm not as worried about the back. It's going to get there anyways, because I tell everyone to get strong at pull-ups. Now, if you aren't doing pull-ups or chin-ups, that, that would be my advice, but, uh, shoulders. So what, what else could you possibly do? Develop the shoulders. Right? So what, what we mean? We don't necessarily just isolate. Like if you don't know where your weak links are there, you, you could prioritize that area then, because if you're nowhere near your, your muscular potential, then that area is going to get you the physique you want a little bit quicker. If it grows, you know, maximally, because, and I always tell guys, don't worry about optimal or maximal. Like as long as you're making good gains, you're, you're good to go. But by saying, Hey, let's, let's isolate a muscle. That's the muscle that you're like, I'm trying to squeeze every last bit. Right? That's, that's the whole point because you can build, you can make 90% of your gains through your whole body really, really easily, really easily off just big movements. Right? Easily. Um, so if we're going to do that, then it makes sense and probably just prioritize your shoulders and the upper chest and all that. But a lot of that overlaps, a lot of shoulder exercises are going to work the upper chest, right? Any sort of incline, definitely, um, overhead pressing, front raises, it all works your upper chest pretty effectively. Actually, chin-ups do too, to some extent, but you could just prioritize those things, right? And I would say for a lot of guys, really, if you just really hammered squat bench deadlift chin-ups, that's going to cover almost everything else. You could just come in and hammer your shoulders. And that would be, well, what all do you mean? Well, you could do big gong bounce and isolation both, you know, that, that would be the one case where I would say, look, guys chasing a better physique might want to just prioritize shoulders. If you're looking for that look, right? More of that beach body aesthetic type look, but you're going to have to be lean. You're going to be leaner than I am right now. Pull that off, like in this video. Um, because you need the waist smaller, about that waist to shoulder ratio. So prioritize your shoulders, lateral raises, front raises, rear delt work, you could overhead press, you could incline, you could do upright rows, do all sorts of stuff. But yeah, I would, I would say in that case, isolating your shoulders. If you don't know where your weak links are, you want to isolate something, you want to spend some extra time somewhere, and you're looking for more of that classic aesthetic look, that's not a bad way to go. In fact, I would argue that's, that's a pretty good approach towards that goal. I could also make the case that if you don't have anything lagging, you could just not bother to isolate anything. You know, especially if you're like, ah, squat, bench, deadlift, chin up, overhead press, because then if you're overhead pressing, shoulders will get plenty of work, especially with those other movements in there. That's totally viable. You could go that route and focus on those five movements as your main priority, probably be fine. Of course, you guys know I love my pullovers here. That works shoulders a lot too. Um, so you have those options. And I would say either one of those is perfectly fine, perfectly reasonable. And again, understand this context. I'm not preparing you guys for bodybuilding shows, right? This is not about bodybuilding prep. I don't compete in bodybuilding. Yes, I've coached some bodybuilders, but that's generally probably the smallest demographic of people I coach. Lots of my clients, as you guys have seen, have great physiques, but they're not bodybuilders per se, right? They're not getting ready to step on the stage, you know, and it makes sense to isolate quite a few different muscles in that situation. But most guys are not doing that. Most guys aren't interested in training two hours a day. Most guys are not interested in bringing out every plane and angle possible at a contest level body fat. They just want to look good. They just want to feel good. They just want to perform good. You know, all three of those, get that trifecta, right? And then they're happy. And so I think either approach can work. Just think about what you want to do with it. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time. Thank you.