the general population does not see lean and ripped as the same thing that the uh online fitness community does. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would greatly appreciate that also. So, you know, this really came uh to mind for me the other day. Who knows how many weeks it'll take before this video is up, but it was a few days, couple days before all this footage was filmed, right? Um, you guys know I had started my cut by then. Um, I'm like four pounds into the cut by that point. Added all my extra cardio. I'm out walking every day doing my my chicken, broccoli, and brown rice bro diet. I'm like, look, I'm going to go ahead and get get really lean. Let's do a serious serious cut. Not even a slow cut. And I'm out doing it. And I was between my live streams. One of the neighbors stop, one of the guys in the neighborhood. He's out walking to lose weight. He's a little overweight. Um he's about my age, you know, and he stops stops me and the first words out of his mouth were, "Do you have a single ounce of fat on your body?" And to me, that was fascinating. I stopped and talked to him for a few minutes. But it's kind of like again just like I come online and you know of course I get people who give me a you know a lot of compliments but then I get a lot of people who are not even normal trolls and haters but various fitness people you're you're really fat your body composition's bad terrible and you know you'll look at some of them and they'll be you know whatever NPC competitors and stuff sometimes and they push this idea but it's kind of like you may get almost as fat as me in your offseason and this is just how I look. I just walk around. It's not like I'm don't have a shirt on all the time. Like for me, I train shirtless year round. I've been doing it for years, a couple years at this point to where I'm always that way. I used to have phases often on where I did. I've haven't gotten to where I just do it and I'm just comfortable with it and I do it and I don't care. Um, and it's just real, right? There's no lighting. It's just my normal garage. It's a regular garage overhead light. The sunlight coming in the door, right? There's nothing special. I don't use, you know, a bunch of fake tan. I don't have any Photoshop because I'm just lifting, right? And you guys see it day in and day out. It's how I just how I look, right? You know, but it's interesting because, you know, you come online and there's this different and it's not just about me. I want to be clear. This is about everybody out here. This whole community has this idea of what they consider fit. And the problem is it's oftentimes unsustainable. And which is also the fascinating point. They really think that people who are just out and about shirtless or training or doing their things or who are fit should should be as lean as the people who are photoshopping or doing extreme unsustainable things to get to that body fat that they can't even stay at. Whereas you take the average person and they see themselves, they see other people, they know other people who might even be fit and they know very few people, even fit people like don't they don't walk around with deep abs all the time, right? But the fitness community would have you believe that all the influencers do that when they may not even have abs six months out of the year at all who get absolutely shredded. And I'm not saying they're not exceptions. There are exceptions. But, you know, realistically, we know that's the case. But then, you know, you come over to the real world and I got the dudes stopping asking me that and again, and people got mad. I got haters. You got mad. No, they didn't. I want you to know, I have really had I have really had women in my age category over 40 say things flat out like, um, you know, you look like a Greek guy, you look like a Greek statue, right? You know, and I think a lot of that is because think about what the average person has been exposed to in their lifetime, say growing up and stuff, right? So, think about the different people. Think about what they've seen even on TV is portrayed as amazing physiques, right? People are like, "Yeah, Arnold Schwarzenegger, right?" But think about what Arnold looked like in Conan, right? To the average person, that was the most jacked, ripped thing they were used to seeing. And that was considered like extremely impressive. Okay. Um WWE wrestling, but think about 80s times like that. Hulk Hogan, you know, or even think about Dwayne Johnson, like The Rock, not what he looks like now, but go back and what he looked like when he was in the WWE. He didn't have abs yet. He was considered to be this sex icon with a great physique and great body. So stop and think about what the average person exposed to her. Think about you know Vin Diesel right when he was coming up or Brad Pitt and Fight Club. These were for previous generations this was what they were exposed to. So take people who are not in the fitness world. We've only recently seen even in action movies you know for younger generations. We've only really seen even leaner physiques and stuff common is a more recent thing. You know like Wolverine for some of the stuff got got pretty ripped, right? But that's the exception. Right? Think of Tom Hardy as Bane. That they wasn't really that lean. Hey, so on and so forth. Um, even Thor. Thor one of the more impressive physiques. So, context of what people outside of the fitness world consider to be a really lean, impressive aesthetic physique. Even from a Hollywood perspective, most of those physiques are not lean by bodybuilding or fitness world standards. In fact, they're oftentimes downright fat, right? You take Bane in there or, you know, in any of this stuff, a lot of times people are looking at go, "Oh, that's kind of fluffy. That's kind of soft." Because we have this whole crazy idea in the fitness world of what we expect and not understanding how many of your fitness icons are doing that assuming there's no Photoshop assuming all the the magical lighting. But the ones who are even staying really lean, how many of them, especially the ones who are doing flexible dieting, how many of them use drugs to suppress their appetite? How many of them are like, I do Clen, I do T3. I I use nicotine gum and nicotine patches just to keep my appetite under control so I can stay this lean. How common is that? Super common. Okay, so here's kind of the point I would point out to people in the fitness world. It's one thing if people are doing it with just discipline. Let's say they really do just eat that clean year round. Um they stay on top of their calorie tracking. They're training that hard, that much cardio. Okay. But how many of them who are still presenting this as obtainable literally have to have Clen and nicotine gum to not lose their deep abs? They they can't even get by. If they quit doing them for a month, they lose it. And because a lot of them still don't have good habits. How many of them still eat garbage diets? Really not even always that healthy. They're still trying to work in a little ice cream and stuff into their macros every day. So, so you see that a lot and it's not sustainable yet. They'll then present it as this is this is what we should be at and then people accept it. You know, the whole fitness community then really pulls this thing of if you're not like they look at any of these amazing physique from past era, especially golden era type bodybuilders, old man that pre the bronze era, they're like, "Man, that guy's kind of tubby." when they were the most legitimate impressive physiques the world had ever seen a couple couple generations ago. This is delusion and people are then promoting you know believing something that is absolutely not sustainable as this is what this is what's considered in shape and normal and it's not. If you have to take appetite suppressing drugs and stimulant drugs to sustain it, if you're at that point to have to sustain it, you don't get to call that fitness. This