Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about deadlifting and the so-called science-based um lifting experts. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. Let's get over to the topic. Um this is one of those things to where you look at a lot of these people who claim to be science-based and their position on the deadlift tells us that they're not science-based at all. right? They just make up whatever nonsense they want to promote their lazy, weak, ridiculous training. And that's what it comes down to. And the reason I say that um because if we look at any of the science, and I'm not saying exercise science is particularly good is it is it pertains to muscle growth, bodybuilding, things like that. We know uh it's not the best field of science. It really isn't. um it's it's questionable at best its ability to draw the conclusions it does. But if these people are going to claim to be science-based, they have to work with the evidence that they have. And when you see so many of these guys who say nonsense like, well, you know, the conventional deadlift is not a particularly good or a good hypertrophy exercise at all. You have to look at that and go, what are you guys talking about? Okay, there's no evidence there. Let me be clear. There is zero scientific evidence to support this position. Okay, let let us be clear. So, when they say this, where do they come up with this? They they come up with this idea because one, they're lazy AF. Every one of these guys are essentially biohackers. like, "Oh, I just want to train really, really, really, really, really lazy and find ways to cheat around it and just get big anyways, right?" Wink wink. But the reality is hard work matters and they can't biohack their way around that. So, what you see with a lot of these these so-called science-based guys, they'll say this, but I'm like, "Well, where's your proof?" Well, because we have some theories, we have some hypothesis. because we have some limited data that shows on on various muscles lengthen position and stretch position movements producing better hypertrophy. We have some ideas on stimulus to fatigue. Okay, fine. So you have some some hypothesis that are subject to a great deal of debate still and that's your reason for saying the deadlift isn't a great exercise for building muscle. But what do we see when it's ever been studied? The problem is you don't have scientific evidence. You're extrapolating hypothesis. Okay? You've got to produce actual studies that show all these other exercises outperform it in terms of muscle growth over several months in order to make that statement. And the evidence for that just isn't there. There's been very very little evidence looking at this. And what does it usually find? It's quite the opposite. Um, there was only I've only seen like one major muscle growth study on the deadlift and the deadlift produced phenomenal muscle growth. It even it beat the squat when they were compared headto head, including the upper body group. Significant amounts of upper body growth. Okay? And that's kind of the point. People will say stuff like, "Well, the deadlift doesn't really build the back or other stuff. It's it's a all glute and hamstring and to some extent quad." But we know that it grows those things, right? We know that it grows those things quite effectively. But when it's studied, it grows the upper body. The upper body grew in in um MRI studies significantly from progressive overload on deadlifts. Okay. The same thing when you look at any form of EMGs, right? So muscle activation and I'm not saying EMG always correlates to hypertrophy is is you know your your gold standard by any means it doesn't but it does show you know muscle activation and every time the conventional deadlift or some proxy of it you know like a a rack pull or whatever is is looked at what do they find? Things like lat activation are through the roof. Light activations through the roof. Okay. So, the same thing, hamstring activation through the roof. The deadlift shows high degrees of muscle activation. The the very limited research looking at hypertrophy, it showed profound hypertrophy and muscle growth. So, when these people say this, where's your evidence? It's like if they're going to say, "Oh, I'm this science-based guy." No, you're just a lazy piece of That's all you are. That's really all you are. You're just lazy. Not science-based because you don't have science to back it, right? They don't have actual science to back this statement about the deadlifts. They'll extrapolate, well, this other stuff on stretch was. Yeah, but no, no, no, no. show studies on the deadlift, show that these other exercises are beating it. Well, they can't because the limited stuff shows superior muscle activation, superior hypertrophy, and the few limited studies looking at it. Okay, how about the real world? So, then we set that back and say, well, you know, uh, since we don't have studies, all we have is the real world and there's there's plenty of really small elute powerlters. Not really. Yeah, you don't see that. OG bodybuilders. How many of the best bodybuilding champions historically deadlifted? And they deadlifted a lot. Arnold Schwarzenegger, Franco Columbo, Ronnie Coleman, Jay Cutler, all had 600 plus pound deadlifts. Every last one of those guys. Every one of them could deadlift over 600 pounds and did. They all won Mr. Olympias. How about before gear became really prevalent? Okay, Reg Park, Steve Reeves, but even even Reg Park, 700 pound deadlifter. He believed the deadlift created large amounts of hypertrophy. He was top bodybuilder in the world in his era. Hey, do we see the problem with these ideas? The deadlift is a time proven exercise for getting you big and thick and dense. We're talking proven all the way back in the 50s and 60s. It was a mainstay among the champions. We've seen all these Mr. Olympias who did it. People say, "But you can't use the anecdote. We have to use science." Well, all the science shows the same thing. So, where are they getting this nonsense? It only comes down to well because there's no stretch position loading. The second you take that part out and if anything becomes about mid-range or shortened position, we have superior tension in a whole lot of muscles, particularly the back and posterior chain. Okay. Yeah. It's not going to build the best pecs and biceps. Sure. I think we all understand that. What about all these other muscles? Yeah, absolutely. It will make you thick. it will make you thick as hell. So again, they're not based. They have no evidence. They're not sciencebased. They're based. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.