Do not neglect muscle groups while you work on weak points. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, it'd be greatly appreciated if you're not following or subscribe. Please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to uh drop a comment down below, I would greatly appreciate that. And maybe let me know what your weak points are. And I think that would be a great thing for people to mention, you know, where they feel their weak points are. And and I don't think this applies to uh just bodybuilding. It can apply to powerlifting, strength, sports. In other words, when you have something that you know you want to bring up or you need to bring up because it's been undertrained or neglected, um I think one of the worst things you can do is to back off completely on other stuff, right? And to just stop training it. And and I see that a lot. I'll see you guys who will say silly stuff like, "Well, you know, um, my arms are really dominant and my chest sucks. Coach, could I just quit training my arms while my chest catches up?" Anyone see how silly that is? And I know their logic where they're like, "How about I quit training legs while my upper body catches up if they're if they're like that?" Or I've seen people who say, "I really need to bring my squats and deadlifts up in my legs. um can I cut back and just do my whole upper body maybe once a week for a couple sets? And uh they just want to start skipping stuff and take it down below any sort of effective volume. And when you ask people why they want to do this, uh they'll say stuff like, well, you know, because I I just don't want to use up resources on the on the the main muscle group. If I just back off, it'll need less calories. It it won't use up the protein. And it's like the protein one is is a really strange take. Um are you only eating 50 grams of protein? Like what what you're worried about losing a gram of protein eat half a slice of bread, you know, and and people like think about that for a minute. People, you do know that we eat all the protein due to keep certain things with our thermic effect, our our amino acid pull and everything going. very little protein that you eat contributing to actual new tissue growth. Like, and and I don't think people get that, you know, they're thinking, "Oh man, I bet at least 20, 30 grams of the protein a day I eat going to build new muscle." No, it's like two grams, guys. Okay? That's why muscle growth caps at a certain point. It's lower than we think it does, but then there's other metabolic benefits. Like we don't we don't usually eat really high protein to gain more muscle. It doesn't pass a fairly low threshold about 1.6 grams or so per kilogram of body weight. Okay. A lot of times you're doing it for satiety, uh metabolic benefits, um you know, thermic effect, right? Controlling hunger, controlling, you know, get energy in, energy out. In fact, I'd make the case that if someone's struggling to gain muscle and struggling to gain body weight, like they can't gain anything, uh like too much protein would be not be a good thing. Um because protein's great for fat loss and retaining muscle like large amounts uh due to suppressing appetite, higher thermic effect, you know. So, but people get this idea like no, you're not wasting resources. I mean, and how much do you really think you're spending on the growing? Are you struggling to eat? You know, so when someone says that, my my thoughts are, are you struggling to eat enough? Like, well, then I'm just thinking maybe I could just eat at maintenance and the weak particle, but that's going to that you're going to grow at maintenance anyways, and backing off on the other is not going to help you. Um, and and it's just not wise. And I'm not saying uh to push the the strongest body parts to their absolute limits all the time. Yeah. I mean, it makes sense to back off, right? Even see me doing that a little bit. my lower body, uh, you know, my squats, my deadlifts and stuff do outpace my upper body a little bit. And since I'm doing some of my old school stuff, I'm doing closer to maintenance type while I'm cutting on the lower body. I'm I'm coming in just doing Widowmaker squats. Really just one top set of squats three times a week. And and then deadlifts, obviously quads, but really that's my quad work at the moment, you know, and make sure I do calves every day. Uh but you know, realistically that's still a reasonable training response, right? We're not just not training the legs. We're not pushing hard sets, right? We're not pushing volumes too low to get get an adaptation. So that's kind of the point with some of that. You're not completely backing off ever on anything. Like you don't definitely don't quit training it. I've seen people do that. They're just like, "Well, you know, could I just do and then but their idea of maintenance is is much less like it's like taking sets three, three, four reps from failure and doing one or two sets." No, you need to actually train them. But can your weaker links get some higher priority? Yeah, absolutely. You know, adding a few extra sets, pushing the sets a little harder. Yeah, absolutely. And there's not necessarily anything wrong with that as long as you're not overtraining those things. And I think we have to keep that in mind, too. Are you pushing those those muscles until we're getting tendon issues? You know, are you having are you having problems there? Uh well, you need to think about those things and be aware of those things. Uh you absolutely need to be thinking about those things. But if you're not taking them to the point where you're having that, sure. But here's the problem. when you back off on the other stuff, you're going to potentially create other muscle imbalances. Okay? Uh and I think people forget about that, too. They're not thinking about the fact that those other muscle groups may be important support muscles for the stuff you're doing, okay? They're going to affect the balance of everything. And sometimes it's going to adjust your form and things on other stuff. Okay? So, if you have certain muscles that you're backing off on enough that they're shrinking, which is the concern, right, that they're shrinking or getting weaker and then you're losing certain stabilizers you might need. Again, there's no point in that. And the and and I think the thing that people forget, it's not like training your legs is going to make your arms grow slower. It's not like training your arms is going to make your legs grow slower. Okay? Could we be looking at total systemic recovery? Sure. Like let's say you're like I'm doing, you're in a calorie deficit. Yeah, you can only do so much leg work, heavy leg work, you know, because again recovery factors, but doesn't mean you shouldn't train legs, obviously. Um, so again, people get these strange ideas about uh just not training, and I've seen it a lot, and it's really strange to where they're like, can I just skip this or take it down to just training it once a week with almost no real work? And it's like, no, don't don't do that. Don't short change yourself. If you have a weak point, keep training at least your minimum volumes to see growth because you still need your strong muscle groups to make some progress like of course you do. Just put more effort into the areas where you need more work, right? And that's even could be things like more stuff to get blood flow to them, more band work and stuff to those areas to help them recover with some active recovery, build blood flow, tendons, right? things like that because that can be just as much of a problem as anything. So again, this idea of not training dominant body parts to work on weak links, um I I can't get behind that from a muscle balance or an injury uh risk perspective. It just doesn't make sense because it's not going to help the other muscles grow faster. Training them is going to make them grow faster.