Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And if you guys would please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so and drop me a comment down below. Let's get over to the topic. All right. Um I hate it when evidence-based people and influencers say, "Well, for hypertrophy, uh you know, if hypertrophy is our only goal, because that really is almost nobody's only goal." Okay, so these are people who are trying to cater to people who claim to only care about bodybuilding, which is less people on Earth than most of them have followers. So, it really is a ludicrous position because there just aren't that many competitive bodybuilders. Um, and so when people say this nonsense like, well, I I don't care about athleticism. I don't care about strength. I don't care about performance. I don't care about bone density. Um, if someone says that, I quite frankly think they're an ignoramus. Okay, let's just be honest here. They're an idiot. That person is a flatout Why? You're telling me you don't care about any of these things? So, you're training just for competitive bodybuilding with no concern of this other stuff. You don't care about your health. You don't care if you have bone density later, if you live longer, you have lower cancer. Like, you don't care about any of this. So when someone says this nonsense when we're picking exercises for training, my response to them is, "Okay, so you use three grams of train a week." They're like, "God, no. That would be horrible. In fact, I'm natural." Why? Well, because I care about my health. Okay, but if you only cared about hypertrophy, you would be using two grams of TR a week. Okay, let's be clear on that. If you only cared about hypertrophy, you would use enough anabolics and drugs and insulin to where you'd be dead in five years because you only care about hypertrophy. See, that's why the problem with the statement, they don't actually really believe that. So, this is an excuse to be lazy with their training. And this is why I tell people stuff like, look, big structural exercises matter, right? Weighted body weight movements matter. Why? Because we get athleticism. we get bone density, we get all these things out of them. And I think what people miss in this conversation, they still build muscle. Okay? So, so we need to be clear on this. Does anybody out here legitimately believe deep full range of motion back squats don't put a lot of muscle on people? Like, is this is this really in question? Because all the evidence because if we come back over to the point they make, well, muscles only care about tension. Well, yeah, you get a hell of a lot of tension from that. I mean, how many studies do we see the glute and quad growth from squats being phenomenally good? Okay, anyone out here claiming that weighted dips and weighted pull-ups don't build enormous amounts of muscle? Or was this really the claim? Okay, are we really going to make that claim? Because they do build muscle. So if that's not if they don't build muscle, then the whole claim of muscles only care about tension is false. So then you're you're throwing your own premise out the window because you get a hell of a lot of tension on the glutes and the quads on a full squat. Okay? You get a hell of a lot of tension on the pecs and the triceps with full range of motion weighted dips. You get a hell of a lot of tension on the lats and a lot of other muscles with a full range of motion weighted pull-up. I'm just using these three as examples. Does anyone really and truly believe machines are going to build more muscle? I don't think so. You could argue there's less loading in certain areas. You could argue stuff with stimulus to fatigue, but are you really going to claim there's less stimulus? Uh that would be a heck of a claim. So, let's come over to that point. So the point is all these other factors equal these exercises build tons of muscle and let's come over to that other point. You can't build big enough legs with squats as a primary. I'm not saying not to do look if you want bigger legs and you want to add some leg presses and things by all means. I I don't see a problem. Let me be clear. I think that's a great idea. But you're going to claim squats don't build legs. They don't build muscle. you're being ridiculous. So, let's come over to the rest of this. Well, what about the other stuff? Cuz if you tell me that you don't care about your health or longevity or all these other factors, but then you also tell me you're not willing to to use copious amounts of trend and other drugs, then I don't believe you because those will put a lot of muscle on you. So, let's come over and let's talk about the other things. Um, you're already training. So, if you're already going to go to the gym, you're already training, you're already there. Why aren't people thinking about the plethora of other benefits that they could get? Why aren't they thinking about the plethora of other benefits that they could be getting? All right. What else do squats do? So, what do squats do that leg presses and things don't do? And keep in mind, I'm I like leg presses. I'm not being anti- leg press. I'm not even being anti-machine here. bone density. The bone density, the structural loading, squats, deadlifts, barbar, these standing movements, they load the spine, they create massive amounts of bone density, that heavy, that heavy weight improves bone density. Do you understand how valuable that is with age? Do people understand how valuable these structural loading exercises are? All right. Well, how about athleticism? movements that move your body through space create improved coordination, improved athleticism. All right? Are people telling me they they don't care about being athletic at all? You don't want to just be fit and athletic also. Right? This stuff these are great movements and and again I that's why I hate this if I well if we only care because who really only cares? The only people who are even really and truly saying that is competitive bodybuilders. And it's almost and it's spun as if these movements don't build massive amounts of muscle. It's almost being spun as if you have to pick these weighted body weight movements like I listed, they all build coordination and athleticism, right? What's wrong with doing some sled work? What's wrong with doing some squats? What's wrong with doing some some dips and pull-ups and things? They're great for athleticism, right? They make you more coordinated, makes you better. So, what happens if you do need to do anything athletic? Oh my god, God forbid you should go have to pick something up or move something or ever have to run or jump or anything. There's no downside, okay? There's no downside. And the problem is they're trying to sell this to the kids as is a bodybuilding thing. And a lot of these younger guys, well, I really only care about the gains. You're not going to feel that way in 15 years. Okay? And I'm saying that as a 48-y old man making this video, you are not going to feel that way later. And if you really think that you do, like I'm sorry, but you're a silly child. If you're making that statement, this is why I'm like, it's a statement of an ignoramus. You're a silly child. If you really and truly believe that you're not going to care about these things later, you're going to. So yes, you do need to include these movements. It is going to pay off for you later in life. And I'm not saying not to do the machines and other stuff you want. I'm not telling you not to do that. What I'm telling you is you do need to do these other movements and this nonsense line of well if only care about hypertrophy which is literally not really any rational reasonable person on the face of the earth. Right? It's a silly straw man argument and it has no place and I won't humor it.