When fitness influencers tell you that all diet approaches work through a calorie deficit, and if you just get through a calorie deficit, you will lose body fat, it's a problem. Hey everybody, it's Jason Lawa here. And I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, it would be greatly appreciated. If you're not following or subscribed, please do so and drop me a comment with your own experience with this. All right. Um, this kind of frustrates me to no end because the fact of the matter is, yes, it's obviously true. Number one. Number two, it's also obviously true that counting your calories isn't necessary to lose 50 or 100 pounds. Okay. So, this is the problem we run into and I think it's really an issue when uh fitness personalities who've never been fat, they've never been obese, uh start with this and and they say, "Well, you know, this diet only works. It all works through a calorie deficit as long as you eat a calorie deficit. You can eat whatever you want and you can eat working on whatever treats, whatever junk food." They always say this stuff, right? Um and you can tell they have never been fat. You can tell they have never been fat a day in their life. I have been over 300 lbs before I got into lifting. Um, so I kind of know the difference here. Now, is it obviously true that other than burning very small amounts of fat through recomposition, which can be done without a deficit, but you're not going to lose 20 pounds. Okay, that's we need to be clear. You're going to lose a pound possibly here or there with recmping. Yeah, that can be done without a deficit, but any significant fat loss uh or particularly the scale going down beyond water weight. Sure, of course it requires a calorie deficit. It's basic biology, right? This is understood. However, the point that they are missing with some of this is people have to deal with their appetites. And a lot of the very popular dietary approaches or structured approaches that people take, whether they choose to do, you know, the higher fat, lower carbohydrate, hopefully with healthier fats, not some bacon butter nonsense, um, or they choose to do a really lowfat diet or a brown rice and chicken and vegetable diet or a paleo diet, whatever approach it is that they are attempting to use. Okay, there's a reason these become popular. They become popular because they're easier for people to reach the calorie deficit. Um, and I think when they're giving this advice, they're forgetting that number one, calories in and calories out are not always equated. In other words, people say, "Oh, you just have to find your calorie maintenance." Um, and then and just eat a a small deficit or whatever without factoring in that what you eat will determine your maintenance. In other words, and I think people miss this point big time. And we know this from various overfeeding studies. Okay? Your your calorie maintenance could vary 500, 700, 800 calories just based upon what you are physically eating. Okay? The thermic effect of your food, the nutrient partitioning of your food affects that. In other words, um if you were eating specific foods with a low thermic effect, right? very low thermic effect, not much happening in terms of nutrient partitioning and stuff. Your your maintenance might be, you know, 2700 calories doing a given amount of exercise, but if you eat different foods, it might be 3,200. It could be big. It could be significant. Um, and I think people forget that your energy output and your exercise ability is going to be affected by what you eat also. So, not just a thermic effect, but these other things. So, no, it isn't that simple. And I think when they say this stuff, a lot of them are then implying, oh, you can just eat, you know, work this junk in and you can work the treats in and enjoy the foods that you want in moderation, except that they're going to negatively affect the calories out. Okay? Versus if you just ate whole foods and have a high thermic either lots of fiber, fiber actually increases thermic effect and energy out or more protein affects energy out. And they're not factoring in the satiety factor. And this is the problem when they make these suggestions. It is simply about that when the reality is when you're dealing with people who struggle with being overweight or who have various binge eating issues, it's not a simply a matter of counting their calories is the solution. They have to have structured we they not they we I am one of those people have to have some sort of structured approach to control intake to control appetite. And that means certain foods like p picking bulky high satiety foods. In other words, watermelon or potatoes being an example of still, you know, calorie foods that we can function on because you're not going to live on broccoli, guys. Sorry. I could say vegetables and things. Sure. Sure they'll fill you up, but you're also may not get enough energy. Um, but you know, let's say we're picking something like that and you look at the food volume or the satiety of say 500 calories of watermelon or cantaloupe or potatoes. Okay, these are phenomenal foods. Why? Because they're bulky yet they still have great uh, you know, there's still enough energy density that you can use them as real calories, but they have a very high satiation. They're hard to overeat. They make you feel full. They have a lot of stomach volume, okay, while still being pretty flavorful. I mean, potatoes aren't bad. Even boiled potatoes really aren't that bad. Watermelon, cantaloupe, great. You know, berries, stuff like this versus, hey, let's try to eat 500 calories of cake and work that in or ice cream. Okay, you you have to understand that difference. It's an enormous difference. So when they're they say these things with the point they're missing is you're spitting the obvious truth but you're not giving it to people in a practical pragmatic manner. it have. You can't just drop that. And people do that and they act like they're dropping some magic revelation, but it's like the person has successfully lost 25 pounds already following the approach that you're making fun of or saying is unnecessary and they're being successful and they're still possibly eating a healthy whole foods. Okay? And so then this person is messing with their success by pointing this out when the reality is they were doing just fine without you, Mr. goofball influencer who wants them to eat um you know a Ben & Jerry's ice cream every day or whatever nonsense you're promoting. Uh they were doing just fine without you following this other approach. And I get it if it's a harmful approach like you could say, "Hey, you know, doing that version of keto you're doing, you know, eating, you know, all that bacon and butter probably not ideal. You should probably have some vegetables in there and get rid of some of that." Okay, I get that if they're doing something potentially harmful in the long term, but if they're not and they just happen to be, oh, you're silly paleo or whatever you're doing, it's like, well, you know, the guy's over here eating lean cuts of steak and potatoes and vegetables. You know what the person's over here eating? Sweet potatoes and a a a fairly lean sirloin steak, you know, with a few vegetables on the side. and they're being successful and you're calling it out saying, "Really, you don't have to do all these step?" And they might have been doing it without even counting calories and it's working. So, why does this influencer need to knock it? Is that they try to show their superior knowledge, but they don't show a practical application. What we need to be telling people is, yes, calories matter, but it's a lot easier to eat a calorie deficit if you eat all these filling foods. In fact, it's a lot easier if you don't worry about any of this. Oh, I'm going to do 20% junk food, all this nonsense in moderation. For people who've been fat, that is actually way more difficult for people who have serious appetite issues. Okay, that's more difficult for the majority, for probably 70% of them. So, just stop and let people use their structured high satiety whole foods diets in peace or at least educate them while doing it. They do need to look at society.