Seed oils and whole grains are not inflammatory in humans. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder if you guys will please click like down below. Be greatly appreciate it. If you're not following or subscribe, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I greatly appreciate that. Now, when I make this statement, so people are going to get upset. They're going to argue. They're not going to like it. Um, and please note, I am not stating necessarily other health benefits or anything else. I am not telling you to eat seed oil. We're simply discussing this complete fabricated lie, not based on reality that is used to demonize certain foods. And I'm again, I am not telling people to eat a bunch of seed oils. So, let's be clear. It it would literally be the equivalent. So, this is going to be hyperbole of course. If someone told you, um, crack doesn't cause AIDS and then you say, "No, so you're pro crack. You're telling people to smoke crack." I'm like, "No, I'm just telling you this myth that's floating around that crack causes AIDS isn't true. Doesn't mean it's good for you or there's not other negative effects. Just AIDS is not one of them." Okay? Hopefully, we understand what we're saying here. And I hate to use a hyperbole like that, but if you don't, dud the message doesn't come across and I still guarantee you someone will come in telling me how horrible seed oils are and blah blah blah and they can't believe I'm promoting them. Okay. Now, all right. Now, I digress over to the point. Um, when we look at either one of these and then we can discuss what what human studies have shown, the entire concept of either of them being inflammatory is the presence of lic acid omega6. It's our primary omega6. By the way, lic acid is essential. You will die if you eat zero. So, it is it is one of those two essential fatty acids. Alpha linic acid is the other. And poor people say, "What about EP and DHA?" They're not essential. We can make them out of ALA. People say, "But it's not super efficient." Doesn't have to be. We still don't have to consume them to survive. Make sense? We can still technically live without consuming them. You will die if you consume zero lanic or alpha lenic acid. Let's be clear on that. These are essential fatty acids. They are required in at least trace amounts or your body will die without them. You will die. So again, you have to have them to sustain life to at least trace amounts. You need more than trace amounts for optimal health. All right. So that being said, there was a hypothesis um because they noted that some of these foods uh like large amounts of it, not necessarily given great like rice, brown rice and oats were not giving rats inflammation by the way. We're talking about concentrated uh lic acid. Yeah, this where this whole concept came from. Like wow, it raises inflammatory markers in. And they figured out why. They're like it doesn't make sense because a lic acid should be anti-inflammatory. That's people have to remember like the lenic acid itself is anti-inflammatory in mammals in general. Okay, we we do need to understand that it is not an inflammatory pro-inflammatory in terms of net effect of fatty acid. All right, but in the rodents it was showing some mild inflammation. Well, they noted that the rodents were converting a lot of it to arachidonic acid, which is pro-inflammatory, right? There's no arachidonic acid found in any of these oils. Like, it's never found in plants. It's in some animal foods. Um, it's not in plants, but the rats are making it. And it's the Okay, you guys ready? The same pathway everyone talks about EPA and DHA. Okay? Right? the same pathway, the exact same pathway that turns alpha lanic acid into EPA, like well down further down the chain, it turns it into other stuff first. Um, is the same pathway that your body converts linic acid into arachidonic acid. Same same process. All right, here's what it turned out. Humans do it at a much much much lower rate. Just like you know people say it's really inefficient the the conversion of a of ALA to EP and DHJ so is the other conversion in humans in fact it's so much so that what we find is that when humans are given significant amounts of it because it's been studied in the lab even the seed oils. So, let's come over to the seed oils cuz the grains totally anti-inflammatory, right? Whole grains always reduce inflammation. Study after study after study after study. The researchers don't even debate this anymore. That was a quack nonsense that guys used to sell books based on the same theory from the trace amounts of lenic acid. There's not a lot in your grains. You dude's already eaten 30 pounds of weed a day. All right, so I digress. What they found is that the conversion is so low that guess what the net effect is anti-inflammatory. In other words, yes, we can convert large amounts of of if we're given large amounts, we can convert a little bit into arachidonic acid. Okay? But when the inflammatory responses are measured, keep in mind we have pro and anti-inflammation happening all the time in the body. is the net balance. Did the amount of anti-inflammation exceed the inflammation? Here's what they find. Even in seed oils are given like just straight up drinking canola oil and I'm serious on this inflammation goes down slightly. You'll say why that doesn't make sense. It's got whatever because we don't care about those other. No one's talking about the other stuff happening with it. We're talking just the inflammation. Hey, not saying you can't get fat. It's actually the only real concern is that you can get fat from it. And and I do mean that. Now, people talk about carcinogens from the ultra high temp. Well, we're just talking about the stuff straight out the bottle. We're not talking about the deep fryer McDonald's. You can't you're not going to reach those temps in your home kitchen, by the way. You're generally not going to do that. Again, not telling you to do it because it's going to make you fat. But back over to that point. So setting aside all that other stuff, but but you're talking about carcinogens from high temperature burning of a food in deep fryers, nothing to do with inflammation. Carcinogens are not inflammation. Okay? They're cancer-causing, not the same. These are two different things. So, but back over to that point, okay? And by the way, beef tallow at those same temperatures is carcinogenic also. Just an FYI. It will also give you cancer of the butt. All right. What they find inflammation goes down. Why? The anti-inflammatory effects of the linic acid is strong enough to completely counter and surpass the inflammation caused by the small amount of it that converts to arachidonic acid. It's such a small amount that the net effect is anti-inflammatory. Okay. The net effect is anti-inflammatory mildly and this is what's been found consistently, you know. So, so anyone who's like, well, what about for there's companies funding this? Nah, not really because big grain and all and big soy all these. You got to remember these companies are making money off the the livestock industry too. It doesn't matter to them. they there's there's no financial incentive and but the problem is these studies aren't just from America they're from other countries we're talking Asian countries European countries so on and so forth is not an American phenomenon just be aware of that and the data is very clear on