Bro, diets are vastly successful. But why? Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment down under the video, I would appreciate that also. So let's get over to the topic. Uh bro diets. What do we mean by that? You know, again, the chicken, chicken, broccoli, and rice, right? Chicken, rice, broccoli type diet. Now, that doesn't mean that's what you have to eat specifically. But why does it work? Why do so many bodybuilders successfully do this? To get jacked, to get lean, to get everything else. Um, you know, and many though in in later days have often gone to adding some extra healthy fats in. Uh, which again, perfectly acceptable. So, why does this work? Um because the whole diet is geared towards controlling appetite, portion control, and uh maximizing what you need for building muscle while minimizing fat. And and stop and think about it. What do we know about uh fat storage, for example? Okay, this isn't even subject to debate. This is where the fat dieters uh have to drop their nonsense because they lose. They lose in this area because they know the science wins. They know the anecdote wins. Sorry, guys. Way too many bodybuilders got completely shredded on these types of diets walking into shows being literally the leanest human beings on earth because they get the body fats that are not sustainable. They get so lean that they die if they stay there doing this sort of diets. So again, let's be clear. Let's be clear. How do we store fat? fat we eat. What fats stored most efficiently? Saturated fats, then monoto, then poly. Okay, everybody understand that? This this is it isn't even a debatable point. By the way, this has been studied. We study we store those most efficiently. A diet like this, any way you break it down, tends to be really low fat. And if they do add extra fats, they're almost always healthy fats. They tend to be lower in saturated fats. Okay. So the stuff that gets stored most efficiently already out. We don't store carbohydrates under our skin ever. If we do it small amounts viscerally, right? Again, been displayed, tested, they can't get us to do it in when they try to get it in the lab or we measure it. Even carbohydrate massive overfeeding, it only stores uh viscerally. It does not store subcutaneous. All right. So, we have to be clear here. Every single gram of fat that you see under your skin came from dietary fat. All of it. Not most of it, not some, all this has been found at carbon isotope testing. All right. So, the diets tend to be lower in fat. And if they do add fats, they add healthier fats. And those healthier fats can tend to promote insulin sensitivity to go along with the higher carbohydrates. All right. Um, of course the chicken part that makes sense. Protein. Protein helps us build muscle. Protein helps us burn fat. So it's always, you know, chicken, rice, broccoli. But this could be a proxy for any lean meat, starches, vegetables. But again, the rice works well because of easy portion control. Okay? Absolute easy control of your calories. And in other words, that is your calorie gain. So most bodybuilders have always shot force. They're like, "Well, I for one gram of protein per pound of body weight, so it's whatever." They they eat a kilogram of chicken. All right? And then they might throw us some protein shakes or whatever, but that's that tends to be static. So then what do they adjust for intake? Uh the rice. You want to gain weight, they add more rice. If you want to lose weight, they cut back some of the rice because that's your main calorie. All right? And I've seen bodybuilders do this. are like, "I don't even count calories." People are like, "How how are you bulking?" And then how are you cutting for shows without counting calories? They're like, "I just eat more or less." Well, people don't understand. They're like, "Well, you're not counting. How do you know the amount of rice they eat? All right. The amount of rice they eat. And then you get people go, I'd get bored on this sort of That's why a lot of times coaches and other people for people on these sort of diets, they'll let them have a cheat meal every two weeks or something. And you don't have to get bored. You know, you're going to get a cheat meal. This approach is absurdly successful. His approach is absurdly successful. People get jacked and lean and ridiculously so on this sort of protocol. I mean it's coaches still I know coaches out there who use it to this day. They're like yeah literally I just have my people we adjust the rice intake. So then why rice? It's cheap. It's easy to make it taste good. It's easy to cook and it's perfect portion control. Okay. Because there's no variation. Meaning if you're measuring dry cups of rice, you're you're not really going to get it wrong, you know? So if you know that at this point to roughly hit what you need for calories you need whatever three cups, four cups, five cups, whatever happens to be of the rice every day, you have perfect portion control because if if people are like why I need more food volume, they just add more vegetables and and that's a big one. Yes, we always want lots of vegetables in our diet. We need vegetables. It's very obvious why. I'm not going to spend this whole video discussing the value of vegetables. If you don't understand you need vegetables in your diet or the health benefits, you have bought into some crazy weird quack stuff and you should probably go talk to a therapist. My advice. All right, but over to the point. I digress. If they're getting too hungry, they just add more vegetables to all of it because vegetables, the calories are largely negligible. I hate it when people say, "Oh, you got to track the calories from vegetable." No, you don't. shut up because they stay constant and we tend to absorb very little of the calories. Sorry, broccoli, spinach, stuff like that. I get it if you're talking potatoes, right? But there's then your your next appetite control. If you're struggling to get enough of the rice in and it's easy to get plenty of white rice, it's easy on this is all easy on the stomach, too, by the way. Um, what happens? Well, you can just cut the vegetables back to the minimum amount you need for health. You're like, well, I really only need this amount of broccoli to get my vitamin C and stuff. Let's just trim it to here. Okay. And like, you know, so you can trim some of the more filling vegetables back. If you're getting too hungry because you reduce the rice, you literally just add more vegetables. Okay. Again, absurdly effective. This is how you handle the appetite control. All right. So, when people say, "Oh, I don't see how this works and I get more this and that." It's like it works and it works extremely well. So, again, people need to to understand that. And I get it. Some people for some of these, you know, they do want some extra healthier fats and nutrition. Well, that's when they add, you know, usually some natural peanut butter or some avocado. Again, just talk about how do you get someone big who's struggling to eat enough? Well, the same approach works when you add peanut butter. Problem solved. All right, guys. That's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.