All right, let's talk a little bit about six direct sets a week and what that actually means. Uh, hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you are not following or subscribe, please do so. And if you will drop a comment down under this video just to say hello or give your thoughts, I would appreciate that also. So, thank you so much. All right, let's get over and and let's talk about this stuff. I've been doing some of my own training. Um, so when we get on the topic of six total direct sets a week, so let's say you do it all in one workout or you split it up in the week and do three sets twice a week, you depending on whether you're doing like an upper lower or three-day pushpull legs or whatever you happen to be doing. Um, and a lot of people say six sets doesn't sound like a lot. Uh, but what they're not factoring in, um, is overlap. Okay, is overlap. Um, now in my case, a lot of times I'm not even counting one set of squat or deadlifts towards any of that. Those add up very, very fast, too. I don't think people understand if you did six sets of squats and six sets of deadlifts every week, how much ridiculous amount of muscle stimulus that is. Um, but I digress. So, perfect example, let's just take some upper body stuff. So, let's say uh you know in a workout you do bench press um a laying extension or a pullover, right? Like the sort of extension you'll see me doing. Uh some pull-ups, some type of curl and some sort of shoulder exercise. Could be a lateral, it could be an upright row, whatever. Okay, you do three sets of each of that. Does that really mean each muscle only got three three sets? No, of course not. Of course not. So that's what people aren't realizing the amount of splashover, especially if most of your stuff is compound movements. All right. So perfect example. I mean, look at this this extension I'm doing here. There's a very serious pullover component to that. Did anyone think there is zero stimulus to the pecs or the lats? Go grab a 100 plus pounds on a lift like that like I'm doing and start cranking out reps and then come back and tell me you do not feel your pecs and your lats light up. And this is the point we're making. So yes, the bench press is working the front delts. Okay, obviously it's working the chest as a primary mover. All that's being hit. Triceps are still getting worked. Again, we've got plenty of studies that show the bench press grows the triceps. It doesn't grow the triceps as much as it grows the pecs. Okay, that's what what data has shown. The extension grows the long head way more. Uh but the lateral head of the tricep actually grows really really effectively from benching. So does the medial. Fact, you can get pretty pretty dang near close to optimal stimulus out of pressing with a with a fair if you do a decent amount of benching. So you see where we're going with that? There's overlap. So then what happens? Um, so let's say you do a pull-up and let's say you do some sort of extension like that or a pullover, anything else. I mean, that's not just three sets for your pecs and lats, okay? Not just three sets for your triceps either, is it? No, of course not. Of course not. Because we're using bigger movements and those bigger movements equate to what? More stimulus. Um, and it is it does carry over. So, that's the thing. Yeah, it may not work as a primary. You're not going to build off of an extension like that. You may not build the biggest uh pecs or lats in the world, but they're going to get stimulus and they're going to grow. But when you do a pull-up, then think about what's happening there. Okay? So, think about a pull-up. Obviously works the lats, works the traps. Does it work the upper back, too? Yeah. Does it work the shoulder girdle? Yeah. Work the biceps? Yeah. For a novice, will a vertical pull grow the biceps about as much as a curl will? There have been some studies that show that yes. Now, more advanced lifter, probably not. So, so start thinking of the overlap when we talk about something like this. So, let's say you're doing something like that. What are we getting? We're really getting closer to to six plus sets in one workout before we do it again. So you're doing something like that three sets once a week but then you're doing it again later. You might be doing an upper lower. Okay. So your six sets per week is more than six and that's what people are not understanding. It is more than six work sets. Uh but six work sets grows everything in the lab pretty consistently. Is any study that looked at six hard sets even in a train lifter ever failed to show muscle growth? Anybody's ever seen one? I haven't. Every study I've ever seen on six sets in a train lifter, at least the primary mover grew measurably every single time, even in people with three or five years of training experience, serious experience. There were studies done on women who already could squat over 100 kilos. So, they're over 225 pound squatters. Put them on six sets a week, their muscles all grew. Well, these are not noviceses by any stretch. These are almost advanced lifters. So again, understand this, but if you look at the overlap of the direct sets, okay, so you're looking at all that of those things I said, okay, it's it's six direct sets for delts a week if you do it twice a week, right? It's six direct sets for pecs, six direct sets for lats, six direct sets for triceps, six for for biceps. Pretty much covers everything. I mean, because your whole back if we're going to count the lats, but what about the overlap? Does those pullover type extensions still hit the chest? Does a pull-up hit the upper chest and stuff? Some does it hit the long head of the tricep again? Have we seen studies showing they do? Yeah. Yeah. Especially any sort of pullover type effect like that. It hits the chest and lats. See where we're going? So, what happens if you do a standing barbell curl? What if you do a barbell curl? Barbell curls light a lot of stuff up on an EMG. So, this is what I mean. Unless you're doing super concentrated isolation work on everything and and you may be on one or two movements like a lateral raise or smaller curl like I was doing an incline curl earlier in this. Yeah, you may be down to some true isolation, but that's not going to be most of your lifts. Most your lifts are going to have overlap. So most of the muscles are actually probably getting another six sets of decent quality stimulus on top of the primary stimulus as a secondary. It is going to cause growth. Okay. But then what happens when we start throwing some other really big stuff in a squat or a deadlift? I mean everything is growing. We got studies showing upper body growth from a deadlift and a squat to some extent, haven't we? So, six direct sets a week is not that low a volume, particularly compared with different data we have and particularly compared to what we've seen in plenty of athletes and lifters. Right? When HIT was really big, when I was coming up, I saw some guys get pretty big working out for it 45 minutes three times a week. You'd be surprised when guys are going hard and they're picking good movements. You'd be surprised how big dudes can get if they put in 10 years like that. All right, so again, these volumes are not as low as people think they are.