Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I'm going to chat with you guys and gals. A little bit about why stopping alcohol is one of the best things you can do for your fitness. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'd be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, please do so. Now I will state uh at the beginning of this I have been sober for over six years almost six and a half years right we're about a month from six and a half years um since my last drink I absolutely feel it was a complete gamecher for me in every aspect of my life to get completely sober but when I say this it's not just about me I really think that this applies to everybody and I think we can make this statement objectively um you know right up front the thing I do want to point out anytime time people say, "Well, this study or that found some health benefit to consuming whatever wine, right?" Um, the problem is it's usually data looking at wine and claiming polyphenols and benefits in there because they're made from grapes. Um, but the problem is it doesn't undo the damage of the alcohol itself. You could just eat a handful of grapes. So, all those studies that you see on that um again is people trying to justify their bad habits. uh again you're you still have all the negative effects that I'm going to discuss from the alcohol are not removed just because there's grapes in it and so when you again look at those polyphenols in wine they're present in grapes already all you have to do is eat some fruit and specifically if you want those specific ones a handful of grapes you're done right so right up front what we have to talk about people will discuss the liver and everything like well look your liver hand is a certain amount and up to a certain threshold, there's no evidence of of, you know, real harm to the liver. It can handle a certain amount of toxins. And we know that's that's the same thing I point out, you know, with arsenic in your diet. People are like, "Oh, but this brown rice or whatever has some arsenic." Yeah, but it's way below the threshold your liver can handle. U you know, and and they are right on that, but we would point out that you're going to have to process a lot of toxins. Um even the amount of refined sugars and even fructose and stuff that your liver gets takes a load on. In fact, it it takes the same load that alcohol does, by the way. Same pathway is involved. So, the thing is, if you're drinking any, you are going to have less wiggle room on other toxins as far as a liver, but that's not really where the real concern is right up front. So, when we look at the really harmful thing, um, this has been seen in the data. Numerous cancer experts in recent years have studied this closely and have concluded, some of them admitted they did not like their own research. They're like, um, I like I believe in drinking in moderation. I like to drink in moderation and I am unhappy with what my own findings are showing because it's telling me that it's still not safe for me to do. And then, you know, so it's interesting because they have a personal bias. And I've seen some of the researchers admit that that they were not personally too happy about what their own findings were uh because it meant that they may have to seriously consider as cancer experts not drinking in moderation anymore because then they enjoy drinking in moderation. Uh but what they they found is that there's no safe limit above zero. Um the data is showing that cancer that because alcohol is so carcinogenic uh it's probably the most carcinogenic thing that humans consume regularly uh around the world in terms of in our diet. Uh it is considered like a class 4 carcinogen which is very very high up there. And what they found is that drinking in any moderation they it like as low as one to two drinks per month had a measurable risk. In other words, they the re the leading researchers when they've compared notes around the world found that uh there is a significant and very statistically significant and measurable increase in seven different types of cancers particularly in tissues that absorb the alcohol directly like your esophagus, your stomach, your intestines, your colon, all these things, right? um they they were among the types of those seven types I believe that they found that it was something like over a 20 or 30% increase in cancer rates from one drink a month. And they noted it scales linearly. Okay, it scales linearly with the amount that you consume. So the more you consume, the greater the cancer risk. Okay, is one of the one of the highest causes of cancer of anything that we do. So, it's not just the other toxicity, it's the actual cancer is a concern. Um, all right. As far as men wanting to make various gains, I consider this fairly low down the list, but it is noteworthy. Uh, consuming alcohol lowers testosterone in men and it raises estrogen in men. And I'm not saying that's a big deal that you need to freak out over, but it is there. And if for all these guys, I see all these guys who obsess over their testosterone, but then they'll drink alcohol. Well, it's documented to lower testosterone. All right. Uh muscle protein synthesis. Any alcohol consumption directly linked with reducing muscle protein synthesis and muscle growth. So, the alcohol itself on the muscle tissue reduces the amount of muscle growth you get. So, if you're in any sort of period where you're still growing post-workout, it will measurably blunt that muscle protein synthesis. So, if you train on Friday and you go for a couple drinks Friday night, see where I'm going? It will undo some of the gains from your Friday and Thursday workout for sure because you're inside that muscle protein synthesis window. Um, also it reduces recovery and muscle tissue. And we also have to think about the toxicity on the liver affecting all of that, right? It's affecting recovery. Your body is utilizing resources to deal with a poison because it it is a direct poison. Alcohol is literally a poison. It's not, oh, it's, you know, you're making, no, it is literally biologically a poison. That is why your liver has to detoxify it so that it doesn't kill you. So, if you didn't have a liver, a couple of drinks, you'd be dead. So, hopefully people understand that it would be enough to poison you if you didn't have a liver to filter it like brain damage, all sorts of stuff. Um, so we have that to deal with. Then we have the correlations between cardiovascular disease, blood pressure, Diabetes absolutely correlations with alcohol intake. Um, increases inflammation through the whole body. Again, people are always worried about inflammation. It's a problem. Also, high calorie source. It reduces in inhibitions. Okay. Reduces inhibition. So, we're more likely to eat junk food under the influence of alcohol. We're more likely to blow our diet and do thing and eat things we wouldn't normally eat in addition to doing things we wouldn't normally do. And I want to be clear, we're just discussing this from a fitness. We're not discussing the social harm, uh the stuff that happens on it, whether it's a physical violence, assault, accidents. Uh the DWI rate is extremely high. The death rate even in America from DWI is absurdly high. There are things that we publicize that we make a massive deal about that are much much much much lower than our DWI uh death rate. So we have all these other factors on top of the health stuff. Then we come over to the rest of the health stuff. It's a depressant. It is literally a central nervous system depressant. It might make you happy in the short term, but the after effects it neurologically causes depression. So it is literally an addictive poison that causes depression. Okay, that depressive episodes and reduced uh motivation can absolutely impact your fitness, your training, your desire to eat healthy, right? So this stuff can chip away at your willpower to all the things that you need for fitness. In addition to all the health risk, the cancer, the toxicity, the reduced muscle growth, the negative effects on your hormone, the inflammation in your body, it can literally affect your willpower and your discipline towards all your fitness endeavors. Really has no place in a fitness lifestyle. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.