I refuse to be part of the fitness industry. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like uh and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. And if you guys recall, even when I was quite popular early on on YouTube, I by and large didn't really want to be part of this industry. And there were a lot of efforts to rope me in, right? including me kind of getting talked into getting paid to write some articles, running a uh you know, decent decent payout uh supplement uh like a 10% commission thing. And I only did that for a really short time and then I walked away from it, right? I said, "No, I don't I don't want to do this. I'm not comfortable with this." Um even when I tried to tell people to just buy the protein powder and other stuff, don't buy this other stuff. Um, you know, people pointed out that, yeah, I mean, it's still not true to your values because people are still buying the other stuff with it with your discount code stuff that you tell them doesn't work and that you don't approve of. And they had a good point when that was argued with me by fans, you know, over a decade ago. I dropped that over a decade ago. I said, "Okay, you're right. Um, you're you're right." And it wasn't worth it to me. Oh, no. a few hundred extra dollars a month to, you know, sell out my integrity. No, no. Um, but it was a great pitch when it was pitched at me. You know, I was called up to talk to about it. Said, "Look, let's let's make peace and uh let's do this, right?" And it came to me by a, you know, person who was a friend of mine at the time speaking through the company, you know, but even then, I walked away from that. So, that was my one little tiny bit of involvement, you know, in the industry. Um and and it just left a bad taste in my mouth and realized I was definitely didn't want anything to do with it. Of course, then we had all the other fiascos after that. By the way, this was before we had any of the real problems. It was after the the whole lawsuit, but what was I sued for? Calling out fake natties, calling out garbage supplements, BCAAs that were later uh proven to be useless in multiple meta analysis. You know, I was actually right on that one. Now, I can't claim amazing, superior knowledge. I just looked at it and said, "There's no evidence for this." And there's a little bit of research. There's some clear financial bias here. I wasn't a prophet. I got it right. I I say I got lucky and got it right, but really that wasn't luck because, you know, I wouldn't have gotten sued had it been a legit product. It was me the first person to call out a high money scam and I happened to get lucky and kind of figuring out this is probably a scam without knowing for sure. But because it really was, man, people are going to spend money to defend it. And that's literally what happened. But I think the thing is like I just don't have a lot of use for this industry. I'm I'm happy being a loner. I'm happy doing my own thing. at it. There's other communities I'm happy to be a part of in other aspects. You know, my political life, you know, certain firearm type circles, music circles, politics, sure, but those are things that I believe in, right, that I identify with. I don't identify with this online fitness industry. Like, I think it I think it is a dirty industry top to bottom. And it really is just about selling scams. It's not about selling you fitness. It's not even really about helping people get their gains. I mean, fitness is a lifestyle. It's a way of life. It shouldn't be an industry. Okay? Should barbells be an industry? Okay. Workout equipment should be an industry, right? you know, Rogue, Ivanco, Titan, so on strength shop, that's an industry because they're making a physical object that is absolutely required for us to weightlift. Okay, that makes sense to be an industry, the actual physical equipment industry. But this other part with the influencers and the industry around that, it's all scams. all of it. And you need to understand that guys, the influencers that people are following, they're not giving you good information. They're just regurgitating marketable garbage. If I guess if I wanted to make more money on this end, at least on the influence side and the ad side of videos, I should probably do that. But I don't want to. I can make my money with other stuff. I can make my money with coaching. I can make my money with other social media. Um because again the whole industry itself leaves a dirty taste in my mouth. Another reason I will always be enemy number one, right? Because I speak out against a dirty dirty industry. Supplements, they're all garbage. They're selling you garbage that doesn't work. And sometimes people are literally struggling to try to pay for all of it. I've I've seen younger guys out there who who are struggling to buy all those supplements they think they need, but they're desperate for the gains. So, they buy all this worthless garbage. And some of them who are really not doing well, still even sometimes living with the parents are dropping $100, $200 a month on garbage supplements. Come on. Should be spending that money on better food. Honestly, you know, really all the workout apps, the horrible programming. Programming isn't that hard. I'm saying that as someone who programs. Coaching is more about accountability and adjusting and keeping you in check. Okay, that really is a big part of it. It's about someone else doing the thinking for you. So, you don't really have to put thought into the programming for people who can afford it. And I think people forget that with coaching. Coaching is not for people with free time and low money, who can figure out stuff on their own. Coaching is for people who can afford it, who don't have the free time to spend a thousand hours researching, training, programming, and the full history and knowledge of it and biomechanics. Okay? People with free time can figure a lot of that. They may not really need coaching until they get to a pretty high level. I'm saying this as a coach. It's not my my target demographic isn't a 23 year old who doesn't have responsibilities in a life and only works 40 hours a week. That's not my target demographic as a coach. They may not even need me if they're an intermediate lifter. Okay? It's the person who needs the accountability and guidance and has the extra money or they need help getting to a truly high level. But by and large, all this information that most of them are giving is just bad. It's not useful. Tear list. What's the best bicep? We're going to rate 17 different bicep exercises. Jesus. Does anybody really think that will ever help anybody or is even remotely useful information? No. It's clickbait and people are making thousands of dollars off of it and providing you with absolutely nothing of use or value, right? Maybe if they instead just read out lifting history instead, that would probably be somewhat valuable to you just to obtain some knowledge of history. But it's it's garbage information. It's useless. supplements, stupid stuff about exercises that isn't even true. That's the fitness industry and and being fake natties and selling you glam instead of substance. And I want no part of it. I want nothing to do with it.