Compound and isolation movements are both necessary for maximum muscular development. Hey everybody, it's Jason Laha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Uh if you guys would please remember to click like down below. Uh follow me or subscribe if you haven't yet and please leave me a comment. So again, this is a topic to where you see people on both extremes. Um which is really really an irrational absolutely irrational extreme. Okay. And that is you see people who are the full minimalist. All we need is big compounds. That's all we need. We can maximize everything. We can get jacked. Then you have people on the other extreme, some of the the more bodybuilding extreme who will say silly complete utter nonsense like, "Oh, really the only stuff that counts is the isolation work. The compounds don't even count towards your volume if they don't really isolate a muscle." Again, both absurd statements both in practice in terms of what we have seen in the real world for the last 50 to 70 years as well as what's been demonstrated in the lab. Both of these positions are extreme and incorrect. The reality is a more balanced approach. Okay? And I would say at minimum if you were trying to maximize development you need a foundation with big heavy compound movements and you need to fill in the gaps the weak links with isolation right you you have to because at the end of the day what we have to remember number one compounds are going to give you very efficient development and yes people will say yeah but it doesn't fully isolate this muscle doesn't mean it doesn't grow. So you need to think of that. So, think in terms of total fatigue, right? Take a bench press, take a take a chin up, right? Before you even get into squats and deadlifts, you know, people say, "Well, the bench press doesn't uh the one muscle may limit it, but it doesn't mean the others don't grow." Okay? So, let's let's say you're doing a bench press. I don't care whether it's with a barbell or with dumbbells, right? Let's set aside incline, decline, barbell, dumbbells. Let's just say a bench press, right? You could interchange that for any of those three and barbells or dumbbells. It's going to work the pec. It's going to work the front delts, which means some splash over to the side delts. It's going to work the triceps with a bias towards the lateral head. Uh long head getting a little bit of minor uh minor stimulus. It will still grow, just won't maximize it. So, you look at that and go, okay, so what if one of those muscles fails first? What if for you personally the pecs fail first? What if for you personally the triceps fail first? Does that mean there's no stimulus? No. That's insane. That's insane. Because they're within five reps of failure. And in fact, if the chest gives out, what's going to happen? The bar path's going to change. Okay, common sense. Anyone who's studied this from a powerlifting or a strength perspective knows exactly looking at a barbell. The way it moves when you get fatigued or close to failure, the direction the bar shifts away from your normal bar path tells you which muscles are giving out. Why? It compensates. Meaning the triceps start taking over more. All right, let me be clear. If the chest starts to become an issue, right, you're going to see the bar path shift accordingly. All right, if the triceps become a weak link, you're going to see the bar path shift accordingly. What's going to happen? That means the other muscle is going to take a heavier load than it has on any other rep. It's actually going to get worked really hard on that that rep because it has to because the other one is giving out. So all of those muscles are absolutely going to grow. I promise you beyond a shadow of a doubt, you are getting if you take a set within one rep of failure on any chest press, your pecs, front delts, and your triceps are all growing from it. All of them unavoidable. Same thing with your chin-up, your lats, your biceps. They are all going to be close to failure because as we compensate, the stronger muscle has to do more work. the one that hasn't gotten as close to failure starts taking over. Okay? Is there any part of that people don't get? So, it's all going to grow. The issue is going to become did it grow maximally? Are you leaving a little off table? Did one head of the muscle get left out? So, you would look at the chin up uh you know, and you might look at that and go, "Okay, well, it worked the lats and biceps really well, but was it enough for my biceps?" M probably not. Especially considering you're probably doing some rows and other stuff that work the biceps even less and the back a little more. Okay, your biceps are probably going to need some curls. They probably are. Not saying guaranteed they probably will. Same thing with your bench pressing. Long head of your tricep is probably, if you want it as big as possible, you're probably going to need to do something for the long head, whether it's a an extension or a pullover. Okay, you see where we're going? you're probably going to need to isolate some stuff. Now, can you maximize growth in these situations with uh only a small amount of isolation? Yeah, in a lot of cases, you can like if you have a really well-developed uh program, which is going to be way more efficient, you're going to it's going to be way more efficient use of your time to use compounds to do most of your building. All right? Otherwise, you know, again, you you skip squats and leg presses to go straight to extensions and adductor machines and a and a and a glute device, you're going to do a lot more work trying to get there. In fact, you're going to have to do a lot more work in general, you're going to be in there a lot more time. Whereas in had you just done the others and then maybe isolate the weakest links, whatever is getting the least stimulus, like maybe you're like, "Okay, my adductors grew a lot from that. Maybe I do need to do some quad isol. Maybe I should do a leg extension. You can you can see where you're under stimulated. You may need to get in and do it. Hey, you may be looking at at what you're doing with your pushing and pulling and maybe your your dips in your incline bench, they really grew the front delts a lot. Uh rows and stuff maybe, you know, grew this the rear delt, but maybe maybe your side delt isn't getting enough stimulus and you okay, I should I may need to go ahead and isolate it. And there's nothing wrong with it. That is a solid balanced approach to where you look at the training, okay, these big movements are going to build most of this stuff, but you're probably going to need to do a few isolations. And I'm going, here's what I'm going to say. No matter what you do, no matter what big compound you put in, if you are trying to get every last drop of muscle growth, I promise you, you're going to need to isolate at least three heads of muscle somewhere. It's almost unavoidable, okay? Something is going to be lagging from the compounds. I promise you, you will have something lagging. You're going to need to isolate it if you want maximum development. You're just going to need to and you should because it will help. You know, it will help. And it may not even be the tricep. Like I mentioned triceps a lot. You know, if you're doing tons of closed grip pressing and dips and you're doing a bunch of pullovers, your tricep may be getting all three heads maximum development. So then you go focus on something else. So it may end up being your your delts. But you're going to need to isolate something. you're going to need to isolate something. And the same thing to the people with the isolation going in and trying thinking that you're going to isolate everything for two or three different exercises. Do you're going to spend 20 hours a week in the gym trying to get all the growth. Get efficient. Come in and do your big lifts, your squats, your leg presses, your your good mornings, your your deadlifts, your bench presses, your dips. Like, do these things and then come in. Okay, that's going to handle 90% of your growth. and then take your isolation work to fill in all those gaps. Maybe your forearms are limited, maybe your upper trap, maybe your rear delt, maybe your your long head of your tricep. All right. Yeah, absolutely. Makes sense. Come in and finish them out. Anything that's lagging. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.