Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about fiber. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate it so much. Um, all right. This is one of these topics where I'm I am very pro- fiber. I'm someone who discusses the value of fiber, the need for fiber, and I don't even care what type of diet you do. Um, I would say this to the people who do ultra low-fat, high carb, as well as the people on the other extreme even trying to do keto diets. You need lots and lots of fiber in your diet. Um, the evidence for this is pretty overwhelming, you know, and the problem is that you will see people um in the keto camp who will often times be anti-fiber or the worst of carnivore ones. um and they're not understanding that a lot of the actual health con concerns that you have on those sort of diets could be largely mitigated by vegetables and fiber to some extent. So it's it's it's actually quite a dangerous position that they take, right? It's a very dangerous position they take. They say, "Well, I don't need fiber because well, there's fat in my diet and it helps me use bathroom or uh because I don't have to worry about carb absorption, therefore I don't care about any of that with fiber." They act like that's the entirety um of fiber's benefits. Now, slowing carbohydrate absorption is part of it, but let's be realistic. Ultra fit lean people don't have insulin spikes anyways. Okay? Right? really truly active lean people with a good amount of muscle don't really get elevated blood sugar insulin from white rice. So it's really kind of a dis like it's it's doing a disservice with this conversation and it's like I'm not sure if they're willfully ignorant or they literally just don't know. And I'm I'm going to hope I'm going to assume they really don't know. And if it's just, you know, unintentional ignorance, then that's the sort of people that need to understand these other benefits. Now, obviously, you know, if you're not in need of this huge amount of glucose, um, such as a highly active athlete who's consuming large amounts of white rice, um, then yes, the blood sugar control is an important aspect of fiber intake. But this idea that it's the only benefit or even really the primary is is uh intellectually dishonest or disingenuous. Um because what else are we doing with fiber? Just overall gut health, right? And why does that matter? Uh because your gut health and your fiber intake and fiber diversity affects everything. Okay. Uh let's step back and let's even talk first of all about just straight up colon cancer. Okay, that's one of the bigger concerns right up front with a lot of red meats, you know, including definitely processed red meats, but even other red meats to some extent um is the potential for colon cancer and cancer of of that region, but high fiber intakes can largely mitigate that. In other words, if your fiber intake is pretty dang high, you're eating lots of vegetables and other stuff, or even the case of people doing that sort of approach, avocados, lots of green vegetables, you know what, the anti-cancer benefits and the clearing out of the colon and everything else is is going to help mitigate that to a very large extent. Okay? So, it's kind of like one of those where they could almost just go, "Yeah, but with enough vegetables and fiber, I'm actually not concerned with this other thing because they can help mitigate it." And they might have a fair point. Okay. But if they're not going to consume it, that's a problem. But, but it's not just that. It's it's all the anti-cancer benefits, all the uh immune system benefits. So, we look right up front of just clearing out um scraping all the old stuff out of there. And anyone who wants to argue that there's not going to be debris and toxins and things that accumulate just because they eat a certain way, that's just simply not true. Okay? You accumulate large amounts of carcinogens and toxins and poisons in your colon. Uh that can absolutely be cleared out by more fiber intake that helps scrape them all out of there um even on that type of diet. And to argue that you don't is is ludicrous, okay? It's beneficial for clearing all of that out. But then we also have the whole uh gut health and immune system aspect. Okay. So we need to we need to be very aware of this. All right. Your immune system starts with your gut. Okay. This is the foundation of your immune system. And a higher gut health improves your immune system in your body. Your overall immune system. How often you get sick, how you even deal with things like cancers and other stuff. Okay. So a higher fiber intake particularly a more diverse fiber intake okay is absolutely associated with better immune system. Um also better antioxidant status lower cancer rates and not just of that area but in general. So eating more fiber is absolutely positively correlated with lower rates of cancer. Uh stronger immune system, just less disease, less sickness, right? You get less colds, less flu, right? More robust immune system right up front. All right. What about the mental health and and uh neurotransmitters, everything else? Well, the same thing. It turns out our gut is where we uh create most of our neurotransmitters. There's absolutely an effect on your mental health, your cognition, your brain function, and again, how do we get better gut health? Higher diversity of fiber type, different plants, different fruits, different vegetables. Okay? Right? And there's a wide enough diversity though that people can follow any sort of macro approach they're choosing to do. And I'm not going to sit there and talk about any specific one because I I'm don't think that we have to obsess over that. But any approach they do, they can get very low carbohydrate vegetables. They can get higher carbohydrate vegetables. You have high fiber, highfat vegetables like avocados. Okay, this will help with your mental health. It will help with your cognition, your memory, all these things. Okay, so this this is important, right? And then we have to think about the metabolic health. higher fiber intake is is going to improve total metabolic rate, energy turnover. You know, so all these people who are like, I don't need this and and they honestly believe these diets are going to cause them to have this higher metabolic rate and energy turnover. Well, no. And in fact, um any association with any of that from some of those lower carb diets is from the protein. But, you know, again, high protein, really high protein, you need high fiber to push it all through. Okay? So um again the metabolic end we know that higher fiber intakes absolutely increase total metabolic health, metabolic rate, thyroid function. All right. So when we start looking at the totality of it, we're looking at our immune system. We're looking at our mental health and cognition, our mood. We're looking at our total metabolic health. Like fiber is absolutely critical. Okay, fiber is absolutely critical for all of these things. Um, and the same thing we could talk about recovery from our training and exercise. The ability of it to clear certain waste products out in there helps puts less stress on other parts of your body. So, you can you can get this. Okay. So, there's all these benefits that we are looking at. Um, and then total energy turnover, metabolic health, metabolism, right? It's a ton ton of reasons why we want fiber in our diet that go way beyond the blood sugar control. We can't discount the blood sugar control. That's a big one. But we have all these other extremely important things that we have to think about. All right, guys. That's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.