Getting under a barbell is one of the best things abuse survivors can do. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. Um, if you are not following or subscribe, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that so much. Yes, this is a video I'm going to make a couple times a year, several times a year, um because I feel like it is one of the single most important uh messages for me to get out. So much so that I will say this is probably one of the single most um important topics of my life to put out as a a mission statement for me for life. Um and just to be clear up front, I have been talking about this for well over a decade. Um, yes, I am a an abuse survivor myself of the most horrific type you can imagine. I'm not going to say specifically what that is. You can imagine from my early childhood from age four to seven. Um, yes, that type. So, that being said, uh, I am an enormous advocate for people getting under a barbell. So in my case, um due to some of the trauma around some of mine, some stuff that was taught to me during childhood, I became extremely obese or as a young adult. Um I got up to well over 300 lb. Um I later lost weight, started training, lost weight. Then when I got under a barbell, um I was able to talk more about those things. I was able to get therapy and I was able to develop the strength to press criminal charges against my abuser and um their spouse some of my abusers. Um so the thing is with that I'm a big advocate for this and a big part of that for me is going to be multiffold in nature. This is why I push this so hard for people. I tell abuse survivors and I don't really care what type of abuse whether it's it's any sort of various physical uh sexual whatever. I I don't even care at this point. It's all going to benefit from this. Okay. That gave me the strength to get under a heavy barbell. Gave me these the strength and the inner strength to be able to talk about it. Um it was known like my my mother had figured it out long before and it put me through therapy. But I wouldn't talk about any of it. I wouldn't talk about any of it. Uh until I became an adult and until I got strong under a barbell. Like I mean I was squatting like 405 before I was able to talk about it. Now I'm not saying you have to squat 405 to be able to do so. But I wasn't able to um and then I was and that gave me the strength that I needed. So that's that's a big part of it. But let's let's go talk about the other ends, the therapeutic ends on the other way. uh because for everybody it's not always about the ability to testify. But I will say if someone is struggling to talk about this stuff, they're struggling to press charges, they're struggling to get it out, man, getting under a barbell will help give you that strength because that physical strength turns into mental and emotional strength over time. But let's talk about the earlier parts of it. How about the anger? Okay? Because when you have suffered certain types of trauma, there's going to be a rage. You're going to carry an anger. You're going to carry a rage. There's going to be a rage in you that other people don't have. And the problem is that could be a real problem for you. It can create all sorts of anger management issues. Um, or you just have to keep it bottled up because like if you have that type of rage, you know, you don't want to hurt anybody else necessarily. So then you have to keep it bottled up because you don't know how to channel it or what to do with it. For me, that was a pivotal moment when I touched a heavy barbell and I realized all that anger and all that rage. I could channel it into a piece of steel. not into another living creature, but a piece of steel that doesn't feel pain, that doesn't feel emotions, that's replaceable. That was an epiphany because you can't replace other people. You can't undo the damage or harm that you do to other people. Okay? So, that's not an appropriate outlet for your anger. It's not. And I think all of us all of us agree and understand this. Okay? You're not going to hurt that barbell. Odds of you hurting a competition deadlift bar is slim to none. But the beauty of that, even if you do, it's replaceable. There is no harm done. Worst case, you manage to destroy a $300 barbell eventually due to taking your anger out, you can replace it. can't replace other people, right? You get that anger out and that ability to just take a heavy weight and to channel all of that rage, all that anger that you have to carry is very cathartic because you get done with that heavy lift, you take all that out and then you step away from that barbell like, "Oh my god, I got that out of my system." And the beauty of it, you don't have to hold back. You can just all of it into that barbell because nobody's getting hurt. And in fact, it's the opposite. What's the negative consequence? Oh, you get bigger and stronger. So, you can get all that rage out in a productive manner. And the what happens? It builds your body up. So now all of a sudden you go from carrying around that anger to being able to take it out into a piece of steel and instead of anybody getting hurt, it builds your body. Oh my god. So we are able to get that out in a way that's productive that improves your health, improves the way you look. Oh my god, there's another big one. you suffer from all that self-esteem because because that trauma destroys you. It breaks you down. It can make you feel like for the rest of your life that you're just the most useless piece of garbage on the face of the earth because that's what it teaches you when you're, you know, when you've been abused. You're taught that you have no value. You were taught that you're useless. You're taught that you're garbage. But now, man, I'm putting in this work and all of a sudden, I look better. I feel better. I have value. Okay, it's absolutely magical. Then we think about that other psychological end. You're not putting in hard work over and over and over trying to just get that anger out. But then what happens, man? It's like, man, I put in this work and all it's doing is improving me. I'm stronger. I'm fitter. I look better. I'm putting in all this hard work and all of a sudden I'm improving. What does that do to your mindset? You are training your brain to say, "I have value. I'm worth investing in. I am worth working hard on for myself." Then it becomes I'm going to work harder to just be better and better all the time every day. Do you know how empowering that is to people who have been dehumanized and devalued? That is so so extremely powerful and I want to share that with other people. I want other people to have that experience who've gone through those negative things to be able to experience the things that I have with this and that healing and that empowerment that comes under the barbell.