I'm going to explain to you why the entire idea of an over-the-counter test booster is absurd. Hey everybody, it's Jason Walla here. Thought I would uh chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated if you are not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you would be so kind as to drop me a comment down under the video, I would appreciate that. even if it's just to to say hello or to give your thoughts on the video, just drop me a comment. Uh I would appreciate it. Thank you so much. All right, let's get over to the topic of of test boosters. This has been one of the biggest scams um ever in existence. If you guys remember, I even called out uh Mark for his whole insurgent one years ago when he did an in-house study and then in the test subject, the the single case study they did, still had low testosterone after taking the product, right? His test got boosted, but he still was clinically low and would still qualify for TRT. So, when you're taking the test booster, if you still medically qualify for TRT, like you would just walk in and the doctor would give it to you, test booster is not too good. And that's the best that they had. Um, so let but let's set that aside. I want people to stop and think this through for a moment. Some issues. All right. U first of all, you know, they're like, well, there's a difference between that and just taking testosterone to be your body producing it naturally. Well, it's not producing it naturally. You're taking a synthetic substance. It might be forcing it to produce it. Okay? And we already have substances that do that. Like everyone makes this assumption that that you know everything that boosts test is just to just take testosterone medically which actually is many cases the best choice. I tend to lean in that direction. Uh but I digress back over to the point. There are multiple pharmaceutical substances that are prescribed by doctors including things like HCG that boost your body's production of testosterone. Okay. And we also need to be aware of um some of them actually reduce muscle growth. I don't know if everyone was aware of that. Like what what do you mean? How could some of that how could this serum boost testosterone production but lower muscle growth because it reduces IGF-1 concurrently? Normally when your testosterone goes up, IGF-1 goes up. It's one of the primary mechanisms by which anabolics cause muscle growth. Uh, but some of these things actually block IGF-1 production a little bit. So, you end up test going up, but you don't gain more muscle. You actually potentially gain less. Boy, that's a winner. But that's a side effect. See what I mean? Okay. Do you guys see where we're going with this? What about HCG? It boosts all these other things. Estrogen can go through the roof. Okay. All right. Do you guys kind of see a problem? Step back and think for a moment before you start talking about, oh, they have an herb or a powder that will boost testosterone. We have multiple drugs that pharmaceutical companies with the best scientists have designed that will boost testosterone. Okay? They all have serious side effects. All right? Let that sink in for a moment. In other words, anything that's capable of boosting testosterone is going to have side effects that are not even related to the testosterone being higher. Okay. Well, what about taking testosterone? Doesn't that have side effects? Yeah, that's one reason I don't want because if my body's producing it, I won't get the Yeah, you will. If you're taking testosterone and you get side effects from taking injectable prescription testosterone from a doctor or from the black market and you were to find a natural substance that boosted your levels to that same amount, you would get literally identical side effects. Okay, we need to be clear on that. You would get the exact same side effects. there would be no measurable difference in the side effects. Whether it's acne or hair loss or whatever, you're going to get the exact same side effects because those side effects come from having elevated testosterone levels relative to your body. Okay? So, if your body produced the equivalent amount of that shot, you'll get the same side effects. It's pretty straightforward, guys. But then the other thing is all these pharmaceutical substances have these side effects and then you sometimes need to take other drugs to counter the side effects. So I actually say in the grand scheme of things I would generally go with TRT of just straight testosterone over some of the stuff that makes your body start producing more. It's technically less side effects. It's just that you're not producing it. And in some cases, things like your fertility may go down and then you need other stuff to boost it up. But if you're not worried about your fertility on that end, it's technically the better option. Just saying it is. The only difference the others are designed to increase or in some preserve or in some cases increase fertility, but they come with a lot of side effects and that's the best substances that that the researchers can come up with. So step back and think about that. So you're telling me you think that some substance that does does it through a similar pathway, some swamp algae or some flower from Afghanistan that makes your body produce it also is not going to have serious side effects or even the exact same side effects. So let's say it stimulates your body to produce it through the same pathway. Okay, you'll have the same side effects. Do you see where we're going? people like, "Oh, it's just all going to be great." No, it's going to have the same side effects as the drug. Okay, now here's the problem. It's not going to work. These products never work. They never pan out. They never work. And even if they did, here's the problem you have. When you go to the doctor to get the HCG, he can regulate your dose. It's an exact amount. You know what the effect is going to be, and then you can learn to take, do whatever you need to do to deal with the side effects. It's all consistent. If this over-the-counter product is doing it, it's not exactly standardized. There's no exact identical strength in it to where you can regulate it down to a 1% dose. You understand that? It's going to vary from batch to batch. Therefore, it's going to be less consistent. Side effects are going to be more uncontrollable and they're probably going to be worse. And then you're going to deal with crashing levels back and forth because when it's not as potent, it's not going to work as well. It is literally going to be in every way imaginable, objectively worse than just taking the drug. Okay? Do So, do we see how stupid this is? Literally, it never works. And even if it did, it will be less consistent than just taking the pharmaceutical substance. and will probably have all the exact same side effects and risks because you are producing a drug-like effect with some plant or powder or something from somewhere else. Okay, through the same pathways in the body, you'll get the same side effects. It's not going to be any safer. So, this is it's really an irrational, ridiculous idea. It's why I tell guys, don't worry about your testosterone levels. just live a healthy lifestyle. And if you really feel that you need something to boost your testosterone, this is when you go to the tea clinic. You go to the testosterone clinic and you get testosterone. That's how you boost it consistently, effectively, and quite frankly, the safest way to do it.