Why it is important to get abuse survivors under a barbell. Hey everybody, it's Jason Baja here. I thought I would chat with you guys and g a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, it would be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. If you will be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that so much. So, thank you. Um, let's get over to the topic. Obviously, this is going to be a somewhat sensitive topic. It's one that's um very important to me. It's a topic I've discussed many many times over the years and I'm going to probably continue to discuss this topic until the day I die. Um like again I I would say that this is probably the single most powerful mission statement that I have and it's because I myself am a abuse survivor from my childhood. I've been discussing this in videos and stuff for probably 12 plus years at this point. Um, and yes, when we say child abuse survivors, I do mean of the most heinous type. So, for me, this has been a powerful thing. Getting under a barbell has been the most powerful, empowering therapeutic thing I've ever done. Yes, I've gone through therapy and other stuff. Um, the barbell has been a gamecher and I I want other people to understand that. And I think this applies to any sort of really serious trauma. I don't care if it's child abuse. I don't care if it's um you know sexual assault, rape survivors, violence survivors, gosh, even even PTSD of various types from from combat everything else, right? Anyone who has truly experienced a deep level of trauma. Um I'm still going to give the same advice to now in my case uh with my own childhood, I my mother realized what was going on obviously at a certain point. um got me into therapy and stuff got me away from the couple of individuals who were involved. They were close family members and I was never able to talk about it. As a result of it, in spite of therapy not being able to talk about it, I ended up being like 320 pounds in my very early adulthood. Like estimate, I'm just estimating that I was too embarrassed to weigh myself. Eventually, I got into fitness. I got into running, eating better, got down to 170, then built myself up under a barbell. Once I got strong, like like we're talking like it's squat 405, like squat 400 lb uh strong. At that point, something flipped um to where I developed that inner strength where I said, you know, I had some other stuff that triggered this as well. I need to talk about this. Um and so I did. I talked to some of my family about it. talked to my mom about other people got in therapy so that I could testify. You know, that was something I'm like, I I have to do. I can't stay silent about this, but I was too scared and too weak to talk about it. Barbell gave me a strength to do that, you know, and that's something I would say to people. Um, he gave me the strength to do that. gave me the strength to tell someone finally um to tell people to to talk to a therapist about it to be able to then go file police reports and so on and so forth. Uh so which I did. So let's come over to that. So that's a big part of it. But here's the other thing. Anytime you've suffered anything like this, anything, I mean, in this realm, I didn't have to be that specific thing, any serious trauma, the anger you're going to carry, that rage, especially like the type I did, you're going to carry a rage. There's going to be a rage inside you that you don't know how to deal with. So then in my case, because I wasn't a violent person, I didn't want to go hurt people per se. Um, I kept a lot of it in. I didn't know how to deal with it. And then I got to a barbell and I realized I get under a heavy bar under heavy squat, a heavy bench press, some heavy, whatever. I could let that anger go. I could channel it into an object. This is a gamecher. This was a gamecher for me and it is for a lot of people. Why? Because for the first time, you have a way to express that rage, that sheer rage in a way that doesn't hurt anyone or anything. It doesn't hurt a person, doesn't hurt a piece of property, doesn't hurt an animal, doesn't hurt anything because that bar isn't going to get hurt. You're not going to break a competition legal uh powerlifting bar, right? You're not strong enough to do it. You can't hurt it. Okay? You can channel all that anger into something that doesn't hurt anyone or anything. That is a magic. When you come to that realization, it's like, "Oh my god, I got that out. I was able to focus just that sheer rage and hatred into a piece of steel." And it didn't even hurt the steel. And then it made me stronger. It's like, so not only do we have just that therapeutic outlet, it's like, man, I got that that catharsis, that anger out in a way, it built my body up. I'm like, wait, so instead of someone or something getting hurt or myself getting hurt, what happened? My body got stronger. I gained muscle. I'm getting gain muscle from it. I'm starting to look better. I'm getting stronger. All while having an outlet for that anger. Now I have Z. People are like, "Dude, you're not angry when you lift it off. We've seen you just like squat 500 pounds like all calm." Yeah. Because I don't have to have that anymore. I mean, for the first, I don't know, six, seven years, I used to get really angry. I used anger when I lifted, but then it became a a place of peace. But that happened much much years and years later. But the ability to get that anger out, but we do it in a way that is constructive that if you're channeling it and then it turns into instead of something negative, your body, you're improving your body. It improves your confidence because now you look better, you're stronger, you're fitter. And when you've been through stuff like that, everyone who's been through it, you already guys already know you've been dehumanized. You have basically usually been subjected to things and any sort of abuse, any literally any type of abuse, any type. You've been abused at any serious level. You've been made to feel like you're you're subhuman. You've been made to feel like you're trash. You've been able to been made to feel like you have no worth as a human being. But now all of a sudden you're putting in work towards something that's making you physically stronger, mentally stronger. It's making you look better. It's making you less helpless. What that does to your selfesteem is almost magical. Now you do all that and then you combine it with a little therapy, right? Look, you go you do all that that barbell therapy and then you actually go talk to a therapist on top of it. Wow. This is really where the magic happens, right? But sometimes you're not strong enough to talk to the therapist about it. That barbell makes you strong. That heavy that heavy ass weight will make you strong. And when you are physically strong from it, you become mentally strong. And then it becomes a whole lot easier to talk about it to people who need to know, to your therapist, to everybody. It's magical.