Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha strength and fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about my dad bod strengthstander. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. Um, and I understand this is a controversial uh statement. Like I've had trainers and other people like I've known other trainers and stuff in their 40s who like I I think it's unrealistic. like I'd personally never be able to do it and I've been training for years and kind of my my point back to these people that's why this is given one as an ideal and two it's to give guys things to strive towards is reasonable expectations and I think that's what throws people off of when we talk about strength and the strength standard it's a proxy for muscle mass to some extent okay and so that's the reason I set this position so I'm going to tell you guys what the standard is and then I will break down why I have the standard is that I think that a man in his 40s who's been training a really long time, right? You've been putting in some time in the gym. The dad bod strength standard is to strive towards a 405 squat. Okay? And that's it. Put four plates aside. So people in other countries, if they just want to convert it over to to metric, we'll just call it four plates, right? So 315 bench, that's three plates, 500 lb deadlift, five plate deadlift, and be able to do 10 body weightight pull-ups. Okay? Right? That is the standard. All right? And those are for for a one rep max. And then the pull-ups there for again overall the other pulling muscles um is a body fat check, a body weight check, everything else. So because if I just do those others out, um you know, people would be like, well, you could just get fat and hit those. And that's true. Most guys could literally just bulk their weight to those numbers if they lifted heavy. But that's not not the point. Um, so let's get over and talk about what this represents. The reason I say this is if guys have been going to the gym for years and years and years. Okay? If you followed any form of good programming and progressive overload, you should have been gaining muscle. And and this is the reason I said it. I'm like, "Yeah, you're going to be pretty jacked and pretty fit." In other words, if you reach this standard, you're going to be in terms of the other guys out there um in the in the dad bod segment, you're probably going to have pretty close to the best body, the most musculature, uh you're probably going to be the thickest, most jackl looking dude in the room. Okay? And it's because this standard represents muscle mass across the body, right? And again, people love to say, "Yeah, but size and strength are not that they are." The research on this is pretty overwhelming. They absolutely are. So, if you did tons and tons of just bodybuilding work, but you built every muscle in your entire body and you spent a relatively short period of time working on this, you could reach these goals. And people say, "Well, what if I don't want to max?" Okay, so take them to 10 rep equivalents. Shave a plate off and do 10 reps. I'll say shave a plate off and do eight reps. So, what does that mean? Okay, so you can bench 225 for eight. You can probably bench 315 if you then peaked for it. But let's say 8 to 10. How about how about the squat? You can do three plates for 8 to 10. You squat 405. All right. If you can deadlift 405 for 8 to 10 reps, you can pull five plates. Then obviously the bodyweight pull-ups, right? I do way more than 10. So, back over to the point, and this is not about me. It's like when I give these standards, um, it's not about me because you guys have seen me do every single one of those lifts with the exception of the bench. I've done for at least 10 reps on camera. More than 10 on on the other two. Actually, I've done 11 with 500 lb on a deadlift before in my mid-40s, you know, when I was at my biggest and strongest in my mid-40s. So, even for me, they're kind of like their standards that I set as the minimum. Like, if I fall below that, I have a problem. So, even for me, it's it's not what I'd lift. It's that I even set this as a minimum baseline for myself. Okay? And it's not just the over 40 dad bought. I'm closing in on 50. Even when I reach 50, I better be hitting these numbers. So they represent muscle. They represent muscle. And guys say, "Well, I didn't train." Well, you trained for muscle. Then what were you doing? So if you didn't gain enough muscle, if you've been going to the gym a long time, you take it as a fairly serious endeavor. You've been training three days a week for at least 45 minutes. three days a week for a decade or more, guys. Like, you had to have gained muscle. So, and it's also what I would say is a proxy for the effectiveness of your training because guys are like, "Well, I trained just for gain muscle, not even purely performance." Well, you can't separate them. So, the question I would ask is, if you're nowhere near those numbers, what did you do with all that time? You can't tell me that you followed a good hypertrophy program or approach if you didn't gain enough muscle to do that. In other words, guys, let's say you're 42 years old. You've been working out since you were 27 and you've been going to the gym. Yeah, I go to the gym. I very rarely miss. I go to the gym. Well, what are you doing at the gym? Unless you're standing there uh touching yourself watching the women on the treadmill or something like what were you doing? Were you working out? like, "Well, yeah." And dude's like, "Well, I could barely squat 300 lb if I had to." Okay, that's a problem. Dude tells me I could barely deadlift, I don't know, low 300s, 350 lbs if I had to. Or they're like, I I barely benched 205. Well, what were you doing in those 12 plus years? Like what were you doing the entire time? If you did not stimulate enough muscle growth to where you're beyond that, what were you doing the whole time you were there? Okay, I'm not even saying if you have to be the standards I gave, but if you're at those lower standards, way below that, like you're 100 pounds below all of that, I would question what you did and all those hundreds of workouts you did. What in the hell did you do? Did you not watch read Martin Birkenseritis article? Come on, guys. It this and that's the point. There's no way you came in and did hypertrophy work because there's no way you came in and did a heavy leg press with progressive overload. Okay? Right? If you came in and you progressively overloaded the leg press and pushed it hard for three sets once a week, right? And then you did some ab work and some back work so that your core and back could support any weight and you're struggling with a 315 squat. If we go put you under the squat bar, I don't believe you. I literally don't think you even trained the leg press hard. There's no way. I don't think you pray trained the dumbbells or the machine presses or anything hard. If you're struggling with 215 on the bench or even 225, I don't think you put in any work on those machines or the dumbbells. You goofed off the whole time. There's no way you trained them hard with any progressive overload and not have enough muscle to do those things. And that's the point of the standard. It will tell you how effective you have gained muscle or not. at overall performance.