We need to train every muscle in our body. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys would please click like down below, I'd greatly appreciate it. If you're not following or subscribed, please do so. And if you would be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that also. Thank you so much. So, let's get over to the topic. And a lot of people want to skip muscle groups. They want to favor muscle groups. Um, look, I get it. Some of you have a favorite muscle. you have a body part or a muscle you really really want to grow. It might be for some guys it might be their bicep or their chest or for a woman their glutes or or her calves or whatever. Okay? And I'm not telling you not to do that. Okay? I want to be clear. I'm not saying if you have a favorite body part, don't train it. Now, I'm saying if you're going to go compete in something physique related, that'd be a really, really, really, really, really, really, really bad idea. You need to be balanced and then compete in the class that your genetics allows for. But setting that aside, uh, okay, I get that. But people need to train everything. And what does that mean? For men, that means you do need to put equal time into your legs that you do into your arms and chest. For women, that means your shoulders and your arms and your back. They need equal time to your glutes and quads and calves. Okay. So, why do we want to do that? Um, number of reasons. We could argue about, sure, we could argue about appearance and aesthetics, but let's let's set all that aside. Um, generally people who are balanced look better and we know that. But let's let's again set that to the side. Let's talk about health. Let's talk about injury prevention. All right. The health one is very, very obvious. We have countless studies showing the more muscle you have on your body, the more resistant we are to cancer, the more resistant we are to diabetes. every pound that would be a half a kilo for those who don't use freedom units. Every pound of muscle in your body slightly reduces your risk of cancer and diabetes of most types of cancer. Uh it's also cardioprotective benefits and people say what about if a person gets too big. Uh don't use steroids or if you do keep the doses low. Don't use really really really high doses of steroids and don't combine them with growth hormone insulin and IGF-1. You won't get too big. So for people who are not using drugs to facilitate more muscle growth, there is zero possibility of harming your health from gaining too much muscle. In fact, it's cardiorotective. There is no real upper threshold for your body weight's getting too high. It might be because you're getting too fat and your fat is the problem, not your muscle. So I digress back over to that point. But the muscle will still be protective against some of the negative effects of the body fat. So this is a win. gain muscle. All right? So, we know this this so it should be common sense. So, so what I would say to someone, well, if you're in the gym already and you're working out, what is it you could possibly do to make sure that you gain one more pound of muscle because that one pound matters for those things? It's the obvious answer. Well, I'll just train my favorite muscle harder. No, train the ones you haven't been training. That's the quickest, easiest way. If you haven't been training your calves or you haven't been training your delts, women, you girls, you haven't been training your shoulders. Men, you haven't been training your calves. Come on, guys. This is the easy one. That's the fastest way to gain that pound of muscle real fast. The undertrained muscle, especially those two muscles I listed, which are relatively big muscles. The delt's the biggest muscle in the upper body. Not my opinion from cadaavver studies. So that's the case. Train the muscle you haven't been training. That'll help you with all those health benefits. So let's talk about injuries though and other stuff. Okay. Women, girls who are not training their upper body. Well, I do all these squats and I do glute glute ham raises and Romanian deadlifts and yeah, you better be doing the big barbell lifts because you're not going to build the massive legs without them. Okay, you think the best way to stabilize a good squat or an RDL or all these movements you're doing for your glutes and everything, which those are the best exercise? Okay, deadlift variations, hip hinges, squat variations, number one thing you can do for your glutes. Hands down. It just that destroys everything else. Okay. Do you really think having a weak upper body is the best way to stay injuryfree and to stabilize those movements? No. Think if your upper back is weak or any of that. Do you think that's that's a good situation to be in? No, it's not. Higher risk of injury. You won't be able to load as much on those and you won't be able to develop your glutes as much. Train your upper body will help with this. Especially for women who tend to have slightly weaker upper bodies. It's harder for you to stabilize it. You better be up there training your shoulders and your traps and your You better be training in your lats. You better be training that stuff so you can stabilize that better. Come on. You'll get better at all those hip hinges. Get better at those squats. Anything to where the barbell is being supported in some manner by the upper body, which are the best exercises, incidentally. Okay. So, you need to be training all that. Men think having weak glutes or weak hamstrings is the best way to not hurt your knees. Oh, well, I do some running. I do some jumping or whatever. Yeah. So, because you have weak glutes and weak hamstrings, you're going to be more likely to get hurt doing that stuff. You're more likely to tear an ACL. You're more likely to hurt your knee doing those other things. All these guys, I blew out my knee jumping. Yeah, because you have weak hamstrings. Get in there and train your legs, guys. Also, hip extension part of every sport. You want to be athletic. I don't care if it's on the playing field or in the bedroom. You better be training all your hip extension. What all muscles are involved in that hip extension? See where we're going with this? See where we're going with all of this? Same thing. Even people who are like, I'm just trying to look better and trimmer and more tone. Okay. So, gaining muscle everywhere will help you burn more calories. It'll make it easier for you to lean out. You can eat more food while losing body fat. You can eat more food while sustaining the current body fat you have once you're lean enough. I have very rarely, very, very rarely heard anyone ever say to me, "No, I don't want to be in a situation where I can eat a little more food and still have the body I want." Come on. Let's come back over to that with the the upper body muscle. Okay, ladies. You don't want to be able to eat another three or 400 calories a day while maintaining the waistline that you want. And I'm talking year round. Come on, common sense here. All right. So, look at all these benefits. Especially guys in the leg thing. Come on. Women notice your chicken legs. They're also going to notice your lack of thrusting power. Just saying, guys. Build those muscles and you will also not get hurt doing other stuff. You will be more athletic, less prone to injuries, and you'll be more useful. Guys, if you have stronger legs, you'll be more useful in general just doing stuff. Girls, if you have strong arms and strong shoulders, you'll be able to pick up stuff better and be more functional. You'll be more useful in your day-to-day life. Okay, this stuff is common sense. You all need to train every single muscle in your entire body, including your biceps, including your calves. All right, it's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.