Progressive overload is the most important factor in muscle growth. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but a quick reminder if you guys will click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. All right. U again, this is a point of enormous contention. Um I am giving this based upon my decades of experience in the game. Um, I've been actually first started personal training and coaching some over 20 years ago, right? In my 20s. Uh, I've coached a long time. I'm very familiar with the methods of all the best coaches around the world. I'm very up to speed with the various conflicting schools of thought in the scientific literature and research. So these conclusions when I say this is based upon my own experience, observation and things that I've seen and and what I have simply observed is that without progressive tension, the only way people make any gains is just kind of through noob gains getting getting a little bit lucky with noob gains. Obviously, you're always going to get a novel training response initially. um and guys using large amounts of drugs. In in other words, unless people are using significant amounts of drugs to bridge the gap, you simply don't see just large amounts of volume without progression producing muscle growth, not to the significant degree that we're looking for. And a lot of what they do produce ends up being really just swelling, right? It's just swelling. It's not even actual uh real tissue growth, right? So, we see this very very frequently. Um, but when I say progressive overload, I don't mean intensity itself doesn't matter because a lot of times people say, "But wouldn't you argue that the intensity is is largely the driver?" And and I think there's a case to be made for that of proximity to failure. And and and again, this is a point I think most people agree on. Um, even even experts and PhDs, right? So, this is even where the bro world bodybuilders 30 40 years ago were saying the same thing. what even some of some of the best scientists are out there saying, and I've seen scientists point out that yeah, it's probably true that the closer you get to muscle failure, the more stimulating each rep is. Okay? In other words, you don't have to go to failure to stimulate muscle growth. Just just enough intensity alone uh with with progressive tension will cause hypertrophy. It'll cause muscle growth. But the closer that you get to failure, the more growth each rep causes. People say, "Well, yeah, because it's more reps." Well, no. No. Meaning the actual amount of growth from the rep is probably slightly higher, like a microscopic amount higher the closer you get to failure. Not just because you have more effective reps. Meaning, um, if you take your 10 rep max and you you hit that 10th rep and it's slow and grindy, that 10th rep probably had more muscle growth than say the ninth. and and definitely the eighth rep did. Okay. But you still got growth from probably rep six, seven, eight, nine. So that's that's the context there. But when we talk about the progressive overload, even though I would say it's not necessarily the driver, it's the evidence of the driver. And here's what I mean. We know that you get stronger as you gain muscle. Like this is this is not a point of of debate. Okay? Let us be clear. We know the mechanisms. This has been measured. It's been studied like this. This is not really um a point of contention. The bigger a muscle fiber gets, the more force it produces when it contracts. Okay, everyone understand that? It it directly scales a muscle individual muscle fiber. And when we're talking about muscle growth, what are we talking about? Are we talking about getting a pump and storing glucose and some glycogen? No. when we're talking about actual true muscle growth, right? So, if you didn't work out for a week, what you have left or let's say you didn't hit the gym for 10 days, you did no resistance training, that's your actual real size afterwards once any swelling and temporary stuff goes down, any extra uh transient storage factors, inflammation, whatever is left is the muscle growth. People say, "Well, I'm always a little smaller if I do that." Yeah, you are. because you're getting rid of that inflammation and swelling. That's all temporary. So, the muscle growth itself, right, that's what we're talking about, the gains, actual growth of the muscle tissue. All right, that's going to scale in every individual fibers because muscle fibers either activate or they don't. They don't. A muscle fiber doesn't activate 70%. It's either 100 or zero. There's no in between. And some people are unaware of that. So the more force you're producing, it means more of those muscle fibers are recruiting. Harder sets means more of those muscle fibers are recruiting. More work done, more muscle fibers recruiting. Not the the individual fiber isn't working harder. It's the number of them that are working. The size of that fiber scales perfectly. In other words, if you grow a muscle fiber 50%, the amount of force it contracts with increases 50%. Okay? Okay. So, do you see where we're going? So, in other words, if you have substantial muscle growth, you're going to be stronger. And strength isn't always just rep in a one rep max. That's how we measure it. But your five rep maxes, your 10 rep maxes. In other words, if you are gaining muscle, your three rep max is going to turn into your four rep max, your five. Eventually, you're going to do eight reps, nine reps, 10 reps on that same exercise if all the muscles involved. or if it's a single joint, you know, the main muscle involved is getting bigger. It's going to go up. So, it's not it's that's what getting stronger means. Your work capacity, uh your contractual ability because because quite frankly, uh your rep maxes do scale on the same exercise pretty pretty closely to your one rep max for you as an individual. Okay? So, if progressive overload isn't present, you're you're not either not training hard, even if you did grow, or you're not growing. In other words, your rep maxes will go up. Okay? If you used to be able to do 100 pounds for 10, if you get big enough, you're going to be able to do 200 lb for 10, right? Or you'll be able to do 100 pounds for 20. So that prog the progressive overload is essential. It tells you that you gained muscle. Not saying it's absolutely necessary for the growth, but if you're training to failure and you're gaining muscle, you're going to get more reps or you're going to be able to add weight to the bar. It is unavoidable. And if you're not doing so, then you're leaving a lot in the tank. So, in other words, if your if your old six rep max, you still keep doing sixes with it, but you gain substantial muscle, you're just not training hard anymore because it might be your 10 rep max now. You're just not hitting it. So, you're not taking sets close enough to failure and eventually you're going to reach a homeostasis there to where you're like, well, I'm training pretty hard, but well, how hard are you training? So, that's the point. We could argue that the intensity is necessary, but the intensity will scale with the progressive overload. In other words, if you're gaining muscle and you're not progressively overloading, you're either adding reps to a set or adding weight to the bar or increasing the range of motion, making it harder somehow, less something is happening, your intensity went down. So, you're getting less stimulus every time you grow. If you repeat the same workout, it gives a smaller and smaller growth stimulus if you're [snorts] not progressing. And we can control that, right? We can control that. We have the ability to directly control that. We can't always necessarily uh control the intensity. Like we might feel like we are, but maybe we're holding back. psychologically there can be other factors in place but we can we can absolutely know that we're progressing or not and the other point I would make even if the intensity is is down a little bit let's say you're not taking sets to failure okay fine but you're progressively overloading you're still probably every workout getting back close enough to failure you're stimulating muscle growth and so you're going to be growing even if intensity maybe isn't at 100%. But you are adding weight to the bar or adding reps, you know, with any degree of regularity, you're growing. Now, keep in mind, people say, "But sometimes it takes forever." Well, yeah, when you're an advanced lifter, sure, taking your five rep max to an eight rep max. Oftentimes is a year, takes you a year. It might take you a year, but when you're an advanced lifter, you're not gaining very much muscle in a year anyways. And that's why it takes so long, right? So hopefully people understand that as well. So when we have these conversations, a lot of times people go, "Man, I've I've barely moved though. You know, I've been using the same weight and reps for, you know, a couple months." I'm like, "Yeah, but you also deadlift 500 lb. You know, it it can take a little while when you're advanced, as long as there's a general upward trend. But keep in mind, when you're an advanced lifter, it might take you an entire year to gain the muscle you gained in two to four weeks as a novice. So, the progressions are going to scale accordingly. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.