Pro bodybuilders avoid squats and deadlifts today because of drug side effects. I'm just going to call it like it is. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Uh but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. All right. Um and we need to be clear on this. There's there's a couple of factors at play here and historically this was not a problem. Okay, back in the 90s, early 2000s, even some of the best guys out there putting out the best advice, crazy jacked, including like enhanced guys like Dante Trudeau were telling guys, "Hey man, [snorts] get crazy strong at 20 rep squats and deadlifts. You'll get you'll get really really big." But also keep in mind the sort of of anabolic stacks he promoted were to just run tests with a secondary anabolic. all injectable, no orals, none of this insulin, none of these other things. So, I need people to understand the difference between that and today's bodybuilding world. They got away with it just fine if they just did nothing but like testosterone and deca, right? They got massive, they got jacked just fine. Uh today's bodybuilding world is different uh because of the stuff that they do. And I think people forget that. And so, here's what we need to to understand. This is why all these bodybuilding gurus out there like, "Oh, no, no, the squats and deadlifts, you don't want to do those." Yet, you look back historically and most of the greatest bodybuilders in previous generations did them. And it wasn't that long ago, even the enhanced guys, Ronnie Coleman, Jay Cutler, right? So on and so forth. Dorian says he would have squatted except that he had some injuries that prevented it. But definitely previous errors, you go back before that, Arnold, Franco, all those guys, they all had massive squats and deadlifts. Okay, we need to be clear on that. All the evidence suggests they're amazing bodybuilding and hypertrophy exercises, right? I've said that previously. I think the last videos. Um, all the evidence shows this repeatedly over and over and over. Yet we have all these pro bodybuilders and then even some of these evidence-based guys who were hard on the hardcore into bodybuilding trying to claim their terrible bad stimulus to fatigue. All this nonsense. So what changed? It's the drugs. It's the drugs. It is entirely the drugs. And it's the fact that most bodybuilders today tend to prioritize slightly higher reps. Do you see where we're going? So guys who are doing a bunch of orals, they're really out of shape from being too high a body weight, right? Because they can't be in shape. I think dudes forget this. They're they're like, "No, no, no, no. They're in shape. They're lean." That's not what in shape means. In shape means the ability to run a 5K without dying. You guys have seen me do. I've done it numerous times on camera while streaming it, right? I've done longer runs than that. So, this is what we mean by in shape. Well, few problems we're going to run into with that. Number one, a lot of these anabolics that they're using have caused low back pumps. And guys like Ronnie got away with this. Like, well, how come Ronnie Coleman and those guys got away with this? Because they didn't always do high reps on these. Saw Ronnie doing a lot of really crazy heavy squatting, like two, three, four reps. He didn't do huge amounts of of these exercises with low reps. He would deadlift 800 for a double. But you didn't see him repping these things out, did you? Again, all the oral anabolics cause enormous amounts of low back pumps. So, for a lot of guys, this is a crippling, debilitating thing. And if they try to do a 10 rep squat, like you just saw me do a 10 rep squat there. they tried to do 10 reps with a moderately heavy weight, they will be on the ground holding their back. Same thing with a deadlift. It's the side effects of the drugs. And anyone who's ever messed with this knows exactly what I'm talking about. So, the natties are going to argue this. Uh, but guys who've used plenty of stuff, they're going to they're going to say, "Yeah, no, he's he's he's right. He's right." a lot of orals, some cases trend, definitely Winstrol. So these these substances cause these low back cramps and pumps and it can be and Clen does the same thing even worse. So how many of these guys going into shows are running orals, they're running Clen, they're using all these things. These are the things that really make your low back super crampy, super pumpy to the point of excruciating pain. Where with some of these stacks they're doing, if they try to do a 10 or 12 or 15 rep set of squats or deadlifts, they would be laying on the ground in agonizing pain with their low back. Might not even be able to walk for for several minutes, five minutes or longer. Not even be able to walk, struggle to even stand. Okay, have that. Then what else do we have to factor in? The ridiculous amount of stupid amounts of useless muscle they have at a certain point. It was one thing when guys were just on some anabolics, you know, 20, 30, 40 years ago. Today, all these other substances, they're getting so big and there's so much load on their cardiac system. There's so many of these things uh cause inflammation of the the chest cavity, inflammation of the chest wall. I mean, look no further than Sam Sulick. Even at a young age, you saw the signs of it. Couldn't breathe. So, if they can't breathe and they're not doing really low reps, they're not doing just heavy maxes, how are they going to squat and deadlift? They can't. So, let's set aside the other side effects when they're on those things because they might not be on those things year round, but they still have from all the stuff they use, no stamina, no cardiovascular conditioning, and they can't really build it because their chest cavity is inflamed. chest cavity inflamed, blood pressure up, can't breathe, and the body weights they're carrying with that inflammation. All right? So, for them trying to do a higher rep set of squats or deadlifts, which we know will make you jacked, we know will make you big, we know puts muscle mass on you. Proven over and over and over and over and over and over. Everybody knows this unless they they just put blinders on and they believe this other nonsense. We know it does, but most of them can't do it because they would be dying on the ground panting, possibly having a heart attack, but definitely just completely incapacitated due to being out of shape. They are out of shape because of all of this and they can't get into shape. The body weight combined with the inflammation of the drugs makes getting in shape pretty much impossible for the vast majority of them. Again, what we've always said, what's one of the marks of pro bodybuilding, the ability to take the most drugs without dying. Well, it also is lower side effects. Few guys like Ronnie got away with some of it, but that's he's a genetic freak, wasn't he? Some people pointed out that was arguably his best genetic trait. his ability to use large amounts of these substances with minimal side effects. Well, that's an enormous advantage in a contest like that, right? Not saying he didn't have other genetic gifts, but you know, let's put that in perspective. So, this is the reason. So because of this, because all these bodybuilders are scared of squat and deadlifts because they really can't even do them in the manner that they would need to, it's now trickled down as, oh yeah, squats and deadlifts aren't amazing for bodybuilding or building muscle or any of this. When in reality, they absolutely are if you're drug-free, if you're on reasonable amounts of drugs. Otherwise, that's the problem. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.