Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blah Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about why I almost never program more than one heavy set uh per exercise anymore. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, I would appreciate it so much. And I think people have noticed this applies to uh my own training and you'll notice the same thing with a lot of my clients that vlogs and even clients who I don't vlog. Um, a lot of my lifters, we really only do a little bit of heavy work on the big three and then everything else really is about reps. Um, and people will notice like um, a lot of this footage here, they're like, "Man, you're doing like 12, 15, 16 reps on on a lot of these bigger exercises, you know, through a lot of this stuff, you know, including stuff like back squats. I'll do tens or whatever is back off." Um, so there tends to be higher volumes of training and then I focus on really heavy for a small amount. And I think a lot of people don't get this. They're they're looking at this going, "Well, thought your background is powerlifting. Aren't you a strength coach?" And it's like even a lot of my elite lifters, we only did a couple of really heavy sets every week. So when when you guys see clients I've put up in the past, you've seen some 600 lb squats. And when I say 600 say 600, I don't mean from 300 lb dudes either. We're talking like a 210 lb man squatting 615. Um, you know, some 700 lb deadlifts from guys well under 300 lb obviously. Uh, so you guys have seen a lot of this stuff and, you know, 400 plus benches. Um, even when you guys have seen me hit like 365, uh, you know, pause and everything on the bench, I'm not doing huge amounts of heavy volume. We're just not. So, the reason I say this is it's not always about efficiency. And I'm one of those who's like, look, lower reps absolutely build muscle, but you can't handle huge amounts of of really low reps. You just can't, right? You can't handle it. The joints don't always handle it well. And if we want to get the most out of it, we have to say, what is our minimum effective dose? Like, and in my case these days, I usually do one heavy set of squat, bench, deadlift, every workout, but I only lift three days a week. Everything else is conditioning and running, you know, but after that it's it's a lot of of higher rep work. And the reason I generally advocate that is not that low reps don't build muscle. I I feel those top sets help. Like you guys will have seen me do four reps of 315 on a bench all paused and clean. Of course, that's contributing to muscle. That is that is has an enormous hypertrophic stimulus. But when I've done stuff like 3x3s on bench twice a week, you know, I notice even my my joints don't like it. My tendons don't always like it. So, this is stuff that we have to have to think about with our really heavy work. And I think this is where people say, "Well, then we should just not do it." It's like, "No, it carries over. The neural drive will carry over to your muscle growth." But realistically, we know that higher rep work is is a pretty effective way to build muscle as long as progressive overload is present. you know, we're going through respectable ranges of motion. I mean, sets at 10, 12, 15, they build muscle just fine. They're a little easier on our joints. So, we have to look at it and go, you know, what's going to give us zero joint problems while still getting the strength benefits. And this is where people miss the boat. You know, they'll they'll hear that and then they'll say something like, well, so you're saying heavy weight is bad for your joints. No, not at all. In fact, it's great for bone density and that will build joints over time. But when you think in terms of of the neural drive, you're only going to be able to exert maximum force so many repetitions, you know, it's going to be three or four reps tops. So, I tend to program stuff that way, you know. Yeah. Now, granted, on here you'll see me do a six rep with a deadlift, but that's because I've just been working with top steps with that weight and I just magically got stronger, you know. So, I would say for me as a coach, I don't have lifters do more than one one set. Anyone who's not a novice in the one to five rep range, we don't do more than about one set generally. All right, there's just no need. And then we can go over to higher rep work. Um because again, context, sure, we could argue 225 is is heavy, you know, but in this case, like you see me doing it for a 17 rep set there, it's back off work. Um, isn't that going to cause muscle growth? Is anyone going to argue that if we keep getting better and better at 225 on the bench, even if it starts hitting 20 reps, that it's that it's still causing muscle growth? Of course it is. It's very easy on your joints. Very easy on your joints. Um, you know, and so a lot of my my guys, we do this. We a lot of my guys who we want to really get truly strong, I do ones and tens, right? First time you guys saw me deadlift over 600 lb on camera, what was I doing? Heavy singles plus all 10 10 to 20 rep sets on everything. Okay. Right. And it works just fine. Not saying we can't do some rep work on these, but we can we can do one heavy allout set and you're going to get your neural drive. And people need to understand this. You're going to get amazing neural driving carryover to max strength off of that one top set, whether it's a training max, a heavy single, you know, a three rep set, a five rep set, as long as it is truly legitimately challenging. You're going to get the neural drive, and I will argue that will even increase uh your later sets because again, you've primed the nervous system. Everything is is primed and ready to go. um and it's already elicited this high force production. You've already really hit those upper threshold fibers. So then it will make your other high rep work efficient. And and there's a big difference in terms of programming. Like you'll say this and people will be like so why don't you just program all 10 if you just want to get guys bigger or twelves? And it's like um because you're still missing the neural drivers. It is a different training response. If you do a really heavy triple and then you do sets of 10, you understand the difference. It's the same thing with the deadlifts, you know, like I'm rowing and doing high rep chins. I mean, I think my lowest rep set probably through this set of stuff from these workouts is 12 reps for the back, right? I'm doing like sets of 15 with 225 on the on the row. I'm doing weighted shins for 12, 13 reps. Um, you know, but the the thing is we've already done a heavy deadlift first. So, a lot of the pulling muscles, the muscles of the back have now been subjected to a very high degree of tension. All right? They've already been subjected to it. Now, we just come in and just we get quality volume. And, you know, again, we could make the argument. Here's the problem with this argument. Everyone's like, "Well, you do everything in the six to eight." Um, or you know, we do everything like five to four to six, and you won't have to have those warm-up reps, but you're also having to go super heavy all the time. Okay. You're having to go super heavy all the time. And that will take its its wear on you because how many of those guys we're seeing, some of those influencers pushing that are even getting hurt on machines. Yeah. Whereas if you're coming in and doing a bunch of tens and twelves and things like that, because once you're strong, I don't think people understand that. Do you know how heavy a barbell row has to be for me to do a five rep set to failure? You guys are watching me do 15 rep sets of 225. You see where we're going with this? There's a point where you do go, "Are we just getting hurt doing tons of really heavy reps?" I mean, look at some of the pro bodybuilders that now granted we're not using their weights because we're not blasting five grams of gear. But I digress. You see the point? This lets us come in behind our heavy work and just build muscle. Now, the downside, people are like, "Man, you do a lot of of really high tonnage work in a workout. How are you doing that at your age?" I'm like, "But I'm fit. That's why you see all the GBP, you see the conditioning, you guys see me running. I get out and run at least twice a week. Two or three days a week I get out and run. Fasted in the morning. We get up and we do sled work. We do weighted carries. Right? We want to be in shape because if we're in shape and we're fit, man, it's a lot easier to do our heavy work and then do a bunch of tens and 15 rep sets, right? We handle it just fine because we're in shape. We are conditioned that work capacity is not a big deal. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative. I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.