Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals about uh the fact that his protein intake goes up, meal timing just matters less. Uh but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it so much. Thank you. Um all right, let's get over into this. And and I'm someone who fasts and I've made gains fasted. Um, I lift some pretty respectable weight for a dude who's about to be 50, closing in on 50 years old. Actually, about to turn 49 coming up here shortly. And again, you guys see me repping 315 on a bench, doing rep work of 500 on deadlifts, and so on and so forth. Um, and and no, I'm not blasting a bunch of gear. So, I fast, right? I have about a six, seven hour feed window every afternoon. I do all my training fasted. I don't worry about my post-workout anabolic window. And what I want people to think about is when you really look at some of these studies on muscle protein synthesis. Um, and I'm not telling you to do just one meal a day. I'm not saying OMAD. I'm not I'm not telling anyone to do anything quite that extreme. Okay? However, what I am saying is the original anabolic window stuff was was based upon fasted studies originally to where they saw yeah much better improvement post-workout if they got these shakes and everything, but they also usually did an overnight fast. So, they did pretty pretty much what I do. They train fasted. All right? So, these were after an overnight fast and then people training in the morning because that's the only way to control certain things with nutrition, right? It's the only way to have complete control is to have people do a lot of stuff fasted and um see what happens. This is a standard protocol for a lot of medical purposes. So, we saw all these anabolic window studies, but that's that's where they came from. Um and the thing that I want people to to think about is um I don't want to have an appeal to nature here, but historically your ancestors didn't get huge amounts of protein even every day. Now, obviously, they were not walking hulks of muscle, but if you go back and look all through Paleolithic times with humans, um they didn't always get a bunch of animal protein several times a day. Sometimes they went days at a time without a big kill or something and then they tended to gorge. They tended to gorge on all this meat when they got it. And it might have only been for a lot of tribes and things once a week and then they got an enormous load of of animal protein and they just had to make do with other stuff between then, you know, plant sources and bugs and the small animals they could get. Um, so our bodies really are used to that in terms of just our genetics and and ancestry that that oftentimes our protein comes in really big feedings, right? We were never we just don't have a history of that for humanity of oh yeah we got high protein intake five times a day. No, we really we really didn't. Um so when we understand this we would realize that this this is a problem too. This idea that we have to have all this but but what about for building muscle? Well uh plenty of people have successfully done lots of fasting and got jacked, right? They've done plenty of fasting, they got jacked, um, and haven't worried about it. Okay? Yet, people have been told to obsess over it. All these protein feedings and keeping in mind a lot of this, it was originally to sell protein shakes. You remember the whole thing of you can only absorb so much in one sitting. Like, that's been debunked. That's been entirely debunked. Okay. Um, and we know that that was originally pushed to sell protein shakes between meals because people like, "Oh, people are only going to have so many meals, but if they buy all these protein shakes, they can get their like 25 or 30 grams in in between. Like they can get like three of those every day if they need to, then they can hit all this uh, you know, huge amount of protein uh, and they can have it spaced out and absorb it." Well, the reality is we have no trouble absorbing or utilizing for muscle growth large amounts in one sitting, you know, and you got to look no further than that study that was done here a year or two ago where they took lifters, right? Of course, it was fasted study again and they had them do like 30 grams of protein post-workout and then they measured the muscle protein synthesis. Okay? And they had another group do 100 grams of protein workout. Now, keeping in mind this is whey. They did a fast absorbing. This is whey. Unlike a lot of your other protein sources that are going to absorb much slower, okay? So, this really fast absorbing that everyone wants to claim, oh, well, you know, it'll be in and out of your system really fast and it doesn't give sustain. It just spikes muscle protein synthesis and then it's all done. Well, that's not what the study showed, was it? that 100 grams of protein elevated muscle protein synthesis for eight hours. Okay? And when you ran the net numbers, it had three times three times as much total muscle protein synthesis as the 30 grams. Like if you were to add it up because they didn't it didn't spike difference. So unlike what people would try to tell you like, oh, it's just all going to spike way up and then drop down. But that isn't what happened. Like this hadn't really been studied, you know, not with a high dose before of saying what happens if we do 100 grams of protein. Like let's see what happens, right? Well, we saw what happens. We saw what happens when you take the 30 grams of spiked up to a certain level. When they took 100 grams, it spiked up to the same level and it stayed there for hours. So that single feeding of protein of 100 grams, which again, keep in mind 100 grams, we're we're getting up to uh kind of our levels close to for for really solid muscle growth, okay? Because remember, it's 1 to 1.5 or 1.6 g per kilogram of body weight is that optimal range we always point out. But that lower end of the range doesn't work with low quality protein. Well, whey is very high quality protein. So, if you have a guy who weighs, you know, 80 kilograms, you know, a lean 180, right? We're up into the potential optimal, but notice that it was sustained over time and then it tapered off, but it was based upon the amount that they had. See where I'm about to go with this? Well, what would have happened if it was 200 grams? And I'm not saying I mean that'd be pretty ridiculous. It'd be a certain point where you go, you know what, dudes, two 200 grams of protein in in one sitting is u probably borderline insane, right? Probably borderline insane. We're not not telling anybody to go do that. But I digress. I digress. What if you did? It would probably extend if we looked at that data and said, "Okay, 100 grams lasted three times longer. 200 grams might have boosted it for 16 hours straight." Okay. So, put that into into context here. Right? There's our context. All right. Well, that matters. So, if that's the case, then does it mean that the timing just doesn't matter that much? In other words, what if you're someone like me who oftent times has minimum 200? I have plenty of days where I eat 300 grams of protein. So, if 100 grams extends you out for like eight hours, you see where I'm about to go. What if it's even slower absorbing stuff like lots of meat and everything else? Okay. Well, then what? Then what? Well, I can tell you then what? If we're doing it with a bunch of meat, it's probably going to last longer. And again, I'm not telling you that this is what I'm not telling you to eat 300 grams of protein in one sitting. What I am telling you is in light of this, the higher the intake goes based upon our data, the longer the muscle protein synthesis uptime goes for each meal. Therefore, the timing is really not that important. Okay, it means that the timing is really largely a matter of convenience. Okay, it's going to be largely a matter of convenience. like you know what what works for you, what feels good for you. You know, if you want to only have two or three big protein feedings a day, but the intake is high enough, well, it'll probably be fine. Okay, that's what we're saying. It'll probably be just fine, right? So, I would say you don't need to worry about it. And that's that's the point we're making that the higher the intake goes, the longer the muscle protein synthesis lasts for all of it. And if you start getting you start exceeding stuff like a gram per pound of body weight, some of these really high intakes, a lot of us routinely do, you know, what do you think will happen? All right. What do you think's going to happen? Well, you're just going to stay elevated all the time, almost irrespective of of how big your feeding windows are, fasting windows, how you time it. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.