Yes, I still think my strength standards are perfectly reasonable. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blah here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about my dad bod strength standard. I know it upsets people, but let's talk about it. If you guys would please give me a like down below, it would be greatly appreciated. If you aren't following me, uh please subscribe or follow me and drop a comment down below. I would be appreciative of it. Um, and again, you guys see me going pretty pretty far past it in this this video before people jump in and say, "You're just saying it because it's what you lift." No, I can do some of those for like 10 reps. All right, but let's let's get over to the point. The uh the strength standard I put out there, and I've said this for a while, and a lot of people don't understand why I say it. They think it's unreasonable, but then a lot of lifters are like, "Dude, it's perfectly reasonable." Like people who really really train are like, "Dude, that's that's not a big deal. It's really not. Um, and my standard is I tell guys as a middle-aged guy, if you've been going to the gym for years and you're 40 years old or or anywhere in your 40s and you've been going to the gym for years and years and years and you've actually trained, that's the caveat. You've actually trained. You've actually eaten protein. I don't think, you know, a 300 or or a 315 bench as I put it, let's call it even a 300, a 300 bench, a 400 squat, 500 deadlift and doing 10 pull-ups, okay? It's not unreasonable. That is a reasonable lifetime expectation for a non-competitive lifter. Okay? And you get people who are like, "That's that's not reason. What if I didn't train for strength?" Nobody said you had to train for strength. Like, let me let me state that for a moment. Does anyone out here who really knows anything about lifting, I'm going to say any of you know anything about lifting, think that you have to train for strength to be able to squat 400 lb, right? Is I mean, is is this really what people think? Like, is this considered some exceptional feat like that you're a powerlifter because you can squat 400 pounds? That's a delusional statement right there. You telling me if you leg pressed and built your abs and back enough to handle it? Okay, so let's come over the pull-ups. Let's say you can do a bunch of pull-ups. So, you got a back. That's already been done. You got a back. All right. That is my point with all this. If you started training, you're 40 years old, you walk in the gym and you were 27 or 28 and you just started working out and you spent 12 years on a leg press machine with basic progressive overload. Okay, that's what we're talking about. And you progressively overloaded a leg press. You didn't just come in and put two plates aside on it and leave it there. Let's say I don't know every year you added another plate and kept going and now you know you do I don't know whatever 1,000 lbs for 20 reps. I don't know 800 lb for 20 reps. You progressively overloaded the leg press just getting bigger legs. And you work on your back. You do some back work. You maybe even do some lower back work. Do some extension. some rows. You know, you you can do at least 10 body weightight pull-ups. You've gained muscle over the years. You can do some some rows and stuff. Okay, you're telling me you can't squat 400 lb. Well, what did you do with all that time? And that's the point we're making. Did you not work out? Like, what what did you do while you were there? Well, I jerked off watching the girls in the cardio section. I mean that the only obvious answer because you weren't lifting weights. What did you do? Sit on the the good girl bad girl machine masturbating for 12 years? Did you not use the weights while you were there? Did you not at any point while you were there say, you know, I should probably just progressive I mean basic stuff. We all know this progressive overload the basic the most basic fundamental idea of lifting and it's about consistency over time. So if you actually went to the gym, even if you spent most of your time on machines and you did something besides jerk off watching the girls do on the elliptical, you did anything but that or talk to the girl at the front desk and then leave. So, you went into the weight area and you worked out and progressively overloaded. Even if you used all the machines, I just used these 12 hammer strength machines and then maybe occasionally did some Okay, you tell me you didn't build enough muscle to squat 400 lb. That is my point. Do you know how horrifically bad and useless your time there had to be? And that is why I set these standards. These are obtainable standards. And again, people work out for three years and think, "Oh man, I am nowhere near that. There's no way." But we're talking about older guys. You've been going to the gym. Like, these are reasonable lifetime goals. This is for you kids right now. You're 25. Let's say you been working out. If you started following my channel, any channel a few months ago, you started lifting weights. Okay? You started lifting weights. You're 25. You're telling me that if you keep going to the gym at least a couple times a week, they say three times a week, you get really busy in life, you can come to the gym for 30 minutes, three times a week, do a push pull legs. Okay. Right. 30 minutes. Telling me that in 15 years of progressive overload on the leg press machine once a week, you know, do you see where I'm going with this? And you built your back, too, because you probably did train your upper body. So, you built your erectors and your lats and your traps, right? So, you built a shelf to support it. You can't You're telling me you can't squat 400 lb. I don't believe you that you worked out then. You were not lifting weights while you were there. You had no progressive overload because that would happen. That's why I'm setting this standard. This is not like a crazy standard. This is just about consistency. And am I saying you're going to get all four of them? No. Two of them? You better. Three still pretty reasonable. Four if you if you applied yourself. Okay, pretty reasonable, guys. This is this is not unreasonable unless you literally starved yourself and didn't eat. But I promise you all you guys are I drink my protein shake plus workout. I eat my food. I'm not 140 pounds because you didn't starve yourself. So you're walking around 170 pounds, whatever, a grown man, 170, 180, and you work out all those years. Well, what's the problem? This is not unreasonable. You guys know you're going to gain muscle every year, right? You're going to gain something. So, these standards are perfectly reasonable because you will have accumulated lean tissue all the way up into your 40s if you just work out. And I again, I'm not saying you need an elaborate program. You could literally push pull legs for 45 minutes, three days a week for the next 12 years. And yeah, these are reasonable goals. And that is my point with it. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.