Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I want to chat with you guys and gals a little bit about uh this really absurd idea I see out there by so many people that you can't squat, bench, or deadlift past age 40 or age 50. Um it's kind of like this whole new thing I'm seeing everywhere. Uh tons of smaller influencers who are trying to build a name are pushing this a lot. Uh but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. Um, and drop me a comment. I would appreciate it so much. Thank you. And I mean, there's case in point, guys, like right there. That's doing rep work with 315 on a flat bench. You know, here I'm doing some rep work with 405. You'll see me do a 500 squat in here, like a 585 deadlift. Um, I'm 48 years old. Um, and and I don't I don't get hurt doing these things. And I think for me, this is a very strange idea. you know, I see this out here and I'm I'm always like, but you know, these are the exercises that have really helped me stay strong and and bone density and and all these things as I've gotten older. And the same thing with many of my clients and I personally see masters lifters all the time in powerlifting. Uh, you know, I've seen people in their se I've gone to powerlifting meets and watched many people up in their 70s, men and women both compete. Um I have family members over age 70 who compete in powerlifting still. Um so to me so so see this from the viewpoint of those of us who actually perform these lifts. This is insane. And the craziest part is you know you'll see the influencers who promote this are weak. It's like what are you talking about? Uh you know it's not like you or your followers are going to put any respectable weight on the bar. What are you talking about? And what you actually realize is it's ego lifting and bad form that's creating issues with these movements. Uh and and they're quite frankly so easy to learn. And that's that's the thing that for me as a coach and someone who values these lifts. It's like I I don't understand why people won't just learn to perform them correctly. Okay? They're not that difficult. And that's the thing I would say people say, "Yeah, but they do require some skill and therefore that makes it dangerous." And it's like, but how could anyone who considers themselves fit or athletic with any degree of body awareness not be able to figure out how to perform these lifts or follow a basic tutorial? Um, you know, that's what blows my mind. It is literally only the ego lifting that creates the problems. Okay? If people just simply step back, take the time to learn these movements, they'll get all the benefits. And they're really not that difficult. like these movements are not that difficult to learn. Not to the degree that people have tried to make them out to be, you know, um and and different variations of them. Obviously, I'm doing kind of a low bar squat here, but even a high bar squat is just it's not that hard to learn. A bench press isn't that hard. Learn a deadlift. My god. Just learn to perform them. And if you can't perform these, what makes you think you can do others? People will say, "Well, you know, they they you have a learning curve." Well, sure. So, your only alternative is just to avoid all free weights. I I guess if that's your your reply, then you need to stick to just machines, I suppose, which also have their own injury risk. People get hurt on machines all the time. Uh so it's it's quite a strange thing to me because the same people will then promote other exercises that have lots of stabilizers, right? Really, you don't see people get hurt on dumbbell presses all the time. That'll be their alternatives. Uh especially, you know, stuff like the bench press. Just learn to bench correctly. Okay? Learn how to stack your wrist correctly. done. Okay, they're doing a 16 rep set with 225. Um, so it throws me off that people do this and it's it's literally the ego lifting. And I think I think the only reason we're having these conversations is because people let their mobility go so they can't squat or deadlift. Well, fix your mobility because that's the problem. The problem is you're letting your mobility go instead of staying fit because there's nothing stopping you from from squatting or deadlifting, barring some arthritis. You know, I've seen older lifters who their arthritis gets so bad that they can't they can't squat. But then some of that I go, well, fix your diet. Like, why why do you have a pro-inflammatory diet that's exacerbating your arthritis? you know, again, just bad lifestyle choices, bad form, ego lifting. And and I think the the argument is too, well, you know, people are going to be more prone to ego lift on a with the big barbell movements. Well, just stop doing that. Shouldn't that be the discussion? Really, the discussion shouldn't be, hey, you know, we need to not do these these lifts. It needs to be, hey, let's not ego lift. Let's use good form. Let's learn how to to lock in and get tight on movements. Let's learn how to stack wrist and things correctly. Um, because if we don't, then aren't people just going to get hurt on other exercises? Okay. Aren't they just going to hurt get hurt doing their curls because they're just going to cheat? Okay. They're going to cheat on their curls. And it's not even necessarily cheat curls where people get hurt. It's the way that they cheat, right? Dudes lay back when they try to cheat curl. That's that's where those injuries happen. Same thing on like a preacher curl bench, you know, but how many bicep tears happen on a preacher curl bench? Or we're not seeing some of these influencers damage their pecs on chess machines. Okay, the idea is the same. Not learning to lock in tight on movements and use correct form. Being loose and sloppy. Hey, this is what gets you hurt. There's nothing wrong with any of these exercises. The problem is bad form and then overuse when using that bad form. So, so again, why are we demonizing these these amazing exercises that bring so much to the table? I think particularly the squat and the deadlift one bothers me. I can I can see where people could, you know, have their issues with the bench press. Okay, fine. Bye. The squat and the deadlift bring so much to the table. just so much to the table. Uh phenomenal exercises for your entire bone structure, for building your back, your bone density, your overall fitness. And no, these other replacements that people recommend cannot compete with those. Okay? A single leg exercise or a leg press will never compete with a back squat. And it's oftentimes the very thing that they're afraid of is what it brings to the table. the loading the spine, the loading the trunk, the work, the building of all your back and your bone density, right? These are actually valuable to us, particularly even more valuable with age. All right, guys. So, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.