You shouldn't be training more than three or four days a week. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it. Now that being said, uh when I make that statement, it's a general rule. There are obviously exceptions. Okay? So, you know, again, let me be clear. When I give general advice, I am not saying 3% of lifters are not the exception to the rule. Okay? Um because what could we count also as and by training I mean weight training. I'm not talking about doing some cardio. I'm not talking about, you know, dragging a sled, any of this stuff that doesn't beat you up the same way in terms of your joints, right? Um I'm not even saying you can't work on some, you know, a weakest body part on some of your off days. You know, if your calves suck and you want to do some calf raises on your non-lifting days in between your cardio, perfectly fine. No issue there. But you're working a single weak point probably on with very, very high reps. You're not doing any real work, okay? You're not creating large systemic fatigue. You're not beating your joints up. Um, will the other exception possibly be some very elite athletes? of course um particularly when anabolics come into the mix. Okay. So let me be clear on that as a coach um when I say that I do have some clients who who love ultra high volumes and frequencies. They're extremely conditioned to it. They're competitive and I put them on that. Not saying there hasn't been one except there's been one exception, but generally they're on anabolics. Okay. So, so again, let me make that point clear also. But I've also had clients on anabolics who are elite powerlifters who still only train four days a week. Okay? So, that's not even a heyo, let's just automatically go there. And keep in mind, there have been guys who won the Mr. Olympia training three or four days a week. They they've existed. There are people who uh have set world records in the squat who only train three days a week. They exist. I've certainly met elite powerlifterss who only train three days a week, even on gear. So, let's let's set aside the fact though that yeah, sure, there can be exceptions, but for the majority of you, the juice isn't worth the squeeze. Um, and I know people will say, "Well, the recovery is about total volume and if I just did half the work." The problem is you're not giving your joints downtime. So, when you're thinking in terms of muscle recovery, right? You're thinking in terms of muscle recovery, you could make a point for that, but your joints are a different animal. If your joints are being beat every day, and this is why I look at stuff like a pushpull leg six days a week, I'm like, man, that's hell on your shoulders, possibly hell on your your lumbar, you know, other things depending on how you do it. You're doing some really big movements in there. That's the problem, though, is that when people start doing that, then it's like, well, you know, see, I do all these machines so I can get away with it. But you're not doing the machines because they're better. You're doing the machines so that you can get away with it because of systemic fatigue and those joints getting beat from those big exercises when you're training six days a week turns into a problem. You're doing it so that you can get away with the high frequency training. Okay. You're not still not making more gains for it. And that's that's what I think people forget with some of that. They're like, "Well, but but um okay, I do that so that I get away with it and get more growth." You're training a muscle more than two or three times a week. It's insanely questionable if you're getting any extra growth from it. Like I I think we can make a good case for frequency and muscle protein synthesis. Okay, we can make a a strong case for training a muscle group up to three days a week. I I don't have an issue with that. But beyond a lot of that, not really. I don't I don't think you can make a case for that frequency at all terms of biology or anything else. And [snorts] anybody successful even really trained that way? I mean I mean really very very very very few absolute top level champion bodybuilders or powerlters or strong men are actually lifting six days a week. Okay? And that's even guys on drugs. You take that out of the equation, you know, quite frankly drug-free majority are going to do just can do great on three. You could push it to four with certain things like upper lowers or conjugate. Absolutely. But anything beyond some of that and the same thing with volumes, you start doing 20 plus sets a week. I've just never observed anybody anybody who's not on a significant amount of gear who really makes good progress on those sort of volumes. never seen it. I've seen a hell of a lot of good progress from guys doing, you know, 8, 10, 12 sets a week, drug-free day, year after year after year, training three or four days a week. Again, seems to be the norm. And we're talking lifting. We're talking lifting. Uh we're not talking doing your cardio and conditioning. I mean, we can make a case if someone's super fit. I mean, they can get away with cardio pretty much daily, you know, within reason without it impacting their gains in the gym if they're conditioned to it and they build it up very slowly and they're in good shape. But, but by and large, the lifting probably not. And again, we can make exceptions. Could we say some lower impact stuff that's really conditioning based like a sled or your GBP? Okay, fine. you know, if your calves or your biceps are weak link and you want to do some really high reps for them, you know, particularly for that extra frequency doing on pressure, we can make a case for that. You know, I' I've done my share of that stuff in the past, in some cases the present. But outside of that, there's simply no reason. All you are doing is beating up your recovery, costing yourself potential gains as well, potential higher injuries, creating extra fatigue. that's probably not giving you anything at all. And I think that's the point that guys don't understand. They're convinced that if they come in and add those extra days that it's going to pay off when in reality all training workload is diminished return. Every single set, every extra day that you add is a dramatic it's diminished return. Okay? It's not scaling. It's not like if you go from three sets to six sets, you do get double the muscle growth. Okay? We we have to understand that the same thing with frequency. More doesn't equal better. Better equals better. And then recovery. And at the end of the day, recovery is king. I would say to a lot of guys, instead of adding that extra day of training, why don't you add an extra hour of sleep? Which one of those, if you're training already hard three or four days a week, which one's going to get you more gains? The extra hour of sleep. Every single time.