 you shouldn't be training more than three or four days a week. Hey, everybody, it's Jason Blaha here, and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today, but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like, and drop me a comment down below, I'd appreciate it. Now, that being said, when I make that statement, to general rule, there are obviously exceptions. So, again, let me be clear, when I give general advice, I am not saying 3% of lifters are not the exception to the rule, okay? Because what could we count also, and by training I mean weight training, I'm not talking about doing some cardio, I'm not talking about dragging a sled, any of this stuff that doesn't beat you up the same way in terms of your joints, right? I'm not even saying you can't work on, a weakest body part on some of your off days. If your calves suck, and you wanna do some calf raises on your nonlifting days in between your cardio, perfectly fine, no issue there. But you're working a single weak point, probably on very, very high reps. You're not doing any real work, okay? You're not creating large systemic fatigue, you're not beating your joints up. Will the other exception possibly be some very elite athletes, of course. Particularly when anabolic's coming to the mix, okay? So let me be clear on that as a coach. When I say that I do have some clients who love ultra high volumes and frequencies, they're extremely conditioned to it, they're competitive, and I put them on that, I'm not saying there hasn't been one, I said there's been one exception, but generally they're on anabolic's, okay? So again, let me make that point clear also, but I've also had clients on anabolic's who are elite power lifters who still only train four days a week, okay? So that's not even a hey, oh, let's just automatically go there. And keep in mind, there have been guys who won the Mr. Olympia training three or four days a week. They've existed, there are people who have sent world records in the squat who only train three days a week, they exist. I've certainly met elite power lifters who only train three days a week, even on gear. So let's set aside the fact, though, that yeah, sure, there can be exceptions, but for the majority of you, the juice isn't worth the squeeze. And I know people will say, well, the recovery is about total volume, and if I just did half the work, the problem is you're not giving your joints downtime. So when you're thinking in terms of muscle recovery, when you're thinking in terms of muscle recovery, you could make a point for that. But your joints are a different animal. If your joints are being beat every day, and this is why I look at stuff like a push, pull, legs six days a week. I'm like, man, that's hell on your shoulders, possibly hell on your lumbar. Other things, depending on how you do it, you're doing some really big movements in there. That's the problem, though, is that when people start doing that then, it's like, well, see, I do all these machines so I can get away with it. But you're not doing the machines because they're better. You're doing the machines so that you can get away with it because of systemic fatigue and those joints getting beat from those big exercises when you're training six days a week turns into a problem. You're doing it so that you can get away with the high frequency training. Okay? You're not still not making more gains for it. And that's what I think people forget with some of that through life. Well, but okay, I do that so that I can get away with it and get more growth. You're training a muscle more than two or three times a week. It's an insanely question of why you're getting any extra growth from it. Like, I think we can make a good case for frequency and muscle protein synthesis. Okay? We can make a strong case for training a muscle group up to three days a week. I don't have an issue with that. But beyond a lot of that, not really. I don't think you can make a case for that frequency at all in terms of biology or anything else. And, if anybody's successful, even really trained that way. I mean, really, very, very, very, very few. Absolute top level champion bodybuilders or power lifters or strong men are actually lifting six days a week. Okay? And that's even guys on drugs. You take that out of the equation. You know, quite frankly, drug free, which you're worried you're gonna do just, can do great on three. You could push it to four with certain things like upper lowers or conjugate. Absolutely. But anything beyond some of that, and the same thing with volumes, you start doing 20 plus sets a week. I've just never observed anybody, anybody who's not on a significant amount of gear who really makes good progress on those sort of volumes. I've never seen it. I've seen a hell of a lot of good progress from guys doing eight, 10, 12 sets a week, drug free, day, year after year after year, training three or four days a week. Again, seems to be the norm. And we're talking lifting. We're talking lifting. We're not talking doing your cardio and conditioning. We can make a case if someone's super fit. I mean, they can get away with cardio pretty much daily, you know, within reason. Without it impacting their gains in the gym. If they're conditioned to it, and they build it up very slowly, and they're in good shape. But by and large, the lifting probably not. And again, we can make exceptions. Could we say some lower impact stuff that's really conditioning based, like a sled or your GVP, okay, fine. You know, if your calves or your biceps are weak-linking, you wanna do some really high reps for them. You know, particularly for the extra frequency doing on pressure, we can make a case for that. You know, I've done my share of that stuff in the past. In some cases, the present. But outside of that, there's simply no reason. All you are doing is beating up your recovery, costing yourself potential gains as well, potential higher injuries, creating extra fatigue. It's probably not giving you anything at all. And I think that's the point that guys don't understand. They're convinced that if they come in and add those extra days, that it's gonna pay off. When in reality, all training workload is diminished return. Every single set, every extra day that you add is a dramatic, it's diminished return. Okay, it's not scaling. It's not like if you go from three sets to six sets, you could get double the muscle growth. Okay, we have to understand that the same thing with frequency. More doesn't equal better, better equals better, and then recovery. And at the end of the day, recovery is king. I would say to a lot of guys, instead of adding that extra day of training, why don't you add an extra hour of sleep? Which one of those, if you're training already hard three or four days a week, which one's gonna get you more gains? The extra hour of sleep, every single time.