Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And our topic today is you can't biohack your way out of hard work and consistency. Uh if you guys would though, please remember to click like down below. If you aren't subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'd be kind enough to drop me a comment down below also, I would greatly appreciate that. But let's get over to the topic. Um hard work biohacking. Look, here's the thing. I see this all the time. Um, and people act like evidence-based people are are all utilizing science. That's also fascinating, too, because I find um the entire evidence-based community largely does the same thing biohackers do. I see very large amounts of people who when I see what they do, they are ridiculously, absurdly, mind-bogglingly lazy. That is almost a descriptor of most guys who call themselves evidence-based influencers. It's a reason they're still small and weak. They are lazy as f. Lazy AF. And there's tons of them. I see them with advanced degrees and stuff. And it's like, you're lazy, lazy, lazy. And that's how I describe them. And you know, and it's the same with with biohackers. Um, you know, they're always looking for, well, if I just do this, I can bypass the hard work. Or they're looking for some small advantage through hypothetical unproven pathways in the body. Um, and it's just this fascinating thing, you know, because no one wants to realize diet and exercise really will resolve a lot of these issues, right? So many problems that we have, health issues, other issues that we have, just literally diet and exercise, hard training. We'll we'll get you through those. And I mean, I hate to say it, but look at even the data on cancer. cancer alone, I mean the meta analysis on it a number of years back determined that depending upon the cancer type because cancer is not just one disease. Anywhere between 70 to 90% of cancer cases were a lifestyle induced meaning had a person simply lived a different lifestyle they would have never gotten the cancer. Okay? Purely lifestyle and that's the vast majority. Obviously that means there are exceptions but let that one sink in. I mean, type two diabetes is 100% lifestyle induced. Okay, let us be clear on that. You could literally diet and exercise yourself to zero chance of ever developing type 2 diabetes. Okay? Right? In fact, if if highly refined foods didn't exist, there wouldn't be a single case of type two diabetes anywhere in the world. It's purely a man-made creation. Okay. So again, everyone wants to biohack their way around things. What do you want to do to reduce cancers? It's like, have you tried not eating junk food, cutting out all the recreational drugs and alcohol, lifting weights, doing car? Have you tried that? Why don't you do that? But you know, again, that's work. And it's the same in the gym. You know, people are always looking for something because they just don't want to work hard. They really and truly seem to think if I just find this right angle, if I just find the right combination of exercises, I can just not train hard and I can just I should just come over and just do this isolation stuff and not lift heavy, not progressively overload, not take any sets close to failure or to failure and, you know, it'll be fine. It's not how it works. Literally, the only biohack in that case is going to work is drugs. more and more and more drugs. And I think people don't understand how many drugs a lot of these bodybuilders who really train like garbage use to get away with their garbage training. Again, I think people be shocked. It's not just, oh, they use a few steroids. Yeah. No, ridiculous amounts sometimes. Like you would your mind would be blown how many times a week they're injecting themselves and how many pills they're consuming. Um, so just keep that in context when you're thinking of that when people will say, "Well, you could biohack with drugs." Like when you start doing the math and you realize that there are bodybuilders who you're thinking of, "Oh, yeah, he's clearly on some some roids might do upwards of 50 to 100 injections a week of different substances, subcutaneous, interuscular." Okay. Yes. And I said I said what I said. I notice I didn't say five. I said 50 to 100 in some cases. 50 to 100 shots a week injections. Okay. Or pin cushion. So um plus whatever pills and other stuff. So yeah sure that can biohack to certain looks and results but it still at what cost destroys their health the side effects everything else you know. But everyone acts like if they just oh I'm just going to find this biohack and I'm going to just lose body fat or this right stuff. I'm just going to gain muscle that I'm going to do this stuff and I'm just going to find the easy way around it. I'm sorry. There's no no easy way around it. Sorry guys, you're not just going to do some pump work on some machines and ever build the muscle and strength and everything else that that people are going to get doing weighted dips and weighted pull-ups and bench presses and squats and deadlifts and all that stuff, you know, right? You're never going to replicate that with what you're doing. You're never going to. Um, but honestly, you know, people act like they that they're going to do it or they're just going to find this magic trick. If I just have this zone, I find the right zone on my cardio, it's going to fix all these problems. No, guys, you're going to have to work hard. You're literally going to have to work hard. And you're not going to biohack your way through this stuff. The same thing with diet, right? Oh, if I just take the right vitamin or supplement or this whatever extract, I can I can not eat a clean diet and get the same results. No, you're not going to be as healthy. You're not going to be as fit. You're not going to recover from stuff as well. Yes, okay, maybe you do certain stuff, you might get lean, but you're still not going to be optimal. You're not going to perform optimally. You're still not going to be healthy. Okay, people forget this stuff and they act like that they're just going to do that, but the reality is most people are never going to get the fitness results, the health results, anything they want if they're not willing to just dig in and do some work. And you're not going to just find a hack around that. You're not just going to find a supplement or some combination of supplements or just the right movement. If I just find this right exact cable exercise, I cannot do bunch of heavy weighted dips and bench presses. I'm sorry guys. It is not going to work. Has never worked. It will never work. And the only people who pull that stuff off, it seems like it's working. It's just lots and lots and lots of steroids and anabolic drugs. Okay? If their training is lazy like that, plus genetics on top of it, it's not going to work for the rest of you. So again, it's and it's not just about work and doing all this stuff and and eating correctly. It's about doing all of it consistently over long periods of time. Hard work and consistency are going to trump any of these hacks that people come up with. And I'm not saying you need to just train yourself into the ground. Yes, you got to have some common sense and fatigue management and listen to your body and not get overuse and inflammation or horrible form. I'm not saying to just train hard. Saying train smart while you do it. you know, use some sense, use again some proper fatigue management and things, but realistically, you're not going to do this. Like, people are always looking for this excuse to not work hard. And the fact of the matter is, you're going to have to, and it's okay because that's going to make you a better person with more discipline on top of it anyway.