Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here representing Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. You guys will never get too big naturally. Quit worrying about this nonsense. But a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below, be greatly appreciated. If you're not subscribed or following, please do so. And if you'll be kind enough to drop me a comment down below, I would appreciate that so much. All right, guys. people really worry about this stuff um too much or unfortunately for a lot of guys they think that they're going to get really massive natural and I'm not telling you that there is a natural limit per se because it really is like it's not a hard limit right when I say you know that hey you know most guys will never reach like a 25 fat-free mass index fairly lean it's almost unobtainable natural nearly unobtainable doesn't mean it's impossible. It just means that it's kind of one of those things that you could get closer and closer to and you guys will probably not reach it. Um because of the amount of time it takes. Does that make sense? Like guys hear that and they think, well, you know, does that mean that's the hard limit? Well, no. I mean, the younger you start, the closer you're going to get. And hypothetically, um, again, I won't want to give people too much hope there, but hypothetically, someone with really good genetics who started training at like 10 years old, you know, they might reach it in their 30s, okay? Right? They might reach it by 40. Okay? So, so I'm not saying that even that kind of limit that we set is is completely impossible, but I think what guys are not understanding um is how long it takes to build muscle. And I think this is why I tell people you're not going to get too big natural. Because some people say, "Wow, new gains came quick." You know, they they trained really hard, three, four, five, six months, right? and all of a sudden they've put on like maybe in six or seven months as a you know new gains they put on 10 11 pounds of actual muscle. Now they might have bulked and gained more body weight and they just look leaner and fuller but they gain fat too, you know. So they see that and then guys start having this idea in their head or they they start extrapolating this is going to continue forever. You know, guys start thinking, "Oh, I could get too big or they're worried they're going to get too big because they see some guy on gear who's been training a really long time. They're on stuff." Look, realistically, you're not going to get too big natural. Just come in and train. Get as big as you can reasonably because I would tell people there are health benefits to gaining as much muscle as you possibly can. All right? There are health benefits. And I think what people have this idea that they're somehow going to maybe get too big or too huge and it's just not really an issue. And I would say to a lot of guys, keep your body weight down and you don't have to worry about being too big in terms of body weight. You're just going to get leaner and recmp. Um, another reason, again, I tell I tell the guys who are drug free, you probably don't really need to bulk because realistically, most of you guys out there, if you're average height, if you get to a lean 175, 180 pounds, you have done phenomenally well. Like, if you reach those sort of numbers at 10, 11, 12% body fat, and you know, guys in the average height range, you need to understand how big that is. And guys are not realizing how long that's going to take them. Again, I want to be clear. Once you get through those nuke gains, no one's gaining 10 pounds of muscle in a year again. They're just not. It's not happening. Not without stuff. Sorry, that's a simple reality. So again, keep in mind those gains are going to come slow. And the reason I tell guys they're not going to get too big is for for a number of reasons. One, obviously we don't want to get people's hopes completely up. But I want to be clear. You can keep making gains and you can get pretty dang big given enough time and enough work. But again, it's going to take a really long time. Okay? I mean, again, let's be realistic. To reach what we would think of as an appreciable solid amount of muscle, like to where Yeah, he's pretty pretty good size. The guy's pretty getting pretty big. As a drug-free guy, you're looking at a 10 to 12 year investment. I mean, realistically, you're you're really looking at 10 years of hard work. No restarts, no starting over, no regressing, rebuilding. You're probably going to need to not miss a week or two, you know, very often for a decade. And you're going to have to train really, really hard. So, in that context, what does this mean? Well, it means a couple things. Number one, it means you don't have to worry about getting too big. Well, I could get too big. I could get too slow. That doesn't happen. That doesn't happen in sports. It does. It's not a concern. And again, we come over to why don't you just get leaner? Like, if you're really worried about weighing too much for whatever sport you're trying to do, one, maybe you're trying to stay in a weight class that's not appropriate for your height. Number two, why don't you just not overeat, you know? So, if someone says, "Well, I'm scared of getting too big. I need to be 165 pounds or whatever for for their whatever they compete in or play. Why don't you just get leaner then? Stay 165. Why don't you just be 165 with really deep abs? You know, that's kind of the point. You're not going to get big enough to where it's not going to improve your health. You need to understand that gaining muscle, any amount of muscle that you gain drug free is always going to improve your health. It's always going to lower cancer risk. It's always going to lower diabetes risk. It's going to be good for your heart. It's going to be good for your bone density. It's going to be good for all these things. So, stop worrying about it like like it's a bad thing. You're not even going to be able to gain enough muscle to really hurt your endurance as an endurance athlete or a runner. Again, don't get fat. Again, I want to be clear with just don't get fat. Problem solved. And I do see what guys are saying in extreme endurance sports. They're saying, "Well, maybe my legs might get get too big and I can't consume enough calories to complete my endurance event. It's gonna make it harder. I have to eat all these extra refined calories when I compete in my ultra marathon or whatever. I get that. But outside of maybe some cases like that because you just don't want to eat the extra food on those events because fueling it could be too hard. It's not a realistic concern. The same thing though when guys are talking about bulking, you know, they're like, "Well, I'll just I'm going to bulk heavier, you know, and dudes who are drug-free or are putting on 20 30 pounds of fat, you know, thinking, well, if I just eat more, I'll get bigger." guys, it's going to take you a long time. And the extra overeating and the bulking is not going to help you. It is not going to make you gain muscle any quicker. So again, it's also the case of people need to understand that you're not going to gain muscle that quickly drug-free. So they don't bulk and just get sloppy fat thinking they're going to. Guys need to be realistic with that. Again, we come over to that other point. Come over to that point. You guys need to understand how how long it's going to take an average height guy to get to 170 180 at like 10 to 12% body fat. You're looking at many many years of serious serious work. It's going to take you a long time. We're talking 10 plus years. And what people need to remember, we talk about a natural limit. Well, how late you start matters because eventually testosterone and IGF-1 and stuff will start to decline at a certain age and that's going to continue the rest of your life and you will reach a point where you simply didn't acrue enough years under the barbell right at a young enough age to have reached the the total limits for your hormone profile and then your hormone profile starts to limit you and you start to lose muscle because that will eventually happen with age with nothing to help you. that's eventually going to happen. So that's the stuff that you need to worry about. And then so realistically, no one is going to get too big drug-free. Nonsense doesn't happen. Shouldn't even be a concern on the table.