You cannot biohack your way around hard work. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys about this today, but a quick reminder if you guys will please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it so much. Um, again, one of these topics that we have to cover. Um, it's important that we cover because we see so much stuff out there about biohacking and cheat codes and um, all this stuff where people talk about optimization. Uh so you'll see the same thing even even in the lifting world where it's like you know we feel like um three reps in reserve will build just as much muscle as going to failure. Right? So it's trying to tell you to be lazy. Uh and and ironically it's not like the people who do this get great results or better results. You know that's the main thing. That's the main takehome with a lot of this. It's not like they're getting better results than the people who work just really really hard. Okay. And I'm not saying we should overtrain. I I do get that overtraining is a is a real problem for people who are highly driven, right? People who are highly driven, you do see that, you know, the people who who do not know how to quit. But that's not the majority of people. Quite frankly, that represents a very small segment um of lifters. I tend to get a lot of clients who fall into that area, and I'm always kind of reeling them back. But I mean, reeling them back in the sense of, hey, you don't need 157 sets, you know, because they always want to do more, more, more. And it's that's the problem. It's the idea that, you know, more is better. You know, better is better. High quality work is better. But at the end of the day, no matter how we approach programming, no matter how we approach fatigue management, hard work absolutely works. And we have to be clear on that. Okay? There are ridiculous numbers of people throughout the lifting world who have no concept of programming, no concept of of any form of periodization, fatigue management, might not even be that smart, who became absolutely phenomenal lifters. Why? because they just work really really really hard. And and we need to be clear on that point. That does work as long as it's not causing injuries. Long as you're not getting hurt from it, and that is a big what if. That's a big as long as because that is a big deal. Training too hard does cause potential overuse. Too hard, too often, too much volume. Yeah, absolutely. Can cause injuries. But if they if you're not seeing injuries, then it absolutely works 100% of the time. And hard doesn't mean, oh, I added 37 hours of extra work a week. No, that's just lazy work. I mean, training really, really hard. Pushing heavy weights for a lot of reps, pushing sets as hard as you can go, right? Pushing progression. More reps, more weight. thinking in those terms. I'm going to come in and work harder. I am going to work harder. It's a It wins. It works. It absolutely works. The problem is, you know, the people have this idea that, well, we can just biohack our way around. And you see the same thing with all these biohackers who think they can take endless amounts of supplements and that they're going to expand their lifespan, that they're going to do all these different things. And what what we really see is um a lot of times people are just too lazy and too undisiplined. It's they like discipline. They like the discipline to work correctly, to work hard. They like the discipline to eat correctly. They like the discipline to properly meal prep, to eat clean. Because look how many of these people who talk about biohacking, you look in and their diets aren't even that great. They don't go learn how to cook. A lot of them don't don't do these things. They don't actually sit down and have the discipline to say, you know what, I'm just going to eat healthy and clean all the time. They start looking for magic combinations of supplement. Instead of just putting in the work in the kitchen, okay? Instead of just putting in the work in the kitchen, the same thing with with the training. All these guys, they want to find shortcuts. Well, if I just tweak this or optimize this, I don't have to work hard because I'm lazy. Well, it doesn't work. And I'm not saying we shouldn't try to some extent to optimize our training, but it's way overblown because again, what we have to understand any form of of optimization is probably geared more towards recovery. Okay? because no amount of optimization is going to out is going to beat hard work in terms of the actual gains themselves in the stimulus. You can't a guy who trains really really really hard. Let's you just an example. Let's say you train really hard on weighted pull-ups and you get really good at weighted pull-ups and you push them to the limit. Are you going to have a better back than the guy who comes up with the optimal programming, but everything is three to five reps in reserve? Who who thinks that he's just going to outthink, well, I'll just get better back growth if I hit these six angles and have this perfect program and align the fibers perfectly uh with these single arm cable lat pull downs that line up perfectly with everything. And uh if I just do more volume and leave whatever reps in reserve, is he going to have a better back or as good of a back as a guy who says, "You know what? I'm just going to get really strong and work my ass off on weighted pull-ups." Okay, you already know that. Everyone listening who's been around lifting already knows the answer. you already know who's going to big build a bigger, wider back. 19 out of 20 times, it's going to be the guy who just put in a lot of work on the pull-ups. And again, I am not knocking understanding science. I am not knocking using smart programming. It is not a replacement for hard work. It will never compete with it. The guy who consistently works harder than you will still get better results than you every single time if you come in and put in 80% halfass effort, no matter how perfect you think what you were doing is. And you have to understand that the only time any of that has any place is when you already say, "Man, I am training hard. I am training balls to the wall. Like I am hitting it super hard all the time. I'm getting muscle cramps after I work out every day and so on. That's the only person who's really going to benefit from trying to optimize anything, but that person is already going to be making gains. the the obvious solution to most of this instead of trying to look for shortcuts and cheat codes and biohacks for the majority of you out there, you are just simply not working hard enough. You might be doing more work, but none of it's hard because if you were working hard, you would be gaining muscle and strength, even if you got tons of stuff wrong. So, that's a dead giveaway every time. These people are simply not doing the work. They are halfassing it. All right, guys. Well, that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.