Yes, you can still squat and deadlift after age 40. Hey everybody, it's Jason Bla here. Thought I would chat with you guys and gals about this today. But a quick reminder, if you'll please click like and drop me a comment down below. I'd appreciate it. This is one of these topics that myths me to no end. It just pisses me off. And it's because I see all these coaches over 40 or when you're over 50, you have to give up the big three. You have to do it. And I see it in my feed. It's like I don't watch any content fitness related on YouTube. Like I don't even currently engage my own YouTube or read the comments. I make content for people. I make videos, right? Which, you know, it's what I'm there for. Uh but I see it on Facebook. I see it on Instagram in my feed against my will. I got coaches on my friends list who started promoting some of this, you know, and it's it's always the dudes who want to sell you peptides, too. by the way, it's always the dudes who, oh, here's my prepar. I'm on 17 different [clears throat] peptides, you know. And then they're talking about you can't squat and delta without getting hurt. Like, dude, you're on so much stuff for tendon health and you probably shouldn't get hurt if a bullet hits them. Just stop. Um, you know, and I don't do any peptides. I don't do any peptides or growth hormone these days. Um, and you know, the thing is, look at what you guys see me doing. going to do rep work with 315 flat bag on the bench. I do I'm going to do like in this video I think there's like a 10 rep set with 405 on the high bar squat 500 for five in here. I've done all those for more. I'm 49 years old. Let's be clear on that. Like I'm doing that at 49, not 29. I'm doing it at 49. I'm not getting hurt doing it. I see gains doing it. You know, people get ridiculous with this. And it's always crazy. You know, you get people who are like, "Oh, why do you use your age?" Because everyone else in the industry says the opposite as me. Like every like 90% of the other guys over 40 who put out coaching and fitness content. Act like you're completely at 40. Oh, you can't squat. don't my god if you try to squat 400 lb in your 40s it's going to just blast your knees out your back and knees are going to explode and they almost sound that bad like you can't do that so when I say that and people you know will act as if oh it's not that well clearly it is because I'm one of the few guys saying it the majority are saying the opposite it. They're like, "Oh, yeah. You can't do any of that anymore." Which is insane. It's ludicrous. You know, does that mean that we don't need to pay attention to certain things more? No. And and yeah, it absolutely is different. Anyone who says, "Oh, there's no difference is going to feel really, really, really stupid when they get there." I saw Dave Tate write a post about that and I laughed because I used to say that. I'm like, "Age is just a number." You know? I used to be one of those guys that I felt kind of laughed. I felt a little called out when Dave Tate said that. He goes, "Yeah, you have all the guys out there who say,"Oh, age is just a number. It doesn't matter when you're over 40 till they find out that it does." You know, and then they're in for a rude awakening. Um, but for me, that's been the beauty of it. That's what been my one of my greatest marketing tools as a coach is now that I prefer most of my clients to be a bit older. the fact that I do what I do. Big selling point because they're like, "Yeah, I can't do this on my own anymore." 43, 46, whatever they happen to be. Like, it's not working. Stuff is getting pulled. I'm getting hurt. My body hurts. What do I do? Um, so, you know, the reality is it's different. Yes, you have to pay attention to things. You have to pay attention to overuse. You have to pay attention to tendons. Excessive volume will beat you into the absolute ground when you get into your late 40s. And I've learned this the hard way. Not doing it because I'm the wisest person on the planet. I'm saying I used to train the other way and then I did periods of time where I did that and that's where overuse injuries and things accumulate. It's where problems started. It doesn't work. You got to do less. You got to do less total heavy stuff, too, right? You're not going to come in and do six or seven really heavy sets of chest presses or squats a week anymore. It's not going to happen. You'll bury yourself, right? Your your tendons will not take it. They're going to hurt. They're going to get inflamed because that is part of the thing. That's what people miss. you know, they they'll say, "Oh, well, if someone's on TRT, they should be fine." Well, except for your tendons, you produce less growth hormone. You produce less less IGF-1. Your collagen synthesis goes down in your tendons, your protein absorption goes down. Testosterone doesn't fix any of that. You use five times a TRT dose and it's not going to fix any of that. It's going to make it worse. Um, so we have to pay attention to these things. We have to be smart. We have to be wise. But doesn't mean we can't squat or deadlift or go heavy, right? In fact, [snorts] I think we should be squatting and dead. I think we should do the biggest movements because we need the bone density, right? We need the loading of the body. We need that more and more uh as we get middle age and older. It's absolutely massively beneficial. What we can't do is do large amounts of truly heavy lifting. And notice I'm not counting, you know, 405 or 10 as heavy because I can do 10 rep plus reps with it. I guess it's not super heavy, but it's heavy enough. I still can't do endless amounts of it, but we don't have to. Same thing. I might do some heavier benching, you know, for fives. Well, you're not going to come in and do six sets of it a week. It'll destroy you. It'll destroy you. I've I've learned these things. So, yeah, we have to have some common sense. But to say that we can't do these things is silly. To say that we shouldn't do these things is silly. And I don't care what whatever pro bodybuilder or so and so did. That's not you. I'm talking about maintaining your body and actually being fit and healthy with good bone density and coordination and athleticism that we lose more of with age. No, you need those big movements. Cutting those out would be an extremely bad idea. And I hate this idea of mothers. Whoa, you can get jacked without them. And you'll get the other guys like the only thing that matters is how you look in your for. It's like, no, man. How you feel and how you perform matters a hell of a lot. Okay. Matters a hell of a lot. Um, so it's such a strange approach these guys take like, "Oh, let's just do everything machines. Just take all the stabilizers out. Let's take all the loading of the body out. We don't need it." No, they're just being lazy and it's because they've hurt themselves and they don't know how to do any different because they're caught up in their dogma and silliness and they just got older. And since they don't know how to actually hold back and train these things correctly and not do stupid stuff, they just got hurt and then they want everyone else to listen. And I'm over here saying, look, no, if you're smart about it, you're not going to get hurt and they're extremely beneficial. You need these movements, right? You need these movements. They're going to bring so much to the table. Just be smart about it. Be wiser as you get older. wisdom, experience, use it to your advantage. All right, guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.