Carbohydrates are not essential is probably the single most absurd yet still true statement that someone can make. Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here and I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Quick reminder though, please click like on my video down below. Um, if you aren't subscribed or following, please do so and drop me a comment down below with your thoughts. I would appreciate it. All right, let's get over to the to the point. Um, this is a statement diet zealots love to scream. And by the way, I definitely use lower carb in phases. I like low carb diets sometimes, even keto diets sometimes for different things. Um, so I'm not even screaming about that. What I'm screaming about is is stupidity, ignorance, and uh using lines like this to promote uh untrue nonsense. All right. Uh first of all when they say dietary carbohydrates are not essential it's it's essentially uh saying hey there may be vitamins and minerals there's other things that are not essential. Essential means that your body has some pathway to produce it on its own. Um and I'll give you examples of things that we know. I'll give you right off the top of my head something that is non-essential. Some people think it is, but it's actually you still have to have it. And people supplement it and add it to their diet and add foods in it because of the enormous health benefits. All right. The omega-3s, EPA and DHA, right? Everyone's familiar with those. Those are not essential. What? Yeah. There's only two essential fats, alpha linoic acid and lic acid. That's it. the only two fatty acids that we need at any level for survival that our body can't produce. Your body can make EPA and DHA out of ALA. Therefore, biologically speaking, nutritionally science speaking, those are not essential. Does this make sense? Now, people say, "But they're massively beneficial." Of course, but they're not essential. You need them to survive and for health. True, but they're not essential. Your body has a pathway to make them. All right? That's the same thing when we talk about carbohydrates. If your body did not have a pathway to make carbohydrates out of other things, which it loves to do, you would be dead really, really, really fast if you didn't have access to carbohydrates. All right? So, let's let's be absolutely clear on that. uh if your body couldn't make uh carbohydrate out of protein, glucose out of protein, or it could not make make it out of the glycerol backing off fatty acids, uh if you didn't eat carbohydrates, you would be dead relatively quickly, right? Within a week, like within a week, you would die. You would be dead. That's it. um glucose is our primary and preferred fuel source. So again, they're saying this, but they're they're not factoring this in the ironic part because he's saying people say there's only essential fats and only essential uh amino acids. Sometimes they'll say protein, but that's not actually true. It's amino acids. Eight out of the 20 amino acids are essential. All right, here's the the stupidity of it. These same people will then be terrified of one of the only two essential fatty acids. They're like, "Oh, we have to have fats in our diet. We have to. They're essential." But then you'll say, "What about lic acid?" Oh, you got to be careful of that one. That would be omega6. But it's one of the only two essential ones. So, you're going to say carbohydrates are not essential as it's some profound statement, but then you're going to be terrified of one of the only two essential fatty acids, right? That's really weird. Then what else do these same people do? They'll push eating tons of saturated fat. Saturated fat's not essential. Our body can make saturated fat. There is no essential saturated or monounsaturated fatty acids. There's about 20 polyunsaturated and there's only two of those are essential. Saturated fat is not essential. Yet these people will gorge on it. They be like, "Oh, you eat tons and tons of it." The same people who make this claim will eat tons of saturated fat. But I'm like, so you're going to claim not to eat carbohydrates because, well, they're not essential. Okay, you see where we're going with this? But then you'll eat tons of saturated fat in replace of them. That is also not essential. Uh the other issue with this statement when we're talking health, body composition, athletic performance, it is really hard on a when carbohydrates get too low performance performance uh is dramatically compromised. Our athletic performance is compromised. Muscle growth is compromised. Recovery is compromised. So what are you guys talking about? You're going to claim it's not essential for life, but it is kind of essential for uh body composition. How many serious high level bodybuilders or serious athletes does anybody out there know the fittest people on earth who follow really low carbohydrate diets at least year round? Some bodybuilders will do them for cutting, but not all of them. Plenty of of serious pro bodybuilders get ripped on high carbohydrate diets. Okay. So, see the problem here? This is problematic. It It's hypocrisy. And it's also making it sound like there's no reason to eat carbohydrates. But again, they'll still eat most of their calories in the form of non-essential calorie sources. It's it's ludicrous. It's I mean, the hypocrisy to say that then you your reply could be saturated if that's not essential. That's the best reply because it highlights the the um the ignorance. It highlights the hypocrisy. Here's the other problem to say that no carbohydrate is essential. The researchers around the world who who conduct this are trying to get that changed. They want fiber to be listed as an essential carbohydrate. Let let's be clear on that. There's been a movement for a long time among leading nutritional science researchers to categorize fiber as essential carbohydrates. So once that happens, if that happens, then their line also goes away. All right? So we also need to factor that in. the the only reason it hasn't been is because some of the the the researchers are still not being listened to as far as changing classifications because again essential required for health. Yeah, you you will have problems serious health problems eventually on a zero fiber diet. And I mean so then we talk about what do we need to sustain life? How how long of of and that's kind of been the debate. They're like, "Yeah, but it'll take a really long time to die for most people, not everyone." So therefore, that's been the reluctance to do it. It's not that it won't kill you young, right? It's just that it'll take a while. It could take 15, 20 years. And there in lay the problem. All right. So hopefully this makes sense and people understand how how absurd how absurd this statement really is. Um, all right guys, but that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.