Louise Simmons used to say, "Strength is measured in time, not pounds." Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaw here. I thought I would chat with you guys and gals a little bit about this today. Um, if you guys would though, please remember to click like down below the video. Um, I would greatly appreciate it. Also, follow me and subscribe if you haven't and please leave me a comment down below. Uh, thank you so much. So, onto this topic. Um, there's a lot to be said about this and people misinterpret uh this line. I've even have a good friend of mine uh like a powerlifting meet director, another masters lifter, someone I've known a long time. Um, we've had actually had a good online relationship as a friend. So, we we've chatted regularly over the years. Um, you know, he even called me up when one of he was directing a meet where one of my lifters was to check in with me on some stuff with him. So, yeah, I mean, good guy all around. you know, and he brought that up to me and says, you know, Jason, powerlifting is not a a speed sport. It's not a speed strength sport. That that line doesn't make any sense. And it kind of let me know that people made that assumption that that's what Louie was talking about when and that was only part of it. That's the thing. You take someone like Louis Simmons, um, innovator, brilliant man, really, really a genius when you look at it. absolutely genius innovator with an insanely ridiculous abnormal thought process. Um, but he brought so much to the strength world. Like he's left an enormous legacy everywhere. It's pretty much bled into every professional sport on earth at this point. Um, and he uttered that line and people didn't understand the multiple meanings of it. The multiple meanings of it. And it's so much deeper. Um, yes, in part he was talking about the explosive nature, force generation, uh, dynamic work, but that's not really entirely what he meant. And one day he explained it to one point, but then you could take everything that Louie talked about and you could take it in a whole deeper direction. But let's go with the the first point. He's like, the reason it matters is because you can only produce maximum force for so long and it's around three and a half seconds. Okay. In other words, particularly uh anything other than a deadlift, right? Deadlifts, people can grind a little better, but how often do you see someone make a true one rep max that lasts more than three and a half seconds? Usually at that three and a half second mark, either someone slowly grinds through or they get stapled. In other words, and even then they have to grind. Notice it's a crazy grind. So, time a bunch of really heavy world record lifts or national level lifts, right? Go watch them and film them and time them. He saw this stuff every day, day in and day out in his gym. Coached over 100 world record holders. What do you notice? At about 3.2 to 3.5 seconds, if they make the lift, it turns into an immediate shift in speed. the bar grinds insanely slow from there. It grinds insanely slow. In other words, you're no longer producing maximum force, right? You are hopefully now at an easy part of the lift. Like you you've got the weight moving, you've produced your force, you're now at the easiest part of the lift. And if you're grinding slow, if it moved faster than you're grinding slow, your force production has dropped dramatically. You can't produce maximum force longer than that. And if you try to, it won't work. You need like 30 seconds again before you can produce it again. Even for speed work. Okay, that's what they figured. We know this for every sport though, right? Even a boxer. Watch once they start throwing hard punches, they've got to burst. and beyond those number of of seconds it drops and they can't redo it again until they've recuperated. Their nervous system needs a moment to rebburst it again. Okay, but this applies to lifting. What he meant is if you don't make the lift in three and a half seconds, you're probably not going to make it unless you're just amazing at grinding and you've gotten completely through any possible sticking points that you normally have. Okay, you're out of your sticking point. If you don't make it through your sticking point, you will miss the grind. Wherever your personal sticking point is on the lift, if you haven't blasted past it in about 3.2 to 3.5 seconds, you're going to fail the lift every time. Doesn't matter how strong you are. Okay? But it's measured in time, not pounds, because you can produce maximum force at long. And the same thing when you really do get good at speed work, you are producing maximum force once you practice it. You only do it three and a half seconds or so, maybe a hair less depending on the person, depending on the movement pattern. Okay, that's what he's talking about. And so therefore, he thought in terms of that stuff when dealing with the speedwork, right? Wanting it to be inside those windows, but he's also looking at the maxes. Okay, but there's another factor. Strength is measured in time, not pounds. How long does it take to get really strong? How long does it take for you to reach your potential? Oo, I mean, John Hack's been doing it for decades almost. He keeps getting stronger. It was already world level elite lifter continued to chip away. Isn't this true for most lifters over time until we start getting older? It's that continual upward in undulation. It's about the long term. It is about the long-term adaptations in the training and the commitment that you're making to it. All right. It's also talks about So, I mean, another way to put it, Jim Windler said this once in a a podcast with some strength coaches, like some some CrossFit strength coaches. They were saying, "You want to get really strong? Squat heavy once a week for the next 10 years and you'll get strong." Okay. Again, a profound statement. They also said, "It doesn't even matter all the other stuff because you'll figure the rest out. As long as you consistently hit that heavy squat every week for 10 years straight, you'll you'll be consistent and you'll figure the rest out as you go. As long as you do that part, it'll all kind of fall in place. Usually again, strength is measured in time, not pounds. Profound. Absolutely profound statement. When you look at all of it, the force production in, how long can the nervous system fire, how long can you consistently put in the work year after year. This is all about time. Okay. Um, reminds me of an analogy I made a long time ago about bricks in a wall and the fight versus entropy with training adaptation. I made that a long time ago. People were like, "What? That's crazy." But by God, it's accurate. Right? That's the idea understanding these models. But again, because you're also dealing with with entropy, strength is measured in time, not pounds. All right, guys. But that's really all I have to say on that today. I hope it's been informative, and I'll talk to you guys and gals next time.