Hey everybody, it's Jason Blaha here with Jason Blaha Strength and Fitness. And today I thought I would address one of these kind of silly lines that people say about, "Well, this person just works harder than uh someone on steroids." Really silly idea. Uh but a quick reminder, if you guys will please click like down below and drop me a comment, um I would appreciate it so much. And and granted, there's going to be a lot of nuance to this this conversation. Obviously, when it comes to some of this stuff, yes, it can be very difficult for people to train hard when they start abusing extremely large amounts of these various substances. That's that's not what we're necessarily talking about. Um, but it's this idea that when you see people out there, they're like, "Oh, well, I just work harder or or they see anabolics or or peeds in general is just a lazy way." Well, that's that's not necessarily the case. And I think people need to understand that when you're looking at your idols, your heroes, a lot of these professional athletes, elite athletes, um or or even various influencers you might be following. Well, that's that's that's just not true. That's not how it works. Um and I will address briefly why at a certain threshold that could be true. Like you just can't continue to work at a high level due to the side effects preventing it. But that's usually people very large amounts of things. Um, so there's a reason a lot of pro bodybuilders train really, really lazy. Really lazy. But I digress back over to the point when you're dealing with people below that, like a lot of elite athletes. No, that's not true. And here's what I mean. People say, "Well, I'll just train harder." Well, well, how are you going to train harder? Right? The body has limited recovery ability. And I think people forget that. like you have a limit to your work capacity and recovery ability like your body is not just an infinite machine. Okay. And what I want people to think about in this context uh when you're talking moderate amounts of some of these things like you do understand and hopefully people understand this when they make a silly statement like that of well this person trained insanely hard therefore I know they're not on anything. Well that's that's usually the opposite. Okay. usually the opposite. So why do I say that? Um it's recovery in a bottle. Okay? And I think people forget that, right? They forget that things like testosterone, anabolic growth hormone speed up recovery. Okay? Like we we all grasp this, right? Does everyone understand this? Show of hands. These substances speed up recovery from training. They speed up muscle protein synthesis. They can in some cases even speed up collagen synthesis. All right? They literally make you recover from training faster. All right? So why does that matter? That means you can train harder. In other words, we always say this to people, you know, we build muscle when we rest. Like we're not gaining muscle in the gym. Like recovery is the name of the game. Recovery is everything. Um, and this is why we talk about nutrition, we talk about sleep, we talk about all these things because any training that you do that you do not recover from isn't benefiting you. It just turns into junk volume. Okay? See where I'm about to go with this? You're only going to recover from so much training. And the harder you train, the the lower that threshold goes. Becomes harder and harder to recover. Well, a lot of these substances literally enhance recovery. So therefore person could in theory train harder. Am I saying they always do? No. But this is one of the primary things athletes do. Like people have to remember that like really serious highle athletes who understand this are like ah if I take this I can recover from more training. I can train even harder. Okay. Right. Well there's that. Well well how about the motivation then? Again, this is not all substances that people take. Not all substances that people take. But you do understand androgens, right? Testosterone, anything with an androgenic effect on the brain. Various anabolics have more or less androgenic effect than testosterone. Androgens create drive. Okay? Right? Think about that. Tesa, think about that. When you think of high testosterone levels, what do you think of? Oh, drive, motivation. Why? because it's reality. People who who have clinically low testosterone, their motivation in in general suffers in the gym, in their work, right? Like there there is a a mental aspect to this with drive and motivation. Okay. So in this case, these are people may be injecting liquid motivation. Okay. So, so again, problem with, well, you're just going to outwork them. Well, they're chemically enhancing their work ethic. Now, is it going to automatically happen? No. But keep that in mind. People are chemically enhancing their work ethic. All right. What else? Does everyone understand they improve endurance and work capacity? Again, why do you think Lance Armstrong? Why do you think endurance athletes use small amounts of testosterone, growth hormone, right? This is well documented. They get caught for these things. So, so you wouldn't even be testing for them in sports. Like if testosterone did not improve endurance at all, and it only does it in modest amounts, right? There's a certain threshold where it reduces endurance. Okay? There's a dose threshold to where it can start to hurt your endurance and cardiovascular capacity and some anabolics do. A lot of them enhance it particularly at very low doses. All right. So, they improve endurance and work capacity, the ability to train longer without running out of energy. They can liter they Okay, be let me be clear. They even improve red blood cell count. This is one of the side effects of testosterone and it can increase red blood cell count. Well, that gives you more endurance. You can run longer. You can cycle longer. You can train longer. you have better blood oxygen supply because of it. So at this point there are people who are injecting recovery, work capacity and motivation. So let us be clear. So when we talk about work, people are chemically enhancing their recovery from training, chemically enhancing their psychological motivation, chemically enhancing their work capacity and endurance. So when someone says, "Well, I'm just going to outwork." You're going to outwork someone who is taking is literally injecting artificial work ethic and recovery and endurance. Are you sure? Yeah. That's that's not realistic. That's not how that's not how it works. Like this is a silly idea. So when someone says, "Oh, well my my hero over here, he must be natural because he just works harder. He's the hard is working hard is training and look he just recovers from all of it. All right. To me as a coach and an athlete who has 25 years in the game, that is actually an accusation of drug use. That's not that's not evidence of being natural. That's anecdotal evidence to suggest they're on something. Do we do we grasp this? You're you're describing a peed user. They work harder and longer than everyone else and they recover from it easier. Okay. Do you understand that even tendons, there are drugs to make tendons stronger and heal faster? Growth hormone actually does that, by the way. So it sounds to me like you're describing someone on testosterone and growth hormone. That's what it sounds like. So again, this is a silly idea. Now that being said, obviously when doses like bodybuilder level doses, yes, it can become problematic. Their work capacity gets shot. Uh they get back like oral anabolics for example cause back cramps and back pumps. They'll struggle with certain things of course. um a when when muscle gets too high and drugs get too high. Yes, there can be an inflammatory response. It can affect cause cardiac inflammation, swelling, water retention in the chest cavity. Okay, that's going to reduce endurance. That's going to reduce the the work capacity. Yeah, they're going to be lazier in the gym. They're not going to be able to do as much. They're not going to be able to do certain movements as easy. You know, the squatting and stuff can become more difficult. Right? But these are side effects of abusing huge amounts. The other stuff is actually really what you see in people who don't need to be bodybuilder massive. So when you look at a lot of fighters, um, endurance athletes, you know, stuff like that actually very moderate amounts of of testosterone will enhances all those things including including endurance. Okay. So, so this idea that someone has that, well, they're just going to outwork a chemically enhanced superhuman who is also injecting motivation. Uh, no, probably not. That's this is a silly idea. It's not realistic.