 NELO-5O-szszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszszsz long-term meditator. We talk here about the deep end of meditation, Ruben's theoretical work on the effects of advanced meditation, and what he learned about the mind from analyzing the brain activity of expert practitioners. We also discuss the permanent changes he experienced as a result of his intense meditative practice. And I felt so disillusioned by my everything, everything, just fundamentally work. I had to kind of achieve the position that I wanted, and I was deeply, somehow my system was not satisfied at all by any of this. And I wasn't like unhappy, I was just dissatisfied, disenchanted, like just done with it, you know. I don't know what happened, three minutes passed, something like three minutes, a few minutes, and then I just woke up. I woke up, I looked around, and I looked at my hands. I remember looking at my hands, and looking around sort of my consciousness, around my awareness, around like everything I knew. And I could see that nowhere in reality was there a single problem. It was just some incomprehensible misunderstanding. There was a before that, and there was an after that. And there were two different realities. It's the only experience that's been truly satisfying. No experience in life has ever been truly satisfying. But that and this, now that I, now I recognize this moment is satisfying. And I was experiencing some of these really almost psychedelic-like things. Then I was finally, so after like 50 hours, I was finally like, oh, maybe there actually is a deep end. Does the brain do something unique in the moment that you have what might be called these kinds of awakening experiences? And so, you know, in some sense, it's science's fault that we've come to think of meditation as this sort of attention and emotion regulation thing. And that's a component of it. I think it's an important component, but it's very much just sort of scratching the surface of what this is about. So my name is Ruben Malkanen. I'm an assistant professor at Southern Cross University. I did my PhD at the University of Queensland. I went on to do a postdoc at the University of Amsterdam and the Frey University of Amsterdam. That's my sort of academic background. Otherwise, in my spare time, I do quite a bit of meditation, kickboxing, like to surf and dabble in all kinds of hobbies. So is it the right term to say that you're a neuroscientist? Yeah, you could say that. I think I'm an empirical psychologist, first of all. And since my postdoc, I've been working on cognitive neuroscience, so working with things like EEG and also computational neuroscience. So machine learning and trying to think of how the brain works in such a way that you could, for example, build it into a machine or a robot. And so, yeah, I guess as I've progressed, I've gotten more and more excited about these kind of computational views of the system as a whole and dynamical system. So kind of overarching ways of looking at the mind, body, organism and how it sort of works. And the nice thing about that is that it's then it resonates with how biology works, but it's also tractable in the sense that you could actually build it, which gives it this kind of practical grounding, I would say, in both the biology, but also in the sense of, okay, do we really understand this in the sense that can we make it? Maybe people have heard of those experiments where they put advanced meditators in a brain scanner, and then you have certain scientists looking at what's going on, trying to parse what they can, see what they can learn about the brain based on that, what that advanced meditator is doing. So you're, you're the scientist. That's right. I'm, I'm the guy sometimes putting the electrodes on the head or on the heart or on, on, on the skin, or, um, we're usually a group of people kind of doing it together, but. So, and so you're kind of asking the meditator about his subjective experience, and then you're trying to get some objective data based on what the brain scan is showing and reconcile those two. Right. So you can have like neural correlates sort of stuff. So you might ask them, um, what are you doing in this moment? Or you might actually ask them to do a task like, Hey, meditate for 10 minutes and we're going to tag that in the neural activity. And then we can see what's happening when they're meditating versus not meditating or in a particular state of consciousness. So that's one way to do it. Another way is to actually give them tasks. So, you know, I might present stimuli or try to probe them in some way. Um, because this also gets you a kind of more concrete or causal data in a way. So for example, if I can see that your perceptual apparatus is changing in this state and that's supported by the neural activity, then you can kind of get at the states from multiple angles, from the brain's perspective, from the phenomenology perspective, but also from the kind of behavioral or perceptual perspective. So you, you're, you're basically analyzing the experience of experiencing things from several different perspectives to get an understanding of basically how the brain works. Well, just to get an, uh, you could say how the brain works, but how the, how this mind works, how does the mind work? Because even if you were to know everything about how the brain is currently functioning, you may still miss something because for example, you haven't taken into account the body, you haven't taken out into account the context or other people. And so whatever this thing called mind is, is a complex dynamical system in the sense that it is like entrained or kind of connected to, well, certainly the body, there's no really like hard line you can draw between the brain and the body. And the body is using, uh, is acting in the world with objects and people. And then there's this like constant sharing of information between different systems like you and I, and then these all somehow interact in this sort of complex and kind of magical way to give rise to what we might call the mind or consciousness and, and all its kind of contents. So the brain is one part of that complex system, but then there's this, all this other stuff going on that I think is also very important and interesting also in meditation. Yeah. So is meditation and looking at these advanced meditators in your different studies that is basically giving you more insight into how the mind works say more so than I guess the question is, why can't you just have a normal person come in, you know, normal person come in and then, and then just, you know, do whatever they're doing and then just say, okay, that's how the mind works. I like this framing because it points out that, you know, for me as a scientist, I, you know, I am a meditator, but I'm not there trying to prove that meditation works or something like that. But if you think about it and you want to understand like, what is the boundary conditions of, of what is possible with this human mind and this human body, um, just like you would want to study athletes to understand how the body works. If you want to understand the possibilities within conscious experience and within the mind, then you would study people who have the highest amount of expertise in changing their consciousness from within. And so it reveals two things. It reveals how plastic the system actually is. Um, and what are the possibilities? And it also reveals, um, things to do with like health and wellbeing and, and, and how you can just transform the system in general. I mean, I didn't mention much about my research, but this, this idea that, um, humans can transform much more dramatically than people think, um, is sort of at the heart of my research. So meditation is one of those things that make people transform profound insight moments are things that make people transform. It seems like things like psychedelics are also, um, having, uh, a lot of renewed interest and, and, and growing evidence that they create these moments of profound plasticity that cause change in, in the human mind. So I think like the overarching theme is like, especially these non-linearities in human experience, I find fascinating that you can just like have one kind of mind in one moment. And then somehow with the right kind of conditions, both internal and external, you can have a new kind of mind emerge. No, I think that's fascinating. I think most people have the impression of meditation. It's like you sit there and you quiet the mind and then you're like more focused and you got maybe more willpower and you're not as you're like more calm throughout the day. So you can do your work better and you're a better CEO or whatever, uh, which is great. But could you share something that might enlighten people on, like what, where the, what the deep end of meditation is, what progress can be made in terms of stepping past the just improving focus or calmness? Like what, what else do you get from meditation from doing really hardcore meditation? Yeah. And, and part of, I think society's assumption that meditation is about kind of just calming the mind a little bit so you can work better or feel a little bit better. Science is a bit responsible for that, like contemporary science, because, you know, I think in the beginning of doing this meditation research, it was a kind of wild thing for scientists to do. It was kind of woo and edgy, right? And so when they wanted to get into it, they had to do it in a very sort of gentle, uh, way and frame meditation as for example, just focus or just being able to regulate your emotions a bit better or focus the attention a bit better. And then, you know, start their kind of thing without scaring all their scientist buddies and losing their job as academics. You know what I mean? And, and, and you can, you can read stories about some of the people who started meditation research, um, you know, maybe in the eighties or nineties, this, this is what they say that they, it was a kind of scary thing for your career. Like you need to be really established. And so, you know, in some sense, it's science's fault that we've come to think of meditation as this sort of attention and emotion regulation thing. And that's a component of it. I, I think it's an important component, but it's very much just sort of scratching the surface of what this is about. And, you know, a lot of the, of course, these meditation studies and these traditions come mostly from the East, things like Buddhism, things like Hinduism and Taoism. Um, and so we've kind of taken this watered down version of it and then try to study that. But the reality is, if you look at these traditions, what they're talking about is something much more profound. They're talking about losing the sense of time, space, self, um, being liberated, things like enlightenment, um, the Tao, the, the, the great flow there. They're talking about something much, much deeper. And of course, then if you look at specific components of these traditions, they can be extremely detailed in their maps of what unfolds in, in the mind and consciousness. And so as the kind of contemplative science, as it's called, this field has progressed, um, people have like, like myself, we've started to be, you could say allowed or rebellious enough to just not care and to, to research this stuff because now we've seen how well meditation does work for things like attention and emotion regulation. And now it's part of kind of mainstream interventions and clinical psychology, basically anywhere you go. Um, but then it kind of next sort of frontier for meditation research is to get into this deep end. And this deep end is, um, kind of a huge rabbit hole, a huge rabbit hole. Yeah. So at the start it was kind of akin to saying, I want to experience these so-called miss, let's say mystical experiences, spiritual experiences that people can have mind altering experiences that people can have while meditating. If you were a scientist who wanted to investigate that you are kind of like akin to the weirdo who wanted to see if LSD could be used as a truth serum or, or that's right. To put, to put, put it into context, the kind of deep end of meditation, let's say, would you say that some of the insights and shifts in consciousness are akin to psychedelics, maybe less fantastical and picturesque, but do you see any sort of overlap? Is that a good way to kind of give people an idea of just how deep the deep end is, or is that kind of an exaggeration? The answer for me is, is yes and no. Um, I think there's obviously a relationship between these two things. One of them is clearly that they alter our consciousness. They somehow change the mind in a dramatic way. And of course there's some connection between the experiences that people have on psychedelics and meditation because we got meditation to the West via Westerners taking psychedelics and then going to India and meeting, uh, these, these teachers and then bringing them back. You know, people like, uh, Ram Dass for instance, or Alan Watson and so on. A lot of these people started by having some profound psychedelic experience and this revealed something about their mind to them, um, that resonated with these traditions. So I think it's undeniable that some of the, new states of consciousness or insights that emerge, um, or the new way of looking at reality that emerges is somehow connected between these two things. I think that's, that's the case, but I think meditation has a much more, I think, specific goal, let's say in, in most traditions and that some of the more profound insights that happen on meditation are not, uh, easily or guaranteed to be attained, even if you take psychedelics, like your whole life. That's, that's my personal opinion. And then there's of course differences at sort of the biological or neural level, um, between the two. And, um, I think also an exciting path forward, um, is, is research at the intersection of doing both perhaps. Okay. It sounds like the people who took the psychedelics and then got inspired to go and investigate meditation. They kind of got this, let's say glimpse that there is a, another side to reality. When you're doing psychedelics, it's kind of like, you have no idea what it's going to show you, but meditation is more like a more measured, like let's, let's carefully, you know, look around the territory and investigate it. And I can say something about this. Um, so just as one example, you know, I think there's many different kinds of insights that emerge. So you can have, for example, what I call content insights in the sense that you can have novel ideas, like creative perspectives, an idea for a business or how to solve a problem. Or so on, right. It has like a specific shape or content to it that you can communicate. Those happen a lot on psychedelics, but also on psychedelics, you can have insights that are about like the state of consciousness. So you're kind of entering a new state of consciousness, um, or you're looking at something a new way and it's perceptual and it's profound. It's making, and it has this novelty. So it also has this sort of non-linearity to it. Um, but it's about the state of consciousness. Okay. But now if you think about what meditation is doing, you can also have content insights in meditation, new ideas. You can also have state insights, you know, you enter a new state of consciousness, but even more profoundly, I think with meditation is that you can have what I call process insights in a sense that it's not that you're having a new idea. It's not that you're entering a new state of consciousness. It's that you're seeing the processes of the mind, it could be ideas or states of consciousness with this meta awareness, with this insight into how the mind is actually changing moment to moment. So for me, like the contemplative insight is a kind of meta insight also into the psychedelic experience. So if you're bringing your mindfulness and your meta awareness into the psychedelic experience, then the insight is not like the new ideas. It's like, I'm able to see my mind and how it's processing information, uh, in the moment in a different way. And also seeing, uh, sometimes it's called dereification, decentering. Um, but there's a capacity to see the processes of consciousness, the mind as something that's a happening and seeing how it's happening. And that kind of insight I think is, is quite different and is more unique, I would say to the, uh, contemplative practices. And that's not to say that that can't happen on psychedelics. I'm sure it does. I think it happens to a lot of people, but the emphasis is different with the contemplative practice. Like you wouldn't be encouraged to be so fascinated with phenomena and get it so excited about the fractals or like the changes in consciousness, right? It would be, no, observe that and see it for what it is, how it's emerging. Where's it coming from? What's its nature? Is there a self in it? All these kinds of things. I see. So you, you might see the entire wall shifting into fractals and the wall looks like it's warbling and dissolving. And that's all really cool and interesting, but is not necessarily revealing anything that is about the nature of how the mind works. It's just kind of like, that's neat. I didn't know the mind could do that. I don't know how it did that, but that happened. It was very interesting. But then meditation is more just simply watching the upstream and downstream processes going on in the mind of like, oh, this happens. And as a consequence of that, that happens. So for example, you might have a thought and that thought triggers an emotion and that emotion triggers an intention. And then an action happens and you scratch your leg. But then you can kind of like, kind of clearly see like, oh, that these steps had to take place. Those dominoes had to fall. And then the action, I didn't just say, I must scratch my leg. It's like a... Right, exactly. And you can illustrate this distinction also by seeing that the contemplative meta insight about having an insight is, oh, I recognize that an insight has emerged in my mind and that it is also just a thought, right? So it sort of illustrates this distinction. Yeah. Do you think enlightenment exists? What is it? And two questions. What is it from your point of view? And is there anything you can share from the neuroscience point of view that suggests that maybe it is a phenomenon? And if it is a phenomenon, what happens during that phenomenon? Yeah. Okay. This is a huge question, but I'm excited to try to talk about it. And I have to put on a few different hats here. Like I need to, there's my own sort of sense of what it might be as a kind of meditator and within my own sort of conscious experience and what I've come to interpret it as. Then you have these very clear maps of what it is, for example, in Buddhism. So you can define it very quite clearly there because they have their own sort of conception of what it is. And then we can also talk about it scientifically. You know, what might it be scientifically? So I'm going to try to hold those three things in mind and start with, I'll start with my own sort of sense. So my own sense is kind of informed by the Zen tradition primarily. And that is to say that enlightenment is our true nature. It is just an expression about actually that which we all are fundamentally. It's pointing to this common source of how the mind and consciousness emerges, how the self-conscious self emerges and, and what the processes are. And, and particularly that layer of being that is shared among all, all living beings. To me, that layer, that space within which science emerges, that space within this conversation emerges, that space within Buddhism emerges, that space within Hindu, Hinduism emerges, that space between all conceptions of reality emerge. To me, that is enlightenment. So this is my personal view on the topic. And then we can go to kind of a Buddhist perspective. And I think these are really interesting because they give us tractable scientific, um, hypotheses. So for example, in the Buddhist tradition, um, you have the construct of, um, stream entry. So this would be the first of four stages of enlightenment and the fourth being our huntship, which makes you a fully enlightened being. And stream entry is characterized by a few really. So you're saying that enlightenment isn't just, you don't just go from off to on, you're not in line now you're aligned. So you're saying it's a progression. There's like a stage, you're a little bit more in line, a little bit more in line. And then at the fourth stage, you're fully enlightened. According to Buddhism, that's, that's according to classical canonical Theravada Buddhism, that's, that's how it works. So that there's a bit of a transition from even canonical Buddhism to, for example, the Zen or the Tibetan traditions where the earliest texts are kind of dated to about 500 years after the sort of, uh, canonical Buddhist texts. Um, and there there's less emphasis on these four stages, but you do see those stages expressed in different ways. For example, you have the Zen bulls, um, which is this famous illustration of the stages of awakening within the Zen tradition. And that these, all these things kind of point to a similar progression you could say, but it is most sort of, um, let's say abstractly and concretely defined within the Theravada canonical Buddhist tradition. And within that tradition, you have these four stages, uh, ranging from stream entry to our hunt ship, and they are meant to have very specific changes to the mind occur when they happen. Again, things that you can empirically test in the lab potentially. Um, and, and that's actually what we've kind of been doing, uh, recently is, is trying to get at these enlightenment experiences. Um, so now talking about again, that deep end of meditation, this is really the deep, deep end and trying to see what's, uh, what's going on there. So you have investigated some advanced meditators who allegedly have achieved, uh, some or many of these stages of enlightenment. Do you find that their brain is indeed operating in a different way or has the capacity to operate in a unique way when you investigate them in the lab? Yeah. So, um, the question is more about does the brain do something unique in the moment that you have what might be called these kinds of awakening experiences or specifically what I'm talking about now is a cessation of consciousness or it's called new Rota, um, in, in, um, Pali. But basically this is something that unfolds in the moment of what I mentioned earlier was stream entry, um, which is that there's a brief moment of a complete cessation or absence or stilling of all the formations of the mind, all of the contents of the mind, all the thoughts, all the perceptions, all the perception of time, space, even consciousness somehow is sufficiently, the mind is sufficiently deconstructed that it actually kind of briefly shuts down and reboots. And this shutdown and reboot is said to, and we do observe something that seems to indicate that this is actually happening. And I can talk about that more, but it's leads to this sort of profound reset of the soft operating software of the system to put it in the kind of scientific terms from the Buddhist perspective, what it does, it breaks some fundamental delusions about oneself and reality in a way that is a line in the sand that you don't return from. So you, you have this enlightenment experience and then that person's brain or let's say their mind is permanently different. It's not just like a, something happened and that was really cool. I wonder what that was about. And then you go back to normal. You, you have technically induced a permanent qualitative shift in the, how the mind operates or how the mind works. That's the claim. That's the claim. Yeah. The interesting thing was how you were saying the different contents of the mind basically shut off. So I guess I'm understanding it correctly that basically you have, maybe you are aware of certain thoughts and then you notice that no, your inner narrator goes away. And so you just seen like flashes of images and then the images lose content. So you get in like less and less mental activity to where you go from being aware of the lessening of mental activity to no longer even having the mental activity that compromises or comprises awareness. So, so there's literally like zero. So in that moment, is it like the person goes to sleep or if the brain shuts off, I mean, that might sound to some people like they died temporarily. So yeah, I just want to backpedal a little bit on this because I think this is, this is a really interesting point that we can kind of, I think helps illustrate this to how it helps illustrate how this works because we know of course that the mind can lose consciousness. So in that sense, it's not mysterious, right? You can take general anesthesia, proper fall. You can have a high dose of ketamine. You can be in deep sleep. So the brain is able to lose consciousness. That's clear, right? But we haven't seen before that a humanin a similar way that like an animal might intentionally go into top or hibernation can kind of shut down the processes of the mind or deconstruct the processes of the mind to the point where consciousness shuts off, right? And in our sort of theoretical work, we've shown how this maps on really nicely to the way that the mind builds like a model of reality. So the mind, we, we can say now quite confidently, it builds a model of reality in levels of abstraction. So to illustrate that, like you can have a cup, which is just a sensory experience, right? There's just like lights and edges and so on to the sensory data, but then I can conceptualize that into a cup and then I can talk about a cup and so on. And so there's these layers of abstraction that unfold like really quickly in each moment. And then basically through this deep meditation, what seems to be happening is that you go through these levels of abstraction that are constantly being created in the moment and you slow that down, you deconstruct it, you have the insight into how it works and the mind lets go more and more deeply until it lets go of its processing, its sort of habitual creation of the moment to the point where it just breaks down. And this, this shutting down or this breaking down or this letting go, this deep, profound letting go leads to this, this profound transformation of mind and leads to this cessation of consciousness. And now, whether it's similar to sleep or general anesthesia or so on, I think we still need to do more research on that. But what we can say is that, for example, one of the things we find is that the brain desynchronizes its activity. So when you go into have one of these cessation experiences, you see this very strong desynchronization that is decorrelation between neural activity in the brain. So usually activity, for example, in this part of the brain might be correlated, have, have a similar pattern to neural activity in this part of the brain. Now, what the really deep meditation does or seems to do is actually deconstruct that correlation to make that discoherent across the brain. And this discoherent in a way reveals how things are being pieced together because you can't, you can't have a perception of anything in reality without piecing things together. Like if I want to perceive a copper, if I want to perceive you as a entity, I need to put together your arms and your legs and your torso with your mouth and so on and perceive you as an entity. And same thing goes for everything. All the perceptual moments and data need to be grouped together again through abstraction. And what meditation does, it kind of disentangles this, you could say this unification that the mind is doing. And actually in that process reveals a deeper unification because it's taking all the little pieces of, of this moment that is just sort of coherently put together for us and letting go of that habit of putting it all together into these objects and categories and thoughts and patterns. And then by doing that, you're getting this discoherence in your activity. This is my hypothesis, which then eventually leads to the inference of consciousness, this habit of consciousness breaking down. Because right, your conscious experience is always like a unified moment, right? Like if you pay attention to your experience, things are all happening in a singular, put together, coherent space. And if it wasn't, you'd be probably having a psychotic break or something like that. And so what the meditation does is kind of takes these pieces of this sort of coherent model of reality that you've built and separates it, right? So you're paying attention to one thing, you're seeing the separation between thoughts and feelings, perhaps you're seeing a separation between your sensations and your reactions to those sensations. Then you might actually be able to see like the differences between your body, your perception, your categorization, your sensory awareness, your consciousness. And you're seeing all of these things for what they are separately and how actually there's no self at the center of them. And so you're kind of gaining insight into how it's all put together in the moment, right? You're going deeper into the moment to those earlier stages of construction. And in doing that, the idea is that you're desynchronizing what is usually synchronized. You're disunifying what is usually kind of, you could say, artificially or naturally or habitually unified. And by doing that, you're breaking down the assumption of consciousness itself. And then in that moment, the system is so profoundly, has so profoundly, has its assumptions deconstructed that this transformation occurs. And to allow that transformation to occur, the model has to shut off for a moment. Just like if you're changing the software of a computer, there's this moment where that change happens. And you can say that moment is a cessation or an absence as this software kind of update or this model update in how the organism works occurs. And that is the sort of my scientific or working conception of how that's sort of happening. And just to unpack that a little bit more, I think what's happening is that as you go really deep into this meditation, both this active deconstruction, but also this like constant exposure to reality and the reality of this moment, you can't ignore any information that is contrary to your model. So like you said, you can't ignore any information that is contrary to your model. There you go. Okay, exactly. So what meditation does fundamentally, it asks you like, pay attention to this moment, right? Let's just take this very simple instruction. So what are you doing there? You're basically telling this organism to stop running around confirming their models, confirming your habitual beliefs, and instead pay attention to what's actually here, what's happening in the now. And by doing that, you're like forcing the system to be exposed to all the error of reality, all the kind of mistaken assumptions that you have about how the mind consciousness in this moment emerges. And so you're kind of forced to make contact with everything that contradicts your understanding of reality. And now if you make enough contact with these contradictions to your model, and you keep them being exposed to this, eventually, I think the system comes to the conclusion that one has been carrying the wrong model. We've been handed down an evolutionary, a societal model of how this moment emerges, how reality works, that has assumptions built into it, that when you actually look at phenomena, breaks down. And when that breakdown of that model happens, a new model emerges. And that new model, I think, is what we might call the first step of stream entry. We'll skip over the part where we've basically got a neuroscientist saying that there is no self. But I'll tell you that almost all neuroscientists will say that. Really? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. So I think this is also why a lot of scientists like Buddhism specifically, is because a lot of the basic insights, of course, they're experiential in the case of Buddhism, but they're intellectual. In the case of science, they cohere very well, like the layers of the mind, or the fact that the self is a construction, that all perception is an inference of the mind. Like, Buddhism will say that everything is a conditioned phenomena, for example. That means that everything that you perceive is conditioned by past experience in some way. Like, you can't perceive a plant without having some experience with plants. Otherwise, you'd perceive it as like this unfiltered, raw sensory information that you don't have any label for understanding of how to interact with it. Or, you know, it'd be shocking to the system to see a plant for the first time, or like a elephant, or something like this. But it's because of our past experience that we're able to categorize things and interact with them in a meaningful way. And we know that because we can have visual illusions, we can have auditory illusions, anything in the mind that can happen can break down. The inferences, the predictions, the expectations, the learning of the mind can always go wrong. So it's clearly an inference. And we know that there are states of consciousness where you can have derealization, you can have depersonalization, dissociation, you can have people who believe that they don't have a self. So these things can break down. And so the scientists naturally then conclude, well, the self cannot be real, because it's obviously somehow being constructed by the system. It can change over time. And it looks different in different people under different conditions, and it can break down. And it can also obviously break down if you take enough psychedelics, or you take enough drugs. So the empirical evidence for this fact that the self is a construction is overwhelming. The concept that you are a self acting, and that your actions have a self attached to them. It's just another pattern of mental activity, just like you have a pattern of mental activity telling you I'm thirsty. Exactly. Something like that. Exactly. And it has to be that way. Because everything that emerges in consciousness can change can be messed with either by, for example, brain trauma, or again, like drugs or some other effect. So it has to be an inferential process at some level. Okay. Okay. And going back to the desynchronization of the brain regions, when you're having a cessation experience and enlightenment experience. Is it? I'm trying to think of a way to put it into like a picture. Is it kind of like, when I'm talking to you, I'm, I have sound that I'm hearing, and I, there's a part of my brain that is hearing the sound, but there's also a part of the brain that is interpreting the sound, and deriving meaning from what you're saying. But then there's also a part of the brain working in tandem with these other two, that is looking at your lips to try and make sure that it's deciphering of the sound is correct. And then there's another part of the brain that is trying to make sure I'm understanding your emotions, just so I can get a better feel of what you're saying, how you feel about what you're saying. So you have, you know, listening to someone speak sounds like just one input, but it's actually, you have multiple different parts of the brain that are interpreting that. So then you get to a point to where you disassociate those to where it would be akin to getting to a state to where you're hearing someone speak English, but you can't understand it. And you're just hearing it as if you were hearing Dutch, like it just like, those are noises. Right, exactly. Again, there's these layers of interpretation. And so you ground this beautifully. And just to, just again, make that very clear, the input from the eyes goes to different locations in the brain to the input from the sound. And yet our coherent experience in this moment of is, is connected sound and visual input of a face. And that goes for all your sensory experiences. They're all done kind of in this sort of parallel distributed way, but somehow they also come together again to their, they're brought together in what's called integration hubs in the brain, where they kind of pull together, made coherent into these, into these moments that seem put together and unified and clear. And we make sense for our adaptive action in the world. So again, it's this key process of inference and these things can break down. So you can also have synesthesia. You can have people who start to experience different senses together, you know, seeing sounds and so on. So you can see again, like these, these processes of integration and disintegration that are always happening in the brain can always break down and are always kind of necessary for our normal consciousness and adaptive sort of action in the world. But they're built on assumptions that people are not usually privy to, right? Scientists, we know that this is happening. The Buddhist meditators seem to know that this is happening experientially. Um, but most people go around assuming that things are just things that are just put together like that. And they're just, they really are that way, as opposed to that. They emerge through a process of like complex inference and mathematical kind of putting together, you know, that allows us to have this coherent experience. Okay. And so going back to what you were saying about the model and the model kind of fails or not, not fails, but the, you see the limitations in the model and then it changes how you feel. So, so basically, uh, another part of stream entry or an enlightenment experience or a Nibbana experience is you have this model of how the world works. And then by desynchronizing these different parts of the brain, the brain or the mind kind of has to reconcile with the fact that its assumption of how everything is working is not necessarily correct or its model is not complete. And then you finally get to a point to where you've desynchronized pretty much everything. And then you lose the awareness of awareness and then you lose like basically there's, there's like no perceptual activity happening. And so then the brain has to say, or the mind has to say, okay, if, if that can happen, then I, I'm like totally wrong about this. So we need to build a new model for how reality works. Um, integrating that new fact that I got and I've heard it, uh, I think it was Jordan Peterson. It was talking about this idea of you have this model of the world and then say someone is married, they have model of the world. They can't imagine in their model that their wife would say cheat on them. It's a very devastating thing. And so the reason is devastating, or at least the way he puts it, it's, uh, it's devastating because your model of the world is utterly wrong. Your wife could cheat on you and you could be subjected to so much pain from someone that you love so much. And so you, you're, you know, you're kind of like in this chaotic state. So then you have to make a new model and it's very, very, uh, you know, difficult I imagine, but this is a good experience or, you know, make it a new model. Let me ground that in, in like computational terms. So this is how you would actually think about it in the way that you would build a robot, right? Like, so you have a certain set of priors or beliefs, and this is your model of reality when you put these things together. Okay. So you have this model based on a conglomerate of beliefs that you've learned through your evolutionary history and your developmental history. And you use this model to make predictions about reality. When you make predictions that are wrong, you get prediction errors, you get obvious errors, right? So if your wife cheats on you, you have a huge prediction error. That particular part of your model have, has received like a mortal blow and this error, which ultimately translates to literal chaos. And it's literally entropy prediction error over time is, is basically entropy. So this is literally chaos, which is extremely terrifying for an organism who needs to have a coherent model in order to survive. And so this is, can be traumatic in the sense that, no, no, I cannot integrate this error. I'm going to dissociate, or I'm going to do some other thing to deal with the fact that I'm, I'm facing this profound entropy right now. Um, prediction error. Um, and so if you take that over to the kind of case of enlightenment, basically you've voluntarily exposed the system to so much of this prediction error that it has to change at, at its most foundational levels. So the case of the marriage might affect the model at some, at sort of this, um, slightly it's deep. I mean, it's right in the heart, but it's still a little bit superficial, right? Like it doesn't affect like how you think the self is made, right? It does. It might not affect your conception of how time works or space works or consciousness or like how we relate to other people. But then what, what, what the enlightenment experience does, I think it, it affects these most sort of a priori axiomatic assumptions on how reality works, how the self works, how other people work and so on. And so this causes a kind of foundational shift that necessitates a complete revising of how, how the mind works. Yeah. Would you say that one of the key prediction errors in the system, the key prediction error is that it made the mistake of it had, you had been making this mistake for your whole life of assuming that there was a self. self. And then one day you have an experience that says like very clearly, like, like, look, you just saw it's like, there's, you looked everywhere. There's no self. You, you like saw the entirety of the room. The room is cleared out. There's no self in there. Is, is that as important as, cause I'm pretty sure the Buddhist texts say that that is, is a pretty key element of the enlightenment experience. Right. That, that is the sort of mainstream canonical Buddhist interpretation that that first moment of stream entry, you are able to let go of this false misunderstanding of how the self works. And I'm going to take this opportunity to say that I personally don't think that that's the only way that these experiences can happen. I also don't think that that desynchronization is absolutely the only way that one can deconstruct the levels of abstraction or the temporal depth of processing in the, in the, in the mind and brain. I think that's one really effective route that's explained really clearly in the Buddhist texts. But my own sense is that there's other traditions like Advaita Vedanta or more devotional practices or more practices that, emphasize, for example, just this like deep letting go and sinking into conscious, the nature of consciousness itself. So you can see that there's these like, you know, that this, this whole hierarchy of abstraction that we call the mind, self consciousness, again, all these ideas about science, Buddhism, so on, are all emerging in this moment. And other practices, much more directly in a cult kind of non-dual way point to this source of everything. The fact that all of this is kind of emerging on the space of this, this awareness, that's already kind of effortlessly underlying all experience. And then just by kind of recognizing that early stage of construction of the mind, that thing that is kind of before the thoughts, that space that is before the body, before all the levels of conceptualization, that's kind of already holding all of that together, in a way, you don't need to disunify, you can just point the system towards the early stages of its own construction. And if you can really recognize that, then it's, in a way, you could say it's a bit of a shortcut. But from that deep perspective of the recognition of the underlying consciousness, or awareness, or that which is even beyond awareness, then you can actually look at the abstractions almost from the outside. And this allows you to almost see the abstraction, see the mind for what it is, without necessarily going through the whole process of like very carefully disentangling everything. But maybe these lead to slightly different experiences or slightly different road to those kinds of experiences. So my own sense is that when I speak to experts from these traditions, you get a lot of agreement about what happens at the end, like around this thing called stream entry, or around these very deep versions of non-dual realization. There seems to be a lot of connection between them, but the path is quite different. But I think they can be unified scientifically. Again, you can deconstruct and disunify experience, like Vipassana meditation, where you separate everything. Or you can just relax the system so deeply through self-inquiry or through sort of this recognition of this awareness that you're also letting go of the abstractions. Or you can go some other, you know, sideways direction by doing Tai Chi or or yoga or so on. I think there are nuanced differences between the Buddhist views, ultimately, and conclusions about the nature of self than some of these traditions. But the fact that they deconstruct the mind, albeit in different ways towards this, deeper into this moment, and this moment, beyond all the conceptions, is that same kind of void or emptiness. I think this is a very unifying quality across them. And my hope is that the scientific perspective, because it's based in the kind of computational mechanisms or the biological mechanisms, kind of brings these together in a useful way that allows us to talk about them without maybe all of the baggage and the dogma, let's say. Okay. So you've got multiple different traditions that are aiming for the same destination. They're all just kind of taking different paths. Yeah. And that's that I'm not sure if they're aiming for the same destinations, necessarily, like they might they have might have different end goals. Ultimately, I think that might be true. But I think any tradition that has an emphasis on no, no, you need to come deeper into this moment, you need to recognize what is the mind, you need to observe it, have a direct experience of it. All of these are doing the same thing to the mind in the sense that they're de-abstracting the mind, forcing the mind to come into contact with the reality of this moment and all the prediction error therein, and to revise your models according to what you observe. And to the extent that the traditions encourage you to do that, you're getting, I think, common processes, common enough processes. Describing the enlightenment experience, and I think it's pretty hard to fathom. Is what occurs afterward, is it generally enjoyable? Is it like, are people like, oh, I'm glad I did that? Or is it like, oh, wow, my whole, like, I don't understand the world. I'm so lost. I can't believe I wasted my time doing that. Yeah, so it's kind of funny that we overlooked that part. Is this recommended? Yeah, so I think most people don't regret it. So I think that's a useful start. But I think we, and I want to frame this by saying that I don't think this contemplative path and deep meditative experience is necessarily safe. And I think there is a lot of good evidence that without the right structures or with certain predispositions, people can have really negative experiences and even get sort of semi-permanent damage in some cases to the mind. Does that occur leading up to the enlightenment experience? Or are you saying that with certain people, the enlightenment experience, the cessation itself can lead to negative effects? I don't know about the latter, but certainly on the process to that point. I don't think that the, I don't know of any cases where that's happened, where it's been a full reset of the system in the kind of stream entry kind of way. And they've reported experiences that they find extremely distressing. Though actually, I do think that some of the symptoms that can emerge can certainly be extremely surprising to the system. And foreseeably, those could be so distressing that one might, for example, seek some help with those symptoms. If, for example, they don't have a frame for the experience, a kind of interpretative lens. But I think the more common case is that someone who doesn't have experience with meditation goes on a very intensive retreat or something like that. And this gives rise to some experiences that they find really hard to integrate and are really troubling. And there's a set of researchers who are doing a lot of investigation about that and present many case studies. But it's also the case that in these traditions, those are expected, that it's part of the process is to go through these really difficult things. So there's a kind of, there's a container for it that there isn't necessarily, for example, in Western mindfulness. Like if you think that you're just going to regulate your attention and feel better, but then suddenly you deconstruct the self and that wasn't your intention, that's going to be extremely, yeah, traumatic potentially, right? Let me just establish real quick that basically, so on the path up to the cessation experience, the stream entry or the enlightenment experience, there's all these other transformative changes. Absolutely. Or maybe like shifts in perspective, unique experiences that you never expected. So it's kind of a long path to the enlightenment experience of the cessation. And sometimes those earlier experiences can be extremely dramatic as well. And so often it happens that people mistake these other really dramatic experiences for stream entry and so on. And, and you know, this, this, as a scientist, I have to say, there is a whole lot of interpretation here. I mean, who's to actually conclusively say that this is the stream entry thing. There's so many bizarre and unusual phenomena that can happen in consciousness that ultimately, I think we have to hold these things very lightly. Um, like, like any ideas. So, okay. So you might get somebody who hears about the concept of enlightenment or stream entry, and then they go and meditate and they have this fantastical, exciting, amazing experience. And they're like, well, I can't even fathom anything more fantastical than that. That has to be cessation. But it might be the case that there's still even more deconstructing, even more progress to make. I go to heuristic is that there's always more. Yeah. Okay. And so just to clarify, generally, the potentially negative side effects that you're talking about, generally occur on the path up to it. And it's, you know, it's just not that there are necessarily any cases, not that it's impossible, but there aren't really any cases known of someone actually achieving the Nibana experience and coming back and being like, that was terrible. Not that I know of, but it's, it is an empirical question. I think the Nibana, if you have the Nibana experience, I think, um, from my understanding of it, then no, like that's not possible because there is no mind. It's the end of the mind. So you can't complain about Nibana because there's no one to complain about it. Right. Um, but the consequences of that experience or the interpretations, the, how the abstract mind body system responds to such a surprising event, I think how that happens is, is as unique as it is, as there are individuals. I guess we've established that, that generally enlightenment is a very good thing that not many people regret it that we know of. Okay. Okay. And they're usually recommending it to others who are inclined. Or, or we wouldn't be here. They'd be like, that was shit. I'm not going to tell anybody about that. Don't do that. All right. So, uh, maybe we could get a little bit more personal and talk about your experience with this stuff. Uh, yeah. What is your personal experience with meditation? Any sort of deep end experiences you had with it? Any sort of progression you had with it? Uh, sure. Um, but I will talk about my own experience with the kind of caveat that I don't called them enlightenment or necessarily these things. I've had teachers call them these things, but, um, I, they're in the past ultimately. Like I'm, uh, like all actual meditators, they're still just showing up as just a human being, extremely ordinary. So whatever, if, if, if you're really holding those things tightly, then I think there's a lot of confusion because it's just something that's happened and maybe there's been change, but it's still gone and you're still fresh here in this moment, just like everybody else. Right. Yeah. So with the halo over your head, it's not that bright. No, exactly. Um, so I, I, I will say, and I've sort of briefly shared this actually like alongside my, um, when I shared the scientific paper about cessation, because I got, I got interested in these things partially because of my own experiences in them and then meeting other people who I could then test, um, with these things in the lab who can kind of do it on demand, uh, which is not something I can do. Um, but you know, one case that makes me, I suppose that grounds the whole thing is my own experience, um, which happened, you know, a bit over five years ago. I, um, yeah, I moved to a new country at the time it was Amsterdam to do my, uh, my postdoctoral work. And, um, at that point I'd been meditating already for about 10 years and done a lot of retreats, mostly in the Zen tradition and done practice with Advaita Vedanta, non-dual traditions and so on. And, you know, I had, had kind of these psychedelic experiences that I thought were really profound, had meditations that I thought were profound and whatever, but I found myself in the winter of Amsterdam alone after breaking up with my partner of five years in this feeling just empty, just without just finding that all of those things like getting my PhD or doing all these fancy meditation techniques or, you know, trying all the things that the world has to offer that I felt this like profound disappointment with it all. And I felt so disillusioned by my, um, everything, everything, just fundamentally work, um, had to kind of achieve the position that I wanted. And I was deeply, somehow my system was not satisfied at all by any of this. And, and this was, you could say, a profound prediction error for my consciousness at the center of it. Right. Um, it's cliche kind of like everyone is told that these things work and then you find out that they don't work. And then it's this existential sort of doom that unfolds. Um, but it's very real when it happens. It's sort of deathly real. And, and for me, I, I didn't know what to do at that point. So I turned to the one thing that I had been trained to do, but hadn't done earnestly. I realized at that point, which was the meditation practice. I'd always been going for some sort of experience or some sort of self-improvement or something like that, like trying to attain enlightenment, but it wasn't truly earnest. It didn't have this like deep, like this needs to, this is real now. You know what I mean? I, I, I still had these hopes and desires for the practice. It never felt like you truly needed it before. And you finally felt like I need this. No. And, and not that I need it. I need to, I need, I need whatever I'm experiencing right now to end. I need to, it's, it just like felt at the center of my being at like, it had come to like this burning precipice where I needed it to stop or, or die. I don't know. Like not, not, not that I was suicidal in any way, but like, I just, it was just like, it was that real. That is to say that it was so that intention was so profound. And so then I spent a couple of months with this intention, basically just doing the one thing that I had been told might work, which is meditation, but with this intensity and this earnestness, this, this, this kind of authenticity that I'd never had before. And so I, I basically maintained this, you could say stream of meditation 24 seven, like in any moment that I had the opportunity, even though I was doing my scientific work at the time, I was, I was, I was meditating. I was inquiring into myself, into the nature of this moment. And I was paying attention to the moment. And I was trying to find truth in this really sort of, um, in a fundamental sense, in a kind of basic sense. And so this went on for a few months and, um, I felt better. I felt my mind clear, I was accessing interesting States and all of this was kind of cool, but I came home one day from work, um, from, from the university and it had just come to an end. And I had just, I just, I just couldn't do it anymore. And I just decided in that moment that I was going to sit down and I was not going to get up until it was over. Like, it was just this like deep sense that the suffering I had, I was undergoing and causing myself needed to end. And even more profoundly, I felt the sense that all the suffering that I'm causing to others somehow needs to end. So there was a sense that there was this dissatisfaction or unhealthiness all over my reality. Right. And I wasn't like unhappy. I was just dissatisfied, dis disenchanted, like just done with it, you know? And so I went down with this intention that like, it needs to end now. I'm not going to get up until it's over. I didn't know what was over. Right. Like, what was I trying to get rid of? I had no idea. I just knew that like, this has to happen like now. And so I sat down with this intention, um, sat down to do a bit of self-inquiry or something, but I don't know what happened. Three minutes passed something like three minutes, a few minutes. And then I just woke up. I woke up. I looked around and I looked at my hands. I remember looking at my hands and looking around sort of my consciousness, around my awareness, around like everything I knew. And I could see that nowhere in reality was there a single problem, that there was no, no problem to be solved. That like the whole drama of spirituality, of work, of being a human, whatever, it had all been a kind of dream. Not that I couldn't like remember the details. Like I had, I could of course recall things, but I just couldn't see any issue with it, any of it. So it was this profound sort of like, oh, I've, I'm, I'm here and I could see everything so fresh and clear, like for the first time. And I felt like I had just woken up after lifetimes of sleep. And I had this sense that my real life was actually beginning. Like I'd been sort of in this fake cloud or something. And then at the center of this fake cloud was this strange knot. And this knot in this fake cloud, all of it just were gone. And it wasn't real. You know, it was never real. It was just some incomprehensible misunderstanding. It was just a misunderstanding. And so it was very basic. It was very grounded. It wasn't like I was like suddenly unified with God or something like this, but I was just ordinary, but all the issues and the confusion were gone. And I could see clearly and I felt real. And I felt, I felt there was nothing, nothing to fix anymore. You know, it was just all okay. And then lots of very interesting things unfolded after that. But, um, and, and, and later, later experiences allowed me to kind of go through that process much more consciously using, for example, these meditation practices and to see the stages much more clearly and to see the kind of system bottom out in a much more direct way and see what is there when the system bottoms out and see the phenomena of my mind from that perspective and how it all comes together. Um, but this, this happened in, in, when I went through this process again with more kind of clear tools to do that. But this first time was so basic, it was sort of like a transition from one reality to another. Yeah. So when that happened, you were meditating and I get, is it safe to say like you didn't, it, it was like you woke up without having fallen asleep, something like that. Okay. And then I would say that there was just like a strange, um, I don't even want to say gap. There was just a line that I, a threshold that was crossed and there was a, there was a before that and there was an after that. And there were two different realities. Oh, interesting. Okay. It's like, it's a cut. It's a, it's just a, I see. So, so it wasn't like, like if we were to put it into the analogy of a film, you know, like a video film, right? It's not that there was three frames that were blank. It was that three frames were just edited out. So you just see like, right. Yep. I skipped from one place to another later on again, when going through this process again, then it, you can see between the frames, right? Like I don't really like that frame because I feel actually it's not, it's not, it's too digital that way of looking at it. For me, it's much more organic. It's much more like you're seeing into the source that you're seeing into the basic nature of all of it. Right. So it's, it's not, it's not digital for me. It's, it's heart centered. It's deep. It's, it's in the core of our being beyond the core of our being. And when the, uh, when the experience happened, you know, you, you had this mental relief of you got rid of that big, not, not even mental relief, relief at the very core of everything, relief at the core of reality. Of course, my reality, but reality, right. Like in the body, the mind, consciousness itself at the very, very center of it all was this profound relief. Did you see, uh, did like your, I don't know, vision get better? Did your hearing get better? Like I, I'm trying to think of things that people could kind of, kind of relate to. Yeah. There, there was a profound and there's interesting, I think, scientific explanations for all of this, but, um, there was a profound, like increased sharpness and saturation to all the sensory experience. So it was like, yeah, a little bit like being on psychedelics after that, but in a, in a very sort of grounded way, everything was just very clear, very, very clear and sharp and saturated and kind of beautiful. Yeah. Yeah. And, and sort of infused with this like bliss and peace that was just like all pervading and like, was just sucking me into it. And it was just so, um, the kind of days, weeks, months after that were kind of filled with this source bliss consciousness thing where it's like, I just, I was just like melting away all the time or whenever there was a spare moment into this sort of like expanse of bliss consciousness awareness. You said there was kind of like a knot at the center of reality and that was a source of suffering. So that, that knot never came back and never reformed. It just kind of, after it untangled at that point, now it comes back, but looser. Yeah. So, so the knot, this is my experience of it. So the, the knots of reality return, but they return in a way that is like much easier to recognize and much easier to disentangle. And they're not sort of, they don't, they don't hijack all of my being in the way that they used to. And then, and then that's my, that's my just simple, very simple practice now is just to recognize where that clinging, where those knots emerge and just kind of let them relax. Yeah. Yeah. So it's not like you, let's say, it's not like if you were to get cut by a knife, it would hurt half as much now. It's just like the, you're experiencing more or less the same things, but the suffering derived from that is just less. Yeah. That's what I would say. But, and again, just to emphasize that doesn't make me or anyone else a special person. Like it just doesn't make you, you cause everybody, everybody has these knots, right? And it's, it's, uh, I think I feel profoundly fortunate to have those knots a little bit looser than I did before, but I can't speak to other people's consciousness and it definitely doesn't make me special. And it, and, and I do feel that it's changed the way that I experienced reality. I feel like it's like the system can't hold onto things as much. Like I can still grasp onto things and get stressed out about stuff, but I just can't do it as tightly or for as long. Eventually it just, nah, it just doesn't stick. Like, so reality feels lighter, like more ephemeral, um, but, um, more, I would say more full of flow and, and I would say more sensitivity. Yeah. And also, uh, more opening of the heart. I want to try one more analogy to, to kind of put it into perspective and please correct me if this is wrong. So is it kind of like, cause you just use the word stickiness. Is it kind of like, say someone really pisses you off and then you're trying to do your work or something. And then like part of your brain is like, Hey, do you remember that thing that you're pissed about? And then you, you like trying to do your work and it comes back and you can't let go of it. It comes back. You can't let go of it. So that process of being able to, to that process of being stuck to particular emotions, the emotions just aren't as sticky and aren't as forceful and invasive. Yeah. I think that's right. And somehow that the system is just more easily able to recognize them for what they are. And, and through that recognition, there's this like natural, Oh, okay. This is just a process that emerges now. And, and then there's more self-compassion in the sense that like, I know that I, there is no eye controlling all of that. Like I can't take responsibility for it because the self doesn't really exist. So it's like, there's this, I'm just, I guess more okay with the drama as well than I was before. Not necessarily more than other people, but more, more than I was before. Nice. Nice. So it was generally a good experience. The best experience because it's the only experience that's been truly satisfying. No experience in life has ever been truly satisfying, but that and this now that I, now I recognize this moment is satisfying. This moment is fundamentally satisfying. Would you dare to say like it allowed you to maybe not totally, but actually make some headway in escaping the so-called hedonic treadmill because you have the hedonic treadmill of like, yes, it becomes very apparent what the hedonic treadmill is with certain experiences. Like I want to play video games every day. First, it's really fun. It's very cool. The next time, like, you know what to expect. It's not quite as fun. It's not quite as fun. It's not quite as fun. And so you get people who are addicted to different things. They could be addicted to video games and they all report saying that they want the video game more, but get less satisfaction of it. So it's, it's a very kind of cruel reality that the more you do something that is enjoyable, you're going to continue to crave it more, but derive less satisfaction from it. So this is finally an experience that it gave you satisfaction without increasing craving afterward, something like that. I just, this is such a great way of putting it. And the reason for that is, is the experience of your true nature of being in this sort of deep state of letting go is way more satisfying on like, by like a billion times than any possible hedonic experience that you can have that involves the sort of pursuit of something, right? There's no amount of dopamine that is as satisfying as true peace. Yeah. And that true peace is our inherent nature. If we just let go of the kind of patterns and of existence and those patterns are there because they need to be in order to keep us for pursuit, keep us evolutionarily pursuing things that keep us alive. Like they're there, they're ingrained for very good reasons, but they come with this real dark side, which is this sort of perpetual craving and suffering because we need that in order to crave for the food, to crave for the sex, to crave for the procreation, for all of this, for the status and so on. But when you recognize that there's something before that, which in some sense evolution didn't want you to recognize, then you, you can still do all that stuff. And I think it's natural to still do all that stuff, but it's just, you don't derive your fundamental satisfaction from them. Your fundamental satisfaction is your true nature, your inherent being this moment as it is. I think a lot of people are familiar with Buddhism. Maybe they're not familiar with too much of what is said in Buddhism, but I think more or less people have this idea that life is suffering. I think it's more accurate to say that life can be suffering. A layer deeper is that suffering comes from craving, right? But then craving is what makes life possible. Life wouldn't be possible without craving. You need to crave food. You need to crave sexual satisfaction. You need to crave bonding with other people. But then if you're craving, the definition of craving is being unsatisfied with something, right? Like you wouldn't be satisfied if you were craving. They like imply each other, right? Like with craving comes necessarily a dissatisfaction with how things are. Like you're by definition having to imagine a kind of that something's missing and that you need to get that thing that's missing. But if you know that nothing is missing fundamentally, then this has a huge hit to the habit of craving. Yeah, that is highly recommended. So you should put it on the bucket list. That's right. That's right. Very cool. My brain's kind of ran out of questions like, okay, we're done there. How's your experience? Because I know you've gotten into meditation a lot recently. And is this something that you recommend? Has the meditation practice felt like it leads to a deeper satisfaction than the kind of usual habits of desire and the things that you do in your life? I mean, you're like super popular on YouTube. Isn't that enough? I imagine that all the kids these days think that that's the thing, right? Tell them. I'm not Mr. Beast yet, so it's not enough. That's the threshold you need to reach for true satisfaction. If I get there. You're the path of YouTube. Yeah, exactly. The spiritual path of YouTube. Then I'll definitely be satisfied. No, but so a couple things to unpack there. So when I was when I was growing up, my parents were into Zen Buddhism. And so when I was a kid, I would meditate a bit every Sunday and I didn't particularly like it. And I just was just kind of like waiting for the cat to come and sit on my lap because then that would at least be more exciting than having to sit there. And my brother was actually very much into meditation. And he was so into it that even though I couldn't imagine it being more enjoyable than playing video games, so I spent all my free time playing video games, it kind of left a mark on me like there's probably something there. Like my current self doesn't have the ability to get interest in there. But let me take a mental note of that. Maybe that's something to explore later on. So anyways, I tried some psychedelics in Amsterdam. So it was legal. Those were very transformative experiences that got me really interested in this idea that there's more to consciousness or there's something about the mind works, the way the mind works that maybe I can actually step out of a step outside of the matrix and see how the mind is actually working rather than being affixed to perceiving it from within, you know looking from inside and not really having any perspective because I'm not stepped outside. So anyways, I a friend introduced me to this concept of enlightenment is actually a thing that people are trying to do and it's not just kind of a let's say fairy tale because as a kid when I would hear the about enlightenment, I was like, oh, that sounds like a really cool thing. I want that. But then I also hear like, okay, so how do you get it? What do you do? And then there would be stories about like a guy was sweeping the temple and then he became enlightened. I was like, what? You have to kill a cat to like, okay, or this there's another story like a student got their finger cut off and then he became in line. I was like, okay I apparently enlightenment is a good thing, but I have no way to no idea how to get there. So I'm not gonna I'm just gonna assume it's not really real. So anyways, a friend introduced me to the concept and then he introduced me to Daniel Ingram's book uh, Daniel Ingram I actually had on the channel really interesting guy really helpful in understanding this concept of there is actually a path towards enlightenment. There's a path that certain traditions are prescribing and so it's not just a sit as much as you possibly can and hope something that'll happen. So anyways, I ended up doing the twim tradition which adds a step of like you are to focus on the meditation object and then when you lose focus when your mind wanders, you relax and then go back. So can I just jump in just a sec because I think this is very interesting that part of several random connections we have is that the twim method that you learned as a meditator is also the method that gave rise to the meditators that we tested in the lab who can do these enlightenment experiences kind of on demand. Oh yes. Which is kind of cool, right? Like this is the connection partly as well and that's the practice that you're doing which is what's allowing these people to get in our lab and to do it kind of on demand. So it kind of points that there's something probably quite effective about this technique. Right. Yeah, I should have mentioned that. So basically we can say Delson's. Yeah. Okay. So Delson Armstrong he the way I got interested into twim was my friend your friend recommended that I check out this video of him it was this guy who had allegedly achieved all these enlightenment experiences and yeah, just something about the idea and the things that he was saying really were really interesting to me and then I heard that there was this neuroscientist who was studying him and was actually seeing that oh, he does have the ability to put his mind or his brain into states of operation that are very unique and we would not expect that a normal person would be able to do that. So that's kind of how I got into twim. So long story short I did a 10 day retreat in Japan the first three days I just focused on the breath because I still wasn't sure about twim I didn't really know what I was doing and then from the fourth day I started doing the the twim method it was very difficult the first two days and then after that I finally felt like it started to take stride but after we were talking earlier how there's this kind of bumpy road progress to you know the deep end there's a lot of things that happen on the way to the deep end and I was experiencing some of these really almost psychedelic like things and then I was like then I was finally so after like 50 hours I was finally like oh maybe there it actually is a deep end like I was still skeptical this whole time and you got a few cookie crumbs yeah yeah I was like oh there is a cookie I see there's like some sugar on the floor there's gotta be a cookie here yeah so I yeah it kept going kept doing the technique it got easier and easier and then finally I had this moment where it was kind of like it was interesting that you were saying that your experience was disenchanting you felt this disenchantment with everything and that was what led you to be like I want to get to the root of this disenchantment and make this suffering stop because mine was more at let's say a micro level like I got to this point where it felt like my thoughts had slowed down quite a bit and they were just I was like watching whereas normally you have all this mental activity and all these thoughts like flying by at super high speed like you're like watching cars on a freeway but then suddenly it was like I was watching cars move at like 10 miles an hour and I was just observing the thoughts and the little patterns of mental activity like oh I'm thirsty or like oh yeah that plant I need to water my plants like little things but they were coming up so slowly that there was a lot of space in between them and I could see that they would they would occur one after the other and one would would cause the other one to occur and then things got so slow and so boring that I was like when it first happened it was like oh my god I can like see my thoughts arise but then it got so boring that I was just sitting there like now what okay what do I do this is dumb and so it was like the equivalent of like staring at the wall and my eyes were closed it was the equivalent of like staring at the wall during physics class or calculus class and you're just like so bored you're just like zoning out but I was zoning out in the mental space and then I had this experience of basically waking up without having fallen asleep there was some really specific imagery that was happening in my head it was like me floating away from a cliff face in a really dark cave and there was like this specific blue light and I heard a voice it didn't say anything amazing it was just like hey where's Joseph and then where is Joseph yeah where is Joseph and then I did hear a flickering like blink blink blink like it was like a fluorescent light flickering on and then this moment of like confusion like what what is going on and then I finally opened my eyes and as I opened my eyes I kind of made this huge exhale and I closed my eyes I fell forward and then I just felt this like massive sense of actual physical relief like the best back popping you can ever imagine and then yeah then I looked around and everything was the room was finally quiet and I had never realized there was this loud rock and roll radio playing in the background and then somebody finally turned it off and you're just like oh that's I needed to turn that off I never turned it off so it got really quiet and then everything was like really saturated colors looked brighter I could I could hear things more acutely and yeah so what I'm hearing is that you would also recommend meditation it was if only for the back massages exactly yeah if you got back issues I definitely recommend it but it was also this real satisfying feeling of oh everything's going to be okay rather than having this latent feeling of like different parts of my body or mind or mental activity saying like hey this bad thing's going to happen or something bad is going to happen to us it was all just like oh everything's okay yeah that was very magical and there was a permanent shift that maintained up until now but now I feel very ordinary I don't feel like I'm walking around and I'm just amazed by everything all the time I don't feel like I'm floating on there I feel like really ordinary but it's like I just kind of let's say I'm a third person video game character and I was always this third person video game character who was like viewing you know playing the game with the camera at this angle and then the angle just moved over here so it's the same game and the characters is the same character it's just like got a little like oh there's this angle so sorry that was a bit long no it's excellent and I think it's really just useful for people to because we've been talking a lot about science and I think we can also go back and talk about some of those things like what's actually happening in the brain when this happens but it's really useful to put it in a first person perspective and also as a scientist I think this is the ground of research because what we're investigating when we're investigating the mind is subjective phenomena right like if we want to know how the mind works where what we mean by the mind is these experiences this conglomerate of experiences that I'm having as a human being right so it's always grounded fundamentally in subjective experience like that's what we want to understand and so to talk only abstractly about meditation and some of the experiences that can unfold I think is to miss the thing that we're actually studying and this would be why I think you want in a lab for example both people with meditation experience and potentially without so that the people with meditation experience if you don't have meditation teachers around can kind of ground the research like this is actually the phenomenon no that is not the phenomenon and it's hard to study also because how do you identify expertise how do you identify someone who can actually do these states on demand if you have no idea what they actually look like like how do you know that you're not just dealing with someone who's kind of delusional or had a big psychedelic trip or whatever you know what I mean and it's a really tricky space in this regard yeah earlier I brought up Delson Armstrong can you tell us more about your experiment with him what did you do what did you ask him to do what did you notice about his brain is his brain actually different yeah so sort of at the beginning stages of this research so I would call these preliminary results and it's also a useful opportunity to make a distinction between Niroda which is this sort of cessations this sort of cuts in conscious experience that we've been discussing and what's known in canonical Buddhism as Niroda Samapati and Niroda Samapati is this sort of extended cessation not only is it extended but it's intentional so there's this like capacity that one develops as a highly expert meditator where you can choose to deconstruct your mind and go unconscious at will and for a predetermined length of time so when I first heard about this when we all first heard about this we were all like blown away and very skeptical right because how can somebody choose how long to turn their consciousness off and like what does that even mean like and you know he claimed to be able to do this up to six days and this is also what's talked about in the classical text is not to go longer than six days because then it might get risky for the body which makes sense as well and the idea is that you can go into this state and it's kind of like a mini hibernation state like you're gone as if like a blink of an eye but six days have passed and you're just sitting in your lotus posture or whatever posture you took and just all this time has passed you haven't used the bathroom you haven't eaten anything you haven't drunk anything and so to be clear we don't we don't know that that's true but that's that's the claim and then when we got him into the lab we basically fortunately for science because he can do it on demand we can basically ask him to do this for the amount of time we need we can ask him to do it multiple times we can compare to different conditions we can probe him in all sorts of ways we can look at neural activity and in fact we measured physiological activity in all sorts of ways heart rates blood oxygen saturation skin conductance e.g. facial movement body movement eye movement like we were measuring basically everything you can hook up a person to at once and then basically get him to do these extended enrotors for different periods of time we'd present some stimuli and then we also got him to take a nap on a different day but we yeah collected a bunch of this data and so yeah he's he's really unique in the sense that he can do these these extended cessations and then we found something quite interesting in in those which is and we discussed this already that desynchronization of neural activity so that was very clear with our participant and then serendipitously our colleagues at Harvard out of Matthew Sackett's lab were also looking at another meditator who can do these brief cessations that we've been discussing and we found like really nice convergence between our data so in both cases you get this quite dramatic desynchronization of neural activity at the moment or around the cessation so you have two different people who have the ability to basically desynchronize the brain at will okay and so you said that when you were going into this when you heard about this person you were super skeptical when you saw the result of his brain scanning or whatever imaging you did were you still skeptical afterward or did you think okay these guys are doing something well the thing is that biological data cannot prove a subjective experience right so the subjective experience is the subjective experience and there's nothing that we can find in the brain you know besides like everything shutting off completely which means death to prove that right but we see this interesting evidence that coincides with for example what you see with general anesthesia when you give people when you turn them off to give them surgery so you see some like commonalities in the in the neural activity but no biological symptom again except for something that looks like death which didn't happen the signals remained present but we saw these alterations to the signals could prove the subjective experience so in some sense we always are stuck with the primacy of subjective experience when it comes to these kinds of things but what we can see and I think we will see as more of our data comes out is that the state is very unusual given its biological signatures and given that it's very unusual I would say this lens support that something unusual is occurring right I can't say that this means that he's actually turned the thing off I think what we would need to do then is like electrocute him a little bit maybe or do some of the kind of old dodgy psychology they used to do back in the day but I would like to do some kind of testing that would try to prove this and it's again it's not going to be a biological marker per se but it could be biological reactions to some sorts of stimulations things like startle responses or these kind of very basic habits of of the system for example to how they respond to an extremely loud sound or something like this but the problem is that even comatose patients still have some responsiveness in the brain and that depends on how deep their coma is or their vegetative state or so on so even people who ostensibly really have lost all consciousness even potentially permanently still have responsiveness in the brain to some extent and so the responsiveness of the biology again is not going to tell us whether this state exists or not so objectively something unique is definitely happening however whether you can confirm that this thing that is happening coincides with this subjective experience of saying oh I basically turn off everything and I have zero awareness so he's saying that and you're saying seeing something interesting in the experiment in the scanner but you can't objectively prove that yes he has no awareness here exactly okay and and no scientist can prove anything about subjective experience so this is this isn't like a limitation that's constrained to special experiences it's constrained to the fact that I can never really prove anything about your experience just from your neural activity now we can get a little bit closer because we can do machine learning so I can train an algorithm to know what your brain looks like when you're perceiving a when you're perceiving the color blue and then based on that training I can with reasonable accuracy say that you're perceiving blue because you're having blue like neural activity in your brain but it might be hard to dissociate from when you are imagining blue or something similar to blue or you're just thinking about color or in a different context and so and so it's very tricky just from any biological data to to know what is happening subjectively with a person though the fidelity at which we can do that is getting kind of scary okay so technically you could have somebody in you could be measuring their neural activity and you could look at the objective data and say this person is clearly terrified if the person says no I'm fine then you know throw the data out exactly the ground is the subjective experience like the data can be saying that you're perceiving blue all at once but when if you're like no I'm not the data's wrong right so the ground is subjective experience fortunately or unfortunately yeah you had him do the cessation experience and you also asked him to take a nap was there differences in that do you suspect that maybe he just kind of went to sleep when he did the cessation experience do you have any reason to suspect they're different at all so I have a really nuanced explanation about that but to put it simply definitely we're seeing stronger effects in the cessation than in the sleep and some of that data I have we haven't let out is an allergy yet but we'll see that later but there's also the issue of like it's it's it's quite tricky to know when somebody's actually asleep as well right again it's anchored in subjectivity so he he said he was asleep when we did the measurements and we had some biological indicator that he was asleep like you get rolling eye movements for example so your eyes do this funny thing just as you're about to fall asleep but this is only before like early stages of sleep so you have also these sleep stages which you need to score based on particular neural activities and it's a it's a very subjective thing like a person has to score the neural activity and so you know we have some of those indicators not all of them that indicate that he was having a nap and he didn't say he was having a nap and fell asleep and all of that so that's what we have and then we have the cessation and then we seem to see that the cessation is a is a deeper let's just say heuristically shutting down of the system then was the sleep which would make sense given that there is no sense of time having passed there's no way to wake someone up when they're in cessation ostensibly whereas in a nap of course you can be woken up you have a sense that time has passed and and all of these kinds of things yeah let me uh because i've actually spoke to delson before i went to a retreat in india and i got to meet him uh very cool guy he i asked him about sleep actually i was asking him what you know do you still dream and he said no i don't dream and he said that when he's falling asleep it's like he is he he is still aware of the process of sleep and so he says that he can watch i hope i hope i'm describing this probably but from what i remember he said he can like watch his brain go into different flavors and different uh levels of shutting down so he can kind of be like watching himself sleeping and be like oh that must be light sleep that's oh that's got to be deep sleep or oh this this must be rem and the other thing is in the experiment wasn't it something like he said okay i am going to enter cessation after 15 minutes and then like exactly at the 15 minute mark his brain was just like is that embellishment a little bit but basically i know i mean that's partially true but i need to that data is still being analyzed but um what we did see is we told him to go into cessation for 90 minutes and we said you're gonna have 10 minutes to get into that state but we want you to come out at 90 minutes we're not going to tell you when 90 minutes has passed since you can ostensibly time yourself then you should come out at 90 minutes and this is in a footnote in in our paper um but basically we just observed his eye movements um and other sort of physiological indicators like heart rate and what you do see is that after that 90 minute period has happened you see pretty much precisely at 90 minutes his eye movements come back online his heart rate increase again his breathing rate increase and then he reports that he's now awake so that's you know that's pretty interesting because there's not no signals anywhere about um what the time was he was in a room with the bed by himself we were outside of that watching him through cameras and all that so that's that's fascinating and you know it's it seems mysterious that something someone can time themselves doing these things but of course we do sometimes wake up when we intended to wake up and somehow we have these circadian rhythms and we have bodily rhythms um so the system is very good at inferring things from rhythms you know in some sense we're inferring everything from rhythms of activity from regularities of activity and so time is no different than that so if you're inferring things of regularities of changes of certain rhythms in this organism you can foreseeably unconsciously know how much time has passed in order to re-engage the system just like you would like waking up out of sleep so i don't think you need any kind of mystical process there precisely i think there's biological explanations for for the why that happened and i got curious about this so i started to do a little bit of like just practicing my meditation about okay i'm gonna do half an hour and like see how close you can get to half an hour just by listening to my body and and i was really surprised about how accurate you can be with that yeah yeah and so among like these effects of for example being able to time i think this is one of the really kind of fascinating things about it but another really fascinating question about cessation and neurosis on a party especially as longer cessations is like why do we have that biological capacity right like evolutionarily why do we have that why is our system constructed in such a way that we do this why do they go in caves to do this like hibernating bears you know there's all these like funny things so like when i was um first talking to delson about this i was living in amsterdam with my um one of my best mates igor jakovich and he's an archaeologist right and so i was he overheard my conversation initial conversation with delson and a few other professors while he was explaining all this wild stuff to us and i was sort of like wow this is this is impressive and his descriptions were really resonating with also my scientific understanding of how things are constructed in the moment and anyway i got off that call and my friend he he he goes man that sounds like hibernation initially i dismissed it you know i was just like no no come on that's not it anyway it's sort of like started with percolating in the background and then like um another uh co-author of ours and um a great meditation teacher hank barndrecht he uh also independently proposed the idea that this looks like hibernation this is someone who also has a lot of experience with all this and yeah yeah with these two suggestions and more reading and start to read a little bit about top or and hibernation and just again some of these funny synchronicities like they do this especially in cold climates meditation seems to be a bigger thing you know like this and the caves and uh you know i just started to like have these funny coincidences and again this is this is more sort of like a fun route and way to kind of begin thinking about this like also to think about meditation evolutionarily i think is is fascinating and kind of overlooked um and and in the cessation context especially and so i think like interesting future questions are to try to measure how physiology changes how for example burning of glucose and these kinds of things change uh for a longer cessation and then start to kind of think about this from a very sort of biological perspective so you kind of have because you have kind of these simultaneous things going you got this kind of very ordinary biological thing happening but then you have these very profound uh mind things happening and then you also have these spiritual components of the whole thing it's all happening kind of simultaneously and we can kind of depending on your lens you can kind of focus on any part of this and i think focusing on all parts of them is the most fun or so yeah so two things so you're saying bears are enlightened and two would it would it be like really expensive to say could you basically conduct the same study that you did and be like okay listen we're going to do the same thing but now just i want you to do cessation for five days yes and and that's that's my that's my dream experiment yeah yeah maybe not five days maybe a couple of days there's ethical hoops to jump through with this whole thing so um i'm not sure if we're going to be able to do it but i would love to do that yeah but i would also like to electrocute him when his i don't think they're going to let me do that i think i think there's something in the pseudos that says like you must not yeah must not disturb while they're doing cessation it's like a cardinal sin yeah but you know oh well yeah for science right yeah i was thinking it'd be really cool to do a time lapse right yeah just i think that would be mind-blowing to see someone able to just sit even if you if someone wanted to argue he's not doing anything it's like all right then you try sitting for 24 hours straight it's a good stuff i mean especially if you can i mean it would be awesome if he just put a camera in like a cave and just like did that but it's kind of i think energetically or with the buddhist ethics it's kind of it can be tempting to seem like those are those are the types of things you do for the wrong reason so i can also see why it's sort of party trick it kind of minimizes the whole uh thing and and you know just besides the kind of absence that happens i think and we talked about this at the beginning but something i think is super fascinating is you know what's happening that resets the system so profoundly and what is happening that causes this sort of like yeah profound transformation clarity this is like stepping into a new reality and and can we kind of get at that scientifically can we understand that can we build robots that have this quality so that when they embody themselves through AI as they slowly are that they're going to be kind of enlightened AI instead of like really have all the faults yeah all the fault neurotic AI's yeah right i mean but because we are kind of building these AI systems based on how we are ourselves um machine learning is highly informed by neuroscience there's this dance between them but what about what about awakening what about enlightenment what about these deep contemplative traditions what insights can they give us for uh for AI for building systems that might actually serve humans in a way that is uh helpful in a deep way like that is wise and like compassionate i think this is like the problem of our generation is is building benevolent uh AI did we get much into the predictive nature of the brains operation i don't think we we have to really touch on that that was you discussed that in your paper but maybe you could get a quick overview of how big a component prediction is in the brains operations yeah yeah so you know these models that fall under these broad banners called predictive processing active inference or free energy minimization the way that they're characterized by the most cited neuroscientist in the world kalfristen these ideas are like the first time scientists have ever had a unifying account of how the system works how organisms work how cognition perception consciousness love everything potentially happens and they basically have very in a way simple axioms like simple building blocks from which if you take like these simple principles you kind of everything comes out for free and that's what makes them really cool and that makes them also super applicable to things like meditation and psychedelics because they actually can easily integrate the kinds of experiences that happen on them and make new predictions and so on about them in a way that no other previous understanding of the mind could do and this is also i think why we're now able to talk about these deep states as scientists because we have the theoretical framework for doing that um and so like you said you know how important is prediction there well prediction is kind of at the heart of the whole way the organism is said to to work and there's good biological evidence for this there's good computational evidence for this good perceptual cognitive evidence for this but basically what the system is doing to try to maintain this model of the world uh consistently and to learn about reality it's simply making predictions about it noticing where it makes mistakes updating its model and going about its life that way and so it's a very simple thing right so you have a model you make predictions based on that model you get errors you update your model and then it gets it gets more complex from there because this happens on multiple levels throughout the hierarchy of the mind again from like simple perception to categorization to thinking to to really higher order selfing um and basically what you get is when you just understand that people are reducing prediction errors which is just reducing entropy in the long term it's just reducing this chaos you get an organism that behaves the way humans behave and so when you you put these things together you basically start to see um in a kind of almost necessary and natural way the kind of self-fulfilling prophecies that humans get engage in the kind of self-protective mechanisms that you get and also the kinds of epistemic things that we do like searching for insights and new information and so on because there you're trying to reduce this entropy in the long term like you need to learn about the world in order to not only reduce what you don't know now but reduce your chances of knowing and behaving in the most adaptive way in the future and all you're doing is reducing this simple idea of entropy like how cool is that like the idea is that you can understand human organisms and all organisms just by this idea that they're reducing chaos in a way that keeps them surviving so the brain is constantly drawing on all its experiences to make predictions about how the world works right and so maybe you have a toddler doing a like oh i don't know what this egg is let me throw it at the wall like oh some oval objects will break if you throw them and and then uh you get all these different predictions about how you predict uh men might act maybe women might act people from this region how i have a prediction about how they might act or uh you know i have a prediction that if i use this word in this foreign language that i'm learning it will evoke this response and then it evokes a weird response so then you're like okay i gotta update really quickly so i don't use the wrong word um and so then so so it sounds like prediction is a really pervasive and fundamental part of how the brain works yeah okay so isn't it what do you think about the fact that these large language models which look like they have some sort of consciousness i mean that on the surface it appears like that they really talk like a human that has consciousness and their key function is basically they became what they are by trying to guess trying to predict what the next appropriate letter would be yeah well i i think that's why they were built that way right because we kind of came to understand that this is how the brain works and you see that when you take this predict the simple process of prediction to its extreme like you give it a lot of data and you just get it to predict you get really impressive abstract capacities like theory of mind the ability to take your perspective the ability to respond appropriately to answer your questions in creative ways to generate images and all sorts of things just from this thing of prediction you get things that you just wouldn't expect to get when you have hierarchies of prediction layers of predictions of predictions about predictions and so on then i guess what your real question is here is like what does that mean about consciousness do we if that's all that's happening is prediction at what point do we just have to assume that like a large language model is conscious and my gut feeling about that is that no way they're conscious but my understanding of these processes makes me very weary to make that conclusion based on my gut feeling so we do have to i think move conservatively um in the sense that we should be perhaps you know maybe liberal is the right word we should be more we should be liberal in our attributions of consciousness just for ethical kind of um safety i i definitely wouldn't go to the extent of assuming that a large language model is conscious now but the idea that integration of information prediction and multiple layers of this in a way that's synchronizing a lot of information that that could give rise to consciousness because of how important it seems to be in human consciousness i think is is a risk we really need to take seriously and and my head my only sort of pushback against what i just said is if you've you've probably heard of the hard problem of consciousness which is uh so hard problem of consciousness is coined by um david chalmers and it's basically just the idea that you could have someone who looks behaves talks like us does all the things that we do but is a philosophical zombie isn't having any actual conscious experience there's nothing that it's like to be you right you have all the same neurons all the same brain all the same parts you're making all the same actions you're saying all the right words you're saying that you're perceiving all these things you're saying that you have a self you're acting in all these ways but there's nothing that's actually like to be you on the other side so hard problem of consciousness is the fact that you can potentially have explanations for all the phenomena of your perception behavior and all your reporting and everything while you actually don't have any consciousness it's like the the what is it called the chinese room problem something like that right so there's this challenge right that like how would you determine if someone is is conscious just by like talking to them and they're in a room you can't see them or anything but like you like how do you have a how would you determine that someone's conscious and it used to be a lot of people thought maybe something like okay they you can't tell whether that's a human or not that you're talking to and maybe we're already at that stage with the large language models but um most people have now sort of moved the goalposts and saying that's not that's not really the criteria or maybe not the sufficient criteria yeah it's kind of like the uh neuroscientists or neuroscience can't deduce what the subjective experience is because if someone says i am having i'm experiencing happiness when the scanner says they're incredibly terrified right then it's it's totally negated so let's say we finally get a robot that can you can collect all sorts of data from hearing seeing reading touching interacting with the world feeling things and then it's using all these making a model based on predictions based on that input and then it says i'm conscious i have a self then you you you can be like no it doesn't but you can't prove that you can't and you know just to bring it back to meditation like and like to what really makes us human like i would be really interested to have a conversation with a robot like that about their contemplative capacities right like do you experience presence like do you experience like feeling and it's all it's richness and like just trying to get at this these things that we can't talk about ineffability right maybe a robot can just talk kind of poetically about ineffability but anyone who's done a lot of meditation practice or you know had trippy experiences knows that there's this quality about it that you can't describe it you're going beyond the language in some sense like you're maybe still in the field of prediction but you're beyond the kind of linguistic categories in a place that you just can't put into words a kind of beyond language and it's it's like it's very human to have ineffable experiences like there's there's a layer of experience that doesn't seem abstract it might be abstract but in a kind of literal sense but it's it doesn't feel that way it feels real it feels whole it can feel pervasive it can feel universal all of these things are possible within human experience and then you have a large language model that's just built on predicting words i um how could it have those experiences it can probably report them but can it actually have them it's an interesting problem yeah what is your direction going on are you just going to do more and more are you planning to do more and more research you can do a book are you interested in setting up a way to spread beneficial meditation practices more or i think that like what really excites me is like a way of looking at things that is breaks the boundaries between subjective experience and scientific models and i think these predictive processing systems help a little bit with that but i think there's a way of talking about life and phenomena that is like empirically tractable is computationally tractable and is phenomenologically accurate or has fidelity to experience and like i i my goal you know also in this like book i'm working on is to talk about these phenomena like whether it's of course deep meditation experiences human transformation insight um psychedelic experience um the kind of deep end of human experience are the things that i think are the most satisfying again because these are the things that i found in my life that bring true satisfaction to the human being and and to try to talk about those in a way that breaks these barriers down because i i've just been fortunate to kind of toe the line between these two things between science and contemplative practice in a way that like i'm trying to develop a way of talking about them drawing on i think definitely things like active inference but also neuroscientific training but also these ancient texts that is integrative that kind of just allows us to have one language about both experience and what we do in the lab as as scientists i think it is possible i think we we suffer there's this strange paradox both in ourselves and as a society that there's a sort of like fight between subjectivity and objectivity and you have these like super impressive subjective models in the east that involve things like chakras and levels of the mind and levels of consciousness and heavenly states and all these things um and then science comes along and says no those are all nonsense but the the issue is that those are based on subjective experience they're not based on third person probing and so you end up seeming like there's this conflict but i think there's a way of talking about all of these phenomena that is true to the subjective experience and the richness of that and doesn't restrict it with like um unnecessary reductionism uh while still being testable while still being like you can use it to do things like build things with it and and yeah that that sort of space is what i think is super uh exciting and i'm kind of also from like a very heart space i guess like concerned about this AI thing and like how do we make them good but like how do we make humans good right and so the question is like how do we solve that problem if we can solve that problem then we can also probably solve it in the AI and i think this is this is the heart of my interest is both like that deep contemplative experience but also hopefully the the real positive action that comes out from that ideally yeah the thing that i always thought was really interesting was i talk a lot about health diet biohacking nootropics that kind of stuff so basically things that people might want to try on for themselves they might want to try this diet or try this way of eating or try this nootropic or something and so we need a way of deducing whether it's worth spending your time i mean it takes time to buy new foods it takes time to you know kind of like mental bandwidth to try these things on and see if they work out do i want to spend my money on this do i want to develop a habit of remembering to eat this or remembering to take that supplement or something the funny thing is is if someone they don't trust is recommending something they'll say oh come on give me the evidence if it's someone they do really trust it's like a really good friend they say dude i lost 40 pounds with the cabbage diet and then that person's like oh crap where do i buy the cabbage just like immediately but uh you know it's it's dependent on how the objective information is presented and it's dependent on how the subjective information is presented and then you have this this uh factor of like how much do i trust this person uh but then at the end of the day you know all you really have is your own subjective experience and so yeah it's it's kind of neat interesting but also neat at the at the same time that you could never really confirm another person's subjective experience and but you can use it as a guidepost if you want to try and uh calibrate your behavior such that you might get a similar subjective experience or if you want to just rely on the objective data and say okay you know we've got 15 studies that recommend ashwagandha and if i get this particular strain i can expect you know 33 increase in my testosterone stuff yeah no i love that and and the thing about objectivity is that i think it's a beautiful ideal but we have to admit that the only access to any phenomena in reality we've ever had is through the lens of conscious experience and if it's through the lens of conscious experience even if it's 100 scientists there's inference involved there is a guess there is the conscious minds making a guess about something even statistics is a statistical guess about something so clearly there's like some sort of spectrum of like okay this seems to actually pan out as more real than this other thing right like when i drop a cup it tends to go to the floor it doesn't tend to float up okay so you have this phenomena that have regularities to them but we have to if we're honest admit that objectivity capital t truth is an ideal and it's a beautiful ideal but it's not something we have ever have direct access to and we have to think of truth if we're honest about psychology and neuroscience as an inference that the organism is making based on its learning right this is why we can have the same person presented the same information in a different way and they'll interpret it differently or at a different time because there's new mathematical variables in that inferential process leading to different outcomes and you can mess with those and we do this in the lab like we have a paper where we've elicited false insights in people just by messing up with their inferential hardware we can make people believe things that are not true by eliciting a false sense of insight in them actively and regular in a predictable way because we know how that inferential system works what do you mean like you introduce a specific type of stimulus to the brain and then it's like no so basically like i would give um give you a problem to solve in this case we call them anagrams like like let's give you a really simple example so you might want to scramble a word there's like a scrambled word you have to just figure out what is that word right and through manipulating past experience exposing you to certain kinds of stimuli i can prime you to interpret that information in the false way and to report having an insight in doing so so this this was a study led by a phd student of ours hillary grimmer um but yeah excellent study demonstrating that we can elicit false insights in the lab not only that can elicit a insight and then present that alongside like a truth claim or a worldview like free will is an illusion and i just present these things at the same time and you're more likely to say that that claim is true just because the feeling of insight in a completely irrelevant situation happened at the same moment you're more likely to believe that it's true so people don't really recognize that our like truth is an inference and even that we can mess with in the lab you know what i mean yeah there's someone who said something like understanding is simply the recognizing of pattern as such right with confidence right it's a higher order confidence it's like if we again take the computational approach as approach there's the there's the recognition of the phenomena then there's a higher order inference about the reality of that phenomena this is called precision how true it is how much attention we give it and these things are all intimately linked it's like one inference is attention confidence and truth and this is something that we can assign to things at different degrees and we do this constantly in a really like rapid way and based on our previous learning our sort of biases our hunches about the reliability of the source and so on we might assign it high precision high truth value and it's super interesting because you can take psychedelics and it completely messes with that truth attribution process like everything starts to feel like profoundly true and you can look at the carpet and suddenly you have this noetic truthiness about the carpet or about any mundane idea that appears in your mind right like people like william james the founders of uh kind of contemporary psychology would take nitrous oxide and like muse about the fact that suddenly everything feels so true but then i write all these things down then i read it afterwards and it makes no sense you know he was just like bewildered by these revelations and and you know we do undergo these things and another sort of again thinking about the future is a concern i have and this is another paper we just released is about the sort of potential epistemic harms of things like psychedelics like how do we control and prevent or guide psychedelic experiences as they become more mainstream towards adaptive true and helpful insights rather than maladaptive or difficult or um troubling insights i would never say i had a really properly bad trip but there were certain times on certain experiences where i felt like i was at the membrane between like insanity and just having you know really interesting semi insightful feeling time we were talking talking yesterday about different pieces of information from like neuropathology that would suggest that yeah there we really shouldn't expect that a self is something that exists because there might be pathological states where you can pertube the the self system let's say can you talk a little bit more about that i think i think this is to me that's a really interesting concept like getting people's head around the the idea that there actually can't be a self yeah it's it is interesting because as someone kind of um entrenched in neuroscience and and all of this it's sort of it is it is a rudimentary thing but i realized very clearly that like for the average person the consideration that the self is this thing that they take fundamentally to be themselves is just something that emerges out of a predictive process and that can go wrong in all sorts of ways it's kind of a shocking thing and kind of counterintuitive to our sensation that it's true and real and consistent right and i wouldn't suggest that you throw away that assumption i think it's also a useful assumption for most people to to have um but yeah it's as exactly as you say you can have derealization experiences you can have dissociation experiences um you can have psychotic experiences you people can even have the experience that they're already dead that they're living inside a body that is not true and then and you can even have experiences where in the lab you can shift people's sense of body ownership to a different body or to a different space using things like um uh like 3d goggles and so on right like you can you can make their body appear by messing with the data in a place that it's not and then you literally feel yourself to be in that space because you've messed with the inference so you can start to see that like very fundamental things even like agency or body ownership or where you are in space can be messed with if you just mess with the data that the brain is using to make that calculation that inference that guess so so these things are are super perturbable and also like if you understand this then it makes these things that we're talking about on meditation much more sort of accessible to the intellect you could say right because you just see that these things obviously happen to so many people we can make it happen in the lab in different ways we can move it around and all we're basically saying that is that if you do this particular thing with your mind enough and with enough commitment then there's this transformation that's going to happen to your to yourself the self can transform there's nothing surprising about that and if you just do this you can have an experience where suddenly you're like super satisfied with all of reality like it's uh what's interesting is i think this doesn't necessarily like disturb the sense of a self but i've always felt like vr was a really good example of how easy it is to trick the system like you put on a vr the vr goggles especially if it's your first time if you've done it many times it probably doesn't seem like anything but the first couple times you try vr you put on that first you're like whoa oh cool okay and then you you and then when you take it back off is when it's really kind of jarring you're like oh shit i'm here like yeah of course you always knew you were there but but there's a split second of this kind of you know very light reality shift i think people have tried it will know what i'm talking about no exactly and this is as these things get more immersive i mean it's an exciting kind of frontier also for consciousness research because then you can start to mess with these really fundamental inferences for better or worse but you could foreseeably mess with them in a way that makes these insights easier to have for instance maybe that's possible too you know kind of reverse engineering the insights of meditation with the help of technology i i have my suspicions about that kind of stuff but i i think it's a frontier worth worth exploring for sure you can kind of loose you can kind of loosen the bolts so that they're easier to take off the next time and deconstruct the system something like that yeah so oh yeah yesterday we were talking about okay let me let me say something and then i want you to correct me and take it back down to reality we were talking about something where it basically sounded like the person you were talking about the advanced meditator that you were talking about he was able to elicit a pattern in the brain that basically looked like he took ketamine right uh so this is the desynchronizing yeah but i didn't mention this so clearly yet but indeed these desynchronization results look like similar effects that like using literally the same kind of mathematical technique which is called phase lag index and you do this on on the brain and you get this similar desynchronization effects when you take like a high dose of ketamine as when you uh do these cessation experiences again suggesting that there's some but i mean we do know that this synchronization this coherence is necessary for building a conscious experience i mean it has to be the different parts of the brain have to be communicating information with each other otherwise you you'd be like seeing separately to your hearing right as we talked about earlier and and so when these things are not synchronized you get weird conscious experiences right um and especially if you talk about like contentless experiences so like experiences without the usual objects of experience then there's a good chance that some desynchronization is kind of uh preceding an experience like that maybe not necessarily but i would suggest that that's probably a good marker that we're going to see some consistency in the in the literature in the future yeah i was kind of fishing for a soundbite with the ketamine question what's the soundbite enlightenment via ketamine simple if you get really good at meditation you can basically have your own ketamine on tap but right right right i'm not gonna put that but i mean there's similarities i mean i i i recently had this experience in an ambulance because i had this like back thing and i know you've read this story but like i had this really bad back injury like extremely bad like worst pain i've had times you know a thousand um and just had this moment of like having ketamine in this ambulance and everything just dissolved like very in a contemplative sort of way um but not only that it completely like cured this problem in my back like that had been plaguing me for like well years since kickboxing um but in that moment i'd been three weeks basically stuck in a bed unable to move and my leg was going numb like it was like really severe like i was at the point of like potentially losing functions in my body permanently um and so and then i had this ketamine in the ambulance and all the pain all the tension whatever the kind of messy loop was in the system was just like broken by this this experience and like if you think about that from the desynchronization approach and deconstruction it's like the ketamine has deconstructed and desynchronized the bound together habits in the body mind consciousness that were giving rise to this sort of bodily experience of of deep suffering and whatever was sort of ingrained in my back but that habit was broken with ketamine right so you can see how these kind of non-linear experiences can happen through just like the right interventions and meditation is is a bit similar right like you're you're somehow letting go of these old habits in such such a profoundly deep way that you're able to just step into a new version of yourself in the same way that like my body transitioned from one version of itself to another and it also reveals how like mind and body are so connected right like you take a psychoactive drug and it has this profound effect on on on the body this sort of like something that i just couldn't get rid of no matter what i was doing and then just like this one psychoactive ingredient kind of did that for me and then same things happen meditation like you describe this sort of relaxation in your neck so like when you do deep meditation practice i notice i become way more flexible in the body as well and when you think about things computationally as a dynamical system and that there's not a separation between mind and body it all makes sense but we're kind of stuck with these dualities that we inherited from you know greek philosophers and so on yeah it was really interesting when i came back from that first meditation retreat because i met one of my friends and one of the first few things that he said was your face looks slimmer right and i had an idea of what he meant because with that muscle tension releasing here it also felt like there was muscle tension releasing my jaw i've talked about this before how i have tmj so i'm clenching my jaw all the time so there's always like tension here my my muscles are a little puffy from like this constant tension and so then that leads up to the muscles in here and here and so like i wouldn't be surprised if this physically sunk in just as a matter of the muscles being properly relaxed and i actually thought that myself when i looked in the mirror a little bit after that experience i was like oh i look skinnier and i didn't think anything of it and then my friend pointed out i was like oh maybe there's something there so do you think it's safe it's not it's not necessarily like you took the ketamine and then you had a sort of doctor strange moment where you know you are still having the same physiological issue except you're just not experiencing the pain because of some ketamine realization but rather the ketamine allowed your mind to relax you had the subjective experience of your mind relaxing to this immense degree where everything dissolved but at the same time it was connected to the physiology such that your muscles maybe relaxed and then it let something shift and then the nerve was no longer being uh you know crunched down on or something and that relieved the pain something like that yeah so indeed i think it's hard to kind of figure out the precise mechanisms but if you take off the assumption that there's a separation between the mind and body you realize that the body is constantly informing what we might call the mind and the mind is constantly informing the body in this sort of bi-directional relationship then anything that is happening in the mind has a kind of bodily expression to it everything that's happening the body has a mind expression to it this is one way to think about it and so then if i'm going through a kind of subjective experience of dissolving and all my habits in the mind are being relaxed by extension my habits in the body are being relaxed because those two things are constantly reinforcing each other it would be really hard it's really hard to have a fully relaxed mind and then have an extremely tense body i think it's like almost like a contradiction so if you kind of accept that these two things are as intertwined as all the evidence suggests that they are then a deep relaxation of the conscious mind is a deep relaxation of core habits of the body too and i think this points to you know why all the teachers say that you can have deep changes happen to the body as you describe as well from contemplative practice and also why you cannot do bodily practices like yoga to give rise to changes in mind and in consciousness or using the breath or whatever you know like all of these things are extremely intertwined and i mean there's plenty of science to support this kind of idea of the mind body connection because i mean you get such cognitive benefits from exercise you have better mood so you're surely going to have a better subjective experience and one of the interesting things one of the really cool things i thought about twim and this was written in david johnson's book i think it's just called the path to nibbana uh he just pointed out something really simple and it's you're doing your meditation and then you notice that you're distracted that is you are no longer on the meditation object let's say typically someone would focus on the breath so you notice you're no longer focused on the breath and he said okay you've you've noticed that now notice the tension because there's going to be bodily tension somewhere when when you're distracted there's going to be bodily tension somewhere and you just got to kind of notice it and so i was a little i was like oh that's you know that's a cool idea but i'm a little skeptical at that that that is always what happens you have tension just because you're distracted and so i tried doing the practice and i was doing it and i noticed sure enough that that was kind of what was doing and i still can even notice that now when i'm doing um my meditation i'll be meditating i notice i'm a little distracted and then i'll notice just like a little like you know just a tiny bit of of tension in the eyebrow or like tension in the neck somewhere like that and yeah i mean i've heard stories of people doing meditation having some experience and then like for some for example someone who had like their arm in a sling from some whatever issue they they could take it out and it sounds kind of wacky like i'm saying like oh you can cure your i don't know what do you call it like a rotator cuff issue because because you meditated but i i think there is a yeah that's a really good point the connection between the physical body and the mind and it can be pretty substantial when you can affect dramatic changes in the mind then you might see dramatic changes in the body right and like a quintessential example of this is of course placebo effects yeah and we have to account for those because they're enormous and they affect everything from like the immune system to perceptual processes decision making processes to like really fundamental biological things everything like you you can't do a scientific experiment without there basically being a placebo effect and needing to to account for that definitely a problem for meditation research i noticed that when i'm in really deep meditation and everything is kind of drifted away and it's like almost not like i'm in this really quiet dark void and then if i'm meditating and then i don't know something falls then i hear a sudden noise it's always accompanied by like a little a little but discernible flash of light in my visual field and that's really consistent like every time but it has to get things have to get quiet enough for me to notice that like with the sound comes a little bit of with the external sound comes a little bit of like a little flash of visual activity that's interesting i i don't personally experience that but this is like we all have kind of degrees of synesthesia and this can change depending on the circumstances but this is a little bit of an effect like that like the way i would interpret that is that there's a sound happening and sounds where there's like a bang has a usual kind of particular kind of visual features to it if you were to see it so the brain goes okay the sound has happened normally this has this kind of visual component associated with it so i'm going to infer a bit of that visual information in my conscious experience as well so it's kind of again part of that inferential process and because we're always using the senses to inform each other to help make our model accurate like we'll use it all to kind of get the picture correctly and sometimes you can mess with one of the senses and it won't affect the model because it'll just be like no i don't need to change it because it's only one of my senses that is disagreeing the other senses all say that this is happening right so it's it's always using all the information and at its disposal to make the conclusion that is most likely to be correct given what we know so i'm sure you're familiar with the mcgurk effect right exactly okay yeah yeah so then so for the people don't know it's like you have an audio of someone saying fa fa fa and another i think it's the same audio the whole time so he's just saying fa fa fa the whole time yeah but then the video will change to where his mouth is moving as if he's saying fa but then they do another video where it's as if his mouth is moving as if he's saying ba yeah but the audio is actually fa and then you interpret it as a bar exactly i'd probably have to play a clip for it to make sense but but it's excellent and that's like a kind of quintessential sensory integration illusion and again you can have that you can mess with all of the senses in this way to make us like see things that are not there to make us hear things that are not there smell things that are not there um scientists are excellent at this there's a whole field called psychophysics where they just basically love causing illusions in people because because it's also a demonstration of their understanding of consciousness right because they're like if i can make up a new illusion that has this extreme effect that demonstrates that i know what i'm talking about right like if you know how the system works then you should be able to create illusions at will and that's how we came up with for example the false insight experiment we had a theory and then we're like okay given what we know based on our theory we should be able to elicit false insights or misattributions of insights if we just do x and y lo and behold it works and that's science man it's awesome that's really cool i'm sure you heard of uh darren brown yeah yeah okay so he's kind of doing something like you're talking about but outside of the lab right and it looks like like magic slash hypnotism yeah yeah yeah it's pretty cool yeah yeah he's he's really impressive i i watched that stuff and i'm like i really wish this is true and i and i think it probably is like given what i know about psychology i think all those things that he does is is probably possible but requires like an immense amount of expertise as an illusionist and and maybe yeah some of it looks like like okay i can probably believe that actually happened other things other you know of his little feats they require a bit more of a leap of faith but definitely interesting guy indeed cool what should we uh tell people where they can find your stuff or did you want to tackle anything else um yeah sure but yeah thank you man this has been real really enjoyed this uh this chat i think we've covered some really fun stuff um uh yeah i have i have a website it's really simple just ruben laukkonen.com and um laukkonen l-a-u-k-o-n-e-n and ruben is just r-u-b-e-n um i also just started a sub stack so you can like read about my ketamine experience there if you want to hear about how ketamine healed my back and i'm gonna start like doing a bit more there um but uh yeah that's it thanks uh thanks so much for having me man it's been awesome of course super super interesting it was really fun what about your twitter are you active on that that's probably that's my only social media and it's the same thing just ruben laukkonen so yeah okay yeah exactly awesome thanks man cool okay i think that was great