

=== FILE: Does Fasting really Destroy Muscle？ [IGZxERG3N88].txt ===

 in your body started consuming. It goes after muscle tissue and fat, and then it switches to your organs. You really start to feel the muscle tissues when your body's eating it. It really becomes painful everywhere. To understand whether fasting destroys our muscle, we need to look at the stories of three different people. What's weird is one guy fasted for 392 days, but the guy who fasted for only 44 days had a lot more problems than him. In fact, if this guy lost muscle at the same rate that this guy did, he would have died. So what made the difference? To investigate the five big pitfalls with fasting, whether you're doing three or even 10 days, let's start in 1910 with the story of Claire Williamson. Whereaner sister Dora Williamson had been excitedly reading about a doctor, Linda Hazard, who was saying fasting could cure pretty much anything. You'll feel happily free, but captivating. And that she was the only licensed fasting expert in the world. One of Hazard's trials was allegedly cured in a 65-year-old woman of depression and chronic constipation with a 43-day fast. Around this time, fasting was becoming popular. Dr. Edward Dewey of the University of Michigan was promoting both intermittent fasting and prolonged fasting in his 1900 book, The No Breakfast Plan and the Fasting Cure. He claimed that farmers who skipped breakfast miraculously had more strength than they were. He also described various people curing all kinds of ailments with long fasts. Many fasted for over two weeks and one man fasted for 60 days. In December of 1910, Claire Williamson wrote a letter to supposed fasting expert, Linda Hazard, asking if Hazard could cure Claire's long-standing uterine issues. Hazard replied saying that, yes, she could permanently cure Claire's troubles with her fasting cure. Claire and her sister Dora were eager to get started on their cure. So while awaiting their trip to see Linda Hazard, they began on a meager diet of mostly just vegetable broth and breads in December of 1910. Almost three months later, on February 27, 1911, the two sisters finally got to meet the 43-year-old Linda Hazard in person. Without any sort of examination, tests, or even a questionnaire, Linda Hazard immediately began the sisters on a strict fasting regimen, which included plenty of exercise, excessively forceful massages, and unusually long enema sessions, up to two or three hours. Right away, this sounds like an awful idea. People suffer more sluggishness and muscle weakness than necessary during fasting because they don't take salt or electrolytes. Fasting will deplete your electrolytes, but people do get through extended fasts on only water. Further, enemas also deplete electrolytes. Excessively depleting the body of salt and electrolytes can be dangerous. As recently as February 2023, a 77-year-old Thai woman showed up at the emergency room with severe salt depletion after giving herself an excessive amount of enemas to relieve her constipation. Dora Williamson actually fainted during one of her particularly long enema sessions. As for the exercise component of the Williamson sisters' so-called therapy, some exercise during a fast is actually a good idea. While we're concerned about the muscle breakdown during a fast, the thing is that eating or not, the proteins in your muscles are always breaking down. However, healthy people are normally matching that muscle protein breakdown with muscle protein synthesis. To put on muscle, you just want to get your muscle protein synthesis higher than your muscle protein breakdown. There are two ways to increase muscle protein synthesis. The first is to eat protein. The second is to stimulate the muscles with exercise. This highlights the importance of exercising during a fast to prevent your muscles from breaking down since you can't eat any protein. But obviously, at some point, something has to give. You can't just fast forever and preserve your muscles with exercise and magic. Unfortunately, the issue with the Williamson girls is that they were already quite thin before even meeting Linda Hazard. It took just 17 days of fasting for Dora Williamson to become very gaunt and emaciated. After a couple weeks of fasting, one person commented that the girls were so thin that their skin appeared to be tightly drawn over their bones, like wet sheets on a drying line. Even then, Linda Hazard continued to encourage the women to fast, saying that they were oh so close to being cured. Well, it may sound hard to believe. It has been confirmed time and time again that for most people, hunger disappears or significantly reduces after about three or five days of fasting. Back in the 1900, the general rule of thumb, as laid out by Dr. Edward Dewey, was that people should stop fasting and eat something when their hunger returns. Upton Sinclair's 1911 book, The Fasting Cure, echoes this sentiment, detailing how depending on the person, the hunger would sometimes take more than two, three, or even five weeks to return. A 2021 paper explains that there are three phases to fasting. Phase one is when you switch from carbohydrate to fat as your main fuel source. The body begins to spare protein, which protects your muscles. They say in phase two, you can coast along on body fat for fuel for weeks or even months for some people. During this second phase, hunger should be significantly reduced. However, at least in animals, when they get under 10% body fat, phase three begins. In phase three, the body can't get enough energy from fat and begins to rapidly break down the muscles and organs for protein. So it may be that hunger returning, suggests you are entering this rapid protein breakdown phase and you need to eat something very soon. Actually, the Wilhelms and girls at one point were begging to be fed, but Linda Hazard refused. She said that they would die if they ate solid food. The girls were so psychologically manipulated that they willingly continued to fast while their bodies wasted away. They eventually became too weak to walk. After about 82 days straight of fasting, Claire Williamson had lost more than half her body weight, leaving her at just 50 pounds. She died of starvation on May 19th, 1911. Linda Hazard's bad intentions became pretty obvious when it was discovered that she had made a fake of Claire's will, so that Hazard would receive all of Claire's belongings. She was even wearing one of Claire's dresses when a family friend came to rescue Dora. 10 days after her sister's death, Dora finally escaped and she survived. Linda Hazard was found guilty of manslaughter and went to jail for only two years. What clearly an insane con artist Linda Hazard did truly believe in her fasting cure. In 1938, she tried to cure her own illness with fasting. She continued fasting until she died of starvation. Now the contrast between Claire Williamson and Angus Barbieri's story illustrates the first and most obvious pitfall of fasting. Fasting too much or too often, but what is too much? Well, apparently for Angus, an entire year wasn't too much. Angus's 382 day fast was medically supervised and a case report was published on it. He lost a total of 276 pounds over his year long fasts. Although authors of his case report asserted that he indeed lost some muscle, it wasn't to a serious degree. They wrote that prolonged fasting in this patient had no ill effects. So obviously the difference is that Angus had way more body fat than the Williamson sisters. Clearly someone looking like this should not have been fasting at all. Dr. Ted Naiman put it pretty simply, the thinner you get, the less I like extended fasting. The leaner you get, the more at risk you are of losing muscle when you fast really long or too often. An ambulance will now take him to hospital. Am I gonna be okay? David Blaine's 44 day fast illustrates a second pitfall with fasting. My bone mass index, everything decreased by about 33%. I lost 60 pounds in 44 days. But he lost much more muscle than he did fat. He lost an estimated 23 pounds of muscle but only lost 14 pounds of fat. Here's the thing, if Angus Barbieri lost muscle at the same rate that David Blaine did, he would have died. So what did Blaine do differently? The body actually has many specific ways it protects your muscle when you fast. But if you wanted to lose as much muscle as possible during a fast, you should lock yourself in a giant box and suspend yourself above London so that you can't exercise or walk like David Blaine did. Tim Ferriss reported in Tools of Titans that he lost 12 pounds of muscle mass doing a seven day fast. The fast was clinically supervised and they specifically prevented him from exercising, which is a terrible idea. When Tim did another 10 day fast that included plenty of walking, he apparently didn't lose any muscle at all. You don't wanna overdo the exercise during a fast but not exercising at all is the second huge pitfall with fasting that will make you break down more muscle than is necessary. Jeff Nippard explained in a video of his that Matt, client of a friend of his, was hospitalized from a Crohn's disease flare-up. He was unable to exercise during that time and he lost 35 pounds and most of his gains in just two months of not working out. Being unable to walk around or move much has been well known to rapidly atrophy your muscle for several decades. In fact, a study found that even though they were eating plenty of protein, subjecting 10 men to strict bedrest, had them lose an average of three pounds of lean mass in just one week. On the other hand, a 2017 study had men stop working out for two weeks and simply letting them walk around, preventing them from losing any muscle. Now another question came up when I found this 108 year old textbook on fasting. It presented this weird data that a man was supposedly stronger than usual seven days after he stopped eating. Then I came across a 2021 study on 16 men showing that their legs were much stronger than usual after five days without food. This didn't make any sense. So I decided to do a three day fast and see how much strength I lost. Not only did I not lose strength, I was able to deadlift 22 pounds heavier than the personal best I had hit two weeks earlier. Obviously you can't grow muscle by not eating, so what's going on? First, let's look at how the body protects your muscle during a fast. As you can see from this 2012 study, during prolonged fasting, protein breakdown decreases to less than half of what it is normally. Going back to Angus Barbieri, his case report shows that his plasma urea dropped to less than half of normal, which would suggest he was breaking down less of his muscle proteins for energy. So what's going on is when you stop eating for about eight hours or so, most people's bodies would shift to rely mostly on the stored sugar or glucose in your liver for energy. Around this time, you'd start to get pretty hungry, but your liver can only hold onto so much glucose to maintain your blood sugar. So what happens when your liver runs out of glucose? Well, let's talk about why I didn't go into a coma the other day. Your brain really cannot afford to have its fuel supply interrupted for even a moment. That's why this paper notes that when your brain fuel, your blood sugar drops below 49, you're at risk of having a seizure or going into a coma. Yet a couple weeks back, while I was on a diet of mostly steak, butter and zero carbs, my blood sugar dropped to about 39, but nothing happened. I felt fine. In fact, some crazy scientists in the 1980s took guys who had been fasting for days and injected them with insulin to purposely drive their blood sugar down. Now, normally this is really dangerous. If this was outside of a medical experiment, they'd probably be accused of attempted murder. After the injection, one guy's blood sugar went all the way down to nine. An individual getting down to nine milligrams per deciliter. You know, for the non clinicians in the room, that level would cause coma in most people and you'd be very close to death. They had absolutely no signs or symptoms of hypoglycemia or low blood sugar. Felt completely fine. The thing is, when you naturally deplete your glucose stores, your body will generate an alternative fuel source called ketones. Ketones are made by breaking down fat. Of course, ketosis is the so-called fat burning mode and ketones are in fact considered to be an extra energy efficient fuel for our bodies, providing more energy per unit of oxygen use. In 1910, an issue of the Los Angeles Herald newspaper had a column talking about the benefits of fasting. They mentioned that the first three days are the hardest and I think anybody who's done a multi-day fast would agree that the first three to five days are indeed the hardest. This is likely due to the fact that your body is kind of in this limbo state, where you're running low on glucose, but your body's glucose stores aren't quite low enough to give the signal to start producing plenty of ketones. Finally, on the third or fourth day of a fast when your ketone levels get really high, you should have a lot more energy and hunger should significantly reduce. So we would want to get out of this limbo zone and get your ketones up as fast as possible because ketones actually protect your muscles from breaking down. They reduce protein breakdown. In 1989 study found you can just inject ketones into people and will have their body hold onto protein more. A more recent 2022 studies, Cruel Experiment, revealed the potent muscle protecting effects of ketones. They tied rats' tails to the top of their cage so that the rat couldn't engage their hind leg. As we know, not stimulating the muscles will make them atrophy very rapidly. They found that if they injected the rats with a ketone body before tying them to the string, this significantly protected the rats hind leg muscles from breaking down. One reason ketosis prevents muscle breakdown is because it reduces inflammation and inflammation is known to atrophy the muscle. For example, injecting men with the highly inflammatory substance LPS will break down their muscle. However, a 2019 paper found that they could substantially protect the muscle from breaking down after an LPS injection by also injecting them with ketones. So the third pitfall of fasting is not getting into ketosis quickly enough. A good way to make your fast way harder is to binge on carbohydrates right before you're fast. This will top up your glucose stores and then it will take that much longer to burn off your stored glucose and get into ketosis. Actually, the three day fast I did recently was probably my easiest one yet. I had plenty of energy and not much hunger from day one because I was in deep ketosis even before the fast started. For about two weeks before I had been eating zero carbs and mostly just meat and butter. Another reason exercise is important, especially during the early stages of the fast is that it will speed up how quickly you burn off that glucose and get into ketosis. But you might be aware that you couldn't possibly have any strength to exercise while you're fasting. But as I mentioned earlier, a 1915 textbook and a 2021 study found some markers of strength to be higher after five days without food. Also, as I mentioned, I hit a deadlift PR on the third day of my fast. Now that's still just one guy, one paper and 108 year old textbook. If fasting for three days was really the secret to get another 20 pounds on your deadlift, all strength athletes would be fasting by now. Now I wouldn't try to argue that you're going to build muscle during a long fast, but one thing that might be improving strength is the reduction in inflammation. In Upton Sinclair's 1911 book, The Fasting Cure, he claimed that five cases of arthritis were somehow cured by fasting. Osteoarthritis can feel like broken glass in your joints. When arthritis pain makes the stairs feel like a summit. Arthritis is an inflammatory condition where the joints become inflamed and painful. In fact, a 1991 paper and a 2021 paper suggests that fasting can indeed improve arthritis symptoms. Further, inflammatory proteins have been associated with decreased strength in adults. The reason your muscles hurt so much when you have the flu is due to all the inflammation it provokes. Now, maybe I would have hit that PR even if I was eating. The most I'd argue is that strength can be preserved on a fast, but if there actually is a strength increase during three, five, or even a 10 day fast, it might be thanks to the anti-inflammatory effects of ketosis. Now ketones indeed have various benefits, but they aren't magic. The longer you fast, the more muscle you're going to lose. In 2020, YouTuber Connor Murphy fasted for 40 days. It was done under medical supervision, and since it was for spiritual purposes, I presume he wasn't too worried about muscle loss. He indeed lost plenty of muscle. Back in 1983, George Cahill published a paper titled Starvation, where he explains that when you go into ketosis, the brain drastically drops its glucose requirements and can rely on ketones, so muscle protein is spared. However, the body still requires a little bit of glucose for certain processes, and it can make this glucose from fat or protein. Cahill says that fasting results in a reduction of protein breakdown from 75 grams daily to 12 to 20 grams daily. Now, that's great, but he didn't say it goes to zero grams. So yes, you're going to lose some muscle if you fast, and you'll lose more the longer you fast. But when it comes to fasting, people often forget the big picture and get to bog down on what happens during the fast. We need to ask what happens right after the fast. For example, testosterone is very important for building muscle, and it goes down during a fast. But as I discussed in another video, my testosterone nearly doubled after I ate again after my fast. Now, if we go back to the 2021 study that had 16 men fast for 10 days, they found that indeed during the fast, protein breakdown went down, which protected their muscle some. But after the fast was over, the protein oxidation stayed low, even after three days of refeeding. This means they could get the muscle protein synthesis stimulating benefits of eating protein at the same time that their muscle protein breakdown is being inhibited, meaning it should be easy to put on muscle mass right after the fast. Personally, this is why I think it makes the most sense to break a fast by slowly eating protein, so you can quickly rebuild what you lost. This is the fourth pitfall with fasting, not eating enough protein or calories when you are eating. Now, a 2021 study comparing intermittent fasting to a normal diet counted after 12 months, the intermittent fasting's people's muscles had slightly shrunk. However, the people in the intermittent fasting group were eating about 200 calories and 15 grams of protein less than the other group. So obviously it's easier to maintain muscle on more calories and protein. What was interesting though, was that while the intermittent fasting people's muscles physically shrink a little bit, they had a 15% increase in bench press strength, but the normal diet group only had a 10% increase. In any case, if you're trying to fast and increase or maintain your muscle mass, you need to be careful to eat sufficient calories and protein when you are eating. This is one reason why I stopped doing one meal a day. Indeed, it helped me lose plenty of weight, but it was pretty hard to eat 180 grams of protein in just one meal. Another reason it should be easier to put on muscle right after a fast is myostatin. Myostatin is a protein that inhibits muscle growth. In fact, Belgian blue bulls are very famous for being super jacked due to lacking myostatin. In the study on people fasting for 10 days, myostatin went up on the first day of fasting, but then decreased under baseline for the rest of the fast. And then it decreased significantly under baseline on the first refeeding day and went down further to about half of baseline by refeeding day three. Seems like it would be a good idea to hit the protein and the weights after you break your fast. So the authors of that study concluded that, at least when it comes to fasting for 10 days, fasting combined with physical activity does not negatively impact muscle function. Walter Longo, a researcher who studies the rejuvenating effects of fasting, has explained on Rhonda Patrick's podcast that fasting is basically the trigger to prime the body to regenerate once you start eating again. Then when you refeed the muscle is rebuilt. I mean, we have evidence for regeneration in mice, we don't know yet in humans, but certainly the people go back to the normal muscle mass. He says that while you temporarily lose the muscle, it will quickly be rebuilt upon eating again. He says this is pretty big because it means that fasting is a way to maintain lean body mass while losing fat. And Walter Longo says that protein is important for triggering this regeneration process. Yeah, there is no doubt that when you refeed, you have to have sufficient protein to rebuild. So the whole system of course is set up to give the signals to rebuild. So while you will likely lose some muscle during a fast, the body will quickly bounce back. However, there has to be a point where you break down the body and muscle too much by fasting too long or too often. So you don't want to overdo fasting. Personally, with my body composition, I don't think I would ever do longer than a 10 day fast. As you get leaner, it becomes a simple fuel availability problem. The obvious reason Angus Barbieri could fast so long was he was really fat. As you get leaner and leaner, you have less body fat that you can tap into for calories to support the body. When your fat stores get too low, your muscle starts to look extra tasty to your body and brain. Dr. Peter Atia, who used to be a huge proponent of fasting, said the reason he doesn't fast so much anymore was because he was losing muscle. However, he was fasting a lot, doing a three day fast every month and a seven to 10 day fast four times a year. But he was also taking the longevity boosting drug Metformin. Metformin has a side effect of making it harder to put on muscle and some data suggests it may even atrophy the muscle. Further, older people may need to be more careful with fasting because as you age, it is harder to build and maintain muscle. Now the fifth pitfall with fasting is now replacing electrolytes. People do get by on only water doing long fast, but it's much easier to keep your energy levels up, keep your hunger down and get your exercise in when you're replacing those electrolytes you're losing. Salt is most important, but potassium and a bit of magnesium are also very helpful. This brings us to element, which is the sponsor of this video. I started using element even before they were sponsored to get my electrolytes during a fast about two years ago. Electrolytes aren't only relevant when you're fasting, since electrolytes and sodium are a big part of hydration and maintain the energy levels in general. It can really help to replace the electrolytes you lose when you're doing a low carb diet or when you're sweating a lot at the gym. I often find my energy and focus is generally better throughout the day if I say hydrated with plenty of water and an element pack here and there. Eliminate tastes great and there's no junk in it. It's just a good balance of electrolytes, sodium, potassium and magnesium, a bit of flavoring and some stevia. There's also a raw and flavored type if you prefer. If you go to drinklmt.com slash what I've learned, you can get a free sampler pack with any purchase. Also, be sure to try the new element sparkling. It's a bold, refreshing 16 ounce can of sparkling electrolyte water.

=== FILE: Hidden Data： How the Top Longevity Doctor tricked us all [THo_s3BWstM].txt ===

 Yes, famous longevity doctor Peter Atia was in the EpsiN files. And yes, he did actually say, put his low carb, and I go into JE withdrawal when I don't see him. But there's a lot more. That's just two emails, and there are over 1,700 PDFs mentioning Peter Atia in the EpsiN files, and together they paint a much bigger story. So we need to look at how much did Peter actually know about EpsiN. The issues with Peter Atia started before the EpsiN news, because Peter's biggest health claim might be something he just made up. Dr. Atia, we'll see you now. After my daughter was born, all I could think about was, I want to have as much time as possible on this planet with this baby. That's when he decided to become his own first patient in a longevity medicine. Let's dive into Peter's EpsiN emails. July 12, 2017. Peter's confirming in this email that he can meet EpsiN the next day. Not that interesting, but according to Peter Atia's book, just the day before, July 11, 2017, was when Peter's wife rushed their one month old infant to the hospital because he had stopped breathing and his heart had stopped beating. His wife then stayed in the hospital for four days while pleading with Peter to come back home. But he said he couldn't because he was in New York with important work, which apparently included meeting Jeffrey EpsiN. Five years before this, Jeffrey EpsiN was convicted in 2008 of procuring a minor for prostitution. It appears Peter first met EpsiN in 2015 through Evadoubin, EpsiN's ex-girlfriend. Peter's feedback was, he might literally be one of the most interesting people I've ever met. If I have one talent in life, it's being able to spot really smart people. I really do have, I think, a supernatural talent for figuring out who's smart. Yeah, I'm in the files for not going because Jeffrey EpsiN was trying to meet with me. Aren't you glad? Yeah, but I would have never won anyway. It's like, it's not even a possibility that I would have ever won, especially after I'd googled him. I was like, what the f- Here's another email he sent to EpsiN. He also said, Here's an email showing that Peter said at one of EpsiN's apartments. Elsewhere, Peter asked EpsiN, Are you on island? EpsiN said, Palm Beach. Peter asked, What do you do when you're there? EpsiN said, Guess. And then Peter said, Besides that, Peter seemed quite interested in EpsiN's infamous little St. James Island, that I need to visit the island sometime. Elsewhere, Peter said, I miss you. Maybe I need to visit you on Palm Beach. EpsiN replied, Good idea. In an email between their assistants about a meeting in Vancouver, EpsiN's assistant said, I'm sure EpsiN would love to see Peter as much as possible. They were very chummy. We don't have the context behind these, but there are plenty of emails like, I have a little quote situation to seek your advice on. Or that was fun today, but too short. Or what a rough night. Oh my God. One time, EpsiN mentioned to Peter that the secret service was sniffing the house. This could have been a professional connection, but Peter also asked, Can you reconnect me with so-and-so woman we met at your place? Two months after that email, EpsiN took Peter Atea to a dinner party that included the president of Mongolia and Cathleen Rumler, the person EpsiN called when the FBI arrested him. After the dinner party at 3.40 a.m., Peter emailed EpsiN saying how much of a good time he had and asking, By the way, Why wasn't so-and-so in town tonight? Referring to the same woman Peter met at EpsiN's place. The point is, these guys were definitely bros. Speaking of connections, how did Peter meet his dear friend Kevin Spacey? In one email, EpsiN told Peter he wanted to get him in front of the masters of the universe. Kind of makes you wonder how Peter affords multiple $300,000 watches. Billionaire patients who pay hundreds of thousands of dollars, and how much does it cost? It is a six-figure program. It's a big range. Much closer to $100,000 than $500,000. That's a lot of money. Look, there's nothing wrong with making money, but there's promoting something you really believe in, like Brown News, this fall into this video, which we'll talk more about later. And then there's making tons of cash, thanks to Jeffrey EpsiN's wealthy connections. Blindly ambitious. They're willing to put aside all the possibilities of what could be awful about these people and get together with them, without even a cursory Google search. And it's really quite unfortunate that he was exchanging emails with the subject line, God of Fresh Shipment, but Peter does say that in this email, the redacted photos were Peter's picture of bottles of metformin, and EpsiN's picture of an adult woman. To be clear, this is not to accuse Peter Atia of any wrongdoing himself. Peter Atia claims in his apology tweet from February 3rd that he never visited EpsiN's island or ranch. Now, that might be true, but he certainly wanted to go to the ranch. A plane ticket was booked for Peter to go to Jeffrey's ranch on August 18th, 2015, but the trip got canceled because EpsiN was busy. Peter also claimed that he was repulsed and nauseated with the contents of the November 2018 Miami Herald article on EpsiN that clearly revealed his depraved crimes. But Peter stayed in touch with EpsiN for at least another four months. On December 4th, 2018, Peter asked EpsiN what his fallout from recent story. EpsiN said, same as usual, just tougher. Peter asked legally any change. EpsiN said, zero. Three months later, February 23rd, 2019, Peter was still in touch, emailing EpsiN with the subject line, where are you these days? Now, Atea claims he was only in touch with EpsiN after the article came out, so he could get EpsiN to be accountable for his actions. The vast majority of the emails, by the way, was Peter and EpsiN scheduling meetings and phone calls. In any case, they talked a lot and were frequently trying to link up whenever they were both in New York. Okay, but what people come to Peter Atea for is ways to improve their health. So is this really relevant to his science communication or health information? Well, we need to investigate some of his health claims because some of them are really dramatic. And I'd say that the thing that leads to overstepping with the science is the same thing that gets people on the EpsiN files. Overconfidence. Second thing that we've noticed about the emails is how cavalier the elite are. To every EpsiN, he was using Gmail in order to make all these sensitive communications. There was absolutely no operational security. He didn't really care because he believed he was untouchable. They think that they're both everyone else. And that's how the elite think and behave. Let's start with what Peter says in his book, is quote, perhaps the single most powerful marker for longevity. VO2max, VO2max, VO2max, your VO2max, VO2max, VO2max, the single greatest predictor of lifespan. Your VO2max is more strongly correlated with your lifespan than any other metric. The question is, where exactly did he get this idea? So VO2max measures the maximum rate of oxygen your body can use during intense exercise. And I never really doubted Peter Atiyah's claims about it. But then I saw this episode of Joe Rogan. Here's Chris Masters on PhD. Do you know what athletes live the longest from the pros? I guess baseball? In the male athletes, you had gymnasts and pole vultures with eight years on the population. Sumer wrestlers are 10 years below. Cyclists only have two years on the general population. So first of all, a lot of people in the longevity space are taking most of their information about how they should train for longevity from people who specialize in cycling. Really? Yeah, I'm not going to name names. After seeing this, I reached out to Chris about this and he shared an article with me he wrote six months ago. Let me find the quote. You said, none of the studies used to make this claim have measured VO2max. In fact, they don't even claim to have predicted VO2max. That was like, where did this happen? What happened in a certain leading longevity expert's blog post where this person literally took a table that had different labels on it from the paper and then just wrote VO2max over it for the blog post? Because I think in their mind, they were simplifying the point that they were trying to get across. But what you don't realize is that if you go back to that paper, the table, the literally the copy to paste the table doesn't say anything about VO2max. I mean, most of the studies that are cited for this, you can keyword search the paper. It doesn't say anything about oxygen in it. By the way, that VO2max table Atea made for his blog post is in his book and was on the 60 Minutes episode about him. VO2max. And he brings it up on podcasts. And everybody should know they're VO2max. I really think everybody should. Sorry, it's the measure of how much oxygen you're inhaling and exhaling? No, yeah. It's the difference between how much you inhale and exhale. It put this mask on your face as there's a little oxygen sensor. To be clear, in this paper, they were not strapping something to the people's faces to measure oxygen. They were just on a treadmill. Because by the way, the other thing that that article says is you might want to, once a year, spend $200 at an exercise science lab so you can have it measured. But it's free to actually do the thing the studies measure. All you need is a treadmill, right? Okay, but how much should we be focusing on measuring and improving our VO2max? I can't emphasize enough that VO2max cannot be reached by the average person in the population. And it is one of the most ridiculous parameters to try to improve. Because the average person trying to improve it would never be able to reach it. What these studies measure is performance on a progressively more difficult treadmill, usually, or cycling sometimes, exercise. They either get faster or they get higher in incline or both to just get harder and harder and harder the longer you do it. And so the longer you last on that is what's predictive of longevity. And a lot of confusion has been made by confusing this with VO2max because it implies that all these people are giving up when they can't transfer oxygen, any more oxygen to their muscle. But when you take general population people who are not young and who are not elite athletes, they can't reach their VO2max. If you look at studies where they looked at like, okay, why did the people give up? They give up for every reason except that they reached VO2max. Like a lot of them give up because they're having heart palpitations. They're giving up because they got leg pain. They're giving up because they can't handle it anymore or they think they're going to throw up. They're never hitting VO2max. It's the difference between someone who's like, okay, do this set until your two reps from failure. Okay, good. And someone who's screaming at you, three more, three more. You know, you really need to try hard in order to motivate the people in the study to actually try their hardest. We don't have a single metric of humans that we can measure that better predicts how long they will live than how high their VO2max is. The most important part of that is that it loses sight of the breadth of how your training should be designed for longevity. There was a study last year that showed that gymnasts and polebalters have eight years on the general population for lifespan. That's a testament to the breadth of what you should be able to functionally be able to do for longevity. Exercise. He aims for about 10 hours a week. Increasing your VO2max is healthy, but you only have so much time to work on your longevity. If someone tells you VO2max is the greatest predictor of lifespan, then you can get sucked into spending hours doing one repetitive motion instead of diversifying your training and engaging your whole body and challenging your balance, coordination, rotation, and so on. Now, this isn't the only time Peter has talked about studies while conveniently leaving important details out. Some of the most popular drugs in the country are statins, taken by about 25 million Americans to lower cholesterol and reduce heart disease. Dr. Peter Atia is hiding something. It's this graph. Torvastatin, the most profitable drug in history grossing over $118 billion, flashes levels of GLP-1 in a human-controlled trial alongside worsening glycemic markers and insulin resistance. Okay, so what happened here is that this big paper in cell metabolism comes out and no one's talking about it. And then two years later, Dr. Nick Norwitz starts talking about it. And then just two weeks after that, then Peter Atia makes a newsletter about it. People were commenting that, hey, Nick, Peter's responding to you. I asked, was I named in the letter? I was like, no, but it's obviously you. Peter. And what appears to be a response letter to me attempted discredit this study, but the only graph of true and obvious relevance? He ignored it completely. Peter, in his letter, his whole letter is trying to respond to and basically debunk the importance of this human-controlled trial. There's one graph of relevance you can show it. An eight-year-old can tell you what's going on. There's a big red line, it goes down. And we're in a whole long dissertation trying to debunk it. And then you take the figure in which that graph is embedded and clip it out. It wasn't like he didn't show a figure one. He showed figure one. Minus figure one H. Really? The panel is the most relevant, which it's hard to think that's not intentional. So what's going on here is that statins screw up the gut, which reduces GLP-1 levels, which increases your risk for diabetes. This will actually become relevant later when we go back to the EPCN emails. We'll also talk about how Oreo cookies can work better than statins. We can't keep blaming our overweight and diabetic patients like I did. Most of them actually want to do the right thing, but they have to know what that is. I wish I could speak with that woman again. You didn't need my judgment and my contempt. Try to identify people out there who are talking about things in a nuanced way, and you're generally going to be closer to the direction of reality. Like literally, do 100 push-ups. Do 100 push-ups, and then get up, and then you can type your stupid comment about my AirPods. No evidence whatsoever that Bluetooth headphones are causing any health damage. Wow, Peter is very confident here. Now, I get a little suspicious when people make confident definitive health statements like no evidence whatsoever. And this is coming from a guy who actually scolded his podcast guests for using the word prove in a colloquial way. Want to prove it right or wrong? Well, first of all, you'll never prove anything in science, so let's be really clear on our lingo. Okay. No, no, no, it's very important. Fair enough. No, no, it's important for your listeners to understand that. Fair enough. Fair enough. Nothing is proved. No evidence whatsoever. Now, I'm not going to try and convince you to immediately switch to wired headphones, but can you really say zero evidence? It only took me a second to find this observational study in humans. Finding longer daily usage durations of Bluetooth headsets were strongly linked to an increased risk of developing lumps in the thyroid. Then there's many animal experiments suggesting that 2.4 gigahertz EMFs, which come from Bluetooth, may damage things like the DNA, the inner ear, the heart, and the testicles. These studies have their limitations, but it is some evidence that should generate just a little bit of curiosity. We're just cutting people's earphones and then giving them airpod pros. This overconfident dismissive attitude reminds me of a closed-minded doctor, rolling their eyes whenever you just have a couple questions. As medical professionals, we've shed our excess mental baggage and cured ourselves of new idea resistance to go back to our original ideals, open minds, the courage to throw out yesterday's ideas when they don't appear to be working, and the understanding that scientific truth isn't final. That path will be better for our patients and better for science. Peter's disdain for people he doesn't agree with eventually seeps out. Seed oils. At modest quantities, probably not harmful. Here, he was supposed to host a seed oil debate, but the pro-seed oil person couldn't make it. So he said he would make their argument for them and only talk to the anti-seed oil side. I'm simply the judge and not the jury, and ultimately the jury decides, and they're going to also decide if I can be a fair judge. Even after saying that, at the end, he couldn't help but express how dumb he thinks this is. My lack of enthusiasm around this topic is probably palpable. If you are a restaurateur and you're listening to this, please take the no seed oils used off your menu. It insults me. Okay, let's go back to the FCM emails. FCM had some weird health problems, like his testosterone was crazy low. It was 150 at one point. Apparently, he had had this problem for about 15 years. Now, Peter's goal was to help him live longer so he could have more set, which brings us back to the most profitable drug in history that Dr. Norwitz was talking about, Lipitor, a cholesterol-lowering drug, a statin. FCM seemed to be skeptical that these drugs might do more harm than good. Probably after he received this article from his brother talking about how statins increase the risk of diabetes. Some of the most popular drugs in the country are statins, taken by about 25 million Americans. Many patients say the side effects are just too painful. Now, for the first time, doctors say there's proof that those patients are right. Muscle pain, weakness, and cramping reported by 5 to 20 percent of patients. We still don't have much research on the side effects of Jeffrey Epstein with draws, but we do have some on statins. Epstein seemed reluctant to take a statin and asked Peter about the increased diabetes risk. He even seemed to be making fun of Peter at one point, calling him statin taker. Now, Peter Atia is very pro-cholesterol-lowering drugs. He is very aggressive about lowering cholesterol. He suggested it would be beneficial for people to already start lowering their cholesterol from their 20s. LDL is causally related. LDL cholesterol or ApoB causally related to atherosclerosis. The disease can't really develop until ApoB reaches a certain threshold. And that's the threshold that most of us get to by the time we're sort of in our teens. If you took everybody in their 20s and reduced them to a level of that of a child, you'd make ASCBD an orphan disease. And basically what it comes down to is you want ApoB to be as close to the level as it was when you were born. If your objective is to not die from heart disease and only to die with it, then you want ApoB as low as possible. April 2022, he said, the earlier you start and the lower you go, the more you can make that number approximate zero. Peter said that? Yeah. I would agree. I'd also say that if you get a total coletomy, the chance that you get colon cancer is incredibly low. And I have a history of inflammatory bowel disease. I've not gotten a total coletomy for a reason. It's like not getting Alzheimer's because you removed your brain. And yeah, it's an extreme example, but it's true. Things you need to do to get your LDL below 30 are not benign. That ApoB lowering therapies, they do carry risk. They can increase blood sugar, HB1C, cause, and I use that word intentionally, insulin resistance, reduce, deplete GLP-1 hormone levels, and impair mitochondrial function. In this video, Peter uses his point about causality and an analogy about cigarettes among cancer to say that young people should probably be taking cholesterol lowering drugs. There is no ambiguity that ApoB is causally related to atherosclerosis. If your objective is to not die from heart disease, then you want ApoB as low as possible. Given that we know cigarettes are causally related to this, how about you never start smoking and the minute you do, we pull the cigarette out of your mouth. Except not putting a toxin in your body isn't really comparable to taking a drug. In his own blog, he quoted himself and then put hyphen Peter Atea. He said, I just don't see a reason to have an ApoB ever north of 60 milligrams per deciliter Peter Atea. Do you think that's too aggressive? I think it's a sleight of hand. What I mean by that is he's putting the burden of proof on the reader to say, well, let me prove to you that it's bad to treat to below 60. When the burden of proof should be on him to say, hey, in all cases, you should treat below 60. You tell me you want to live to be 100, you're going to need to keep your ApoB below 30 milligrams per deciliter. The simple reality is studies can be really expensive and doing multiple different studies specifically designed to identify who exactly from all the unique humans on the planet gets a net benefit from a drug and who doesn't would identify which customers you should lose. The bias in medicine always tends to be towards really highlighting the benefits and then really downplaying the risks. And that's inappropriate. That doesn't, that's not in the best interests of patients. And I do think scientific communicators, including Peter, because he's primarily a content creator, like it or not, it's his job to highlight and then articulate and explain the consequence. And I'm sure he'd have a rebuttal to that. And if he wants to get me on a live cast and present his rebuttal, then we can have a back and forth and fine. Now, wait up, we need to talk about Peter's favorite word. Most of the day on some level, I sit around thinking about causality. Causality is an obsession of mine. LDL is causally related. LDL cholesterol or ApoB causally related to atherosclerosis. There's a lot of posturing in medicine and academia and things that sound intellectually rigorous. Like, oh, this is causal. Let me tell you why it's causal. But it actually doesn't get to the deeper layer. Like, okay, what is the importance of causality really in this context? LDL is causal because you can't dispute that. I mean, not if you understand mathematics and science. If you think about this for a second, it's not nearly the mic drop that Peter makes it seem like. Imagine you want to reduce the risk that Tom Hanks would start a fire in your house. Well, oxygen, sticks, Tom Hanks and his weird desire to start a fire would all be cause of the fire. Should you reduce the oxygen in the house as low as possible? It would be harder for a fire to start, but you'd suffocate. Should you remove all the sticks? Well, it would probably be best to just work on Tom Hanks' mental health to fix his pyrom查查查查查查查查查 causality. Causality is not the same as importance. Often, targeting a causal factor has consequences far beyond reducing the risk of the primary undesired outcome. In this case, heart attacks and atherosclerosis. Apple be lowering therapies, they do carry risk. Now the issues with Peter's very rigid stance on cholesterol lowering is a longer story. So if you want to check out the nuances of this story, go check out Dr. Nick Norwitz's channel. Try to identify people out there who were talking about things in a nuance Okay, so let's move on to the next story. To our original ideals, open minds and the understanding that scientific truth isn't final. When I watched this talk more than 10 years ago, I was really impressed with Peter. It was refreshing to hear this from such an intellectually honest doctor, which is why I was so confused later in 2018, when Peter Atea was being possibly the most arrogant I had ever seen someone be to their podcast guests, at least on a podcast about science and health. I mean, not even close. I don't know. This isn't like we can disagree on things that are nebulous. This is not nebulous, Dave. You've got to spend more time with lipid people. Okay, you really do. You are not dealing with your peers at this. You have to go. So let me tell you this story because it really illustrates how overconfidence and arrogance prevents scientific exploration because existing financial incentives shape what kind of studies get funded. In 2018, in Houston, Texas, I interviewed Dave Feldman, who is now very famous in the health space, thanks to his very unique work on cholesterol. Dave developed a model, a kind of understanding of what exactly cholesterol is doing in the body and why it's doing that. And he told me about his running interesting experiments to test his theory, like taking his LDL bad cholesterol from an insanely high 296 all the way down to 83 in just six days by eating a ton of white bread and bologna. The average doctor wants LDL cholesterol to be under 100. So Dave basically brought his LDL levels down from red alert to what's considered healthy with a garbage diet. Six years later, Dr. Norris went a step further and gave even more credibility to Dave's model. You also did the famous Oreo versus Staten. So Oreo 16 days, Staten's for six weeks. I showed him a personal experiment that he could lower his LDL cholesterol from 384 all the way down to 111 with a bunch of Oreo cookies. With Staten's, he was only able to lower his LDL cholesterol from 421 down to 284. A couple of days after meeting Dave, I was excited to see him on Peter Atea's podcast. I had always been really interested in Peter after reading about him in Tim Ferriss's The Four Hour Body. But the podcast started with something I've never seen before. Peter edited in an eight minute intro where he laid out all the reasons he disagreed with the podcast guests before the podcast even started, basically saying you guys don't really need to listen to this. But I still listen to it. And I remember it was really frustrating because Peter interrupted Dave so many times. Absent? Any inflammation? Or anything else? Nobody's saying that. Nobody reasonable is saying that. So again, listen to what I said, right? Peter even derailed the conversation at one point by interrupting Dave with a correction that was completely wrong. Well, if you've got defective LDL receptors, there's no receptors on the endothelial cell. The other day I went back to the transcript and just counted up all the hyphens that they put for when Dave couldn't finish his sentence. Peter interrupted him 66 times. And then Peter went on to complain that Dave wasn't explaining his model well. But if my energy model is right, it would suggest as to why, the answer of why you haven't even described it correctly to me today. Right? I mean, I guess it depends how liberal we want to be with the term model. Right? I kept seeing over and over again that there just was a lack of analyses in the field of lipidology looking at metabolically healthy people with high LDL. Let me try and explain it really simply. Most of the research showing LDL cholesterol is bad. And so we should lower it to make people live longer is based on people who are metabolically unhealthy. Dave's idea was maybe we could go back to the data and look for markers of good metabolic health and see what happens to those people when they have high LDL. They figured two good indicators of metabolic health would be high HDL good cholesterol and low triglycerides. So the question becomes, do these people die early from high LDL bad cholesterol? Peter said that Dave's investigation was brain damage. Wow. We are so far beyond that in the lipid world at this point. Like, you're going to go through this brain damage, make it for something worthwhile. And that the people asking questions about cholesterol. My advice is sit down, shut up for a minute and pay attention. OK, come on. That was a long time ago. But today, Peter's aggressive stance on cholesterol hasn't changed. And Dave's model is apparently still on his mind because here he is rolling his eyes while he makes a hint at it. Regardless of how high their HDL is and how low their triglycerides are and all the other things that people in this camp want to talk about. The reason I highlight this is because having such disdain for other people's ideas that you can't even have a proper conversation is the opposite of open mindedness and hinders scientific progress. To go back to our original ideals, open minds, scientific truth isn't final, but constantly evolving. So what became of Dave Feldman and his crazy lipid energy model? In 2019, the year after Dave had that podcast with Peter Atia, he got ahold of some data that supported the exact idea that he was trying to explain to Peter. The data suggested that metabolic, healthy people actually live longer with higher LDL bad cholesterol. Thanks to Dave's weird ideas about cholesterol, he's now published eight peer-reviewed papers. And Dr. Nick Norowitz, who Dave works with very closely, has already published 54 papers before the age of 30 and already has a higher scientific impact score than Thomas Dayspring, which is Peter Atia's go-to expert on cholesterol. Tom Dayspring gave us an internal presentation that was so incredible. And Dr. Norowitz is 50 years younger than Dayspring. Dave Feldman, in fact, is actually on a published paper with Peter's former head of research. By the way, Peter Atia basically challenged Dave Feldman to crowdfund the money to investigate if his idea had any weight. And that's pretty much exactly what Dave did. Get the low-carb community to fund you. If they want to know the answer, because I don't think they do, if I'm going to be brutally honest, I think the worst of that crowd just want their confirmation bias. Dave built a foundation to crowdfund the very important key  naryon-c-t-a-study, which is tracking people with sky-high bad cholesterol on a keto diet, but are also metabolically healthy. Everyone is impatiently waiting for all the data to come out because it could completely change how people think about cholesterol. Now Dave and his foundation had to raise about $350,000 to fund the study, about as much as one of Peter's watches, because if you think about it, there's not really a financial incentive to generate any data that could go against the conventional understanding of cholesterol and the way we treat it with cholesterol lowering drugs. The overconfidence is preventing scientific exploration and people aren't acknowledging the financial incentive structures that are generating the data that they're basing their confidence on. You had to personally create a foundation and raise $350,000 just to answer these questions that probably other people should have asked by now. Can you comment on that? I mean, you summed it up pretty well. Frankly, if our research does provide data suggesting people with very high levels of LDL in this population may not have that association between their LDL levels and the plaque development, frankly, that's only going to lose money for a different interest. In 2024, the Keto CTA study Dave crowdfunded generated more data supporting his idea. Metabolically healthy people on a keto diet with sky-high LDL didn't develop more plaque in their heart, but it's been crickets from Peter Atia. And of course, with Peter around this, we had a journal of clinical epidemiology editorial that I was writing via Peter's head of research at the time, Bob Kaplan, and asked Peter to join just because I'm like, look, this is an olive branch. I want us to have a cordial dialogue because my objective is just forwarding the research. He declined saying that there are people, quote, far more reliable or far more reputable. Peter saying like, he's not a reliable resource to talk about this. He needs his massive platform. Why have we not even had this conversation? Look, experts get podcast debate requests on every single little topic all the time. I'm not saying they would have to even respond to those. They wouldn't have time to do anything else. But I think you'd agree this is a unique situation. Peter directly challenged someone on a topic he's so adamant about, and then the person went and took the $350,000 challenge head on. But Peter stays completely silent. All the while he maintains his same extra high confidence talking points on this topic. This Peter Atia discussion highlights how important it is to pay attention to nuance and not just to take the word of whoever makes the claims with maximum confidence. This isn't too different from the news nowadays. We rarely get the full nuance. It seems like every piece of news that we come across has some sort of spin depending on who's delivering it. This is exactly the problem the website and app Ground News was built to solve. Every day, Ground News organizes thousands of news articles from across the world by story with a visual breakdown of reporting bias, reliability and ownership so you can separate facts from spin. For example, 310 outlets covered the Trump administration's release of new dietary guidelines. And you'll immediately notice that you can conveniently see how totally different points are being highlighted. The left-leaning Vox claims that the new food pyramid is lying to you, but the right-leaning daily signal says these guidelines are exactly what we've needed for years. Meanwhile, Forbes in the center highlights that the idea of alcohol providing some health benefits is just not true. Thanks to the bird's eye view that Ground News provides, it's easy to get the full picture rather than being influenced by one outlet's spin. Ground News even has a blind spot feed that highlights the stories that are being completely missed by the left or right. So at a glance, you can see how much of the coverage is coming from the left, how much is from the right and how much is from the center. And this QR code or go to ground.news.wil to get 40% off the unlimited access vantage plan so you can see the full picture. Again, it's ground.news.wil.

=== FILE: How Japan escaped Obesity while America got Fat [TH6Wq4KWu7M].txt ===

 15 years ago, I moved from Texas to Japan. I quickly had this weird feeling that something was off about the people here. I couldn't quite put my finger on it at first, but the more I looked around, eventually, I realized what it was. Nobody's fat. Since 1960, the obesity rate in America has skyrocketed from 12% to over 40% today. That means America's obesity rate is almost 10 times Japan's obesity rate of just 4.5%. The average American would be considered fat, Japan. You're like an even American medium level fat, you are completely fat. I didn't realize it, because I was fitting in Australian people, but then when I came back to Japan, I noticed that I was fat. It's way easier to lose weight in Japan than in the States. But why? What's Japan's big secret? Why Japanese people? There's a million things it could be. Maybe it's green tea. Or maybe it's lower smoking rates in Japan. Actually no, smoking rates are higher in Japan. 25% of Japanese men smoke, but only 13% of Americans do. Maybe more people go to the gym here. Actually no. Only 3.3% of people have a gym membership here, while 21% of Americans do. Maybe it's because everyone eats fermented soybeans for breakfast. Actually it's way simpler than that. The whole food environment is just different, in certain key ways. In Japan, you actually cannot make excuses to gain weight. But maybe in the States, it's not the case. Because you're surrounded by lots of trash. When I came to Japan all those years ago, I basically just ate whatever looked good, and I was losing weight. So like saying you wake up, you get ready for the day, and you're off to get a good breakfast. What are your options? Well per person, there are 15 times as many fast food establishments in America compared to Japan. So the average American's breakfast options might look like… Hotcakes and sausage, our own egg McMuffins. The breakfast burrito. For breakfast, at Denny's the super slam. Single handedly. The worst croissant I've ever put in my mouth. McGrittle. It was sweet. What the f***? All of our favorite foods. So there's plenty of McDonald's you can go to here in Japan, but Japan also has over 4,000 rice bowl establishments. Yoshino-ya de. Amazio. At places like Yoshino-ya, for just $4, you can get what is actually quite traditional Japanese breakfast. A small bowl of rice, fermented soybeans, roasted fish, and miso soup. Gochisousamadeshita. Well let's say you don't have much time, and so you just want to grab something quick and go. The answer? Convenience stores. Seven Eleven. Wow, this is so gross. Do I come to Japan just for the Sago-Awa? More and more people are posting online about how in love they are with Japanese convenience stores, and for good reason. They actually have a huge selection of pretty decent food. So here's what you can get for about $9 USD. Roasted simmered in miso, ramen-style eggs, a rice ball, roasted chicken, a salad, and a green tea. And they have many other things like a decent selection of roasted fish, fruits, salads, and even low calorie stuff like these noodles made of tofu. The pre-prepare foods are also quite decent, like fish with mushrooms and raddish, chicken gizzards with green onion, shrimp and squid with broccoli, boiled eggs, and steamed chicken with pickled veggies. The bandos are a little bit more junky, but they're much better than American options. So the first key difference is convenience. Convenience doesn't always mean junk. However, the average American convenience store doesn't have many options of reasonably healthy things to eat. You might be able to get some nuts or a protein bar, but other than that, it's just chips, candy, processed food, and some fried stuff sitting under a heat lamp. So yeah, of course, super health conscious Japanese people don't get all their meals from a convenience store. Only if I'm too busy and I have no time to cook. The thing is that the overall standard for food in Japan is much higher in general, so even the convenience stores have reasonably healthy choices. Japan has about 55,000 convenience stores, meaning Japan has almost 10 times as many convenience stores per square kilometer than America. Which is great, because from what I've seen, Japanese people, or at least Tokyo people, are extremely busy. Japanese people in general sleep way less than Americans, which is actually very unhealthy. Yet they're still much thinner. So yeah, there are healthy restaurants and supermarkets in the US. We believe in real food. Whole Foods Market. It comes with cheap, quick, and convenient food. It's often very unhealthy. $3 big meal deal, only at 7-eleven. In Japan for lunch, I have the option to buy some fried junk or go to McDonald's for lunch, but it's often just as easy to say, walk into Matsuya and get something like a bowl of rice with some stewed beef, a half-boiled egg, some kimchi, and a bowl of miso soup, with plenty of pickled ginger, of course. Matsuya! Even if you're getting some actual sweets here, they're just not as sweet as Americans. If you go to any one of these cake places around here, an American would be like, wow, why is it not sweet enough? Whereas a Japanese person would go to America and go, why is it so sweet? When I first got to Japan, I thought most things weren't sweet enough. Now after living in Japan for more than a decade, when I visit America, most things taste way too sweet. A lot of things are sweeter, a lot sweeter than in Japan. For example, yoghurt's very sweet. Too sweet. It was like a dessert level. According to 2021 statistics, the average Japanese person eats half the sugar of Americans. Americans eat 33.7 kilograms of sugar per year, but Japanese people only eat 17.7 kilograms. The thing with sugar is that the reason people eat too much sugar is that they want a lot of sugar because they eat too much sugar. This 2016 study found that after just two months of people doing a low sugar diet, cutting their simple sugar intake by 40%, they started to rate sweet foods as significantly sweeter, as much as 40% sweeter than before. That's exactly what happened to me. At first, Japanese sweets didn't taste sweet enough, then I got used to it, and now they taste plain sweet. So I think the Japanese just eat less sweet, less caloric things, and they eat less of it. The soda cups are just smaller here in Japan. This is a large cup at McDonald's in Japan. This is an American small. The American small is actually slightly larger than the Japanese large. Then of course the American large is about twice as big as the Japanese large. Even the milk is way smaller. This is the standard size of milk here. Next take a look at this. The selling point of this sweet drink is actually that it's small. It says nomikiri saizu, meaning a size you can finish. And these half-sized drinks are in most of the vending machines. Hey, why did you get this small one? I think this size is too much for me, so I can finish this. But this one's only 10 yen more. You could have gotten like... This one's like twice as big. It's too much, and I don't want to waste it. You don't want like a giant drink. You don't want to get like as much drink for your money. No. No one in Japan drinks a big gulp. You can't even get it anywhere. Now that's what I call a large. I couldn't find any big gulps in Tokyo, but I could find these tiny cans of soda. Who drinks this sh**? If you go to a restaurant in Japan, what percentage of the people would you say are drinking soda? Oh, I think less than 10%. Only water and tea? Yeah, I think so. That's better. So Japanese people just don't drink that much soda. The average person here drinks 30 liters of soda a year, but the average American drinks five times that much, 154 liters per year. So for example, with this vending machine, if you don't want anything sweet, you can get five different types of unsweetened tea. You can get water and then there's black coffee. By the way, these vending machines are everywhere. Japan has the most vending machines per person on the planet, around 4 million or one for every 30 people. Next is key number three, school lunch. The Japanese approach to feeding their school kids is completely different from America. Do the teachers even eat this stuff? They don't eat school lunch. They don't touch it. As I'm half American, I went to elementary school in both Japan and the United States. In the United States, the food was just junk food. We had tater tots, we had sloppy joes. It was like everything bad for you. Chocolate milk. In middle school, we would get chocolate milk. Chocolate milk for what? Just like, if you want chocolate milk, go ahead. Serve for lunch at a high school. Students in Woodbridge, New Jersey say the food is inedible. Some high school students who are so sick of their school food, they've started a protest movement against it. When 1970, the law changed. Schools could now turn to private, for-profit companies to feed their students. In American schools, it's common to have plenty of processed foods on the menu. You cut back on everything. Salaries, supplies, the food. But if we go over and take a look at Japan, school lunches are planned out by the school's designated nutritionists. And they're made from scratch every single day. 30 months! If you're in Japan, every meal is meant to be healthy. Vegetables, there'd be rice, some fish, some meat, and a little bit of pickled vegetables. So by the time you're 16, 17, 18, you're not going to be fat. It's going to be very rare that you're going to see a child that's fat in Japan. I think that carries you your whole life. It sets your diet. You got a nutrition education that actually worked. Yeah. The fourth key is portion sizes. The portion sizes are generally just a little smaller wherever you go. Normal size, like meal size in Australia, is usually big. I couldn't finish eating them, but then I got used to it. And I actually gained 12 kg there. So that's like 25 pounds. Mm. Double tacos, designed to keep your stomach and your wallet full. I'm full! America's biggest breakfast for only $9.99. I think there's two big reasons why Japan doesn't take the American approach of giving you huge portions to make you feel like you got your money's worth. First off, don't do this in Japan. A big concept here is muktayanae, or wasteful. Elementary school, middle school. If you cannot finish the meal, you don't have like lunch break. So you just have to sit there? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, like, I remember some of my friends couldn't finish eating and then like crying and eating. The idea is came from muktayanae. You cannot waste food because that's the life of plants and animals. Yeah, leaving food is considered bad. It's kind of bad manners to leave unfinished food and especially rice scattered about on your plate. Next, it's not really a thing here to get a container to take leftovers home. You're expected to finish your meal at drostanolone. So the average restaurant serves people reasonably sized, not too big portions that most people should be able to finish in one sitting. Most packages of snacks here are sized so that you can comfortably finish them without feeling stuffed. Like, look how small all these little packages of chocolates are. If you eat the normal American diet, you'll get fat. Like in Japan, if you just eat whatever else eats, then you get thin. Yeah. Do you think that's pretty accurate? Yeah, I think it's accurate. If there are some people who are, you know, maybe starting to get a little bit overweight and I suspect they're just eating too much junk food. So the fifth point is variety. It's easy to eat and drink healthy when you have plenty of options and when you're not getting bored eating the same handful of healthy meals over and over again. People can eat big portions of junk if they want, but it's usually just as easy to get a variety of reasonably priced, relatively healthy food. What I like about drinking culture in Japan is that even if you keep drinking at the Izakaya Obo, you see so many menus, the healthy food on menu. If you go to America, fried chicken, you know, fried potato, you know, like French fried. Most of the places to go to drink have decent food options. You can expect to get some really solid food that's actually quite healthy at a classic Japanese pub in Izakaya. There are about 7,500 Izakayas in Japan. More than the total number of fast food burger chains like McDonald's or Burger King. Now, I'm not necessarily saying you should replace fast food with alcohol, but even if you're walking in somewhere planning to get drunk, there's all kinds of simple, healthy and delicious dishes. There's one other quick point I want to touch on, but first let me make it clear that there are better quality food options than convenience stores, rice bowl chains or Izakayas, of course. Most Japanese people wouldn't even think of these places as healthy, but this isn't about optimal health. It's about how you can be reasonably healthy with not that much effort. Uh, did you make this with vegetable oil? Oh yeah! Ah, thanks, but I gotta watch what I eat. Lately, the word has been getting out about how bad vegetable oils or seed oils are for health. It's kind of impressive how clever marketing got us to think that we need to crush and heavily refine thousands of seeds with a long industrial process to get the oil that we need to cook with to be healthy. High pressure, forcing out the oil to a second extraction. 70-minute wash with a solvent. They wash the oils with sodium hydroxide. They bleach it, then use a steam injection heating process to remove the canola odor. Sure, you can buy vegetable oil in Japan and people do cook with it, but it's very interesting to note that Japanese people consume about one half of the seed oils of Americans. The ironic thing about seed oils is that they become more unhealthy when you cook with them, especially if you fry with them. That's because the fats are very fragile and easily break down when heated, which is not the case for saturated fats like, say, beef tallow, which are very resilient to heat. This brings us to the sponsor of this video, the seed oil-free masa chips. More than four years ago, I started investigating how in the world we got tricked into thinking that we should be eating vegetable oils to be healthy. To boil corn and sunflower oil. Today, seed oils or vegetable oils make up 20% of the average American's daily calories. And recent studies suggest that seed oils are linked to metabolic issues and inflammation in the body. So I've been avoiding chips for about four years now, ever since I learned about all the negative health effects of seed oils. You probably saw my two different videos on the topic. This is why I'm personally really excited about masa chips. They made a delicious tortilla chip out of just organic, nixtamalized corn, sea salt, and 100% grass-fed beef tallow. Zero seed oils. Now, I don't know how they got the chips so crispy and crunchy, but these are the most solid chips I've ever eaten. I can pile pretty much an entire avocado on one chip. Personally, something about these chips feels totally different from me. I actually feel satisfied and I don't have the urge to binge them. And I don't feel sluggish or bloated after eating them. After all, think about it. Don't you feel better eating, say, corn on the cob with plenty of saturated fat rich butter rather than some french fries or onion rings fried in seed oils? The best part is it's just a really good chip. You don't have to sacrifice any taste for health. If you're ready to join the tens of thousands of people enjoying masa, go to masachips.com slash josephwil and enter code josephwil for 25% off your first order. That's masachips.com slash josephwil and code josephwil for 25% off your first order.

=== FILE: How Shady Science sold you a Lie [jraA6Y3QLJI].txt ===

 To prove that low salt is a scam, I ate an entire salt shaker of salt in one day. Salty diets are leading to health complications around the globe. Too much sodium in the food. A deadly risk from salt. Salt. Unhealthy salt. This is a worldwide problem. If I'm on a low salt diet, too. Heart attacks and strokes. Heart attack and stroke. Number one, risk for a diet-related death sodium. So we've been told the science was settled on so many different things, only to learn later that we didn't get the full story. Are all calories equally fattening? No. Low fat is not necessarily better. Eggs may be healthier than first thought. But what if we've been misled, even on something as simple as salt? After all, it's so simple. Salt raises your blood pressure because sodium attracts water. So if you have more sodium in the bloodstream, it's gonna bring in more water and increase the blood pressure. But if it's that simple, then my blood pressure should raise dramatically. Or I might even have a seizure. If I eat 12 times the daily limit of salt in one day, 60 grams. So that's exactly what I did. I put the 60 grams of salt in about five liters of water and drag it throughout the day while checking my blood pressure. By the way, definitely do not try this at home. People have died from consuming less than 60 grams of salt all at once. I lived because I drank it slowly over a day. I checked my blood pressure five times throughout the day while eating tons of salt, or on 10 to 15 grams between each blood pressure check. Remember, the WHO's limit for salt for an entire day is only five grams. Americans eat almost three to four times the recommended daily amount of salt. I finished a total of 63.5 grams of salt by 10 p.m. My blood pressure started out at 114 over 66 and ended up at 113 over 61 before I went to bed. So weirdly enough, there was a mild drop in my blood pressure. My blood pressure remained in the ideal range the whole time. Nothing really happened. On another morning, I checked my blood pressure before and after having a monster energy drink. Within just an hour, the monster took my blood pressure from 108 over 66 all the way to 125 over 71. A warning about those popular energy drinks. Researchers discovered those who drank the drinks had elevated blood pressure. So I could get a significant rise in my blood pressure with just a single can of monster in just an hour, but not even an entire salt shaker rose my blood pressure. So what's going on here? The reason I decided to do this experiment was because after asking some questions about salt, I learned that the idea that we need to cut down on salt intake to be healthy is a total scam. Let's rewind. The year is 1977, a big year for America. Jimmy Carter became president, Star Wars came out, Elvis died, Sugar Ray Leonard made his professional debut. The first professional Apple computer came out, the CIA revealed its involvement in mind control experiments and people were wearing bell bottoms and had fluffy hair. Be a pepper, drink Dr. Pepper. That year is when the famous dietary goals for the United States were being crafted by George McGovern, which would tell Americans to cut salt and saturated fat. There was actually plenty of opposition to these dietary guidelines at the time. I had pleaded in my report and will plead again orally here for more research on the problem before we make announcements to the American public. Nonetheless, the famous food pyramid would be rolled out to Americans not just as a guide for what to eat, but it would dictate what would be served to kids in school, people in the hospital, people in the armed forces, and so on. So what about salt? Well, the 1977 report included the recommendation to limit salt to just five grams per day. The same amount that the WHO still recommends today. But what was this recommendation based on? Well, let me remind you that while we're not often taught much about salt other than it raises blood pressure and that you should eat less of it, we actually really need salt. In March 1940, paper describes the case of a child who starting from 11 months had a very unusual craving for salt. The toddler would throw up almost everything except for mother's milk. At the advice of a doctor, the parents tried giving the child crackers. He threw those up too, but soon he started licking all the salt off of the crackers and then would ask for more. Once the boy figured out what was in the salt shaker, the mother said he refused to eat anything unless the salt shaker was also on the table. He ate plain salt by dipping his finger into it and bringing it to his mouth. It was estimated that the toddler was eating extra teaspoon of plain table salt each day, in addition to his foods already being saltier than his parents. Based on weight, the adult equivalent of that would be around 20 to 30 grams of extra salt per day. Later, the boy's weird behavior made complete sense because his body was urging him what it needed to get. The parents became very worried about his condition and admitted him to the hospital at age three. Unfortunately, after only seven days on the hospital's low salt diet, he suddenly died. In the paper, they specifically wrote that it would seem that this boy, by increasing his salt intake, kept himself alive for two and a half years. The boy had Addison's disease, a disease that makes you excrete tons of sodium. So salt has always been vital for life, but the idea that salt causes high blood pressure gained popularity thanks to Dr. Louis Dahl. Dahl found some data suggesting that populations who ate more salt seemed to have more hypertension, and then he began studying the effects of high salt diets in rodents. Now, not only were the rats in Dahl's experiments, not humans, they were a special type of rat. In 1963, Dahl fed rats a high salt diet and found that some, but not all, developed high blood pressure. He then selectively bred the rats to create a strain of rats that were genetically extra sensitive to salt. Later in 1970, he fed the salt-sensitive rats commercial baby food, and about half of the salt-sensitive rats died. He assumed that the high salt content of the baby food was what killed the rats. After his study was published, the U.S. Senate issued a mandate for lowering salt in baby foods. In his book, The Salt Fixed, Dr. James DeNichol Antonio says that there wasn't even a single study investigating whether salt causes hypertension in humans until 1983, six years after the craft of the low salt dietary guidelines for Americans. He also pointed out that Louis Dahl didn't mention what the human equivalent dose of salt would be in his rodent studies. Jordan Thilkall explained that the human equivalent dose necessary to give the salt-sensitive rats high blood pressure in Louis Dahl's experiments was 40 grams. That is 4.7 times what the average of modern American actually eats today, 8.5 grams per day. Remember, this is in the salt-sensitive rats. In fact, the human equivalent of what the salt-resistant rats were eating was way higher than my salt shaker of salt in a day experiment, which was 60 grams. The salt-resistant rats could eat the human equivalent of 100 grams of salt a day and still not get high blood pressure. So again, the 1977 report told us the limit of salt intake is just five grams a day. But there wasn't a single study investigating whether salt causes hypertension in humans until 1983. Let's rewind, we're back in the 1500s. Christopher Columbus was arrested and Magellan went on a big trip. Michelangelo's David and Sistine Chapel were completed. Copernicus said the sun was the center of the universe and refrigerators didn't exist. So people preserved their food with salt. This meant that salt intake in particular regions of Europe was very high, around 40 to 100 grams, almost two salt shakers were. They ate plenty of salty foods like salted fish. Then if you fast forward to the early 1800s until World War II, Western societies consumed three times the WHO's recommended limit of sodium, between 15 and 17 grams of salt per day. Based on military archives data. Yet widespread high blood pressure is a totally recent phenomenon. So how exactly did the 1977 committee arrive at this specific number, five grams of salt per day? Well, two people out of Louisiana State University Medical Center advised the committee that Americans should reduce their salt intake. Except their position was that high sodium in the context of low potassium could cause hypertension in people who were genetically susceptible. The committee report didn't end up mentioning anything about potassium or genetics though. They just said to cut your salt intake. As Dr. DeNicolantonia points out, there was no evidence whatsoever at the time that five grams specifically is the most appropriate amount of salt for everyone. They just made that up. In fact, some experts were opposing this advice. The American Medical Association and the Committee on the Nutrition of the American Academy of Pediatrics both protested the recommendation to restrict salt intake at the time, saying that the data just does not support the recommendation. So we're supposed to reduce salt to reduce hypertension and prevent heart disease. Yet it wasn't finally until 1912 that heart disease was even big enough of an issue to be formally documented. And far before that, we had been preserving food with salt. Meaning we had been eating tons of salt several times the amount the WHO recommends today. So let's take a look at the South Korean paradox. South Koreans eat a wide variety of salty foods with the easiest example being kimchi, cabbage and other vegetables preserved in salt and spices. For many Koreans, kimchi is served at literally every meal. The average South Korean consumes around 4,000 milligrams of sodium per day, much more than the average American, and almost twice as much as the US dietary guidelines recommend. Despite this, according to a 2022 report out of the Harvard School of Public Health, Korea has the lowest rates of heart disease in the world. Further, despite no change in their food culture, Korea's death rate from heart disease went down 40% from 2000 to 2019. In fact, data from a September 2015 paper funded by the Korea Food Research Institute suggests that extra salt consumption might actually be protective against hypertension, heart disease and stroke. The data shows that the quartile groups that consume the most sodium had the lowest rates of hypertension, coronary heart disease and stroke. This says in the Korean paradox. How is that? Salty. Now, tons of salt may be bad for you, but too little salt is likely much worse. So you might be curious why nothing happened when I ate that entire salt shaker of salt. Well, let's take a look at this study. In a 1979 study, they gave men with normal blood pressure more and more salt. They kept ramping up the salt until they reached as much as 87 grams of salt, about one and a half salt shakers. This is about 15 times the amount of salt that the WHO recommends, and about 10 times what the average American actually consumes. What happened? Well, they just peed out almost all of the salt. They found that the more salt that they gave to the people, the more salt that they peed out until they were peeing out tons of salt. The point is that most people with healthy kidneys, like myself, should be able to just excrete whatever salt is too much for their body. I should probably mention that at some point in the day, I got watery diarrhea, so that's another way the body can excrete large amounts of salt. You spilled the salt. That's what's a matter. The body is well equipped to deal with too much salt. In fact, biologists suggest that too little salt is much worse for the body. A 2014 study in the New England Journal of Medicine proved just that. They found that based on urine samples from over 100,000 people in 17 countries, if you actually consumed the WHO's recommendation of only 2,000 milligrams of sodium, you would have a higher risk of death from heart disease than if you ate the 3,400 milligrams of sodium that the average American actually eats. Funnily enough, to have the lowest risk of death from heart disease in that study, you'd have to eat about as much salt as the South Koreans. A little bit over 4,000 milligrams of sodium per day. But think about this. What does low heart disease risk feel like? Like throughout the day, do you walk around saying, boy, I'm really feeling low heart disease risk right now? Well, what you would feel the effects of very clearly are changes in hormones. You might think of, say, protein and vitamins having significant effects on hormones. For example, when it comes to boosting testosterone, things like vitamin D, magnesium, zinc, selenium, boron and so on can help. Though I bet you don't think of salt as having a significant effect on hormones. A study in the journal Hypertension found that compared to people on a high salt diet, those on a low salt diet had twice the levels of two stress related hormones, epinephrine and norepinephrine. Simply put, a low salt diet seems to be stressful for the body. Just like when there are thirsty or hungry animals and humans, we'll go to great lengths to get enough salt. Elephants will uproot entire trees to get at the salty soil under the roots. Gorillas will chew on rotting wood to eat the salty microbes and some animals will even drink urine for its sodium content. Though as Mark Kirlansky points out in his book, Salt, A World History, humans easily take the cake for capture the salt. In the book, he lays out how salt seeking drove civilizations, built empires and won wars. Romans established every major city near a salt works and for some time, Roman troops were paid in salt. At the time, salt was referred to as white gold and the word salary, selenium, comes from the word for salt. The thing is though, that when salt is freely accessible, people across many populations tend to consistently consume between 3,000 and 4,000 milligrams of sodium per day. At 126 grams per day, Americans' consumption of sugar is roughly double that of Japan's. Yet the two countries salt intake differs by less than a gram of salt, 0.84 grams. Despite dramatically different food cultures and significantly worse eating habits in America, America's salt intake is barely different from Japan. This suggests that your body will unconsciously motivate you to get the amount of salt it needs for proper function. The body will certainly make you feel terrible if you don't get enough salt, but it's not like sugar where you crave more and more. In 1936, paper got people to be sodium deficient through seven days of sweating and sodium-free diets. The paper said that the participants reported that they experienced extreme unquenchable thirst. One participant reported that he experienced a longing for salt and often went to sleep thinking about it. With regard to mood-related symptoms, subjects reported a loss of appetite and hedonia, difficulty concentrating, excessive fatigue, and a general sense of exhaustion. As a 17th century Chinese scientist Song Yingxing said, there are in the world five tastes. A man would not be unwell if he abstained for an entire year from either the hot or sweet or sour or bitter, but deprive him of salt for a fortnight and he'll be too weak to tie up a chicken. In 2015, researchers out of the University of Manitoba published a review that lays out all the negative hormonal effects of low sodium diets. Low salt diets can have effects on all sorts of functions in the body, including blood sugar control, energy metabolism, heart disease risk, inflammation, and the hormones associated with kidney function. And a 2008 study published in the Journal of Physiology and Behavior found that individuals at work day to day in extremely hot environments losing copious amounts of sodium through sweating commonly complain of fatigue, headache, difficulty concentrating, and sleep disturbances. Symptoms which are often associated with psychological depression. All this is not to say that you should force yourself to eat a bunch of salt, but the data suggests that restricting salt could do more harm than good. What this looks like is just salting your food to taste and not ignoring your cravings for salty things, but of course that doesn't mean you should eat garbage snacks like french fries. Now, if you're exercising a lot in the sun, going to the sauna, doing a low carb diet, fasting, or doing things that's gonna make you sweat and lose more sodium, you'll have to be more proactive about your salt intake. This brings us to the sponsor of this video, Elevent. Not many people realize just how important electrolytes are when it comes to energy levels. There's a very interesting connection between losing electrolytes and fatigue. I'm actually finishing this video up at 4 a.m. and getting plenty of electrolytes and sodium is one of my go-to things to do when I'm doing an all nighter. There are many ways that you can get your sodium, but what I like to do is element. It's a convenient way to get a good balance of sodium, potassium, and magnesium. You may have noticed me talking a lot about fasting and low carb diets, and that's another time when I'm more conscious about replacing my electrolytes to keep my energy levels up. The same thing goes for when I'm sweating a lot of the gym. I don't use any pre-workout, but I do take element. Sometimes we mistake a craving for salt as hunger, which is why I also have a bit of element if I find myself looking around for snacks. Element tastes great, and my favorite thing is its simple ingredients. It has a balanced mix of electrolytes, sodium, potassium, and magnesium, along with natural flavors and some stevia. A whole serving has only two total carbs. If you want zero carbs, there's a raw and flavored type. If you go to drinklmt.com slash what I've learned, you can get a free sampler pack with any purchase. Also be sure to try the new element sparkling. It's a bold refreshing 60-ounce can of sparkling electrolyte water.

=== FILE: Japan's fat shaming vs America's victim culture [Hv5mdksbbC0].txt ===

 Did you know it's actually illegal to be fat in Japan? Millions of dollars in penalties will be assessed unless companies can get employees to slim down. And if he doesn't lose weight, his company faces massive fines. Where being too fat is against the law, illegal to be fat. That's what American news and the internet says. You will get fired in Japan for being fat. The government introduced a fat tax will law that if your employees' wastes are too big, your company gets fined. Pretty. In your job. This one's got almost a million views. Being fat is illegal in Japan. You can actually get taxed for being fat. So is that actually true? And is the real reason people stay thin here because they're fat shamed all the time? And is it why one out of five Japanese women are actually underweight? There were tons of comments on fat shaming on my videos about why Japan isn't fat. One of the top comments for a while with 5000 likes said that social pressure is the biggest reason people are thin here. The standards of what's fat are very different between Japan and the US. This is a plus size model in America. This is one from Japan. We need to dive into this and whether America's victim culture is affecting Japan. Long story short, no. It's not illegal to be fat in Japan. There is no government mandated waistline and companies do not get fined for having too many fat employees. This misconception mainly came from too many American news outlets misinterpreting the 2008 Metabolaw. Yes, per article 66 of the Industrial Safety and Health Act, Japanese companies are required to provide an annual health checkup to their employees. This is meant to be a service to the employees to encourage health, not to police fat people. So now if the annual health checkup finds that too many employees are fat, nothing happens. The company doesn't get fined. The only way the company can get fined is if they don't provide the annual health checkup. It's all about participation rates. What some people might find odd is that the health checkup is technically mandatory. If the employees refuse themselves to do the health checkup, the company can get fined. So the company is usually going to be hounding their employees to make sure they get it done. So if you're staying up too late and drinking too often and eating a ton of the crunchy chocolate, the worst thing that's going to happen if your annual health checkup finds that you're really fat and unhealthy, is that the doctor is going to tell you you've gotten fat and you'll lose weight because it's unhealthy. Even if you are fat, as long as you do the health checkup, you won't have any problems. So how did a rumor like this get so big despite being so wrong? Well, it's because of course outrage sells. Some small Twitter or ex user got 600,000 views on a post claiming a Japanese actress was fired from a TV show for being mixed race and that Japan hates mixed race people. Except the real reason she was fired was for breaking the law. She was doing underage drinking. And by the way, economic security minister Ono Dakemi is half Japanese. This famous newscaster is half Japanese. These male celebrities are all half Japanese. And these female celebrities are all half Japanese. Japan hates fat people. Japan hates fat people. Japan hates fat people. Japan hates fat people. Now to get some perspective on Japan's alleged hatred of fat people, let's look at a study on prejudice. They did this experiment at Dartmouth College, where they give participants a huge realistic scar using special effects makeup. They told the participants in the experiment that they're going to have a discussion with a number of people after they had this scar applied to their face. They asked them to pay attention to whether the people they were talking to were judging them because of their scar. So they had the discussion and filled out a questionnaire about prejudice during the interaction. They reported that they thought they were indeed being discriminated against. They said that because of their scar, the people they were talking to were much more tense, preferred to be more distance from them, were less attracted to them, liked them a little less, and they thought they patronized them much more. But here's the catch. Before they went out to have that discussion, the experimenters told them that the special effects scar makeup needed to be moisturized because it would dry out. Without the participant realizing it, they had actually completely removed the prosthetic makeup instead of moisturizing it. So the participants thought they had a scar, but in reality, it was totally gone. Moral of the story, they felt like they were being discriminated against simply because they mistakenly assumed that people had a reason to discriminate against them. They found discrimination because they were looking for signs of discrimination. So if you come to Japan after seeing all these online rumors and these videos saying Japan hates fat people and you happen to be fatter than Japanese people, you're likely going to be self-conscious even if in reality, no one is actually doing something like pointing at you or making comments about you. Having lived in Japan for 15 years, what I've noticed is that people from English speaking countries are much more dramatic with their word choice. I'm not saying there's zero fat shaming in Japan, but it's really rare that you can actually call something shaming. What there is a lot of is weight commenting. Hey, did you gain some weight? Yeah, a little bit. Oh, you're gaining weight or you gotta lose weight. That's so normal. And then no one's gonna take offended. But it's really normal in Japan to say, oh, you got fat or like you got skinny. Is it like a passive aggressive comment? I'd say it's neutral. I happen to agree with this comment. Japanese people are much slower to offend or take offense. This is true. Having lived in both America and Japan for over a decade, American people are a lot more likely to find things to take offense at. I can't recall ever seeing a poster like this before 2025, but they seem to be trying to bring this American concept of microaggressions to Japan. The poster says that even without bad intentions, you may make in comments known as microaggression, microaggressions that hurt people's feelings. For example, that's a pretty good idea for someone who just joined the company. Or you're half Japanese, I'm jealous. Or your Japanese is really good for an expat. In Japanese, this kind of policing people's words is called kotobakari or word hunting. In the news segment on the poster, they introduced several brand new words like microassault, microinsult, microinvalidation, which are all apparently different types of microaggression. They featured a non-binary person who they introduced as a victim of microaggressions. They also talked about a woman who said that in her workplace when she announced that she became pregnant, no one even said congratulations to her for fear of that somehow being interpreted badly. Another man pointed out how some managers are afraid to make even generally positive comments towards women as they might be taken the wrong way. But there was something I don't think anyone really picked up on. It was specifically highlighted that the non-binary person, Yudi, suffered from her coworkers talking to her as if she's a woman. However, later in the segment, the HR compliance expert who was there to explain to everyone what a microaggression is and how to avoid them referred to non-binary Yudi as a woman. I point that out because not even the well-meaning microaggression expert can stay vigilant enough to keep up with all the things you can and can't say. I read the top 50 comments on this video and not a single one was in favor of the microaggression poster. Personally, I don't think Japan really needs the American practice of vigilantly searching for things to take offense at. In 2022, I talked with Dr. Ken Berry about how American people are so sensitive to accidentally fat shaming others that even some doctors were afraid to tell their patients that their main problem is that they are just too fat and they need to lose weight for the sake of their health. I thought one of the reasons people aren't so offended by being told something like, did you gain some weight? It's because, well, staying thin in Japan is much, much easier. But in America, you have to avoid 80% of the food supply and go out of your way to eat healthy. So it's a lot harder to lose weight. And so it's probably a lot more frustrating to hear comments about your weight. Body positivity was all a big lie because it's better to not be overweight. On that note, once losing weight became really easy with ozempic, the whole body positivity and fat positivity movement got pretty quiet. There's been a more than 930% increase in patients getting prescription simiglutide in the past four years. You represented body positivity. And then some women are saying it's kind of a cut out. Yeah. Body positive, body positivity, normalize, grow in comfort with your body. Body positive community. So Liz open on her weight loss journey. You already know I'm in that motherhood in Yeriho. I'm in that Yeri fish. But wait, one of the phrases on that don't do microaggressions poster was you'd be a lot more popular with the guys or you'd be a lot more popular with the ladies if you lost some weight. In a Japanese news spot from this year, they asked 100 Japanese women whether they thought their body was fine as it is or if they wanted to lose weight. 82% said that they wanted to lose weight. Personally, I do think that number in reality is probably a bit lower since women don't like to be the odd one out saying that they think they look great as they are, but their friends are all saying that they have work to do. Now about 40% of the women who gave a reason why they wanted to lose weight said that they wanted to be skinny like their favorite idols. Another program reported that as of 2023, one in five Japanese women are technically under weight with a BMI of under 18.5. They even reported that in a survey of a thousand women, among those that were technically underweight, 18.8% of them still thought that they were fat and 53% of the women who had a normal BMI thought that they were fat. The main thing that they blamed on this was the influence of social media and traditional media. But they didn't mention fat shaming. Now I have heard stories from friends here about being brutally mocked for being chubby in grade school. Kids can be pretty brutal in general. Japanese kids are, from what I've seen, better behaved than American kids. That doesn't mean Japanese kids are all perfect angels to each other. Bullying certainly does happen here and any Japanese kid of course knows the word debu, fatty. Though can we really say that the fat shaming in Japan is definitely worse than that of say America? Well a study in the Journal of Social Development on 175 5th and 11th graders in the United States and 257 in Japan examined their reactions to obese kids and kids who looked different. They found that the Japanese 5th graders were more inclusive and more positive about the so-called deviant obese kids. Further, a 2016 study on body-related teasing in adolescence in Osaka, Japan, they found that 16.4% of the boys and 32.5% of the girls experienced body-related teasing. Compare that to another 2018 study on weight teasing in Minnesota that found that the body teasing was worse than Japan. 45.1% of adolescent girls and 37.1% of adolescent boys had experienced weight-based teasing. So yeah, the data on this very specific topic is limited, but what we do have access to suggests that if anything, there is slightly less teasing in Japan. If fat shaming is the main reason Japanese people are able to stay thin, why are American kids fatter despite more teasing? Now social pressure still is a thing here. As I explained in my recent video about Japan's health, people are indeed influenced by their social group. People want to fit in. Like just looking at everyone else and then oh I might be a little fat so I need to lose weight, something like that. Studies have found that if you have a lot of obese friends, your chances of becoming obese yourself increase. If you have a lot of thin friends, you're less likely to gain weight. The thinner everyone around you is and the more time you spend on Instagram watching idol dance videos, the more you'll naturally generate internal pressure towards yourself to stay thin. There are even a couple comments saying that you have the reverse situation of America, where obesity is normalized and you're almost pushed into gaining weight. That is, the social culture is centered around food and eating and your pressure to go out and eat all the time and eat a bunch of junk food in America. I also get the impression that more so than Americans, Japanese people are very concerned with how they think the people around them view them. So they probably do feel some unspoken pressure to fit in if they're the odd one out due to their weight. Where this gets tricky is that the data would suggest that if you're overweight, the subtle pressure of being surrounded by people who are of a healthy weight would technically be good for your health. However, if you're already thin, then being surrounded by underweight people is not a good influence. Now for most English speaking countries, being underweight isn't the big issue and unhealthy and overweight countries like America can learn a lot from Japan's food culture, considering that their obesity rate is one tenth that of America's. The tricky thing is, as I hinted earlier, health can be confusing. For example, it's common knowledge that salt is bad, but I've done deep dives on why it's really not that simple. Actually, the thing about salt is it may help curb your appetite. We actually need salt and have a set of brain cells dedicated to making us crave salt. So you're craving for potato chips or fries might just be a craving for salt. Studies have even found that drinking a savory soup before a meal reduces the total calories people eat. Now, personally, I haven't gotten into the habit of drinking salty miso soup every single morning, like most people here in Japan do. What I do do is have a glass of element. I found that element helps curb my appetite and helps me avoid snacks I don't need, probably thanks to the sodium in it. Most people don't realize how important sodium and electrolytes are for keeping your energy levels up in general. That's why drinking element to sponsor this video has become a daily habit for me. And make sure to get extra when I'm sweating a bunch from the heat, from working out or from going to the sauna. Element tastes great. And my favorite thing is its simple ingredients. It has a balanced mix of electrolytes, sodium, potassium, magnesium, along with some natural flavors and some stevia. A whole serving has only two total carbs. If you want zero carbs, there's also a raw and flavored type. If you go to drinklmnt.com slash what I've learned, you can get a free sampler pack with any purchase. The pack has two each of the most popular flavors, so you can find your favorite or share with a friend.

=== FILE: Men don't need more therapy. They need more testosterone [4gS3TyAaph0].txt ===

 testosterone, testosterone, testosterone, testosterone's effect on the mind. So there's this brutal whipping contest in northern Nigeria called Sherrow. First young fulani girls bring bare-chested unmarried men to a center ring. The men raise their arms to expose their ribs, and then they receive a brutal flogging in front of everyone they know. If they wince or cry out or do something to show openly how much pain they're in, this apparently brings great shame to themselves and to their family. This is meant to be a test to determine whether a boy deserves to be called a man. In other countries we have a similar test, except it's a lot simpler. It takes about a week. You go to a clinic, you get your blood drawn, and you wait for them to tell you what your testosterone level is. Okay, my point isn't that we all need to measure our T to see who's the manliest manly man. My point is that testosterone actually has a lot of psychological effects that each would help these young men get through this brutal whipping ordeal. The major effect of testosterone is to make effort feel good. First, in this particular culture, getting beaten with sticks grants you some social status. So you would need to have high motivation to get social status, and motivation for social status is probably the best known psychological function of testosterone. Second, one of the fruits of this ritual is gaining the right to marry a woman. So you'd need high motivation to put effort into attracting a mate. This is another well-known function of testosterone. Third, since everyone is literally watching your manliness be challenged, you need high resilience to social anxiety. The research suggests that testosterone can have potent anti-anxiety effects, and it especially reduces social anxiety. So I bet that testosterone has something to do with that stat, finding that 45% of Gen Z aged 18 to 25 have never approached a woman in person for a date. This is a high-risk, high-reward activity. If you do well, you get honor. If you chicken out, you're an embarrassment. Testosterone of course makes people less afraid to take risks. Lastly, of course, you need a very high pain tolerance, and testosterone even plays a role in reducing your sensitivity to pain. The tough reality about testosterone is that your brain could raise your testosterone right now, but it doesn't feel like it because it thinks you're a loser. O.T. has been linked to everything from loss of energy, muscle mass, and sexual function. The effects of testosterone almost sound like magic. We've all heard that testosterone makes you look good. It increases muscle mass and reduces body fat, but it can have significant mental effects as well. The research suggests that it can increase confidence, energy, and mood. Testosterone may reduce overthinking and make you more persistent so you work harder before you give up. It even has an anti-depressant-like effect, and again, it makes you less anxious. The anxiety-lowering effect of testosterone could lead to less procrastination. We've all heard about supplements, nutrients, foods, herbs, and exercises that are supposed to increase testosterone, but not enough people are talking about your psychology and how simply the behaviors you choose to do can affect testosterone. There are moments in our life that can significantly raise our testosterone, and there are moments that can lower our T. So about 13 years ago, I was sitting in an office in the financial district of Tokyo, and a man in his suit was saying to me, you've got the job if you want it. I definitely did want that job, considering at the time I was working two hours away from Tokyo in a town where nothing ever happens. Leaving his office with a job offer, I felt amazing. Probably how those people in those 90s Mentos commercials felt. After that, I went to the station and as I got off the stairs, I noticed a really hot woman waiting around and she seemed to be glancing my way. At this point in my life, I had next to zero game. Even with plenty of beer in my system at the bar, I would often think a girl glancing my way was just looking at something behind me. But on this day, I quickly assumed that her brief eye contact was probably longer than what's normal, and without thinking, I started walking towards her. I said hi, and a couple minutes and laughs later, she gave me her number. We met up for drinks the next week. So what exactly happened here? How did a job interview give me more courage and game than beer? So here's the thing. Winning actually significantly changes your body chemistry. When men win a competitive task, their testosterone just goes through the roof. It doesn't have to be at sports either. Research has found testosterone increases even in people who win at chess. Actually, men only have to think that they want to get this testosterone boost. Anthropologists at Cambridge rigged some growing machines so a winner would be randomly decided. For the men who were competing, winning had nothing to do with performance, but the winning rower still got a testosterone boost. We brought men into the lab. We had them play a video game task against an unseen male opponent. When men won the video game task, their preference for women and women were higher than when men lost. So this tracks the testosterone pattern. So what happened with me and the woman on the train platform? Well, testosterone increases risk taking in men, which makes sense as it's also well known to reduce anxiety and especially reduce social anxiety. So maybe if someone is less anxious about social situations, they'd be more extroverted, right? Well, yes, this study found that in one group of people, the most extroverted men had 30% higher testosterone levels. Other studies have shown that low testosterone links to social anxiety. What's more interesting is that this study on 350 college students found that in people with higher testosterone, they more quickly went to approach and talk to people when entering a room. Yet another study suggested that men put more effort into attracting women when their testosterone is higher. So putting all this together, it makes sense that on this particular night, I was more extroverted, less anxious, ready to put an effort in attracting women and didn't hesitate when I went and talked to her. All this merely because my brain gave me some testosterone because it just thought that I was a winner for acing that job interview. But here's the big thing. Yes, testosterone makes it easier to put on muscle and lose fat and increases confidence and mood, but it also changes your psychology and perception. High testosterone makes you see the world as a place to get more testosterone. It makes you more ambitious. Movie director James Cameron, whose films have earned over $8 billion at the box office, claimed once that testosterone is a toxin that you have to slowly work out of your system, which is interesting considering he made that remark after ambitiously pursuing his career, which earned him several hundred millions of dollars. The scary thing is that testosterone levels have been declining for decades. Just between 2000 and 2016, the testosterone of men in their twenties declined about 100 points, meaning the average testosterone level is likely even worse today. This can't be good news for men's motivation, mood, anxiety levels, social skills, and even personalities. There are all kinds of great points about food, toxins, plastics, air pollution, an epidemic of bad sleep, and exposure to blue light and so on to worry about, but we don't hear often about how your psychology affects your testosterone and how testosterone affects your psychology and what to do about it. So we need to talk more about the testosterone momentum effect. That is, increasing testosterone makes you want to do more of the things that raise testosterone. So back to my story. After the woman's train was completely out of sight, I really didn't want to go home. I had a bunch of energy and I had a very clear and strong urge to look for a bar or something and talk to more women because apparently I had superpowers today. Testosterone comes into play here again. So testosterone raises men's interest in women, but it's been found that a five to 15 minute conversation with an unfamiliar woman can raise a man's testosterone. Of course, stimulating your muscles in the gym is very important for testosterone levels, and this study suggests testosterone increases your motivation to work hard in the gym. And remember how competing and winning raises testosterone? Well, higher testosterone usually makes men want to compete more. So it's easier for the winners to keep on winning and the winners probably want to and try harder to win more. The flip side of this is also true. If you're doing things that wreck your testosterone, it's going to be easy to get into a downward spiral. Last summer, I discovered the best way to absolutely crush your testosterone. I didn't eat anything for five days and then still without eating, I ran a marathon. I checked my testosterone before the fast and right after the marathon, and in under a week, my testosterone dropped 90 percent, 840 to 82. That's a 758 point drop. With levels like that, I'm surprised my doctors didn't ask if I got some kind of surgery. The following two days, I was extra irritable, anxious, and just in a really dark mood. I felt like everyone was against me. When I was hanging out with my friends, I'd be twisting the most innocuous comments in my head, thinking, what the hell does he mean by that? We'd have a very normal interaction, but afterwards, I'd be scared that they hated me. It was a very weird headspace, and if you want to do a five-day fast and a marathon, don't do it before any important business meetings or hot dates. Luckily, as I demonstrated in another video, your testosterone may actually bounce back even higher after re-feeding after a fast. So I expected that at least my testosterone levels would bounce back to normal. I felt better each day, and by the third day, I was feeling sore but mentally totally normal. But if I had low T like that regularly, I'd probably get barely any work done. I'd have no motivation to go to the gym, and I'd be stuck in a low-mood, low-confidence, high-anxiety, high-irritability state. That would definitely put a strain on my relationships. Racking up all these losses would probably make me feel like a loser and reduce my testosterone even further. That's because the flip side of wins raising testosterone is that losses lower testosterone. One study on rugby players found that their testosterone reduced a whopping 40% after losing a big match. But if they lose a competitive task, it just plunges through the floor. This has actually been shown in multiple contexts. You win, your testosterone goes up, you lose, it goes down. So testosterone seems to be acting like some sort of mental leaderboard. When you win, you move up the leaderboard, and you get all the benefits associated with that. When you lose, you move down the leaderboard, and you feel like crap. It's almost like all the human-male brains and hormones are cooperating to negotiate where everyone goes in the social hierarchy. In fact, animal research has found that the easiest way to guess which male has the highest testosterone is to just check their position in the social hierarchy. The winners have higher T and the losers have lower T. Being higher in the social hierarchy means you likely have more testosterone. This is the case in rams and primates and yes, within humans, there's data that amends status within an organization correlates with its testosterone level. For example, a CEO would have higher testosterone than a manager. But there's a side note, other studies have investigated status and testosterone in organizations and it wasn't so cut and dry like this. This is likely because humans aren't monkeys. A high-ranked monkey is basically high-ranked in all aspects of monkey society. But a human might not care that much about his job, it's just a way to make money. How about I give you the finger? What he really cares about could be his status within his family, or his status as a crossfitter, a chess player, or an artist. And of course, the flip side of this is true too. Yes, having high status links with higher testosterone, depending on the context, but the most well-known function of testosterone is again to promote status-seeking behavior, to make people want to get more social status. Okay, so what can we do with all of this information? Well, let's dig a bit deeper. You're probably familiar with the placebo effect. Researchers out of Stanford took this one guy's terrible burning pain in his arm from a crush injury from a 7 out of 10 to a 3 out of a 10 simply by telling him that they put a powerful pain reliever in his IV drip. In reality, there was no pain reliever. Brain scans of his brain even reflected that indeed, he must be feeling dramatically less pain, even though the pain reliever was all in his mind. Significantly less activity in the brain in all of the areas involved with the processing and perception of pain. The placebo effect is really widespread. Studies on fake sugar pills, placebos, have found that fake pills can make people more drowsy or stimulated. Fake placebo injections provide relief for Parkinson's, but the placebo injection that they say is more expensive works even better. Fake placebo pills even provide relief in irritable bowel syndrome. Even if the people are straight up told it's a placebo. In depression drug trials, about 35 to 40% of patients improve on placebo alone. Even fake knee surgeries provide lasting relief. There's even placebo sleep. In this one study, researchers asked people about how they felt their sleep quality was the night before. Then they ran some tests using a bogus machine that the researchers claimed could accurately tell how good their sleep quality was. This was a lie. Then they did some cognitive tests. How good the people said their sleep was didn't even matter. Only the fake test results linked with cognitive performance. The people who were just told that they had really high sleep quality did better on the cognitive tests. And the people who were told that they had bad sleep quality did worse on the cognitive tests. Their actual reports of sleep quality didn't matter. Since good quality sleep is the most important first step for keeping your test officer on levels high, it would be interesting to see if being lied to about your sleep quality could affect people's testosterone. Speaking of placebos, as we already discussed, to get that winners boost in testosterone, you only have to think that you won. Now, this isn't all some big argument for manifesting daily affirmations or for visualizing yourself as some kind of 20 foot tall, high testosterone man in the sky. But your mentality and perception are important. Testosterone benefits your mind and your mentality benefits your testosterone levels. So, is the way your life is set up making you feel like you just keep losing or you feel like you're racking up wins? Do you have a job? No. You got money? No. You got anything on the horizon? No. While writing his book about testosterone and psychology, Professor of Psychology James McBride dabs noticed he was feeling quite dejected and pessimistic about his book when his wife gave him feedback that the draft for one of the chapters really wasn't that good. So, he thought to check his testosterone. The next day after a good night's sleep, he found himself feeling much better and much more optimistic and he checked his testosterone again. According to him, his testosterone was about 30% higher on the day that he was more optimistic. The point is you won't do yourself any favors by staying up all night listening to sad music and reading the hyperpessimistic philosophy of Arthur Schopenhauer or reading depressing articles about how the world is about to end because of AI and global warming. Again, because in general, the physiology works on psychology and vice versa. If you do all the physical things like fixing your sleep, fixing your diet, working out, getting plenty of sun and stop drinking so much alcohol, you'll probably find yourself more optimistic and just not even interested in pessimistic philosophers. Going further, if your relationship has devolved into endless bickering, your brain and HPG axis are probably going to see you as kind of a loser and it'll be stingy with the testosterone. If your job feels completely meaningless and your work is underappreciated, that's probably not good either. If you've got no new goals and you're stuck in the same safe routine, you don't even have things to win at. On the flip side, if you have some solid goals that excite you, you'll have more chances to feel like a winner as you make progress and rack up indicators that you're hitting closer to your goals. Now, James Dabbs also reports that one of the characteristics of high testosterone males is that they like to or need to be around people a lot. I mean, sometimes we have to lock in alone to get our projects done. I do that a lot, but I really don't buy this trend of trying to make being a Sigma male cool. A Sigma male is often described as a lone wolf who grinds in solitude. That kind of sounds like a fancy way of saying a loner. Anthropologist Lionel Tiger argues that primates and humans show a clear evolved tendency for males to bond and form groups that cooperate on a common goal. Now, don't mistake this video for some pitch to get you to inject testosterone or do some TRT protocol that comes with its own complications. What I am recommending you to do is to naturally raise your T however you can. The big point of here is that your physiology and psychology are very closely linked. It seems nowadays some people can get too focused on fixing their psychological issues, healing their trauma or just healing in general, and they get more and more caught up in trying to find the best therapy modality or psychedelic retreat. Now, all that stuff can be helpful and kind of fun, but depending on the person, optimizing health and hormones might just be a lot quicker solution. Also, testosterone levels are a fantastic indicator and a rule of thumb, but it's not only about how high your T is of course. Androgen sensitivity, levels of free testosterone, DHT, cortisol, estrogen, prolactin, and so on all come into play. I recently put out a video on keeping your balls cool to protect your testosterone because balls simply don't operate as well when they're too hot. But the two most basic first steps for raising your testosterone or optimizing your sleep, losing weight, and lifting weights, particularly squats, but sprints are also an excellent exercise for testosterone. But when you're doing those sprints, you might be leaving some energy on the table by not replacing the sodium and electrolytes you lose through sweat. Testosterone is of course great for energy, but something I've been doing for years to keep my energy levels up is simply taking electrolytes. That's where this video's sponsor, Element comes in. Since electrolytes and sodium are a big part of hydration and maintaining energy levels in general, it can really help to replace the electrolytes you lose when you're fasting, doing a low carb diet, or sweating a lot at the gym or in the sauna. I often find my energy and focus is generally better throughout the day if I stay hydrated with plenty of water and an element pack here and there. Element tastes great and my favorite thing is its simple ingredients. It has a balanced mix of electrolytes, sodium, potassium, and magnesium, along with some natural flavors and some stevia. A whole serving has only two total carbs. If you want zero carbs, there's also a raw and flavor type. If you go to drinklmnt.com slash what I've learned, you can get a free sampler pack with any purchase. The pack has two each of the most popular flavors so you can find your favorite or share with a friend.

=== FILE: The $212 Billion Dollar Food ingredient poisoning your Brain [Kb-VNW_WaVU].txt ===

 What if a $200 billion food ingredient is shrinking our brains and making us dumber? And it's not letting snacks! It's mine! From Rams to Italians. The dumbing down of America. Making our kids dumber. Brain is permanently stunted by food that you consume. In the 1930s, a Polish farmer came to Canada with a plant that had seeds that produced an oil that was great for lubricating machinery. Canada produced tons of this stuff to lubricate ship engines during World War II. But after World War II, they didn't need all that lubricant anymore. And were stuck with all these seed-producing plants. Also, they had tons of machinery left over because to produce just a tablespoon of oil, you needed... 70,000 seeds. To get this tiny amount of oil, they ran the seeds through a long industrial process. With high pressure, forcing out the oil to a second extraction. 70 minute wash with a solvent. They wash the oils with sodium hydroxide. They bleach it, then use a steam injection heating process to remove the canola odor. And they then sold it as cooking oil for humans. Healthy cooking with new Missola Rife Blend. Missola Canola. Canola oil is now the most commonly used cooking oil today. You probably have it in your pantry. Seed oils. Seed oils. The most unhealthy ingredients that we have. Seed oils are of the devil. And when you want to stop using them, you can't. They're in every food. In 1865, we ate zero grams of vegetable oil. But now the average American consumes 720 of the calories in their diet. From these highly processed oils every day. Now, vegetable oils, also called seed oils, contain a very specific type of fat. That for 99% of human history, we didn't eat that much of. And the human brain is mostly made of fat. It's about 60% fat. So the question is, could eating a ton of all this processed seed oil fat be affecting our brain and our intelligence? Do we eliminate Alzheimer's disease by eliminating vegetable oil, corn oil, and soil from the animal's diet, and putting in large doses of vitamin E in selenium? By the way, if you're interested in reducing the negative health effects of these seed oils, make sure and watch the video to the end, because then we've got a free gift for you. Now, let's rewind a little bit. Damage to children, like brain damage, learning disabilities. Back in 1979, researchers were shocked to see a notable decrease in the average IQ of children in Massachusetts. Not only were these kids slower at learning, but something was affecting their brain to where they were more distractible, hyperactive, impulsive, and easily frustrated. In the 1920s, Thomas Midgley had just made a new product for the automotive industry that he projected would make billions of dollars. Modern gasoline gives the greater performance. That product was tetraethyl lead, which was used to make leaded gasoline. The leaded gasoline was far more profitable. From the 1920s, cars all over the country were pumping the poisonous lead into the air every day. Mounting medical evidence that lead is damaging children's brains. This dramatic change in the air led to a decline in the IQ of children. Luckily, our brains are now safe from this, because leaded gasoline was phased out starting in 1973. Two years from now, cut lead by 91%. So then what happened after 1973? IQ scores seem to be drifting up, but there's also evidence that the effect is slowing down and possibly reversing. In 2018, Norwegian researchers revealed data that IQ scores started to slightly decrease for men born after 1975. The lead author, Ola Rojaberg, says that similar studies in Denmark, Britain, France, the Netherlands, Finland, and Estonia all found the same thing, a trend of decreasing IQ scores. Now Rojaberg points out that someone might criticize his findings, saying that because IQ has a lot to do with genetics, maybe it's just more dumb people or having more kids. But he says no, it has to be environmental factors, because they found the same downward trend in IQ within families. Dr. Michael Crawford, Director of the Institute of Brain Chemistry and Human Nutrition, says that based on current trends, we are heading for an idiocracy. There are tons of factors to IQ, but evidence is piling up that a different, cheap, and profitable invention is now polluting our brains. This completely new and unnatural product has created a $212 billion industry, and it's not in the air, but our food supply. Dr. Michael Crawford's data suggests that a new, specific type of fat added to the global food supply may be de-evolving our brains. Now, that's a huge claim. So let's take a look at what makes our brain so big and smart in the first place. Lucy, the worst rated movie of Scarlett Johansson's career, has a scene where her brain becomes so powerful that she can travel back in time, allowing her to meet a human ancestor, also named Lucy. You see, Lucy is a member of a species of primate that really existed 3.2 million years ago. Primates' brains leading up to Lucy's kind had been growing very slowly and steadily. However, something happened around 2 million years ago. Brain size started mysteriously increasing way faster, ending up with humans having massive brains way ahead of schedule. In fact, the human brain is so abnormally large that if height increased at the same rate that brain volume did, female humans' height today would be around 8.5 feet, or 260 centimeters. So why did this happen? And why are cetaceans like dolphins, orcas, and whales so smart? And why are rhinos, cows, and horses so dumb? One theory is that early humans essentially figured out how to cook wild potatoes to birds, which gave them plenty of calories to fuel their big, energy-hungry brains. The human brain takes up a whole 20 to 25 percent of our calories, so an efficient source of calories was very important. Except this doesn't make that much sense, because wild potatoes don't have any important nutrients the brain needs to grow. They're just calories. Hunting would be a much better reason for why our brains grew. Animal meat and organs would provide all sorts of critical nutrients for the brain, and animal fat would provide tons of calories. Primates figuring out how to get meat was the most obvious explanation for evolving the human brain. However, zoologist Dr. Michael Crawford thought that there was another piece to the puzzle. In the 1980s, he decided to investigate what types of fat there were in the bodies and brains of various types of animals. He noted that high levels of two fats helped make the brain grow, and there was a third fat that seemed to be bad for brain growth. The two fats that made the brain grow and therefore were very important for the evolution of the brain are arachidonic acid AA and docosa hexanoic acid DHA. Humans could get plenty of AA by hunting various land animals, but land animals aren't that great of a source of DHA. You can get a good amount of DHA from the brains and eyes of animals, but early humans would have had to crack open a ton of animal skulls to get a steady supply of DHA. Crawford argues that the real reason human brains evolved was because early humans found a more simple way to get the special DHA. Now, primates like humans and monkeys have enzymes that allow them to make a very small amount of DHA from a fat in plant foods, so to get a lot of DHA you can't make it, you have to eat it. Now, the average monkey diet does not naturally contain much DHA. So what happens if you give monkeys DHA? A 2014 paper outlines the work of some dedicated researchers at the University of California, Davis, who took some rhesus monkeys and fed them a diet high in DHA for their entire lifespan, about 17 to 19 years. After all this time, they put the monkeys in a brain scanner to see if anything was different. They found that compared to the other monkeys, the brains of the monkeys on the unnaturally high DHA diet had highly connected and well organized neural networks which in some ways quote, resembled the healthy human brain. That is some aspects of their brains started to look more like a human brain. This information in the wrong hands could be dangerous. The best source of DHA is seafood. Fish, shellfish, crustaceans, algae. These also have all kinds of important brain nutrients like protein, vitamin A, zinc, choline, iodine, selenium, vitamin B12, and so on, but they would be the best source of DHA. Michael Crawford says it would be so easy and safe to just walk along the coastline and gather tons of nutrient dense food versus having to hunt land animals. Professor Stephen Canane of Toronto University agrees, saying a shore based diet was essential for the evolution of human brains. One study from 2020 found that breastfeeding mothers who ate more omega 3 fats like DHA tended to have babies with bigger brains. Specifically, the frontal cortex got bigger. The frontal cortex controls uniquely human things like long term goal planning, decision making, and problem solving. Other studies suggest shrinkage of the prefrontal cortex from a DHA deficient diet. Several studies have found that DHA improves attention, learning, memory, and reduces ADHD symptoms in children. Of course, those geniuses of the sea, dolphins and other cetaceans, are getting tons of the brain evolving DHA from a diet that is mostly raw fish. You might say, okay, well, dolphins eat tons of fish. Why don't they just keep getting smarter and smarter? Why aren't they even smarter than humans? Researchers say that might just be simply because smarter brains packed with more neurons use tons of energy and oxygen. If the dolphins brains guzzles up more oxygen, then they can't dive as long. Speaking of diving, our quest for DHA rich seafood might explain why our noses are so weird. There's this old controversial theory called the aquatic ape theory that says that humans evolved from an ancestor that adapted to life near bodies of water. Several aspects of our body seem more adapted for the water. For example, we don't have hair on our bodies, which would make it easier to swim. And we have a layer of fat under our skin, unlike other primates, which would help us float in water. Further, this may have something to do with why we started walking upright. Monkeys can walk on two feet, but they prefer not to, unless they are wading through the water. Now, most anthropologists completely reject this aquatic ape theory, but whether we had a semi-aquatic ancestor or not, humans are very good at diving. The human spleen, for example, is larger than in other primates, and it acts as a reservoir of oxygen-carrying red blood cells, which allows us to hold our breath for longer. The bazao people near the Philippines live a sea nomad type of lifestyle, where they spend hours a day diving for all kinds of DHA rich seafood, like shellfish, shrimp, crab, fish, octopus, sea urchin, and squid. And their genetics gift them with an abnormally large spleen, which is thought to be why some bazao can hold their breath for over 10 minutes. Now, another interesting aspect of humans is our protruding noses. Unlike monkeys' flat noses, human noses are better at preventing water from getting in the nasal cavity when we swim or dive. Most monkeys are not good swimmers, but the proboscis monkeys are, and they happen to have these big protruding noses. As of 2019, Japan is number one in the world for IQ, with an IQ of 106. That's a full nine points higher than the United States IQ of 97. Of course, there are all kinds of different factors to IQ, but Japan does have a DHA rich food culture that includes plenty of seaweed and fresh seafood. They eat about twice as much fish as Americans. A traditional Japanese breakfast is white rice, fermented soybeans, miso soup with seaweed, roasted fish, and more dry seaweed. Of course, you can find all kinds of fish at Japanese supermarkets and restaurants, but you can even get fish rice balls or roasted fish at a convenience store. What's tricky about getting an idea of which country eats the most DHA is that DHA degrades when you heat it. Lucky for Japan, they eat plenty of raw seafood. A 2022 survey found that the second most common way people ate their fish at home in Japan was raw, as sashimi. Japan also has more than twice as many sushi restaurants than fast food and pizza shops combined. Now, there's that third fact that Michael Crawford said was important to brain size, that explains why animals like rhinos are so dumb. In their one-ton body, they have a mere 350 gram brain. That would be like a human having a brain the size of a walnut. I wish I could think of brilliant planes like that. Land animals like rhinos barely get any DHA, but their plant-based diet gives them plenty of linoleic acid. Linoleic acid is that third fat. It can compete with DHA for incorporation into the cells. That is too much linoleic acid will hog up space in the cells so the DHA can't get in. Oh thanks, but I gotta watch what I eat. These totally new and unnatural vegetable oils that we didn't eat for 99% of human history have tons of this linoleic acid that reduces levels of DHA. But DHA is critical for brain function and even the evolution of the brain. You might have a big bottle of linoleic acid at home, like sunflower oil, soybean oil, corn oil, grapeseed oil, canola oil, and so on. Most restaurants use these seed-based oils to cook with because it's so cheap. Most processed food and prepagaged food has plenty of vegetable oil. Fried foods are of course fried in vegetable oil. Manes and salad dressing is primarily just vegetable oil. The average person eats these oils every single day. Now IQ is a little controversial and does depend on many different factors, but lucky for Japan which allegedly has the highest IQ in the world, they consume about half the vegetable oil of Americans. We're served for lunch at a high school. Students in Woodbridge, New Jersey say the food is inedible. Some high school students who are so sick of their school food, they've started a protest movement against it. In 1970, the law changed. Schools could now turn to private for-profit companies to feed their students. In American schools it's common to have plenty of processed food on the menu. You cut back on everything. Salaries supplies the food. In Japan, school lunches are planned out by a nutritionist and is standard to make them fresh from scratch every day. What's alarming is that Michael Crawford found that those animals with high linoleic acid and low DHA had smaller brains. The animals with high DHA and low linoleic acid had bigger brains. He says that this state of high DHA and low linoleic acid is what allows the brains to grow and evolve. Now as Nina Tyshulls laid out in her book The Big Fat Surprise, in 1911 the soap maker Proctor and Gamble figured out that they could take seeds from cotton, something that no one eats, run those seeds through an industrial process and make something that looked sort of like lard, a very common cooking fat at the time. They launched a massive marketing campaign positioning their product as a cleaner, more modern alternative to lard. And by 1916, sales of their crystallized cotton seed product, Crisco, reached 60 million pounds. Various other vegetable oils like corn oil, canola oil, and soybean oil came on the scene and this is how we went from eating zero grams of vegetable oil a day in 1865 to 80 grams a day today. That's over a pound of vegetable oils a week. That's around 720 calories from oil a day. Vegetable oils are now a $212 billion industry as of 2022. Further, the Dietary Guidelines for Americans were introduced in 1980 and recommended we swap animal fats like butter and lard for vegetable oils. It makes you wonder if this could be a factor in why the IQ increase in Americans slowed down right around 1980. The vegetable oil story just gets worse from here. In 2010, researchers out of Canada were trying to figure out why some women did not have high enough levels of DHA. That is multiple studies find that babies brains and intelligence benefit from the mother's DHA supplementation, which would mean that women aren't getting enough DHA in the first place. But the researchers were suspicious that maybe it wasn't just that they weren't eating enough DHA, but something was interfering with the DHA in the women. By analyzing the blood of pregnant women, they found that indeed, those women eating too much linoleic acid had not just lower DHA, but lower levels of the brain boosting fats AA and EPA. So this also suggests that linoleic acid shoves out DHA and other fats essential for brain function and development. Then five years later, a 2015 study found that as expected, children with mothers who got too much linoleic acid experienced negative effects to brain development. Just one year after that in 2016, a study on over 4,000 children and their mothers found that higher linoleic acid in the mothers when they were pregnant was associated with more symptoms of autism spectrum disorder when the children were six years old. Four years later, a review article calls for more investigation to how we can protect our brains by reducing how much linoleic acid we eat. Unfortunately, for children under nine months of age, there is no infant formula on the market that does not contain vegetable oils. All this doesn't mean that you don't need to worry about linoleic acid and DHA after you finish growing your brain. DHA is critical for healthy brain functioning in adults too, no matter your age. Studies have found a link between DHA and everything from irritability, stress, depression, to memory, reaction time, and even aggressiveness. DHA has even a protective effect on the brain in the case of head trauma and papers have associated higher consumption of linoleic acid with higher rates of depression. Now don't get me wrong, linoleic acid is not a synthetic poison like lead. A very small amount of linoleic acid in the diet is totally normal, but the problem is we are eating clearly a very unnaturally high amount of it nowadays. Okay, so for that free gift I was talking about, I'm making a full guide on how to avoid and prevent those negative health effects of seed oils and linoleic acid. So check the description for a link to where you can put in your email so I can include you when I send over the guide. But getting back to just how unnatural seed oils are. Like olives produce oil and seeds generally do not produce oil. So I don't know what seed oil is. Let's say you wanted to get oil from corn. You would need 20 years of corn just to get a single tablespoon of corn oil. For one tablespoon of sunflower oil you need 560 sunflower seeds. Also what even is canola? Have you ever eaten a canola seed? Canola oil is the most common cooking oil in the world, but to naturally get a single tablespoon of canola oil you'd need to eat almost 70,000 canola seeds. In comparison, what about natural fats? For example, if you wanted a tablespoon of oil from sardines you'd only need about two gutted sardines or two slices of fatty tuna sashimi. Here's where this gets confusing. We have known for decades that DHA is good for the development of baby's brains, which is why it's been added to infant formula. Evidence suggests that breastfeeding women who have higher levels of DHA have smarter babies. Eat the f***ing fish. Okay, so if linoleic acid is so bad and shoves out the brain healthy DHA, why does the FDA require infant formula manufacturers put a large amount of linoleic acid in the formula? Well, for one thing this whole story arguably starts with the American Heart Association. The American Heart Association today recommends that for heart health we get 5 to 10 percent of our calories from linoleic acid per day. They don't say 5 to 10 percent of our calories from vegetable oil. That's 5 to 10 percent of our calories specifically from linoleic acid. So to break that down, canola oil, for example, is only 20% linoleic acid. So if your main source of linoleic acid was canola oil, then you would need to eat a thousand calories of canola oil to hit the target set by the AHA. Of course, no one gets all their linoleic acid from vegetable oil because there's many food sources of it, but this means that the AHA suggests that we eat 5 to 10 times the amount of linoleic acid that we ate in 1865. 1865 was before seeds were crushed into oil and widely sold for human consumption. Now, the first heart attack was recorded in 1912. This means the AHA says that in order to protect our hearts, we need to eat 5 to 10 times the amount of linoleic acid that we ate when there was so little heart disease that most people didn't know it existed. And there's this story that I tell in my book that because heart disease was rare until the late 1920s, cardiologists was a relatively small little specialty. Nina Tyshals lays out in her book the big fat surprise that initially nobody knew about the American Heart Association because it was so small and poorly funded. Then they got their big break when they met the makers of the hugely popular linoleic acid-rich cotton seed oil product Crisco. In 1948, the makers of Crisco gave the AHA $1.7 million. As the American Heart Association's own history book reads, it says, and overnight millions poured into our coffers. As the proctor in Gamble, man, they had a dinner, celebrated, and handed us the check. The AHA happened to then recommend that we swap animal fats like butter for vegetable oils in 1961. Okay, so going back to why infant formulas have so much linoleic acid, the thing is they're trying to mimic breast milk and women's breast milk does have linoleic acid. However, the composition of the breast milk depends on the mother's diet. The more linoleic acid a woman eats, the more ends up in her breast milk. And that's important because modern women, because they eat a ton of vegetable oil, they get a ton of linoleic acid. And that means that their breast milk does not look like it would 100 years ago. When you eat vegetable oil, the linoleic acid accumulates and stays in the body. The percentage of this linoleic acid in people's fat cells has nearly doubled from a bit under 10% in 1960 to around 20% in 2005. So the fat profile of an average American is looking more like a rhino and less like a dolphin's, but 10% is even too high. Because by 1955, people were already eating plenty of vegetable oil. So what's a normal linoleic acid concentration? The next thing I'm going to show you, I searched for for three years. You know what I wanted to know? What was the omega six fat in anybody's adipose who was on an ancestral diet? As Dr. Chris Kenobi discovered these specific Islanders who were eating a diet unadulterated by vegetable oils, the amount of polyunsaturated linoleic acid that they had was only 3.8%. That is one fifth the amount people have in their fat tissue today. Now seed oils are definitely worth removing from the diet, but something simple I added to my daily routine to increase my energy levels and overall health was electrolytes. That's where this video sponsor element comes in. I started using an element over two years ago to keep my energy levels up while I was fasting, but I quickly found that they are game changer when doing anything from a low carb or keto diet or just exercising going into the sauna or basically any time I'm sweating. This is because sodium and electrolytes are a big component of hydration in general. So replacing the sodium and electrolyte you're losing really keeps your energy levels up. Staying hydrated with plenty of water and an element pack here and there is now a part of my daily routine to keep my energy and focus at a high level. Element tastes great and it's got no junk. It's just a balanced mix of sodium, potassium, magnesium, a bit of stevia and some flavoring. There's also a raw and flavored type that's only electrolytes. If you go to drinklmnt.com slash what I've learned you can get a free sampler pack with any purchase. Also be sure to try the new element sparkling. It's a bold, refreshing 16 ounce can of sparkling electrolyte water.

=== FILE: The Male Crisis - Heat is Wrecking Testosterone [pwAmNPaupVE].txt ===

 are hot balls killing your testosterone? Over 24 years ago, I was watching this TV show called King of the Hill, and I was completely puzzled by this one scene. Research shows that heat lowers fertility. One way to increase the number of healthy sperm is to lower the temperature in your pants. Why would cooling your balls make them work better? A year later in 1999, the Simpsons had Apu chilling his balls to make him more furtiped. Chilling my loins, I increased the chances of him pregnanting my wife. Except of course fertility isn't the only thing the balls are important for. Four years later in 2003, another King of the Hill episode aired about the other important function of balls. Testosterone could have elevated Hank's mood, improved his whole outlook. In Japan, the word that they use is the golden balls, which refers to how important they are for health and fertility. Except all across the world, men's golden balls are in crisis. Testosterone and male fragility rates have been dropping rapidly. Since 1973, sperm counts have dropped around 50%. At some estimates, but testosterone is dropping as much as one third over the past 30 years. Sure, alcohol, poor sleep, endocrine disrupting chemicals in plastics, weight gain, sedentary lifestyle, stress, various features of our extra convenient, modern lifestyle can wreck your testosterone. But no one's talking about how convenient stores have a cheap, all-natural item that could raise your testosterone. You've probably heard of the physical benefits of testosterone, like making it easier to put on muscle and lose fat. But several lines of research also show that testosterone has a significant effect on mentality, improving libido, confidence, anxiety, and mood. Increased testosterone is intimately linked to the feeling of being a winner and vice versa. That is, losing at something has been found to decrease men's testosterone, and lowering testosterone is accompanied by feelings of being a loser, feeling more submissive, unhappy, and unconfident. Testosterone is very important for the body and mind. So we need to talk about the balls, because this is where testosterone is made. The first question is, why are your balls outside of your body? If you think about it, it doesn't make any sense. This vital organ that ensures the continuation of our species isn't protected by bones, cartilage, or muscle, they just dangle there defenseless. Well, here's the thing, your testosterone and sperm factories don't work as well when they get too hot. So why? Well, the reason basically every single land mammal, except elephants and rhinos, have their balls outside their body, is that they need to keep them cool. As research shows, heating the balls can dramatically worsen their function, worsening sperm quality and testosterone levels. Man spreading is when a man take up as much space as humanly possible. So why do men spread their legs out so much when they sit down? Well, the balls don't need that much space, but the balls do need to be cool, so this is likely an instinct to keep our balls away from our warm thighs. When you sit down, this pushes the balls close to your hot body and they can heat up. A study from the year 2000 found that extended periods of sitting in your car seat can heat up the balls in entire 2 degrees Celsius. It's been proven multiple times that heat is terrible for sperm and male fertility, but what about testosterone? A 2020 study found that heating up the balls of bulls by only 3 degrees Celsius induced a profound 10-fold reduction in testicular testosterone concentrations. Here where I live in Japan, everybody loves a nice hot bath at the end of the day. Getting in a hot bath almost every night is a very common tradition in Japan. Also, Japan's birth rate has consistently been lower than say, America and Canada for the past 50 years. The Japan Times says that of course the usual suspects like work-life balance or state support for childcare are at play here, but they say it's about time to consider that male infertility might be a factor. This makes me wonder if heating up the balls every night has anything to do with this. Then we've all heard about how sitting for hours on end is offered for our health and makes us fat, but we also know that lowering testosterone makes it harder to put on muscle and easier to put on fat. So what if all this sitting nowadays is heating up men's balls, reducing their testosterone and making them weak and fat? The boy's got no fight in him. I don't get it. Maybe he's missing something. Like testosterone, energy, confidence, aggression, agility, muscle. Around 2018, this rumor that Chinese powerlifters ice their balls as part of their training regimen to raise testosterone started circulating online. Eventually, various biohackers started talking about how icing the balls was a good way to increase testosterone. So is this just bro science or can icing the balls really increase your testosterone? Hold up, we need to dig into the research a bit further to solve this puzzle because there's not too much human research on how hot balls lowers your testosterone. Most of the research on ball temperature is looking at fertility. Here's one example to show you just how bad heat is for sperm. In a 1967 paper, researchers wanted to see the effect of heat on men's balls. They increased the ball temperature of 10 men by a mere 0.8 degrees celsius for 15 hours a day for two to three months. This reduced the men's sperm count by 80%. Another 1985 study increased the ball temperature by 2 degrees celsius and this led to a 90% reduction in sperm count. Here's where it comes back to testosterone. Even if you're not trying to have a baby, consider that testosterone is necessary for the production of healthy sperm. And for example, in this study where they corrected an iron deficiency in men, they found a clear correlation between increases in total sperm count and increases in testosterone. So we may expect that things that are going to be good for fertility are going to be good for testosterone. There's actually a study in the Scottish Medical Journal saying that a tilt should help men's fertility because it will keep their balls cooler. A 1984 study had 64 subfertile men wear a ball cooling device for 16 weeks. The ball chiller improved the sperm quality of 65% of the men and 26% of the men had their fertility improved so much that they got their wives pregnant. A different study looked at 25 of what the researchers specifically called hard core infertile couples. This meant that they were not able to get pregnant for more than six years. Just 15 weeks of ball chilling allowed six of these hard core infertile couples to finally get pregnant. This is why Hank Hill's doctor told him to cool his balls so he could have another baby. Here's where the puzzle of ball temperature and testosterone gets a lot more interesting. Research suggests that anywhere from 4 to 30% of men suffer a condition called varicoseal. Varicoseal is an abnormality in the spermatic cord. This is basically where the veins in the scrotum are swollen and this can impair sperm as well as testosterone production. A 2022 paper explains that patients with this simple defect in the veins of the balls on average have lower testosterone. This can lead to the various symptoms of testosterone deficiency. Libido, erectile dysfunction, fatigue, depressed mood, increases in weight gain and insulin resistance. Among infertile men, the incidence of varicoseal has been observed to be as high as 35 to 40%. A 1984 paper tested a ball cooling device on men who had some form of varicoseal. Cooling the balls improved the semen quality of many of the men enough to lead to successful pregnancies. This study implies that perhaps one of the effects of these varicoseals is that they prevent the testicles from regulating their temperature properly and they get too hot. This is really interesting because it suggests that the varicoseal lowers testosterone because it makes the balls hotter. So if that were the case, we should guess that removing a varicoseal would cool the balls and lead to higher testosterone. That is, if varicoseal leads to hotter testicles and then leads to lower testosterone, then removing the varicoseal should lead to cooler testicles and therefore higher testosterone. Indeed, the data suggests just that. Surgery removing the varicoseal decreases ball temperature and increases serum testosterone levels. This paper from 2020 found that 60 to 80% of men with low serum testosterone will exhibit normalization of testosterone level after varicoseal repair. Now, you might assume that it's for a different reason that fixing the varicoseal improves testosterone, but research has specifically observed that men with varicoseal have hotter balls and that surgery to remove the varicoseal restores the balls to a proper cooler temperature. There's a reason why your balls are positioned outside your body. For the balls to produce healthy sperm, they need to be 2 to 6 degrees Celsius below the core body temperature. So what you need to do is to keep your balls from overheating for extended periods of time at all costs. There are tons of studies finding that cooling the scrotum has an improvement on semen parameters. This is huge for couples because considering in about 50% of cases, couple infertility is attributable to the male partner, mainly due to a failure in sperm production. As well as sitting wearing tight underwear can increase the temperature of the balls because it presses them against your warm body. It's also well accepted that it's best to have the bedroom cool for better quality sleep, but it's also a good idea to make sure that your crotch isn't getting too hot overnight. So there might be something to that rumor that Chinese powerlifters ice their balls. While there isn't research specifically on how much ball icing improves testosterone in already healthy men that I know of, many guys, including myself, report feeling a bit more energy and libido from icing their balls regularly. So if you want to try experimenting with this, you can try placing an ice pack on your balls, but make sure it's over your underwear or over a cloth and not directly on the skin. You don't want to make it uncomfortable or numb down there. I found about eight minutes at a time, two to three times a day to work pretty well for me. Now, while the anecdotal reports are exciting, there is reason to make sure you don't overdo it. Some research suggests that excessive cold exposure to the body in general can actually lower testosterone. Of course, if you're taking a lot of hot baths or going in the sauna a lot, it would be worth cooling the balls down afterwards. Another thing with the sauna is that you're going to be sweating and losing a lot of electrolytes, which are also important for energy levels. Testosterone is great for energy, but something I do to keep my energy levels up is simply taking electrolytes. That's where this video's sponsor, Element comes in. Since electrolytes and sodium are a big part of hydration and maintaining energy levels in general, it can really help to replace electrolytes you lose when you're fasting, doing a low carb diet, or sweating a lot at the gym or in the sauna. I often find my energy and focus is generally better throughout the day if I stay hydrated with plenty of water and an element pack here and there. Element tastes great, and my favorite thing is its simple ingredients. It has a balanced mix of electrolytes, sodium, potassium, magnesium, along with some natural flavors and some stevia. A whole serving has only two total carbs. If you want zero carbs, there's also a raw and flavored type. If you go to drinklmnt.com slash what I've learned, you can get a free sampler pack with any purchase. The pack has two each of the most popular flavors, so you can find your favorite or share with a friend.

=== FILE: Why Japan wasn't poisoned by Obesity [rTm86vqeu-0].txt ===

 did you know that if you take a flight from America to Tokyo, get an expert to help you do some fieldwork, and make some careful observations of the people walking around the streets of Japan, that would be a complete waste of time, because it only takes about 15 seconds to realize that Americans are way fatter than Japanese people. America's obesity rate is nearly 10 times that of Japan. Japan is 4.5% but America's is 40%. Japan has about one half the diabetes, one third the death from heart disease, one third the depression, one fourth the rate of anxiety disorders, and one eighth the childhood ADHD of America. So, how do they do it? Well, there's seven specific things that we have to look at to see how they manage to stay so healthy. Let's start with something really simple. Japanese people eat a lot more real food. With processed foods making up 58.3% of their diet, Americans eat about twice as much processed food as Japanese people. Of course you can get various types of processed food here if you want, but people just eat less of it. When I took my two friends from Europe to this Yakitori place in Shinjuku, they kept saying how amazing pretty much every single dish was. But the rating for this place, on Japan's most popular restaurant rating website, Tabelog, didn't even break 3.5 stars. Even for cheap, reasonably priced places, the standard for food quality here in Japan is so high that people are very picky. Despite over 800,000 restaurant listings, only 49 restaurants in the entire country have over 4.5 stars on Tabelog. But even though the food is really good wherever you go, people eat way less calories than Americans. The average American man eats 368 calories more than the average Japanese man. That's like eating an extra McDonald's Egg Cheeseburger or two Onigiri's every single day. Stack that up over a month for a year and it adds up pretty quick. Of course this is important because obesity links to all the health issues I mentioned earlier. So, they eat less calories so obviously they're thinner. The huge question is why do they eat less calories? Maybe it's because everybody is being constantly washed by Otani Shohei. Maybe it's because they're brutally fat shamed into starving themselves. So does Japan really hate and shame fat people like this AI-narrated video that had 8 million views claimed? If you are fat, people might hate you. Well having lived here 15 years, I really don't think so. Now it's not unusual for a friend to say something like, Hey, did you gain some weight? Yeah, a little bit. But it's really normal in Japan to say, oh you got fat or like you got skinny. But it's not really shaming, it's just like an observation. Is it like a passive aggressive comment? I'd say it's neutral. No like harsh thing. They care about me. Like they say I change. Oh, you're gaining weight or you got to lose weight. That's so normal. And then no one's gonna take offended. As long as you're close. It's kind of like, oh hey you got a haircut. Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. It's just an observation. Japanese people aren't mean. From their perspective, they would never say anything to hurt your feelings. Now sure, this is a bigger discussion, but at the end of the day, we're very social creatures. We're influenced by the people around us. I want to fit in. A 2007 study found that having an obese friend increases your chances of becoming obese yourself by 57%. The reverse is true too. A 2012 study on high school students found that if you have lean friends, you're less likely to gain weight yourself. If you visit Tokyo for very long at all, you'll immediately notice how walkable the city is. This of course translates to naturally doing tons of walking, which is a daily reality for the people working here. Easily at any day, it was a 10,000 step day. Japanese walking. What is this? When you move out of cities like Tokyo with amazingly efficient public transportation, people of course start to walk less. But even with that in mind, looking at nationwide averages, the average Japanese person walks at least 1300 more steps than Americans every single day. You might have seen videos online of people just passing out in the street after a night of drinking. Indeed, I do see this if I'm out early on the weekend. While this isn't something to be celebrated and is definitely not good for health, it does suggest people aren't as worried as say Americans about crime. Safety isn't the first thing you'd think of when it comes to health, but stress can affect everything from mental health to heart health to even making you fatter and hungrier. And Japan is extremely safe. The stats suggest the risk of getting your phone, wallet, or bag stolen in Japan is 120th the risk in America. This isn't uncommon. About five years ago, Jason Ray made a video where he dropped a wallet with money and a credit card in the streets of Tokyo 50 times. And someone quickly picked it up and gave it back to him all 50 times. From New Jersey to Manhattan, cell phones thefts are happening all across the area. Snatched phones right out of hands as New Yorkers were walking by. Around 6.30 in the morning, there was this guy dressed in business casual and he was passed out like this. And his phone was five feet in front of him. No one took it, of course. My wife has lost stuff on the train before and you go and you make a phone call. They say we located your package, we located your phone and it's there intact with everything in place. Just last year, Good Samaritans in Tokyo handed over 147,000 lost smartphones and over 340,000 lost wallets into the police. And this is just in Tokyo. Little police boxes like this are basically everywhere. They're around most of the stations and scattered throughout residential areas. In Japan it's like, oh, go to the coal bomb. So check if they have my wallet. But in America it's like, oh, all right, it's over. The crime rate is totally lower here, like dramatically lower. So you probably have way less stress. Yeah, I mean, I just went back to the States and my city's pretty dangerous and I noticed after like a day out, I'm just tired. There is a modest link between violent crime and obesity levels. But you can't say that much about this since so much is going on here. However, some studies have found that crime links directly to obesity even when you account for things like the fact that areas with high crime are generally poorer. Good relationships keep us happier and healthier. There's another small factor that probably reduces the stress of relationships here. People aren't really emotionally invested in politics here. They don't even talk about it too much and they certainly don't fight about it. I've asked Japanese people that before. It's like, do you ever get in political fights with your relatives and you never talk to them again? They're like, no, never. That's also why I like Japan because Japanese people don't be too political, don't be too religious. And then like it's in the States now that you've got to be careful of lots of things. Yeah. Yeah, like political correctness. But just recently, people have gotten more into politics and online people are much more political. Like our Japanese feel just less hungry. When people hear that Japan has smaller portion sizes, they'll think, of course, that's why people eat less calories. But why would that matter? Wouldn't they still be hungry and just order more food or grab more snacks at the convenience store after eating their tiny lunches? Well, there's a lot of psychology behind hunger and food portions. Research reveals people are kind of stupid and don't realize how much they eat. Researchers have tested all kinds of foods, even stale popcorn. They find that the bigger the portion size, people generally eat more of what's in front of them, regardless of how hungry they are. And weirdly enough, bigger portions don't always make people more full. That's because our brains and stomachs don't recognize that we ate 223 calories. We go off visual cues like I ate one rice ball. It's not I ate 870 calories, but I ate a bowl of rice, an egg, a plate of beef, miso soup, and some pickles. That explains why I feel like I've eaten so much when I go to Kaiten Sushi. I didn't eat 840 calories of sushi, I ate 7 whole plates of sushi. People tend to want to finish the unit of food they have, like a plate, a bowl, a package, a bar, or a can. You never know, you might be satisfied with these tiny cans of soda they have over here, but if you buy the normal one, you'll want to finish it. In one experiment, they got people to eat more than twice as much soup as they thought, just by secretly refilling the bowl. Without the visual cue, the people had no idea how much they really ate. It's not that Japan has small portion sizes, they're just about right for the average person. Rather, America has way too big portion sizes. The gut... Probiotics microbiome gut health benefits. Microbiome probiotic gut health. Alright. Can I have another? A little bit over 10 years ago, the importance of gut health and fermented foods got a lot more mainstream attention in America. But various types of pickled vegetables and all kinds of fermented foods like miso or natto have been a big part of Japanese food culture for over 1500 years. Natto, tuna, and shiatsu. Ah, it's a lot of stuff. 100,000 yen for a bunch of things. Any Japanese supermarket you walk into will have a decent selection of Japanese pickles, other fermented foods, and even various types of kimchi. Also at the supermarket and even at the convenience stores, they have a bunch of different types of probiotic yogurt drinks marketed for gut health. In fact, drinks like this have been around since the 1930s. Yakulton Joa. You can even find the probiotic yogurt drinks in some of the vending machines. So gut health may be another reason they stay so healthy. I don't think it's hard to stay thin in Japan at all because I eat like traditional Japanese meal every day. And as long as I follow that meal, I don't think I will ever get fat here. The other thing is it's hard to say what the traditional American meal is. Maybe for breakfast, you'd say eggs and bacon with pancakes or toast. But for lunch and dinner, it could be anything from mashed potatoes and meatloaf to burger with fries or barbecue to casseroles or gumbo. So what is this? The traditional Japanese meal looks like this. So we have this word Ichijyu-san-sai. Ichijyu-san-sai. I mean miso soup and rice and then three different dishes can be vegetables, fruit and... I usually have this morning, lunch, night, every single day. So that's how I keep my body shape and weight. Pretty much wherever you go, you can get a version of this clean, simple meal format that's not covered in tons of gravy, sauce or cheese and doesn't have a side of fries or onion rings. I think we know how to lose weight properly and without so much effort because Japanese food is already healthy. There's two simple things to point out here. As you probably guessed, Japanese people in general eat way more rice than bread. What? Do you eat more rice or bread? I eat definitely rice, more rice. If you combine rice and wheat consumption, then Japan actually ate about 15% more per person than the USA in 2022. But when you break it down, Japanese people ate about seven times the rice and one half the wheat of Americans. So we could get into a long discussion about gluten or low levels of glyphosate and wheat, but rice is simply more filling than bread. If I eat bread, I don't know why, but I get really sleepy and I don't feel like I'm full. I want to keep eating, eating. Would you say like most people feel that way because I've heard that from friends too? Yeah, a lot of my friends also said that, so I think that's accurate. Listen to me, miso soup. I drink miso soup almost every day for breakfast and dinner usually. Now you might think that because Japan is so healthy, the average person must eat a low salt diet. Actually, no. Japanese people in fact eat even more salt than Americans. Americans get about 3400 milligrams of sodium per day while Japanese people are close to 4040 milligrams. I've done deep dives on the channel about why you don't need to be afraid of salt, but the thing here is it may help curb your appetite. We actually need salt and have a set of brain cells dedicated to making us crave salt. Most people don't realize that they're craving for salty, junky snacks like potato chips or fries might just be a craving for salt, which could be solved by eating something salty but low calorie like miso soup. Even the convenience stores have a huge variety of instant soups that are low calorie but high sodium. The Ichiju in Ichiju Sansai means one soup. And interestingly enough, studies have found that drinking a savory soup before a meal reduces the total calories people eat, which is probably another reason why it's easy for them to eat less calories. Now personally, I don't drink miso soup every single morning. What I do do is have a glass of element. I've found that it curbs my appetite and helps me avoid snacks I don't need, probably thanks to the sodium in it. Most people don't realize how important sodium and electrolytes are for keeping your energy levels up in general. That's why drinking element to sponsor this video has become a daily habit for me. Because you lose so much sodium and electrolytes through sweat, I make sure to get extra when I'm sweating a bunch from the heat from working out or from going to the sauna. Element tastes great and my favorite thing is its simple ingredients. It has a balanced mix of electrolytes, sodium, potassium, magnesium, along with some natural flavors and some stevia. A whole serving has only two total carbs. If you want zero carbs, there's also a raw and flavored type. If you go to drinklmnt.com slash what I've learned, you can get a free sampler pack with any purchase. The pack has two each of the most popular flavors, so you can find your favorite or share with a friend.

=== FILE: Why is this Healing People？ [qFv04wcBt4g].txt ===

 what if vegetables and other plants were causing all your problems? This diet completely excludes fruits and vegetables and says you should only eat meat to lose weight. It doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense, but it works. I lost 52 pounds. I lost 50 pounds. Lost over 100 pounds. It's 100 pounds. It's 105 pounds. I lost 125 pounds. I'm never hungry. The big question is why would it only meat solve so many people's problems? I don't have that brain fog. I came off my antidepressants. After about three months, it was like no more meds at all. My depression is gone. Within a week, I was 25% less anxious in the morning. Within two weeks, 75%, and I've been better every single day. I used to get severe migraines that are just now gone. In August of 2021, Michaela Peterson was invited to do a TED talk. She told her story of how from the time she was a child, she suffered from arthritis that was so bad. She had to get an artificial hip and ankle. She suffered from depression, bipolar disorder, chronic fatigue, and she was sleeping 17 hours a day, thanks to all the medication she was on. Methatoxate and naproxen, cortisone and enbrone, methotoxate put on SSRIs, put on oxycontin, Tylenol-3 to take at night, 40 milligrams of Adderall just to wake up. I was taking DAPZone, Esatallopram for the depression, encryption, strength, antihistamine. If I don't figure out what's wrong with me, I'm going to die. The solution to her years and years of crippling health problems was surprisingly simple, yet kind of strange. And I cut everything out except for beef. Two weeks after doing that, the itch went away and my joints started to feel better. Four weeks after that, the depression lifted, and I stopped crying in the morning. And five months after that, the anxiety lifted, and I was back in what I felt was heaven. But Ted X refused to upload her talk. I followed Ted X's guidelines very carefully. I was the only talk from that Ted X conference that they refused to post. Her story isn't based on a scientific study, it's just an anecdote. But apparently it was the wrong anecdote. You see, Micaela made significant progress on her health problems by cutting out most plant foods from her diet. Then she pretty much completely solved her health issues by cutting out plant foods entirely. She only eats meat. Meanwhile, Ted didn't have any problem uploading people's personal anecdotes about how a vegan diet helped them. In fact, Ted has uploaded at least 43 different talks on veganism. I've only been eating meat for beef, fundamentally, for almost five years now. Dr. Sean Baker has been on the Carnivore diet for seven years. And he runs a website where people share their success stories on the diet. Strangely enough, over a thousand entries discuss all kinds of conditions, including diabetes, hypertension, skin conditions, chronic gut issues, arthritis, mental health disorders, and others, improving, or even appearing to be completely cured on a Carnivore diet. So what is going on here? Obviously meat isn't just magic. But why does a meat-only diet seem to cure all these ailments? There's gotta be a very specific reason. Also, what about nutrient deficiencies? And aren't these people's guts going to be totally wrecked without fiber? For a four and a half months, I lived on literally nothing but fish and water. The story starts back in 1906, when explorer Phil Homers-Stefansen was left stranded in the Arctic. Being stranded in such a harsh environment where nothing grows would normally be a death sentence. Stefansen was baffled that not only could the Inuit be perfectly healthy on an almost completely plantless diet, but that he could as well. And at the end of four and a half months, I was healthy and I'd never been before. So over a hundred years ago, Stefansen was a proponent of the so-called Carnivore diet. And he noted that the Inuit, who stayed on the traditional diet and were not exposed to European foods, they had fantastic teeth that were completely free of cavities. They also didn't have cancer, diabetes, or heart disease. And lastly, no, they did not have scurvy. It still seems to be a puzzle why people like Sean Baker, who has been eating mainly just cooked steaks for seven years, mysteriously doesn't have scurvy. One reason he might be protected from this is that meat, especially if it's raw, does in fact have a little bit of vitamin C. Further, your vitamin C requirements may be far lower if you don't eat any carbohydrate because glucose actually inhibits vitamin C transport in the body. In fact, in Stefansen's 1936 article, Adventures in Diet, he noted that men could be cured of scurvy if they were transitioned to a meat-only diet. You see, back in the early 1900s, people didn't believe it was possible to live on an all-meat diet and thought that the less meat you ate, the better for you. It was thought that meat would cause arthritis, heartache of the arteries, high blood pressure, and kidney damage. So, Stefansen and his friend Karsten Anderson volunteered to eat a meat-only diet while under supervision at Bellevue Hospital for an entire year. Some of the investigators thought that the men would die in under three months on this diet. At one point in the experiment, Stefansen was feeling unwell and had some gastrointestinal issues, but this was because he was instructed to eat lean meat. Stefansen had known just how important eating plenty of fat is in the success of the diet. In fact, his book on the topic is called Fat of the Land. Stefansen began eating much more fat and all his problems went away. To the amazement of all the investigators, Stefansen and Anderson's meat-only diet did not cause any of the health problems that people were worried about. They were perfectly healthy and had in fact reduced their blood pressure and lost weight. This was no surprise to Stefansen as he knew the Inuit were very fit and trim under their baggy clothes. Now, both men on the meat diet remarked that they passed much less gas. The investigators were in fact so interested in the topic of gas that they used an x-ray to observe that there was indeed less gas in the intestinal tract. The oldest carnivore success story I could find was one from 1886 in the British Medical Journal. A man went on a meat-only diet, he lost 14 pounds, he claimed that his mental and bodily activity doubled and his intestinal gas completely went away. Okay, so that's nice, but who cares? This might seem like just a funny observation, but let's take a close look at what's going on in our gut because gut function is actually really important to our overall health. Diversity is king and queen and everything in between when it comes to gut health and longevity. I've been full on 90 days of carnivore. My results actually got better, my diversity got better. There's a lot of talk about the so-called gut-brain connection lately. In 2016, Dr. Emmer and Mayor wrote a book called The Mind Gut Connection where he discusses the intimate connection between gut function and mental issues like anxiety or depression. In fact, five different studies on various groups of people all found that constipation was associated with depression. Another study published just last year found constipation to be correlated with major depression in American adults. Now these are just correlations, but other studies have found that people who have the inflammatory gut condition, IBS, to have significantly higher levels of anxiety and depression. Interestingly, you'll find plenty of the anecdotes online of people claiming to have resolved their gut issues and depression on a meat-only diet. All bloating and indigestion, GERD, anything like that, it's completely gone. This is very effective for dealing with depression. You do feel a level of both mental clarity and then even digestive health was really good after the first like eight days. Now I no longer suffer with anxiety. I no longer suffer with depression. On the other hand, there have been cases of long-term vegans finally quitting their high-fiber diet specifically because it caused so many gut issues for them. I'm hurting my stomach. Stomach bloating. Bloated. Bloated a lot. Bloating. Bloated. Bloating. Really bad gastrointestinal issues. Digestive illnesses like this that were so severe. My intestines were actually bleeding. Really bad pain after I would eat and blood in my stool. We've been told that the gut absolutely needs fiber. We need calcium for strong bones, protein for strong muscles, and fiber for a healthy gut. I'm sure most people would worry that they would be constipated if they didn't have any fiber. But why would we need indigestible substance to keep our digestive tract healthy? Consider this bizarre study presented by Dr. Paul Mason here. This case control study looked at 63 different patients with constipation and they gave them a high or low or zero fiber diet. As we can see, people experienced worsened symptoms when on a high fiber diet. Then a reduced fiber diet actually reduced symptoms. So the question is, what happened to those who had zero fiber in their diet? This is not a mistake. I didn't just forget to put something in the side there. Not one patient on the zero fiber diet had any symptoms. That's quite astonishing really. One study found that people on a fiber-enriched diet had far more gas evacuations. So we eat a lot of fiber, so we have gas. And another study found that indeed when you increase the fiber, you increase gas production. Fiber was really messing me up in that respect and I just felt better from a gut perspective without it. Your gut is so inflamed right now, you can't tolerate all this fiber you're eating every day. 14 out of 15 years of vegan and now I'm gonna eat just animals. That's right. So on a carnivore diet, we're moving off fiber. I started eating eggs and then I started eating meat. Instantly, gut inflammation gone. Blotin' gas, gone. When I often get bloated, I make stomach cramps sometimes. And when I was on the category diet, I didn't have any stomach cramps of bloating once, ever did any stomach symptoms whatsoever. Okay, so here's the thing about gas. It's not just about being bloated and uncomfortable, but methane gas buildup in the intestine can actually slow down the contractile processes in the small intestine, which can result in constipation. Ironically, we've been told for decades that the solution to constipation is more fiber. How could you get as strong as an ox without eating any meat? Have you ever seen an ox eating meat? I just do the same things as these big, gray things out here. We try to protect elephant and rhino. I just stick to plants. Cellulose is really hard to break down. Well, unless you're an animal like a cow. In the pro-vegan documentary, The Game Changers, they argued that, well, gorillas eat tons of plants and they're really big and strong. I mean, look at a gorilla. A gorilla will f*** you up in two seconds. What is a gorillory? But gorillas have a completely different and huge gut designed to handle tons and tons of plant fiber. Gorillas, by the way, are well-known for constantly burping and passing gas throughout the day. And also, they burp a lot and they are incredibly gassy. They are actually burping and farting a lot as well. The thing about our guts is that they were specifically adapted for eating meat and fat. It's well known that during our evolution, our brains suddenly and rapidly increased in size. At the same time, our brains got bigger, our guts shrank. This trade-off meant that more energy could be allocated to our energy-expensive brains. But now, with smaller guts, we would have had to rely on more efficient calorie and nutrient-dense foods like meat and fat. Our gut is excellent at completely digesting meat thanks to our stomach acid, which is actually even stronger than many carnivorous animals. Okay, so what happens when you eat only meat? This woman feeds her show cats in all meat diet. I do raw meat. I have little chicken hearts on top. He loves the hearts. She brags that one of the benefits of this is that there is considerably less poop to deal with. 98% of what they eat, their body absorbs. It's one week's worth of poop in this entire bag for all these cats. Vil Hamer Stafansen, too, noted that he straight up reduced his poop production by about 80% when he ate a meat-only diet. That doesn't mean he's constipated. That means that the majority of what he eats is completely digested, so he doesn't have as much stuff to deposit into the toilet. And similarly, today, many people are reporting that on the carnivore diet, they simply produce much less waste. So I listened to the doctors. I ate more fiber. I consumed more plants, and I ended up losing my entire colon. Kent Carnivore probably has the clearest evidence of how much easier meat digest than plants. He had to have his colon removed, so rather than using the toilet, he has to empty a colostomy bag, which is connected directly to his small intestine, meaning he can see exactly how things are digested. I've eaten both a plant-based diet, even since having this bag after my surgery, and eaten a carnivorous diet. So I wear a bag I can actually see, because I empty this thing multiple times a day, all animal products, right? Even red meat, they are all broken down entirely. Think about now, plants, right? You find plants in your poop. If you just swallow pieces of sweet corn, carrot, peas, and stuff like that, they're still there intact. Red meat, it's a breeze. He now sticks to a carnivore diet for several health benefits, including dramatically better digestion and gut health. I create very little gas and wind in the bag, right? Doesn't really happen so much. When I was eating plants, my bag filled up with air like I was blowing it up like a balloon. Now, before we move on, let's finally look at a 2021 study that surveyed 2,029 carnivore dieters. 531 people said that they were doing the carnivore diet specifically to try and treat gut issues. I'd bet the average doctor would worry that this diet would worsen their patient's gut issues. But the complete opposite happened. Almost everyone, 97% of 531 people improved or completely resolved their gut condition by eating a zero fiber, zero plant food diet. At the end of the day, I'm not trying to argue that fiber is bad for everyone, but it certainly seems to be the case for some people. Further, the idea that we all absolutely need fiber clearly isn't right. The idea that you need fiber, it's like, no, you don't, that's wrong. And our plants necessary, doesn't appear to be, you can live on meat. Now, I know it's hard to make sense of this, when we've been told for years about how fatty meat causes heart disease and all these other problems. People have been claiming that meat causes this or that ailment since the early 1900s, which is why people were baffled when Wilhammer Stephenson and Carson Anderson had success on a year of just meat. Actually, just recently, Harvard claimed that red meat is linked to diabetes. Ironically, that earlier study on 2029 Carnivore Dieters was done by a team of researchers out of Harvard University. While we're limited to just this one paper, it does suggest that if the Carnivore Diet could be sold as a pill, it would immediately be the absolute best diabetes drug on the planet. 402 of the people in the study said that they went Carnivore to manage their diabetes or insulin resistance. insulin resistance is basically the first step that leads to diabetes. The Carnivore Diet was so effective that 74% of these people completely resolved their diabetes or insulin resistance and 24% of them improved their condition. Putting that together, that's 98% of them experienced in a benefit from meat-only diet. So how could red meat cause diabetes if an only meat diet seems to be fantastically effective for treating diabetes? Actually, a doctor, John Rallo, famously cured two diabetic patients way back in 1797 with a diet of only meat and fat. Okay, but before we move on, here's the other thing. A 2009 paper says that insulin resistance itself is likely the most single important cause of heart disease. Okay, so then how can red meat and saturated fat cause heart disease if insulin resistance is the most important cause of heart disease and a diet of only meat and fat reverses insulin resistance? When I first heard about this diet, I wasn't surprised that many people had benefits. After all the diet cuts out processed food, wheat, soy, sugar, and vegetable oils. What really surprised me was that people were still experiencing improvements when switching from a very clean diet of just meat and greens to meat only. I have to cut out the goddamn greens within a week. I was 25% less anxious in the morning and I've been better every single day. So why would cutting out the greens be good for some people? The simple fact is that the animals we eat will try to protect themselves by running away. Plants can't run away, so they have to protect themselves by attempting to poison whatever eats them. We learned 20 years ago that brussel sprouts alone had over 136 identified human carcinogens in them. But also spinach, kale, lettuce, celery, cabbage, cucumber, broccoli, every plant that you've ever come across in the grocery store and not a single one had less than 60 known human carcinogens in them. That's what I'm telling you. This is why kids, no one likes brussel sprouts, right? You know? That bad taste, that bitter taste, is your brain and your tongue. They can tell you, like, hey, this is bad for you. Spit it out. Plants are trying to kill you. How are they, Ralph? Good? They taste like burning. Many everyday plant foods can be very dangerous to your dog, like avocados, chocolate, chives, garlic, onions, leeks, coffee, tea, grapes, mac and amen, nuts, walnuts, mushrooms, and other things. Plants create toxins because they're trying to prevent us from eating them. We, of course, know about all kinds of human allergies to plants like peanuts, tree nuts, soybeans, and wheat. But there are various other plant toxins that some people can react to. The foods that are the worst, right, in terms of what's going to cause the most information, the most gas obstructions, mushrooms, celery, cabbage, carrots, onions, nuts and seeds, pineapple, mango, brown rice. Oh, daddy, this tastes like grandma. In 2013, five little girls went to the hospital with second degree burns after getting lime juice on their skin. A compound in the limes made their skin extremely sensitive to UV light. In 1989, a diabetic alcoholic man died just a few hours after eating tons of sorrel soup. Sorrel is similar to spinach, and like spinach, it has plenty of oxalate. A paper on oxalate-induced kidney damage presents several case reports confirming kidney damage in people ingesting a large amount of oxalate-rich foods, like peanuts, cashews, almonds, black tea, celery, beets, spinach, and so on. There are all kinds of other plant toxins. For example, the glyadin protein in wheat can damage the gut lining. Protease inhibitors in things like grains, nuts, and seeds, and soy can interfere with your digestion of protein. But obviously, most of us can handle most plant foods. For example, sure, pineapple makes my mouth feel a bit weird. Spinach makes me kind of queasy. Gluten makes me a little sluggish. And mangoes, peanuts, and cauliflower can make me a little bit gassy. Honestly, it's not that big of a deal if I eat those every now and then. However, if I eat a lot of them every single day, I would start feeling pretty uncomfortable and low on energy. So the idea is that maybe small amounts of a variety of plant toxins at every single meal, every single day, can add up to where some people develop issues, even though they don't necessarily have a specific food allergy. Also, it's worth noting that we can't even absorb much of the nutrients in certain plants. For example, people say spinach is a good source of iron, but the oxalate in spinach blocks absorption of that iron. One study found only 2% of iron from spinach is absorbed. Beans are thought to be a good source of zinc, but there are several anti-nutrient compounds in beans that block the absorption of that zinc. In fact, if you eat black beans with oysters, the anti-nutrients in the beans even block the absorption of the zinc from the oysters. One study found that the anti-nutrients in corn were so potent that corn tortillas almost entirely blocked any zinc from oysters from being absorbed. Further, fiber itself has been found to block the absorption of minerals. We so often hear about how plants are chock-full of this vitamin or that mineral, but I don't think most people realize you can get all the essential nutrients from just animal products. In fact, many nutrients are often better absorbed from meat. Even animal protein is better absorbed than plant protein. I would get hangry, you know, hungry and angry and irritable. That is gone completely. I had anxiety and depression. I was very irritable all the time, switching to the carnivore diet. I noticed this whole thing lifted, and suddenly I had mental clarity, I had energy, I had optimism. Almost within, I'd say like a week or so, I noticed that my anxiety level is lowered. Especially now carnivore. I have control over my anxiety. My energy was way up, my sleep was up, depression gone. Let's take a look at why in the world mental health has improved for so many people doing a carnivore diet. First off, animal foods pack plenty of vitamins critical for brain function. Things like iodine, iron, zinc, B vitamins, vitamins A and D, choline, creatine and others. This may have a role in why a 2021 study found that people who don't eat meat have a significantly higher risk of depression and anxiety. I talked to a psychiatrist at McLean's hospital. He's starting a treatment center at McLean's based on essentially on a carnivore diet to treat endogenous depression, manic depressive disorder and schizophrenia. Now, as many people have pointed out, yes, there is certainly barely any research studying people on a carnivore diet. Much less specifically looking at why mental health issues like depression would improve on this diet. But one reason may be inflammation. There are tons of papers on the role of inflammation in depression. Studies have found that people with depression have up to 50% higher levels of biomarkers for inflammation and the risk of depression increases as inflammation increases. It's well known that giving the highly inflammatory substance LPS to various types of animals will reliably produce behavior that looks like depression or anxiety. And yes, a study in humans as well found that when people were injected with LPS, they experienced a dramatic rise in inflammation and very quickly experienced an increase in depressive symptoms like anxiety, feelings of social disconnection and anhedonia, the inability to feel pleasure. It's panic attack. Further, obesity, which is accompanied by higher levels of inflammation, is associated with depression. In fact, many of the known risk factors for a depression increase inflammation. When arthritis pain makes the stairs feel like a summit. In OptinSyncThurs 1911 book, The Fasting Cure, he claims that five cases of arthritis were cured by fasting. With arthritis, the joints become swelled and painful because they are so inflamed. This might just sound like an old tale, but a 1983 paper did find that a seven-day fast dramatically reduced people's arthritis symptoms and cut markers of joint inflammation almost in half. Now that's an old study, but several other studies like this one from 1991 and another one from 2021 suggested that indeed fasting can improve arthritis symptoms. Today is day 21 of my introduction to carnivore. My toe that's been bothering me for years. I can almost not feel any of the arthritis pain that I was getting in it. My mom went on the diet and her osteoarthritis went away. One of the huge health issues that Mikhaila Peterson fixed on our carnivore diet was arthritis. That was so severe that she had to have surgery to replace the joints in her ankle and hip. Now Mikhaila wasn't fasting, but the similarity between carnivore and fasting is that they both put you in ketosis. When you stop eating carbs for long enough, you go into ketosis, which is where your liver starts producing ketones from fat. And it's been clear since 2008 that increasing ketone production reduces inflammation in humans. I had a host of inflammatory conditions, including peripheral uveitis, and it disappeared completely along with psoriasis and gastric reflux disorder. There are now a lot of papers on how anti-inflammatory keto is. In the text with ketogenic diet and metabolic therapies, there's a whole chapter dedicated to keto's anti-inflammatory properties and how keto may help certain inflammatory diseases. Remember that inflammatory substance, LPS, that research was injected in rodents and humans to cause inflammation and anxiety and depression-like symptoms? This study found that ketosis is so anti-inflammatory that rodents doing a keto diet were significantly protected from the inflammatory effects of that LPS injection. Okay, so there is a serious lack of research on carnivore diets and mental health, but there is a decent amount of research finding keto diets to be beneficial for depression. Almost my whole life being depressed with taking methylated B vitamins and going on to a ketogenic diet. I have been medication-free and completely symptom-free for three and a half years. He was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. I was so manic, I was so psychotic. Matt saw more than 40 clinicians, tried 29 different medications. I was taking all the medication as prescribed and I was still sick. In 2020, Jan reached out to Dr. Christopher Palmer. His suggestion for Matt, a ketogenic diet. Matt started a medical keto diet. It's life-changing. I'd gone manic every March. I had to take 20 milligrams of this medication or more. I went on the diet. March of 2021, I sailed through five milligrams of this medication, no symptoms of hypomania, zero. Now, inflammation isn't the sole reason ketosis is good for mental health. For example, Dr. Chris Palmer explains that the key benefit of a keto diet is that it is correcting defective metabolisms. And he says that... Mental disorders are actually metabolic disorders affecting the brain. But in any case, unless you're eating a ton of dairy or barely any fat on a carnivore diet, you're very likely going to be in ketosis. But as we already discussed, several people experience further mental health benefits when transitioning from a low-carb keto diet to a completely carnivore diet. That's a bit puzzling, but it may be because these people are especially sensitive to those toxins that plants make to defend themselves. And it's really quite something seeing these people, they're still shell-shocked by the transformation. Because it's really something to lose, say, 150 pounds in a year. When I interviewed my wife, and we talked about her carnivore diet, I'd say 99% of people had the exact same story as her. Well, and I've met literally hundreds of people on my tour. They show me pictures. It was gonna be a 30-day experiment. I thought, how bad could it be? And here I am 10 years later. So is this the perfect diet you should be doing forever? Well, Jordan Peterson and Dr. Sean Baker are two famous cases of doing this diet for extremely long, over six years straight, and they're doing great. This isn't the case for everyone though. But after a year and a half, I quit the carnivore diet. I know that like myself, there are a lot of people who eat carnivore or ketogenic diets, and they run into issues. Dr. Paul Saladino was a very prominent advocate of a pure carnivore diet. I don't think there are any risks to eating animal foods exclusively. There are no risks. Eating a carnivore diet led to full resolution of my autoimmune condition, eczema, itchy rashes, and asthma that I'd had for my whole life. He even wrote a book about it in 2019. Finally, he ended up introducing some specific carbohydrates into his meat-heavy diet. Because he was having electrolyte issues, his free testosterone was lower, and his thyroid function was lower. So why exactly the diet stops being magical for some people is a big question for another time. But for now, one issue that people can run into while on a keto or carnivore diet is low electrolytes, which brings us to the sponsor of this video, Element. Plenty of fasting benefits from carnivore, keto, or even fasting come from reducing insulin. But reducing insulin will have you pee out more electrolytes. So adding electrolytes to your water can really bring your energy levels back up. I've done a carnivore diet, and I found I felt much better, especially in the adaptation phase, when I add a bit of salt and electrolytes from element to my water. Especially if I felt like I didn't have as much energy at the gym as usual, a bit of salt and some element was my go-to fix. Actually, even if I'm not doing carnivore or keto, I find element keeps my energy levels up. Element tastes great, and my favorite thing is its simple ingredients. It has a balanced mix of electrolytes, sodium, potassium, and magnesium, along with natural flavors and some stevia. A whole serving only has two carbs. If you want zero carbs, there's also a raw and flavor type. If you go to drinklmt.com slash what I've learned, you can get a free sampler pack with any purchase. Also, be sure to try the new element sparkling. It's a bold, refreshing, 16-ounce can of sparkling electrolyte water.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:58.476073Z ===
