 N-rem operated-al-phrire-rire-rire- before they become into some actual experience in the mind so there things become very very trippy in the sense that you see patterns and shapes and colors and it's like you have all these disconnected thoughts and you're like with this maze of very interesting but totally random thoughts and then you get even quieter and you go beyond down to the depths and there came a point when in the middle of that process everything just stopped and when i think everything just stopped it was like even consciousness was gone the cessation of suffering that sounds kind of inconceivable right so how does this realization that there is no permanent self how why would that cease suffering delson armstrong is a highly advanced meditator who mastered potentially the most difficult meditation technique an elusive state called niroda samampati which is essentially shutting off consciousness at will for a specific period of time while we can't directly confirm delson's subjective experience neuroscientist rubin laukkonen and his team investigated delson's brain while he was performing this technique and found that it was different from sleep and induced a peculiar state that is something like the effect of ketamine on the brain delson's extensive meditation background has given him several insights into the nature of how the mind constructs consciousness this is explored extensively in his book a mind without craving among many other things delson and i talk about what happens in the deep end of meditation what kind of leveling up of the mind can we expect from deep extended meditative practice we also talk about what so-called enlightenment or awakening is and how many traditions of buddhism detailed a very specific map or sequence of events that should happen on the path to awakening you can let the cat out of the bag and explain that you have in fact experienced these different levels of awakening the interview was recorded right after i did a 10-day meditation retreat in india taught by delson i i had this feeling that the top part of my skull was erased and then there was just a bunch of bubbles like floating out of it and that was the first time that i understood the phrase arising and passing away yeah like the the thoughts just arise and then they pass away yes why don't we just go ahead and get started with your meditation career before you found twin so my meditation career as you could have would start i've started uh at the age of 13. that was my first introduction into hatha yoga and i remember this was the summer of 2003 and i remember a family friend had invited me to go to a hatha yoga session and we had done some really advanced postures and i remember coming out of that practice feeling really high and wondering how do i re-experienced this what are the ways i've been doing and that really got me interested in knowing what is this full process of yoga so he gave me a book which was about the different asanas and breathing practices uh you know different kinds of diet to try out those kinds of things so i did that and i got into a kind of consistent yoga practice with some meditation in it but it wasn't until i was about 16 that i was invited to go to the himalayas by a teacher who was at the school so i went there i went to haridwar rishikesh with akashi spent a lot of time with akashi and i was learning different kinds of styles of meditation in yoga as well as sankhya and vedanta and so it was more of a rigorous sort of training in philosophy as well as meditation and i took separate trips back and forth between mumbai and with akashi and i stayed there in a cave for some time did my own practice and when i came back to the us in 2009 i didn't do much except for a creator i was introduced to kriya yoga under different kinds of lineages so i had the lineage of karmahansa harikaralanda i had the lineage of lahiri mahasaya and uh and so i did that and then i got introduced to ramana mahana rishi's uh self-inquiry process i think j krishnan went to india and j krishnan went to the others in india and came to the us then while i was in the us uh i continued with my kriya practice for quite some time i would practice six seven eight hours a day sometimes doing lots and lots of kriya and after that uh around 2011 i got introduced to the dhivetan practices so mahammaduram zoltzor practices then from there in 2015 or 16 i was looking out for meta meditation and the reason why i was looking for that was because in the yoga sutras it actually talks about using the four brahmaviharas to make your consciousness mutiful in other words making your consciousness or rather making it immutable and so that's where i was looking into how do i use these as an object in meditation and i got introduced to my peter maram zoltzor on youtube okay and from there from there kind of started okay practice so to rewind a bit i think most most of you are probably not too familiar with all the different yeah lineages of meditation or different styles of yoga or even the fact that yoga has meditation within it and it's not just stretching right right so for let's start with yoga for example you know uh i think the west has been introduced in the very beginning when when yoga came in as uh being a series of exercises and breathing practices and to be fair you know when sami vikinanda came in the late 1800s and uh pramansi yogananda came later on after that they did introduce meditation they did introduce a kriya yoga like you know now they produced kriya yoga to the west uh but i think uh in our modern day uh you know hatha yoga has been the predominant thing and through hatha yoga you have different kinds of programs that people do you know vinyasa and flow and and lukum yoga and things like that but the philosophy of yoga which is uh you know takes its root in many different texts because the the very common commonly known one is patanjali's yoga sutras but there's other ones there's the hatha yoga pradipika there's some of the other yoga shastras there's uh there's a yoga yoga yoga yoga valkya yoga vashistha so this is like different rishis or sages who uh given some insight into the practice of yoga there's in south india a whole tradition on yoga which is from a text called uh the dirumantiram which is a huge body of work but whatever text you go into the the spine let's say of that process is what's known as the ashtanga margha which is the eight old path in that sense yoga is made up of eight folds or eight different rungs to a ladder eight steps which uh work in in in an integrated way that that is uh yama and yama then you have asana which are the actual postures and exercises pranayama which is the breathing practice and then prathihara which is how to bring your mind towards an object dharana which is selecting an object and staying on it dhyana which is focused concentration and samadhi which is the fruit of that practice leading you to these elevated altered states of consciousness so these different you have the poses the breathing and then the concentration are they all directed towards a single goal is there a specific goal with yoga the goal in yoga is very similar to the philosophy of sankhya in fact yoga the yoga sutras have a lot of terminologies that are rooted in sankhya but to simplify that process what it says is there is one that is the permanent nature and impermanent nature of reality so that's the purusha which is the permanence which is you know the it could be from the dhantik standpoint like the atman the soul or we should say the greater soul the universe in existence and then there's prakriti which is all the different manifestations of nature including our body ourselves our nervous system um our senses uh and the experience of our senses and the idea is to go beyond that and come to a state known as kaibabhaya so in in the in the idea of samadhi there are different levels of experience in samadhi samadhi basically means uh a mind that is even an even-minded kind of way of being samadhi means even or equanimous and he is mind or the intellect and so once your mind comes to these states of samadhi and their experiences are of different categories like a sense of joy a sense of beingness an objectless awareness to being just pure awareness which then leads to the experience which yoga's goal is which is kaibalia kaibalia means to be uh alone or rather it's it's basically liberation of the mind so that you are beyond just the facets of everyday ordinary experience and you integrate back into it with that new realization okay this i mean it's sounding similar to twin which we'll get into in a bit um but so let's see so you reach this this state i'm trying not to use the twin words this state of uh aloneness yeah right and is there a permanent shift in your consciousness after that or is it kind of like a immensely peaceful state that you enter into to enjoy for the time that it lasts you know the way to look at it is yeah so with samadhi uh those are temporary states samadhi states there's a sabi khalpa nirbhi khalpa i mean there's a whole bunch of different samadhis but they're taking you very similar to you know in the buddhist practice of jhanas where you're going through having experienced joy and equanimity and collectiveness and all these different things so there's an overlap of those states and those are impermanent but there does come uh to be a shift in your perception a shift in your perspective based on what the underlying philosophy of yoga is yoga comes from the word yoke which means to yoke you know to unite to join together it's joining together the small soul with the super soul that is the that's the philosophical underpinning of that and so it does create a shift in your consciousness in how you perceive reality and um and so actually coming to that experience the goal of yoga is similar um maybe qualitatively different but similar in terms of buddhism which is you know the second line of the yoga students is yoga which means yoga is the cessation of mental vibrations well very similar and so before we get into the buddhism part uh one of your claims to fame is that you have mastered each of these levels of samadhi up until up until the uh i forget the term but the but the aloneness yeah correct yes and can you tell us a little bit about what that was like to experience personally like did each did you find say a personality shift or way you uh experienced the world after being able to bring your mind to achieve each of those states so you know it's interesting when you get into this practice first uh a lot of time when you when you are studying the texts uh especially from a beginner's mind you have all these sort of ideas based on what you read which is like oh samadhi you know you know at least in my personal experience it was like samadhi is the greatest like there must be some super consciousness that you experience or there must be like this you know the heavens will open up and you will experience god you know and you experience the divine light all of these different things that have built up in the mind but then when you actually do experience it and as you're as you talk to your teachers and your guides and they confirm for you this is the experience you're having you realize oh it's only that you know so for example you know there's this uh ananda samadhi which is where you experience great amounts of joy but that joy is said to be otherworldly the reason being is because it's not connected to any of the five physical senses it doesn't arise from the experience of sensual experience it doesn't arise from like the the joy from you know eating a really great meal for example or you know sitting out and basking in the sun it's a joy that's integrated in the mind that comes from the mind and then when you realize that you start to see oh happiness comes from within that's a powerful shift in the way for you actually experience it because we hear it all the time people say you know don't look out outward look within and happiness comes from within and it's become this sort of tacky way of understanding how spirituality is but when you actually understand it then it makes a lot of sense then you stop becoming interested it's not like you're giving up you can still enjoy those same things but when you have a greater happiness and that happiness that you experience through the senses then you don't get educated by things that come and go would you say that made you say more i mean sound like you're already pretty diligent if you're practicing six seven hours a day but would you say like having that experience of cultivating that joy from within yourself and realizing you don't have to seek all these sensual pleasures to experience joy and then make you say less of a um you know maybe you wouldn't procrastinate as much or you have more willpower things like that because you you didn't feel like tugged if i say like you know i want to play this video game you don't have this work to do yeah i think there's something to be said about that as you mentioned diligence and work because uh in the yoga supers it does talk about that it says that if you want to achieve the goal there are levels of you know in terms of somebody can have a little diligence and a little effort somebody can have a medium level of diligence and a medium level of effort or they can have like large amounts of effort and diligence and depending upon how long how how that is will then determine how long it will take you to get to the goal so so yeah i i was pretty motivated let's say to like get there so it is about how much effort you put into it but the right kind of effort that's another thing to understand and how how much diligence you have which is to say you know study and practice those are the two cornerstones of the the path of yoga the ability to study and understand and the ability to actually apply what it is that you study and practice it through the process of meditation so it isn't just about the effort because you know you could have wrong effort you need to have the right foundation in terms of this is how to do it and then apply it and obviously it's not about just knowing how to do it but actually learning how to apply okay and going back to the the the alone state what about that so that's the highest level right was what was that like was there some big bang moment was it mind-blowing or well i'll tell you what when i had the experience of yoga cessation it's like i was in the middle of doing this kriya and as i was doing that kriya i suddenly everything just stopped we're sorry kriya is is a meditation it's a meditation practice it's a it's actually a practice of using different kinds of energy in the body and like using the chakras and things like that so i was doing a specific kind of practice where i was doing large amounts of that consistently and there came a point when in the middle of that process everything just stopped and when i mean everything just stopped it was like even consciousness was gone and it was like i don't know how long it was for but when i came back out i was like wow what was that what just happened there like i left the body or something happened there and then when you come in you experience these vast amounts of bliss and energy and relief and then when you come out of it it's like when you see the world around you it's vibrant the colors are brighter the colors are sharper there's more detail in different things that you see and you just are in the state of like equanimity and everything is just fine you know and then and then that kind of wears off but the shift there is there must have been something going on in that cessation experience which then makes you see through the senses and what i mean by that is yes normally when we experience the world we experience them through the senses but now there was this connection to a sense of an observer a sense of this eternal witness and then you identify it as that looking through the eyes uh hearing through the ears so you don't get attached to the hearing or the ears but you just become this awareness that was the experience like it was like i was in a this this body was like uh like a a meat suit you know i was just taking on this sort of like it was like vr you know and everything was just like okay i'm experiencing this is allowing me to experience this world but i am not part of this world okay wow so so in that yoga cessation experience you still had some amount of awareness or there was no awareness in all that's okay i only knew about it at picking on i see i knew somehow i got unconscious okay let me tell you real quick how i stumbled upon twin or i really got into buddhism um so i was talking to my friend on the telephone and then he we were talking about learning japanese and he he has fantastic japanese he's much better than mine um we talked a little about a little bit about that like what to do to improve the accent but anyways near the end of it he just mentioned hey have you heard of this thing called uh this subreddit of reddit called stream entry i was like no it's that he's like yeah so basically uh there's these guys who say that enlightenment is actually a real thing and they're trying to do it i was like what because when i when i was younger uh i i was exposed a lot to zen buddhism and i think at the time i couldn't realize the value of it at the time but you know basically whenever i sat down i was just waiting for the cat to come and sit on me but um in at least from my limited knowledge of the zen text it didn't really seem like enlightenment was the goal or maybe it was but it's not something you should strive for because i kind of my interpretation is you probably won't get it and then i had these doubts like well is anyone enlightened what is enlightenment like um i didn't really see too many definitions of what exactly what that would be so it's just kind of for me this word of like everything's perfect whatever that means so anyways uh got into that i read this uh a really large book uh by daniel ingram we'll get into that too much but um he kind of explained very clearly that there are these different lineages of buddhism and depending on the lineage of buddhism they have specific roadmaps to get to enlightenment like you do this and then this happens and you continue to do that you'll experience this specific thing and after you experience that you're here and then near the end you're at this stage of enlightenment and you're at this stage of enlightenment and then you're at the the final stage so that was that was really mind-boggling to me so for the audience assuming enlightenment is a real thing how would you describe it in simple terms so the understanding of enlightenment you know we use the word enlightenment but let's say we could use the word awakening and the reason is because you're waking up from the dream of existence the word enlightenment and the reason is that we take this body to be ourselves in some ways we take our experiences through our senses to be ourselves or that we own them in some way we take our relationships and everything in our lives in some way or another to be ourselves a part of ourselves or that this is mine you know and awakening is just awakening from that dream of existence which is the dream of taking that personal identifying with it so awakening means that you find out what actually happiness is happiness and you realize as i was alluding to earlier that that happiness is not bound by any kind of experience that we're having here through our senses and so if you were to talk about the qualitative experience of enlightenment or awakening i would boil it down to two words it's contentment and acceptance you're okay with everything that happens not because of some reason of not being able to assert yourself but you're okay because your mind is beyond what is impermanent because you have found an experience that is permanent which is that long-lasting happiness you can call that nirvana or nirvana or nirvana in power but that experience is the cessation of suffering the cessation of suffering sounds pretty uh dramatic yeah but you know i was talking to um you know on fit mind before and i said maybe we could just call it the beginning of happiness true happiness okay unconditional happiness unconditional happiness okay okay i think nowadays people are more and more aware of the hedonic treadmill i think at some point in my life i kind of as a kid i always had this frustration with the concept the concept of upkeep like like oh you know i had some chores that i need to do right and then i do them and then the next day i have to do them again and i'm just kind of like so frustrated that that i had to re-experience this discontentment and like it couldn't be dealt with once and i could expect to experience that discontent uh to some degree i guess i was a bit of a anxious kid like anything that didn't allow me to play video games was not enjoyable so yeah this kind of frustration and then as you get older um you can't realize like well i could work really hard to get a cool car and then but that will only make me happy for a little while okay so and then nowadays the concept of dopamine detox it's like okay we realize there's this hedonic treadmill so what if we take a step back don't do anything too fun and so then when we go back into life we can yeah you can re-experience those things in a more enjoyable way but then what do you do you just keep doing that right forever until until you die yeah so yeah the cessation of suffering that sounds kind of i i guess it would be inconceivable right so how does this realization that there is no permanent self how why would that cease suffering yeah because uh what happens is you start to look at how this world is mind created like everything that we experience even if it's through the five physical senses arise in a form of concepts so everything we experience and these concepts are you know they are concepts that we apply to the world but then we collectively also apply to the world you know for example when i talk about it like you know you see this as the color red and i too see this as a color red but your vision of red how do i know it's the same as my vision of red but yet we say yeah that is right we have come to an agreement that that's the color that it is so all of these concepts the mind then creates a sense of self around it when you grow up like for example you were talking about you know you would do whatever you could to just get back to playing video games so we find sources of happiness and we attach this idea that that source of happiness helps make me comfortable a sense of me happy and comfortable now that sense of self is very intrinsic to the mind you know even as infants we start to we start to develop this idea of okay i need nourishment and the only way i can get nourishment is by crying or making a sound so we start to condition what is good for us or how we think is something good for us based on how it makes us feel so you talk about the dopamine detox you know you go back to that it is based in the idea of certain neurochemicals so you know when you go on a retreat for example you are doing a sort of deep dopamine detox but it goes deeper than that where on an experiential level on a mental level on an emotional level you start to realize oh there's this thing this self-conceit that's starting to create what it thinks is a source of happiness but if you disengage with it if you let the mind kind of like pull back and just observe things as they are then you start to see oh wait this is impermanent so it's not really long-lasting happiness and so i can't say that that's me uh and not to get too philosophical about it but in ancient india there was a notion of this self which is going back to that notion of the atman which is that it is something that is permanent and provides eternal happiness that is our source that is our true nature that we are eternally happy and the buddha took that let's say and he said okay i won't comment on that but what i will say is let's use that as a touchstone and then take all of our experiences that we have our mind and our body and our senses and experience through the senses our consciousness our awareness our thinking faculties our intellect everything and let's use that touchstone and let's compare it and then you start to realize oh these things are dependent on other things they're not independent and so when you realize that you see oh then it can't be considered as an independent permanent self when you realize that then you see okay i can detach from this and that happiness doesn't come from there and then you find a new source of happiness which is independent all of these impermanent experiences one thing that came to mind when we're talking about the the the self and and these ideas or our ideas about what our self is and why that leads to dissatisfaction um oh yeah that's one thing i wanted to point out i feel like the word suffering is kind of dramatic yeah so is would you say something like dissatisfaction is a little more accurate i would say that dissatisfaction uh would be would be a good word to use that because you think about as i said the qualitative experience of awakening is contentment so it's discontentment with with you know it's uh somebody else talked about this lee brazen and he called it you know everything is a bummer that's the experience of suffering yeah okay and the the root word that i really like that the how you're saying that the root word of it is so it's dukkha and what that means literally is that a it's a wheel where the i guess the axis is off center so it's just kind of like everything's never quite right so it's just kind of bumping around yes okay yes and and so to to bring this back to video games a little more time i i started playing this game tekken recently and at first i was just having fun i was like oh this is a cool new game i never really played it let me learn but then the moment that i thought i was kind of pretty good i was like hey i'm getting good at this i developed this self-identity of oh i'm someone who's good at tekken so then when i played online and then i would lose then it it started to generate a lot of frustration whereas when i first started i was just playing the game which is a game we played i had a lot of fun with it but then as soon as i had that self wrapped around it that's when i started being frustrated with the game so so so one of the realizations is this is this experiential this direct experience that there is not a self that is the the result of awakening right and so which is i would say i imagine vastly incredibly more different than someone like logically explaining like well here's how your brain works so you probably don't have a self right um but just to address that intellectual bit a bit i thought that the best example the most concise way to think about it was something that sam harris said he said i think he was talking more about free will but i think it equally applies to no self he said you don't choose the thoughts that you have yeah that would mean that you would have to think them before you thought them yeah yeah and so i thought like wow that's just it's the simplest way to put it yeah so we're learning all these different jhanas and that was one of the really exciting things for me about twin is because i was learning about these maps so the concept of jhanas and then stages of awakening are in different traditions not just twim not just uh the boss and i has this too and they say uh there are these things called jhanas and then you have stages of enlightenment and so there's one you know those are two different things at least in that uh well yeah they're they're different things but i was learning about these jhanas and and they were these altered states of consciousness basically um kind of similar to the yoga samadhi states that you're talking about and so i was learning that oh in the first jhana you feel immense joy and then in the second jhana i feel like the first second and third will be a little hard for me to explain right now but you get later to states like say the fourth jhana onwards where basically you lose most all perception of your body or at least the mind isn't concerned with the body much at all to where like everything is just right here so i guess i was thinking like okay i was still a little skeptical about the possibility of awakening being an actual thing yeah and so then i thought okay you know i don't have to get awakened just to see if this leads somewhere so maybe if i could just experience a jhana and see that if you meditate you can actually get into this really enjoyable trance state because up until then all the meditation i've done was focusing on the breath and that was basically just a chore the whole um there was a couple of moments you know of nice focus but more or less the trick so anyways i experienced these jhanas that you teach um and one of the things you notice in the jhanas is that your mind is like the the activity is just you're just in a storm of mental activity and you're kind of there in the background just watching it happen and you can't do anything about it you're just there and it just it just keeps going you have pretty much no control so would you mind quickly explaining just in in simple terms like what is the experience of each of the jahans so there's eight jahans right right so so the first jhana is uh accompanied by uh a few things number one is it says quite secluded from sensual pleasures which means you close your eyes and now you center your mind around something which is an object of medication the second part of that is secluded from unwolesome states so these are sort of uh thoughts or or mental patterns that obscure your ability to be collected so those are the five hindrances that we call them which is sensual craving getting attracted to things uh you know attachments aversion getting irritated and frustrated by things uh restlessness the mind becomes agitated it's just a lot of energy going on sloth and torpor the mind gets dull and sleeps and in doubt wondering what's going on in the mind and wondering if i'm doing the practice right or not uh and then and so you know the first jhana means that your mind first of all centers on an object and then it's free of any of these states that obscure your ability to see reality as it is these five hindrances as a result of that the mind actually feels this sense of a micro sensation of relief and from there comes what's known as pipi with this joy and from that joy there's also sukha which is the sense of happiness in the body and ekagata which is uh single pointedness or a single-mindedness i wouldn't say it's one-pointedness it's rather that the mind the the analogy i use is you know here is a planet and this is your object of medication and here you are where your attention is and it orbits around the object of meditation and so there's enough space for you to be able to see anytime the mind starts to get distracted and then bring it back into orbit and that's using the six arcs which we'll get into later but then from there you know the thinking and examining thought which is part of the first jhana is bringing up an object and staying with that object once that happens then there's no need to keep doing that now the mind has a level of self-confidence and there's a flow where the mind mind's awareness rests on the object of meditation and as a result of being further collected the joy and happiness deepens in the second jhana in the third jhana you start to lose awareness of the mind parts of your body start to feel like they're going away like maybe you might feel a heaviness in the body or you might feel a lightness floating kind of sensation in the body would you say there's a a maybe another flavor that could that be kind of like distorted perception of the body like maybe it's elongating yes yes it feels like it's expanding it feels like it's elongated like even feels like it's just disappearing completely and so this is part of the third jhana where the mind starts to experience deeper levels of tranquility and steadiness with its object in meditation and so that energetic vibratory joy that you experience flutters away and now there's just this longer sustained happiness that's happening in the third jhana in the fourth jhana there's total equanimity the mind feels completely at ease and is completely balanced and the mindfulness or awareness of observation power of the mind is at a maximum like you are completely stable with your object and so from there there are from the fourth jhana there are these ayatanas ayatanas means like the dimension or space or realm or access point and so it's uh it's the base of infinite space infinite consciousness nothingness and neither perception or non-perception you get to the fourth jhana all of this experience of the body completely kind of becomes imperceptible and now you're deep in your mind and from there there are these altered states where you experience this sense of expansion and boundless spaciousness so your mind becomes space itself or that is the experience that you have and from there you start to experience what's known as infinite consciousness your awareness becomes part of that space but then it becomes it becomes gradual in other words now you actually start to see that this consciousness just like a layer of light is actually made up of quintillions and quintillions of individual photons that flow of consciousness and awareness that you're experiencing is actually made up of millions and millions and millions of arising and passing away of consciousnesses dependent upon sense experiences and you see it for yourself and then from there the gaps widen between each arising and passing the way of consciousness and you experience that gap widening further until there's nothingness there's no thing there in in the mind there's just a blankness but you're aware of the blankness so this will be perception of nothingness this is the seventh jhana so to speak and then from there you get into the eighth which is called neither perception nor non-perception it's a very interesting state to be in where the mind feels like it's awake but asleep at the same time it's like you are in a lucid deep sleep there's just pure awareness there and you start to notice the percolations or the forming of a thought before it becomes fully formed you kind of see you know the micro fragments of the atoms that create that thought before they become into some actual experience in the mind so there things become very very trippy in the sense that you see patterns and shapes and colors and it's like you have all these disconnected thoughts and you're like in this maze of very interesting but totally random thoughts and then you get even quieter and go beyond down to the depths where where you have an experience of quiet we call it quiet but it's really just mind that's just in mind then there's a state known as the signless collectiveness of mind this is like jhana 8.5 if you will and in that experience the mind itself dissolves and all there is is this awareness and the analogy i use is like you take a flashlight you point it up to the sky and assuming that there's no meteorite no asteroids no planets nothing that the the light can kind of just bounce off of that light just continues on space the same way your awareness is just aware but not aware of anything in particular and so it's signless in the sense that it's objectless awareness and then while you're here in this aware state eventually because there's no object for your attention to grab onto the mind just shuts down and experiences cessation okay quick couple comments on that so the interesting thing is i feel like there's this idea floating out there that the object of meditation is to think no thoughts which it kind of is but people don't realize just the the level of to met up to really think no thoughts the your level of meditation it has to be pretty amazing but but i think that's the idea of like oh i'm going to meditate i'm going to sit down and think no thoughts like if you can do that it's amazing but uh and then one thing i wanted to add is so these uh so infinite consciousness yeah i think it's really hard to grasp just what that would look like but i had a quite visual experience of that or at least i did this um the first time i did it i didn't really know what it was and then afterwards i had to like read and be like oh i think that's what that is so i'm not really sure if this was what it was but i had this feeling that i was sitting in my chair and then there was just a void around me completely and then i sort of had a sense of like i'd say my my body the sense of my body was flickering in and out because i had some a little bit of back pain so it's kind of like you have the vr goggles and someone's tapping it from the outside and um i i had this feeling that the top part of my skull was erased and then there was just a bunch of bubbles like floating out of it and so they would they would come up from from the skull that would float around a little bit and then pop and they just kept doing that over and over and over again right so each little thought uh and that was the first time that i understood the phrase arising and passing away yeah like the the thoughts just arise and then they pass away yes but let's go over to cessation so uh we can let the cat out of the bag and explain that you have in fact experienced these different levels of awakening and the way to experience these levels of awakening is through these cessations so you get to the the eighth jhana and the 8.5 jhana and then the mind just kind of like you reach the end game over just kind of shuts off then it boots back up so uh so there's there's four stages and you kind of have to you have to like do a cessation and then to lock it in you you do a cessation you get the first stage but then to lock in that stage you have to do another one right so the idea here is cessation allows the mind to kind of go to a level where it does touch the unconditioned which we call nirvana which is you know nirvana or nirvana really know what that means is no fire like the the lack of fire or the quenching of fire which means that all of that mental activity that creates our senses of those are completely and so that experience from there the mind boots back up and as a result of experiencing that has a lot of relief that happens from this relief there comes realizations and seeing of what we call the kind of origination basically what that means is you realize how the mind creates its sense of reality and the sense of self and when we talk about the sense of self i just want to add one thing here because that's something that people always wonder like okay fine we say we have no sense of self but who is that self that says that there's no self okay right because you know you have the sense of the observer observing your thoughts and then you say okay fine these thoughts are not me these feelings are not me these perceptions are not me then who is the me is it the observer itself and this is something that the mind might have to take some time to wrap around when you have to see for yourself to experience so to speak is that the observer arises in dependence upon the object of observation okay okay so so you uh i guess another way to put it is there is no self without an experience right so coming back to that like there is something that the buddha gave which is a very concise teaching which he said in the scene there is only the scene in the heard there is only the heard in the cognize there's only the cognize in the experience there's only the experience the problem is that when the mind adds a sense of self it superimposes a sense of self in that experience before that experience or after that experience like that experience is just the experience then the sense of self or the observer arises depending upon that experience and passes away depending upon that experience. Okay. So to put this, I guess, in a more brain-oriented way, it's like you have some mental activity responding to some stimulus. Yes. And then following that activity is another piece of mental activity that says, that was me. Yes. Okay. Yes. So at the moment of cessation, so you cease all mental activity, all conscious mental activity, your body is still working. And then the brain boots back up and it's kind of like, the way I thought of it, maybe you have a better analogy. It's kind of like, let's say a computer fan. If you look at it, it's just spinning so fast. Maybe you have no idea how fans work. And it's like, it's like spinning so fast to be like, what is that thing in it? Where does the air come from? It's like this magical circle that just generates air. And then you turn it off, and then it finally stops moving. And then when it turns back, even though it's turning back on, turning it off real slow. Yes. So you can see, oh, it spins. Right. Exactly like that. So when the mind boots back up, you see, oh, this is how the proto-thoughts arise, the formation of samskaras. Oh, this is how consciousness comes to be. And then you realize, oh, this is how feeling and perception are. There's no self involved in that process. It's happening dependent upon previous causes and conditions. And the seeing of that, the observing of that arises in dependence upon the experience. This is where the very root of the self then goes away, is eliminated at the fourth level of awakening. But it takes time only because our minds have been sort of, you know, conditioned at such a deep level from when we are born, whatever it is that we have that experience, that it takes time to let go of these so-called fetters. And so there is the delineation points between each of these levels of awakening. So in the first case of stream entry, you let go of certain fetters, like the intellectual understanding that there is no permanent self. The letting go of clinging to rites and rituals because you realize, oh, those are also coming from some kind of sense of self. And there's total conviction. Traditionally speaking, it's ambition in the Buddha. But what that translates into is realizing, oh, this is the way to start to see reality as it actually is. There's total conviction in following that road map. And then as you get to what's known as a once returner or a sakura gana in Pali, what happens is you weaken the fetter of sensual craving and aversion, which means you stop taking those things so seriously. You might still experience them. You might still grab onto things, but your mindfulness is so sharp to be able to recognize the percolation of wanting to grab onto it. And even if it does, you recover from it faster. So you're like, oh, there was the mind starting to crave again. There was the mind getting irritated again. And you're able to kind of backtrack. So then from there is what's known as a non-determination of an agam, where they completely let go of any kind of sensual craving and aversion. And so their mind will never generate any kind of irritation, frustration, longing, desire, or anything in terms of the sixth sense basis. And then the Arha, which is the full awakening, let's go of that deep, intrinsic sense of relating a sense of self to things. And from that comes restlessness, craving for existence, craving for non-existence, because it all comes from that deep sense of self. When that goes away, like a house of hearts, that gets demolished. And then finally, ignorance, which is not being able to see things as they are, being able to see reality in its completeness. The obscuration of that goes away as well. Now, there are other points where it's called path and fruition, which is what you were referring to, which is one cessation can get you into the path of an experience of awakening. But it might take you a few more cessations to get to a point where you get to fruition. Not necessarily, but usually one cessation equals one path and then another cessation could be a fruition. And if it is, then it might take you a few more cessations to get to the next path and the next fruition. Because it takes time for the mind to suddenly drop these fetters. So each cessation is an opportunity for the mind to either drop that fetter or to at least grind away at that fetter until it does drop. Okay, so you have to do, basically to progress on this path of awakening, each stage gives you these upgrades. Yeah. You have to continuously do this process of shutting the brain down and rebooting it. So it's like you keep rebooting it to try and figure out, like, oh, that's how that works and that's how this works. I wanted to talk more about the fetters from an experiential perspective. So why don't we talk about what it was like for you to, what your personal experience of experiencing to stream entry were the first path. So what was that like? So I have to tell you, you know, for me, in my experience, when I was doing the twin retreat, online retreat, I progressed through each stage quite quickly. I didn't have a chance to really experience what the sakuragami and anagami was, you know, in terms of comparing the two. All I understood was at stream entry, the actual experience was like, again, like blackout, coming out of that blackout, experiencing this volcano of joy and energy and belief. And then that lasted for like a whole day, basically. And everywhere I looked, everything was just so vibrant again and so colorful. And I was just content with everything. And looking back in my mind, I think it was like, wow, yeah, there is no permanent self here. The mind had an experiential understanding of it. And so at the level of mind, at the level of thought, there was this knowing that, yeah, there is no permanent self. And then there was this understanding, oh, yeah, this is the path. Like, like, this is what I'll keep doing. Like, there's nothing I can do outside of this now. Because you see it for yourself. So you still had, so you said you had an intellectual understanding that there is no self. But you still had the experience of, you know, I'm doing this, I'm doing that. It's not like you were sitting in an automatically moving gun or something like that. Right. Okay. Right, exactly. Okay. So, so, because the, the, that, that's still quite profound for, for the beginning. Because it's like, a lot of people do experience themselves as some kind of, like, homunculus who's, like, experiencing it through, oh, this, I am a self, but it's in my body. Or I am the body. Or whatever it might be, they might have ideas about. That completely goes away. But there's still a relating of a sense of self in the first few stages. And so, then later on, when you get to the level of anagami, you completely have such a, such a mind that's purified of any kind of craving, sensual craving and aversion, that you're completely content. If your flight's late, you're waiting on line, you know, you're looking at the microwave, waiting for your food to heat up. Like, there's no, like, agitation, like, when am I going to get that? It's just, like, you can wait for it, it doesn't matter. You know, so there's complete contentment there. And as you progress to the final stage, that's where you completely let go of all the feathering of any sense of self to reality. And that experience is, is basically like, just always observing, complete mindfulness. No sense of self there. Just like, everything as, everything is arising and passing away, it's unfolding. Reality is unfolding. And the sense of the observer itself is also an experience that's, that's, that's being had. And so, going back to that same statement, in the experience, there's only the experience. It's a complete flow of processes that's, that's going on. There's no restlessness in the mind, no agitation in the mind. Which means, when you go sit down and do a meditation, there's not this whole period of time where you've got to settle the mind down. The mind is already settled, whether you're meditating or not. I'll, I'll add the clip later, but when you did the interview with Mett Nanda, and you did the muse example. He was, he was practicing that, well, you know, it's a muse, it's not as good as a, like, octopus of electrodes. But, it was picking up on, what it could pick up on. And then it was like, the moment you closed your eyes, everything just went, you know. Yeah. It's like, dropped dramatically. Yeah. So, yeah, that's got to be pretty nice. One of the funny things was in the, later you're telling us, so in the retreat, people have never done a retreat. You are meditating for several hours a day for 10 days. And then at some point in the day, you get to speak with the teacher for a little bit and he'll ask about your practice and guide you and answer any questions you have. And so Delce would do that for us. And then we were talking to him at dinner on the last day, and we were asking him what it's like to be fully awakened. And you said, you may think I'm listening only to you. But could you tell us more about the panoramic vision? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So, yeah, that's right, that was at dinner and we were talking about this. Yeah, I mean, yeah, yeah. I basically said, it might look like I'm paying attention to you. And by the way, I am paying attention to you, but I'm also paying attention to the birds in the sky. I'm also paying attention to the sound in the air. I'm paying attention to what's going on with my body. I'm paying attention to my heartbeat. I'm paying attention to, you know, the micro movements on your face. It's like awareness is like a full spectrum of awareness is there. And I can see up to here. Like if I put my hands up like here, my panoramic vision is literally like up to here. So, like everything opens up. There's this deep level of clarity that your mind doesn't land on anything. But because it's such a huge broad spectrum of awareness, it can take everything in all at once. That's almost, I would imagine that the only people who could imagine what that would be like is who are like really advanced meditarians or have done so in sort of psychedelic. And it almost sounds like you wouldn't be able to function. It's like if, you know, I'm trying to watch a YouTube video, but then I have 18 different YouTube videos playing on at the same time. But, I mean, clearly you can function. I mean, I can give you another qualitative experience. Sure. Which is like where I can literally hear you speak and completely understand what you're saying. If there's another person having a conversation, I can also pick up on what they're conversing. I can have two or three conversations at the same time and completely understand all of them. Wow. Okay. Now that's kind of a superpower, right? Because like we were talking on the ESO, I was like, oh, is your memory better? Do you have better reflexes? Like, can you perceive a monitor's frame rate better? But that is a pretty intense superpower. You would be the world's best simultaneous interpreter if you wanted to do that. Yeah, if this meditation gig doesn't work out. I guess what probably what everyone is curious about and what I'm curious about too is what is – could you describe some more aspects of – like, for example, you gave us some insight into what it's like to be up to fourth level of awakening, the final level of awakening. So with Soda Pada, with the first one, it's not like you get any specific powers, so to say, but you kind of have this conviction and this – you can't unsee the understanding of the lack of a self. So, you know, your brain has to be like, okay, I got to do something with that. Right. And then with Sakadagami, you said there's less aversion and craving. It's not gone, but there's less. So what's that like? Are you just a more diligent person or – That's part of it, yeah. You become more aware of your own thoughts, though. You become more aware of when your mind starts to cling to things. And so Sakadagami's level of mindfulness is much sharper, much clearer. And so, you know, oftentimes there will be times where, like, you know, somebody gets frustrated about something. They might begrudge somebody. They might just take that thought on and just keep, like, working that thought out and be like, yeah, that person was just so mean to me. And why did they say that? And some people just go on for days thinking about that, you know, and you're in the shower and you're like, yeah, this is what I should have told them. And, you know, that kind of stuff. All of that goes away for the Sakadagami. So even if they get irritated in that moment, it's like they get irritated or they get angry. But then there's no trace of that continuing on. Okay. So you still have thoughts like, oh, thank God, why do you do that? But you're like, ugh, ugh. And you just let go of it. Yes. Okay. And so then for Anagami, the third path, I think that's harder to understand, the complete lack of ill will craving or sensual craving. So here's the thing. You know, like an Anagami can still enjoy a nice, you know, bowl of ice cream and really enjoy it. Like, to be like, oh, that tastes really good. Or, you know, still have great sensual experiences or even experience pain, just like an Arahac could. But the difference is for the Anagami, there's no craving in it. The way I would understand craving or help people understand craving is let's say you do like ice cream. And somebody gives you a bowl of ice cream and you're like, oh, this is great. I'm really looking forward to having this ice cream. And then they just snatch you away. What is your reaction in that moment? If your reaction is like, no, no, no, wait, that ice cream is craving there. But if that object of craving goes away or object of potential craving, I should say, goes away and there's no reaction there, like I really wanted that. It's just, okay, everything is whatever it is. You know, so it's not like they can't enjoy things. They completely enjoy it. And they might have preferences for this or with that. But if that preference isn't met, they only advocate for it. So you have no craving. Now it almost sounds like your dopamine system is messed up. I mean, I know there was this experiment where they obliterated the dopamine neurons in rats. And you could put chow in front of them and they wouldn't. Or what was it? Maybe the chow was like obscured where all they had to do was snip it to go and find it. And they just wouldn't eat it. They wouldn't go for it. But then when you, I guess, put it right in front of their face or put it in their mouth or something, then their brain lit up in a way that said that they still enjoyed it. So it kind of sounds like if you're an anagami, you just would never eat gummy bears again unless someone put it right in front of you. Right. There's no like, you know, I feel like having a gummy bear or something to man with that. Or, you know, if you do see a gummy bear, well, I'll have a gummy bear. Well, no, no, it's got wet. Similar to that. But I think, you know, and this is just me being in, you know, like just being a couch neuroscientist in that sense. I think it regulates the different neurochemicals in such a way that there's no like agitation that arises when that experience is not meant. You know, so there might still be dopamine receptors there, but they may be regulated in such a way that you still enjoy it. You still actually take, you take passion and enjoying it. But there's no like, if it's not there, you get like aggravated by it. Okay. Okay. Maybe we can tackle that a bit more at the same time that I ask you a couple of things about the Arhat, which is the fourth level, the final level of awakening. So there's still a couple of things to me that are curious. I mean, you seem like, I mean, just a really, how do I put it, a totally normal guy, but I will say you seem super calm. And, but at the same time, you keep your sense of humor. But then at the same time, you know, you are writing books, for example. I was waiting to mention this one. He's got some love. It's a shameless club. Yeah. Yeah. Great book, by the way. You were saying that it's likely that a fully awakened person will stop having a career. And is that to say, because they feel that the career is, you know, accumulating money or maybe more money than that is required to sustain life. Is only sustaining the satisfaction of a fictionary self. Is it something like that? Like a fully awakened person will still do what is necessary to remain, to keep the body working? Right. Right. So, so the way to look at it, like, you know, and I have to talk about it from this, this little cartoon snippet that I saw. It's like this, you know, there's this man and this, this dog, this dog is in the suit and he's just walking and he realizes, you know, this whole thing you guys call life. I realize it's just one big game of fetch. Right. So for the Arhat, it's like a career would mean you're doing a career. What are the motivations behind having a career? Those motivations are no longer there for the Arhat. Yeah. Because that sense of fictional self that you were talking about, for example, that's, that's gone. So there's no relating of like, I need money so that I could do this so I could be happy. I see. I see. Or even just a career being like, I have to be, I have to have this title because it satisfies that personal sense of self. All of that goes away. So for an Arhat, they would need a support system. And so that support system kind of either comes or it doesn't. And so traditionally it was said that if you become an Arhat, you go into the Sun God because that's through which you would get some kind of support for food and shelter and all the other requisites. Yeah. So, you know, the idea of, for example, you know, you know, an Arhat just seeking out things, you won't have them. And so the Arhat's mind comes from intuition, which is just understanding intuition. And intuition is basically a mind that is always experiencing insights. So they can make connections and they can use their past experiences to relate to what's going on. But the motivations that are around, you know, having a relationship, for example, why do people have relationships? Or getting married and having a career and possessing this and possessing that. All of that just completely goes away once that sense of self is to know. Hmm. Okay. Wow. That's kind of, I mean, it probably sounds to a lot of people like, I don't want to be a fully awakened person. Yeah. But I can say, I can say from the experience, it's, it's basically like, okay, all of those motivations go away, but you're still happy. Right. Right. So the motivations arise because there's a need to be happy. There's a need to experience some level of contentment. Hmm. But if all of those motivations go away and there's still happiness, that's something else entirely. So is it, would you say that, I think it was in one of the suttas that they said, without the Saga, the Arah will expire in seven days. In seven days, yeah. Do you think that's accurate? You know, I think that's, that's probably accurate for that time because you, there was no way for somebody who becomes an Arah to be like, I'll just sit here and people come and feed me or clothe me or whatever. No, no, no, no. But now in today's world, it's very interesting to see because there are these concepts of people who, who actually provide people, you know, through donations and things like that. Mm-hmm. So I think it's easier, let's say, for an Arah to just be doing whatever they're doing. But I think they would still be part of some kind of Saga, even if it's not, you know, physically, but in some kind of affiliation of a Saga. Yeah. Yeah. And when you speak to an Arah, they're always speaking in such a way that it feels like they're teaching. Mm-hmm. Or they have something to say. Yeah, yeah. So in that regard, an Arah wouldn't even be inclined to teach, but just because things come together, it just happens. So an Arah, when they work on complete intuition, they're just allowing karma to unfold, whatever that karma is. There was a really interesting movie. For those of you who know Peter Sellers, there was a movie maybe a couple of decades, maybe three or four decades ago. It was called Being There. Mm-hmm. And the story is that this guy is just there at the right time, at the right place. And everything is just sort of provided for him. And he starts to, like, have a career that he's, like, not even invested in that career. But people take notice of what he's doing, and then he gets an upgrade in his career, and then people start to respect him. All of these things happen. But he has no, like, inclination, no investment, no motivation. It just seems to all unfold. And that's the kind of process of intuition. You just are there at the right time and the right place. Okay. So following your mind's intuition allows you to be there and things just occur. Okay. That makes sense. But part of the somewhat persistent question is, like, what if – so I know you're with Dhamma Suka right now. Let's say you just, in isolation, became an Arhan, and then you're, like – do you just sit there contentedly until you starve? Or do you, like, say, like, oh, I have money in my pocket. I should go and purchase some food to sustain my body? Or do you say, like, oh, I don't have money. I should find a way to get money so I can go and sustain my body or, you know, maybe gather or hunt or something? Right. Right. Well, in that sense, you know, there would still be, like, the bodily processes of hunger, you know, or thirst. And so, you know, it's not like they would just become mechanical and stop completely. But the motivation to get food will be just be, like, okay, well, there's an unpleasant experience here, so let's go seek out food so that the body continues. Okay. Right? So that's why in the Sangha, you have the systems through alms and, you know, donations and things like that. But having a career, the motivations to have a career would be, I think, slightly more complex than just seeking out food. Right. Of course, that would be the basic idea of having security with food and water and shelter. But it's just that for the Arhat's mind, it would be like their mind is always in the coming. That's the thing. Their mind is always in the teaching. So for them to kind of seek out doing something, it's just insensible for them. It just, like, doesn't make any sense. The other thing is, I would also say Arhat would make great CEOs. Yeah. The reason is because they use intuition and they listen carefully and they just see things as they are. So there's no, like, personal gain to be had. It's just like, oh, if this is what's going to happen, let's see how we can do it in a way that's most wholesome and most beneficial for everyone involved. I see. I see. What's in the benefit of the entire company rather than how can I tweak things to raise my bonus? Exactly. Okay. Exactly. And that's also something to be said about the mind of the Arhat. It's not just that they let go of a sense of self, but they also develop the ethical mind. The ethical mind becomes fully developed, which is to say they speak in a way that is kind to themselves and to others. Their actions will never harm themselves nor others. So it's also the, let's say, perfection of being moral and ethical. So I know you've got to head out and eat real quick, but speaking of using money to buy food, I was going to, you have a Patreon, right? Yes. Okay. So I'll put that on the screen and then any other links you have. And then one last little question. Say there's some unpleasant experience that is like put before you and you know you have to go through it. So what I mentioned the other day was a cold shower because a lot of times the hot water was going off. And then I'll be like, all right, all right, all right, go jump in. All right. And then it was like finally get in. So I'm just like, well, does Nelson just be like, oh, there's no hot water. Okay. Pretty much. Really? Okay. Well, but do you remember what I told you when you asked me? I just, my exercise is I do have, if it's very cold out and if there's hot water available, I'll have a cold shower. I mean a hot shower. But immediately following that, I will have a cold shower as well. So, but let's say in the process of having a hot shower that the cold water arises and there's no more hot water, there won't be like agitation. Just be like, oh, it's cold now. No, but let's say, you know, for example, let's say I walk down the stairs. Yeah. Yeah. And, uh, uh, my, my, my foot, like I'm walking barefoot. My foot hits a thorn or an end. They'll be pained in them. Absolutely. And then there'll even be a, like a sense of, ouch, what was that? Yeah. But we don't follow that. That won't be like something. That won't be like a mental agitation of like getting upset that I did that or like, you know, all of that is not present. So that emotional aspect of like the cold shower, you know, like I have to rend myself. Yeah. None of that. So there is painful experience, but there's no mental suffering related to that. Okay. That totally makes sense. So you step on a thorn, you have that very human reaction of ouch, pull the thorn out. Exactly. Cool. Well, Delson, thanks so much. That was, that was, uh, really quick. I mean, uh, it's, uh, one of the people, they said, oh, you're doing a podcast with Delson. He's like, okay, whatever you do, just talk as long as you can. Like, I want to hear it. Like, get as deep as you can. Skip the basics. But thanks so much. Thank you. This is great. Thank you so much.