 entrepreneessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessessess in autoimmune disease and cancer and addictions and every mental health condition. The root of depression, addiction, Parkinson's disease is from trauma. The internet makes it seem like trauma is at the root of all our problems. But what if one of the biggest, most widely respected sources of science on trauma that just scored a $10 million book deal for a sequel was mostly bullshit? Hi, my name is Bessel van der Kolk. I'm a psychiatrist. The popularity of trauma seemed to have started with one particular book. The most traumatizing TV series ever, Game of Thrones, holds a Guinness World Record for being the most in-demand TV show in the world in 2023. Ironically, the hugely popular book on trauma, The Body Keeps a Score, has more Amazon reviews than the first book of a Game of Thrones. The author of The Body Keeps a Score, Bessel van der Kolk, is a total superstar. New York Times said he's currently the world's most famous living psychiatrist. And he has racked up tens of millions of views across all kinds of huge YouTube channels, including big names like Diary of a CEO and Big Think. For many, his book has completely revolutionized how they think about trauma. The primary cause of all illness and disease is emotion that's trapped in the body. Trauma is stored in the body. Trauma is stored in your body. Trauma becomes stored in your body. The body has a trauma response. Trauma stores in the body. How to release trauma stored in the body. How to release this trauma from where it's stored in the body. Body Keeps a Score has been on the top 20 most sold nonfiction list over four and a half years. And just six months ago, he received a $10 million book deal for a second book. Now, the big thing about van der Kolk is he strongly emphasized in the book that trauma is very, very common. It's not just something that victims of violence or people who fought in a war zone experience. And we've all heard of terrifying experiences leading to PTSD. And PTSD is, of course, a very real and serious disorder. But there's PTSD. And then there's a very, very vague term, trauma. In the book, van der Kolk seems to be lowering the bar. So all kinds of things could be labeled as traumatic. That is, because of the way van der Kolk defines it, almost any experience could be trauma. Trauma is something that happens to you that makes you so upset that it overwhelms you. So you might have trauma, but you might not realize it. And it could be way more impactful than you thought. Trauma is so ubiquitous that if you think you have never seen it, you have not looked. Van der Kolk claims that trauma is so common that it is, quote, arguably the greatest threat to our national well-being. In his book, he uses loads of scientific research to support the idea that trauma can produce actual long-lasting physical changes in the body, brain, and even your hormonal responses. Even if you can't remember what exactly the trauma could be. That is, you might not remember something as traumatic, but the body does. The body keeps the score. Those issues you have with your gut, the culprit might not be your diet, but your unprocessed trauma. Van der Kolk has suggested that because of these long-lasting effects of trauma, it can be linked to everything from chronic neck and back pain to migraines, digestive problems, irritable bowel syndrome, chronic fatigue, and even asthma. The book has been the number one ranked book in psychiatry on Amazon for years. All kinds of psychiatrists and therapists nowadays use concepts from this book to inform how they approach therapy, and the book is taught in some universities. But what if this book that has completely changed the way we think about trauma is mostly bullshit? That's a strong word, but what I mean is what if most of Van der Kolk's claims are based on completely wrong interpretations of the science? Let's start to dig into the book. Personally, I had some suspicions about The Body Keeps the Score when I first read it about four years ago, because Van der Kolk wasn't proving that the trauma-induced brain changes he was talking about weren't already there before the trauma happened. That is, he might be confusing the chicken for the egg. This is one of the reasons I wrote an article criticizing the very famous Gabor Mate, who is sometimes called the trauma doctor. Is there a human being on the planet that doesn't have trauma from their childhood? In this culture, that would be the exception. The reason Gabor Mate assumes practically everyone has trauma is because he's quite vague to where the bar for what could be trauma is pretty low. People can be wounded just when they're not seen for who they are, when they're not accepted. Dr. Mate doesn't really define trauma. It could be something as simple as an unkind word to somebody that someone takes offensively. Gabor Mate has suggested that the cause of ADHD is trauma. But it's very likely he's confusing the chicken for the egg. ADHD expert Dr. Russell Barkley explained this in his video, why Dr. Gabor Mate is worse than wrong about ADHD. Mate is wrong. He is worse than wrong. Worse than wrong means you continue to advocate a thesis that has been resoundingly refuted in the scientific literature. What happens is that children with ADHD have bad experiences because their fickle, easily captured attention makes them very impulsive and willing to take all kinds of risks. And their bad behavior frustrates those around them. This leads to all kinds of very painful social consequences. That is, the ADHD leads to very negative experiences. Having had negative experiences, trauma doesn't lead to ADHD. A big thing about The Body Keeps a Score is that it uses plenty of research on PTSD to justify his claims about trauma in general. I've talked some about PTSD briefly on my subsect before. For example, lower testosterone levels before a traumatic event, in one study, deployment to a combat zone, predicted the development of PTSD symptoms. That is, testosterone seems to have a protective effect from PTSD. Another study found that testosterone literally decreases fear. And testosterone is well known to have anti-anxiety effects. The textbook Evolutionary Psychology argues that because PTSD seems to be associated with increased inflammation, the inflammatory nature of a standard American diet may make some people more susceptible to PTSD. All this suggests that certain people's lifestyles may make them less mentally resilient and therefore more vulnerable to developing trauma. So, Vanderklok could be getting everything backwards. That is, trauma doesn't necessarily make your body and brain unhealthy, but unhealthy people get trauma more easily. So, I was gearing up to start researching for a full breakdown of the claims made in Vanderklok's book until I came across Dr. Michael Skaringa. Dr. Skaringa, a professor at Tulane University School of Medicine, has a 29-year career researching and treating PTSD. Sufficiently shocked that no one had written a proper breakdown of all the glaring issues with the book, Dr. Skaringa decided to write his own. He published The Body Does Not Keep the Score in 2023. Now, one critique that he kept making was that Vanderklok was using tons of cross-sectional research to prove his point. So, what is that? The cross-sectional research he's talking about is these papers where they just take a snapshot of the brain of people who have PTSD. So, what that means is because they only have one snapshot, they don't know what the brain looked like before the trauma. Just like with Gabor Mate, it could be easily the case that Vanderklok was getting the picture entirely backwards. So, the big question is, does trauma really directly damage the brain and the body? Does the body keep the score? Without solid proof that the trauma was the cause of any brain, body, or hormonal problems, Vanderklok's claim that the body keeps the score falls apart. Let's get to the specifics, starting with the first claim. Vanderklok claims that trauma wrecks the brain's insula. He claims that, quote, First off, Vanderklok provided no citation for this claim, but after digging through the literature on the insula, Michael Skaringer found that in 20 out of the 21 papers available on the insula when the body keeps the score was published, they were those snapshot studies. So, we don't know if the abnormal activation was present before the trauma or not. Also, the studies clearly contradicted each other. Twelve found that there was more insula activity, and six found less insula activity, and two reported no change in insula activity. So, the insular part of the brain is the part that links what we do with how we feel. Yeah, what's happening in our bodies. It links how we're feeling in our bodies to... To what we know about ourselves. Yeah. That's what the insula does, and trauma interrupts that, which causes what kind of dysfunction? You feel numbed out. Or disconnected. You don't feel alive. You don't feel connected. You can't feel pleasure. So, Van der Kolk says that the insula links how we feel in our bodies to what we know about ourselves. So, if 12 studies say more insula activity, and six studies say less insula activity, does that mean trauma makes us know ourselves and feel our bodies more or less? Hold up, because the 21st study is the one that's most important. It directly proves Van der Kolk wrong, and it provides strong evidence for the suspicion that he's getting trauma completely backwards. The study that assessed insula activity before and after the trauma found that the insula activity was not changed at all after the trauma. Before we get to claim two, let me point out an issue with people like Paul Conti, Gabor Mate, and Van der Kolk hyping up that trauma is very, very common. Trauma is actually extremely common. For example, if we go with what Gabor Mate says... Trauma, which is underneath all human dysfunction, addiction, disease... Then we would have to logically conclude that if there's something about us we want to fix, then something in our past must have been traumatic. Maybe you can't remember a trauma, but there's also this idea that you can have a trauma that you don't remember, but your body remembers it. Trauma cannot be remembered, and that's because the conscious brain shuts down during trauma. So someone might be struggling with anxiety or more and more depressed mood, and then they start seeing all these different trauma podcasts and end up focusing too much on trauma and not enough on practical lifestyle changes that could improve their mental health by improving their physical health. The root of depression, addiction, Parkinson's disease is from trauma. There are lots of experts, Gabor Mate and others, who will say trauma is the root cause of all mental illness. I disagree. There are lots of people who have mental illness who had perfectly happy childhoods. And there are also people who have horrible abusive childhoods who don't develop a mental illness. So let's take a look at the second claim. Van der Kolk claims that trauma rewires the brain's amygdala. Just recently, Bessel van der Kolk appeared on the Big Think channel to claim that the amygdala is where you'll find the core imprint of trauma. The core imprint of trauma is in that core part of the brain having to do with survival. In his book, he mentions the amygdala 28 times over eight different chapters. Let's jump back to Gabor Mate because it illustrates this amygdala idea. My eldest son, when he was three years old, I slapped across the face because he wouldn't think happy birthday to me. I'm not singing happy birthday. I get more and more angry. They ended up hitting him. What was being triggered in me is the sense I developed as a young child that I wasn't loved and lovable. Deal with your trauma as much as you can. Gabor Mate's trauma is apparently from when he was an 11-month-old infant. At the time, his mother left him in the care of a stranger for one month. He says that this specific event determined his behavior 70 years later. And when I arrived back at the airport in Vancouver, I got a text from my wife saying, I haven't left home yet. Do you still want me to come? My mood switches. I become dark. I become angry. And when I get home, I barely even looking at her. What was triggered in me was the wound of a one-year-old infant who was abandoned by his mother in an effort to save my life, actually. But the meaning I made of it is that I wasn't lovable. And so these early wounds could still show up seven decades later over a relatively trivial incident. I pointed out on my other channel that it's highly unlikely that Gabor Mate could make an accurate conclusion about how a specific one-month period when he was an infant affected his adult self, considering reliable memories can't be formed before the age of two. One criticism I saw a couple times was that he didn't need to consciously remember the event. His nervous system remembered the event. And more specifically, his amygdala remembered the event. So I assume this is probably coming from The Body Keeps His Score. People with PTSD, their amygdala is hyperactive. It is overactive. Trauma is in that core part of the brain. Van der Kolk explained in The Big Think video with almost one million views that the trauma changes the brain such that you're stuck seeing reality as this dangerous, scary place. And so you'll behave in a way with other people that's either very submissive or very controlling or very vengeful. And... But here's the thing about this claim. Scaringer reveals that Van der Kolk's claim that trauma can rewire brain centers such as the amygdala plays out almost exactly like the first claim. In 21 out of 23 of the papers available on the amygdala, When The Body Keeps His Score was published, they were those snapshot studies we talked about. So we don't know if the abnormalities in the amygdala were already there before the trauma. And again, the studies contradicted each other. Seven found more activity. One found less activity. But 13 studies found no difference in the amygdala activity between people with and without PTSD. So actually, even the snapshot studies completely disproved Van der Kolk's claim. But more importantly, there were two very solid studies that actually looked at the amygdala before and after the traumatic event. There was no change in amygdala activity after the trauma took place. My mood switches. I become dark. I become angry. You'll behave very submissive or very vengeful. So someone might have seen that big think video and thought, hey, I'm actually a bit submissive myself and I can be pretty vengeful at times. Maybe I have a trauma that I need to heal to heal my amygdala. But looking at the research, there's apparently nothing wrong with the amygdala that needs healing. On that note, if a man's problem is that they're too submissive, they're likely to be able to fix that issue far faster by just raising their testosterone than trying to figure out what their trauma is and figure out a way to heal it. This isn't some kind of you gotta be alpha thing. Naturally, improving your hormones may actually help considering testosterone literally has a social anxiety reducing effect. But nowadays, the cure for being too submissive for a lot of people could be something much more simple like hanging out with actual humans more regularly instead of experiencing your whole life through a screen. Surprisingly, Vander Kolk even suggests something like asthma could come from trauma. He says that, quote, traumatized children have 50 times the rate of asthma as their non-traumatized peers. Except this paper of Dr. Jenny Knowles he referenced doesn't say anything about asthma or even breathing. Journalist Emmy Neatfield reached out to Dr. Knowles about this and Dr. Knowles said, we've never published anything about asthma. Vander Kolk also cited Dr. Knowles' work to say that girls who were victims of S.A. have an entirely different social development. Vander Kolk says that, quote, they don't have friends and other kids usually don't want anything to do with them. They are simply too weird. Dr. Knowles' response to Vander Kolk's take was, my God, that's so awful. And that his take in no way describes an entire group of survivors. Dr. Knowles' colleague, psychologist George Bonanno, said that the idea that girls victimized by S.A. have a completely different social development trajectory is bullshit. Now let's take a look at the next claim. Trauma leaves you with increased stress hormones. Vander Kolk says, quote, after a traumatic experience is over, the brain may be reactivated at the slightest hint of danger and secrete massive amounts of stress hormones. You've probably heard about this idea before. A lot of people describe it as saying someone is stuck in fight or flight mode. When a trauma is disruptive enough, the amygdala can get stuck in fight or flight. Except again, Vander Kolk doesn't cite any studies for his claim. Vander Kolk says, in PTSD patients, fight, flight, freeze signals continue after the danger is over. The continued secretion of stress hormones is expressed as agitation and panic and in the long term wreaks havoc on their health. As Skaringa points out, stress hormones could refer to all kinds of hormones, but the main stress hormone that gets attention is cortisol. So Vander Kolk is very likely talking about cortisol. Skaringa provides a timeline of contradictory results from research on cortisol and PTSD. Starting in 1986, the first study on cortisol and PTSD came out. Cortisol levels were lower in PTSD. In 1989, cortisol levels were found to be higher in PTSD. In 1989, again, cortisol levels were found to be normal in PTSD. In 2007, a meta-analysis of 37 studies on individuals with PTSD came out. The conclusion based on these 37 studies was that the cortisol levels were normal in PTSD. In 2012, another meta-analysis of 37 different studies came out. The conclusion was that cortisol levels were not different between trauma-exposed and non-exposed individuals. Despite all this, Vander Kolk would go on to claim that elevated cortisol causes serious health problems in people who experience trauma. This constant flood of stress hormones eventually weakens the prefrontal cortex. So maybe your constant stress isn't due to you being stuck in fight or flight due to your trauma, but because you go to sleep at 3 a.m., you're drinking way too much coffee or energy drinks, and maybe you're crushing zins all day. The other thing with fumbling the science to hype up the negative effects of trauma is the nocebo effect. It's the opposite of the placebo effect. Doctors have known that patients are more likely to experience side effects from drugs if you highlight that the drug can have side effects. Early on, scientists found that you can give people sugar pills with nothing in them, tell the people that it's a powerful drug that can have side effects, and that people actually experience negative side effects from these fake pills like nausea, pain, or even blood pressure shifts. So here's a great example from Nir Eyal's book, Beyond Belief, which is an evidence-backed deep dive on how much belief can positively or negatively affect your physiology and your reality in very practical, measurable ways. So a 26-year-old man burst into an emergency room gasping for breath and begging for help. He said, I took all my pills before collapsing on the floor. The man named Mr. A in the case report was taking part in a clinical drug trial for antidepressants. After a heated argument with his girlfriend, he downed all the pills they gave him and his neighbor had to drive him to the hospital. The doctors found him to indeed look like someone who's suffering from an overdose. He was pale and covered in a cold sweat with clinically low blood pressure and tachycardia, an abnormally rapid heartbeat. While trying to figure out what exactly he took so they could treat him properly, the doctors got in touch with one of the physicians from the clinical trial who told them that Mr. A had randomly been assigned to the placebo group. So there was nothing in Mr. A's pills. The doctors told Mr. A the relieving news and within 15 minutes, all his symptoms went back to normal. One little piece of information took him from appearing legitimately deathly ill to the doctors to suddenly completely fine. So just the thought that Mr. A had taken a dangerous dose of pills was the nocebo. It actually affected his body in a negative way. So what does that say for the body keeps the scores narrative about trauma being so terrible for you? Like I said before, PTSD is definitely a real diagnosis. I'm not trying to minimize the negative psychological effects left on victims of catastrophes. But what about people who didn't really think that they had trauma until they went on a self-improvement quest and came across Van der Kolk's book suggesting that nearly everyone must have trauma and it has all these terrible effects. They might just say that they don't remember anything from their past that was traumatic. So case closed. I don't have trauma. But remember, a core claim from Bessel van der Kolk is that there can be traumas that you can't consciously remember, but your body remembers them and you still experience the negative effects. So could a nocebo effect arise when you combine this with Van der Kolk misrepresenting the science to hype up the negative effects of trauma? Or what about someone who had an experience that was quite traumatic, but always thought that they had moved on without any lasting damage? Could they get a nocebo effect from reading Van der Kolk's book thinking, well, I thought I was okay, but this book says that I must have some big issues? We've covered three big shortcomings in Van der Kolk's book, but there's still a lot more. So in Dr. Scaringa's book, he systematically numbers and breaks down each suspicious claim in The Body Keeps His Score. Let's get a bird's eye view of the many, many other claims. So for claims 1, 6, 8, 9, 22, 23, 24, 25, 30, 33, 34, 35, 40, and 42, for all 14 of these claims, in Van der Kolk's book, he either didn't bother to cite a study or the citation he listed couldn't be found in the scientific literature. Then for claims 3, 10, 26, 28, 29, 31, 32, and 41, Van der Kolk completely misrepresents the study he cites in each of these claims. For example, in claim 3, Van der Kolk says that a certain part of the brain goes offline during a PTSD flashback. Van der Kolk cited a study which he said was designed to understand flashbacks. The complete lack of discussion of flashbacks reveals that this was not the aim of the study. It mentioned flashback only once, and it was simply referring to a different study. Do you feel this? No. In claim 26, Van der Kolk claims that trauma damages the ability to literally feel touch on parts of the body. The paper Van der Kolk cited made zero mentions of insensitivity to touch. Now, there's two more claims that I want to break down because they highlight how Van der Kolk exaggerates and misrepresents the research to support his narrative that trauma is far more prevalent and far more damaging than we thought. So claim 19 is that a lack of warm memories can wreck your brain. In chapter 9 of his book, What's Love Got to Do With It? Van der Kolk claims that if you lack a deep memory of feeling loved and safe, the receptors in the brain that respond to human kindness may simply fail to develop. At first glance, this talk of receptors sounds nice and science-y, but as Dr. Skaringa explains, the issue is that Van der Kolk cited three review articles of animal research. Skaringa says pretty plainly, animal research cannot measure memories of feeling loved. There's no such thing as receptors for responding to kindness. Now, since I really enjoyed Yak Panksepp's effective neuroscience, the person whose work Van der Kolk cited here, let me answer my own digging on this point. In footnote 9 of chapter 9, Van der Kolk cites three of Yak Panksepp's studies and claims that Panksepp found that, quote, young rats that were not licked by their moms during the first week of their lives did not develop opioid receptors in the ACC, a part of the brain associated with affiliation and a sense of safety. First off, none of these three studies that he cited from Panksepp said anything about mice or rats being licked. Going past these three citations, I couldn't find any studies of Panksepp anywhere where he manipulated the licking behavior of a mother mouse. However, in one of the papers Van der Kolk cited, Panksepp did write that, quote, it has recently been demonstrated that social isolation of animals can lead to increases in the number of opiate receptors in the mouse brain. So this is the opposite of what Van der Kolk said and further, this is about social isolation, not whether or not the rats were licked. Social isolation is dramatically worse. Based on work like that of Harry Harlow's where he completely isolated monkeys in a box he called the pit of despair, we have learned that sadistically putting animals in a tiny prison for extended periods of time by themselves will have absolutely terrible effects on their mental development. Despite this misrepresentation, Van der Kolk goes on to say that something as vague as lacking a deep memory of feeling loved and safe can prevent human kindness receptors from developing. The trauma is not the event that happens, the trauma is how you respond to it. It's a subjective experience and what may be traumatic for you may not be traumatic for me. The issue with Van der Kolk's narrative is it makes it seem like resolving trauma should be the first priority for improving mental health or even just self-improvement. Except, is that really the most productive? The largest and most comprehensive meta-analysis on depression interventions looking at 218 randomized controlled trials ranked exercise as the most effective intervention for depression outperforming SSRIs. What came in next was cognitive behavioral therapy, CBT, which, by the way, focuses on practical behavioral change, not on resolving trauma. Despite this, Van der Kolk even spends a chunk of his book arguing against CBT. Here, Van der Kolk cites a study to downplay how effective CBT is for PTSD. Except, the paper he cited straight up says it is one of the most effective psychosocial treatments devised to date. There are lots of experts who will say, no, it is trauma. Trauma is the root cause of all mental illness. I disagree. The only scientific way to unify all of the risk factors that we know play a role in mental illness is through metabolism. I think the root cause of mental illness is metabolic dysfunction affecting the brain. Dr. Chris Palmer, a Harvard psychiatrist, has been putting patients with severe treatment-resistant mental illness, including schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, into remission by putting them on a diet. He was diagnosed with bipolar disorder. I was so manic. I was so psychotic. Matt saw more than 40 clinicians, tried 29 different medications. I was taking all the medication that was prescribed and I was still sick. In 2020, Jan reached out to Dr. Christopher Palmer. His suggestion for Matt, a ketogenic diet. Matt started a medical keto diet. It was life-changing. I'd gone manic every March. I had to take 20 milligrams of this medication or more. I went on the diet. March of 2021, I sailed through five milligrams of this medication. No symptoms of hypomania. Zero. People with depression and anxiety experienced dramatic benefit from this diet as well. Almost my whole life being depressed. With taking methylated B vitamins and going on to a ketogenic diet, I have been medication-free and completely symptom-free for three and a half years. Palmer thoroughly lays out all the science behind this in his book Brain Energy. But the concept is straightforward. Mental disorders are metabolic disorders of the brain. When the body's metabolism is broken and can't produce energy properly, this affects the brain cells. If you fix the metabolism, you can fix the brain. This specific type of diet Palmer used to fix these patients' metabolism was a ketogenic diet, which is well-known to dramatically improve metabolic health in many people. But when it comes to issues like depression or anxiety, he says even just cutting out processed junk food can make a measurable difference. Now, this isn't me trying to say everyone needs to do a ketogenic diet, but I'm illustrating that addressing your physiology is a huge component of mental health. Vanderkolk overblowing the negative effects of his vague concept of trauma might have us prioritize the wrong thing. So, sure, trauma and investigating your past can be a helpful part of the equation, especially for certain people, but for many people, it would be likely more beneficial to start with the practical, boring basics like diet, sleep, exercise, cutting down on stimulants, cutting down on alcohol, socializing more, and so on and so on. Now, speaking of practical steps like improving your physical health, what's interesting about fasting, ketogenic diets, drinking caffeine, sweating a lot through exercise, or hitting the sauna, is they all have you lose a lot of sodium. So, you might be leaving energy on the table by not replacing the sodium and electrolytes that you're losing. What I use for electrolytes is Element, which is the sponsor of this video. We certainly hear that sodium is bad and you shouldn't eat too much salt, but your body needs sodium. Getting more sodium has been helpful for me in many practical ways. It helps me keep my energy levels up during long workouts, I feel more comfortable in the sauna, I handle caffeine better, and sometimes when I have a craving for salty snacks, it was likely just a craving for sodium, since it usually goes away with a glass of Element. Also, interestingly enough, cutting carbs has the kidneys pee out more sodium, and so I have way more energy when fasting or doing keto if I increase my sodium intake. My energy and focus is generally just better throughout the day if I stay hydrated with plenty of water and an Element pack here and there. Element tastes great, and my favorite thing is its simple ingredients. It has a balanced mix of electrolytes, sodium, potassium, and magnesium, along with some natural flavors and some stevia. A whole serving has only two total carbs. If you want zero carbs, there's also a raw and flavored type. If you go to drinklmnt.com slash whativelearned, you'll get a free sampler pack with any purchase. The pack has two each of the most popular flavors, so you can find your favorite or share with a friend.