 If you want to be stronger and make more gains, you need to understand how a chicken works. Our bodies are always trying to balance the head and eyes, and chickens are masters at this. Understanding this immediately increased the weight I could do on several lifts. So how does your jaw and teeth improve your strength and balance? The vestibular system keeps track of your orientation in space and allows you to maintain balance. Thanks to our vestibular system, our eyes can stay pretty well locked onto something even as our heads and bodies move. A chicken cannot move its eyes very much, so their vestibular system keeps their entire head in balance so well that it can stay locked onto one position even as you move its body around. So balance is important in the gym because obviously if your stance is out of balance, you're not going to say deadlift as well. Not just because you might topple over, but because you won't engage your muscles in an optimally balanced way. But what is balance? Let's say I'm doing a standing bicep curl, and I'd want to be as balanced as possible to put maximum power into the lift. So we'll want both feet flat on the floor. We don't want to rotate the hips to one side. We shouldn't have one shoulder higher than the other. And you shouldn't tilt your head to one side. All of these parts of the body would slightly affect our posture and power. Okay, but what about your jaws and teeth? This paper explains that the alignment of your bite, your teeth, will affect your posture. They even say that if your molars touch such that one side is higher than the other, that this will tilt the head to one side. And over time, this can in some situations even lead to scoliosis, a condition where the spine is bent out of its natural position. Teeth messing up the spine might sound hard to believe, but this review paper looking at multiple papers from 1970 to 2010, concluded that their investigation indeed revealed plausible evidence for bite alignment affecting spinal alignment. In fact, the way I immediately increased the weight on my dumbbell press was by simply biting on a popsicle stick on my left side to compensate for the fact that my jaw hangs slightly lower on the left. Further, I used to have pretty bad balance, but it significantly improved after I did some things to improve my overall jaw alignment. Now, I was exposed to a lot of these concepts from Neil Hallinan, who is an expert in posture restoration. In this video of his, he presents three more studies that show that the teeth alignment affects the posture and balance, as evidenced by how the weight is distributed across the feet. The reason Neil Hallinan's video blew my mind was because it explained perfectly why I had such a weird experience at the dentist. A cap on my molar had gotten cracked, so I had to get a new one. It wasn't until I got back home that I noticed that it felt like the cap made my right molar too high, which affected my bite alignment, and my left molars weren't touching as much as before. For the couple days right after that, I consistently woke up in the morning with my neck really stiff and tense on one side. This stiffness went all the way down into my right shoulder and trap. I even suspected that my hips might be a little tighter because I noticed that I had less range of motion when I was doing kicks. In multiple videos of Neil Hallinan's, he's discriminated how he can get patients' tight hips to relax and improve range of motion just by having them bite on a tongue depressor. I'm manipulating their sensory input in their mouth. The gentleman with the tongue depressor, he lost his molar sense. Now, the tongue depressor isn't perfectly aligning the bite, but it is restoring the felt sense of contact of the teeth. There are tons of nerves that travel from the jaws to the brain, and the brain is keenly aware of whether the teeth are touching and which teeth are touching. The brain seems to respond to how the teeth simply touch together and then signals to tense or relax certain muscles to shift the body's balance in response. This 2003 paper found specifically that if you can't sense your teeth touching on one side, then your body weight shifts to the other side. They concluded that when you can't sense your teeth touching on one side, this can affect the posture and can cause shoulder or neck pain. This is exactly what happened to me. I couldn't feel my left molars properly, and I kept waking up with a bunch of stiffness in the right side of my neck and shoulder. Another paper found that messing up people's bite by putting a mere 0.6mm thick tin foil on their teeth affected the position of their lower back. A week after getting the new molar cap, I went back to the dentist and he made some slight adjustments to the cap until I could feel my left molars make better contact. It wasn't even 20 minutes after leaving his office that I started to feel a lot of that tension in my neck slowly dissolve, and as I stepped off the train and walked home, my hips seemed to feel a bit looser. Brian Shaw, who has won the title of the world's strongest man on multiple occasions, had this to say when he was asked for a strength tip. That one big tip that you can give to our viewers. Honestly, I would say the first thing is to shut your mouth when you're lifting. If you close your mouth and you're wearing something like the New Age Performance mouthpiece, you stabilize your jaw and you're actually stronger. Multiple lines of research have found that biting down on the mouthpiece improves muscular strength. This study was taking a look at whether a bite-aligning mouthpiece could increase strength and power. They found that clenching on a mouthpiece that aligns their bite increased hand grip force, back row force, and even how high they could jump. This study found that clenching on a mouthpiece, regardless of the type of mouthpiece, increased force for the isometric clean pull. Another study found that mouthpiece use may increase performance and decrease stress when used during intense resistance exercise. Now, one other reason this jaw clenching works is likely because of this phenomenon where you can get more power into a movement when you activate other muscles, even if those muscles aren't directly used in the movement. However, this review paper here claims that the results show that jaw repositioning can enhance appendage muscular strength. Some papers dispute whether you can improve performance with a bite-aligning mouthpiece, but many support the idea. This study specifically shows that when athletes put a splint in their mouth that aligns their jaw, it gives them more mobility in their cervical spine and more stability in their stance. Another study on basketball players using a custom mouthpiece that stabilizes the jaw found that their balance was improved. Another study found an increase in lower body and upper body power, as well as flexibility and stability, just from changing the lower jaw position in elite athletes. Now, I've had issues with my lower jaw for almost 20 years, thanks to either a bad fall that damaged my jaw joint when I was young, or some dental work in high school that misaligned my bite. I'm not entirely sure of the cause, but in any case, my balance has always been pretty bad, and one of my shoulders is higher than the other. I also clench my jaw at night, which is why my masseter muscles are so big. Over the years, dentists made various mouthpieces for me that didn't really do much, but I recently had one made that has actually made a difference. It relieved a lot of the tension that I typically feel in the right side of my neck and my right shoulder in the morning. All it does is make my bite feel aligned. That is, the mouthpiece is shaped to where all the teeth on my lower jaw can touch the mouthpiece at the same time. So when I bite down, it's very stable and aligned. It hasn't entirely resolved my clenching, but it does help a lot with that one-sided tension in my neck and shoulder. In fact, as I've worked to improve my jaw alignment, it seems to have loosened my hips and I've been able to go deeper on my squats. A study on 15 rats found that messing up their bite alignment by making one side higher than the other resulted in a curve in the spine in all of the rats. Another study on rats found similar results. Another study in children found teeth misalignment and the lower jaw being in an abnormal position to be correlated with bad posture. What's really interesting is that this seems to go both ways. One study found that children with a dislocated hip were more likely than to develop misaligned teeth and jaws. A lot of people have lower or upper back pain, shoulder pain, neck pain, and so on, and they may try to pop or stretch their back and neck, but there's not too much discussion about how jaw position and clenching or grinding your teeth at night might be worsening your back and neck pain, or how tight hips might actually be affecting your neck and shoulders and so on. Now, my jaw is all kinds of screwed up, so this probably isn't the solution for everyone, but lately when my neck starts to get tight after staring at a computer screen all day, I can usually relieve some of that tension by massaging or trying to gently reposition my jaw. Okay, so at the end of the day, what can you do with this information? Well, for starters, it couldn't hurt to just get a cheap silicone mouthpiece and bite on that while you're doing your lifts at the gym. Just make sure it's big enough so that you're feeling pressure on your back molars too. If you feel that your hips or your shoulders or maybe your spine is not properly aligned, you can look into postural restoration techniques. This is what Neil Hallen practices. Further, if your left and right side teeth, particularly your molars, aren't touching down with the same amount of force when you bite down, you might want to look into a bite aligning mouthpiece. At one point, I was using just a tiny chunk of a silicone mouthpiece to add height to my left back molars that weren't touching as well as the right, and this helped a lot with my power output in the gym. This, of course, is a band-aid solution. If you have problems with your teeth, you may need to go to a good orthodontist who actually understands what proper bite alignment looks like. That topic is a whole other can of worms because bad orthodontists can really do a lot of damage. The other thing that I use at the gym to increase performance isn't pre-workout or caffeine, but electrolytes. That's where this video's sponsor, Element, comes in. Since electrolytes and sodium are a big part of hydration and maintaining energy levels in general, it can really help to replace the electrolytes you lose when you're fasting, doing a low-carb diet, or when you're sweating a lot at the gym. I often find my energy and focus is generally better throughout the day if I stay hydrated with plenty of water and an element pack here and there. Element tastes great, and there's no junk in it. It's just a good balance of electrolytes, sodium, potassium, and magnesium, a bit of flavoring, and some stevia. There's also a raw and flavored type if you prefer. If you go to drinklmnt.com slash what I've learned, you can get a free sampler pack with any purchase. Also, I want to get y'all's advice. I want to find out what type of content you want to see in these upcoming weeks. I made a quick questionnaire that'll take you less than five minutes. I'll be reading your responses personally, so please click the second link in the description to share your thoughts on what you'd like to see. As a thank you, I'll be sending you my subsect for free where I tell you the five coolest things I've found out each week.