αςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςαςας a lot of things about female psychology that they don't realize and maybe they should have realized a long time ago. So what would you say that women are attracted or what kind of man are women attracted to? Oh, wow. So we know that attraction is both a very personal decision based on your experiences and your goals, but it's also informed by, let's say, certain biological realities. So attraction is a mix of things that are culturally influenced and biologically determined mediated by personal experience and preference. So it's very difficult to say this man is what all women want, and that's why this space can be so contentious, because any time you get more particular about it, someone will say, well, that doesn't sound good to me, or that's not what I'm looking for, as if that invalidates the entire, let's say, archetype. But in general, we know that individually, if you control for all other things, women will select this quality over this other quality. Like in general, if all of the things are being equal, every other part of a man's personality, lifestyle, and presentation are exactly the same, and one guy is significantly wealthier than the other, they're going to choose the wealthier guy, because why not choose the wealthier guy? If two guys are completely identical in all of their respects, but one guy is 6'2", and the other guy is 5'4", why not choose the 6'2 guy? So we do know that by examining things in that piecemeal way, that women typically want men who are a little bit older, who are stronger, who are taller, who make more money, who are a higher status, who are more successful, and are capable of inviting them into an emotionally compelling lifestyle. That's part of what women are attracted to. What they want also depends on their goals. Contrary to popular belief, some women just want to f***. Some women just want to have sex. And when they're looking for that, they prioritize a different subset of qualities than when they're looking to, say, get married and settle down. So what a woman is looking for depends on what she wants. I noticed a lot of, when you were giving the description of what they're attracted to, or what women are attracted to, there's a lot of mores in there. A man who's more successful than them financially, a man who's taller than them, a man who's more capable. What do you think about equitable marriages, or marriages based on equity? Is that the term they're using now? You mean like 50-50 relationships, or I want to marry my equal, that kind of a thing? Yes. Well, I think that they'll only work for a very small subset of people. And those people need to be very committed to those ideals. And they need to be excellent communicators and negotiators, which most people are not. So what I've learned is that most women don't actually want 50-50 relationships. And it's actually pretty easy to understand why. In our culture, it's not unusual if a man were to pay for everything. You know, no one would think that that was strange. So A-50-50 relationship probably is this enormous discount for a man to enter into a relationship because he could be expected to pay up to 100%. By the same token, in our culture, no one would look askance if a woman was paying 0% or investing 0%. And she's investing 0% if the guy's investing 100%. And she probably won't go much past 50% investment. Like the idea that a woman is going to be paying for 70-30 of a relationship, a woman is just going to look at that arrangement and think, this isn't worth it for me. You know, this is a net loss to my necessarily limited resources. So 50 is like as far as she'll go in that relationship. And that's why the 50-50 thing doesn't work because even though it is fair, it doesn't feel fair. It's an enormous discount on what might be culturally expected of the man. And it's kind of like as much as a woman is willing to take on within the cultural expectations within that relationship. So what feels fair is not always what is fair and vice versa. The other part of this is to try to find your equal. This is something that really tripped me up when I was younger. I was very much interested in finding a woman who could meet me intellectually. Let's put it that way. And I was interested in quantum mechanics and esoteric spirituality and Shakespearean literature. And I just kept getting disappointed by the conversations that I was having with the women that I was dating. And I thought, oh, I just can't see myself in this relationship. And I potentially disqualified women that I could have had very satisfying relationships with on that ground. I remember I explained the situation to one of my mentors many, many years ago. And he just looked at me incredulously and said, oh, Ryan, why do you need to talk to a woman about quantum mechanics? It's like, do you need a woman for that? And it's like this light bulb went off on the top of my head. And I thought, you know what? If I want to talk about quantum mechanics, I can find someone else to talk about quantum mechanics. So I don't necessarily need that from my intimate romantic partner. So the idea that I need someone to meet me intellectually or who has the same depth of feeling as I do or who is interested in the kinds of things that I'm interested in, all of that is nonsense to me. And it gets in people's way more often than it helps them to find satisfying relationship partners. Is there a kind of common thread that is intersecting the relationship problems you're seeing with your male clients? Well, I made a couple episodes recently about men and women's biggest enemies. And the way I see it in today's sexual marketplace, women's greatest enemy is their pride and men's greatest enemy is their cowardice. And that cowardice, because you asked about men, is expressed in a number of different ways from just I'm too terrified to approach a woman or to express my sexual attraction to I am too terrified to because of its social implications to take the lead in this relationship and or and or to be the head of the family. That that that's potentially oppressive, that that that is sexist, that that is a deviation from the 50-50 relationship of the way that things should look in an equitable partnership. I mean, a partnership is already kind of a it's a word that carries a lot of difficult connotations because it does suggest that kind of like 50-50 thing. And most women don't want A-50-50 thing. Most women want a relationship that significantly improves their lives because they can get that. What do you think they mean by 50-50 then? Like some part of them has to know that they want to like I want to. A husband who's disproportionately better than me, but the relationship needs to be 50-50. Like what do you think is the expectation? The expectation is that I want 50-50 share in sort of the decision making. And let's say I want to be an equal stakeholder when it comes to vote. But I don't necessarily want to have an equal share of the responsibilities for governing, maintaining, directing, and executing the relationship. And this is tricky. I mean, it's kind of why in the United States we have two branches of Congress. We have the Senate and the House of Representatives. In the Senate, every state has two senators. So that way the big states don't just completely make the small states irrelevant. But that's ridiculous. So you can't have a state like Wyoming, which has less than a million people, have completely equal parity with a state like California that has, I don't know, like 50 times the number of people. That would be incredibly unfair. It would make Wyoming disproportionately powerful and California disproportionately powerless. So you need both. Like there is a sense that men and women are equal partners and should be treated as such. But there is a sense that, you know, he or she who pays the piper calls the tune. And if you're investing more in the relationship, you should have a greater say in the decision making of that relationship. Like both things are true. Now, how to navigate that in a relationship is very difficult. We do it in Congress by actually having different people fulfill those different roles in different branches of Congress. So it's tricky to do if it was just a unicameral Congress as opposed to a bicameral. Does that make sense? Yeah. Well, one thing that I did mention in that episode is that once I personally made the decision that I was going to move forward in my interactions with women in a romantic context, in the sense that I was no longer going to be interested in figuring out what they want. This is going to sound bad, but kind of like what they want is irrelevant. I need to be clear about what I want and I need to be on my mission and about creating and manifesting that in my life. And to the extent that I'm successful, I will have an emotionally compelling lifestyle. I will have a successful career. I will have a high status profession. I will be happy personally. I'll be healthy. I'll be thriving because I'm doing what works for me and manifesting what I know that I want. And I make that visible to other women. And then women get to kind of self-select in or not. And a lot of women, they're going to see that and they're going to be like, nope, it's not exactly what I want or that's not at all what I want. And they'll just pass me by. It's totally fine. But the idea that I'm going to go through all of that work just so that I can surrender it over to a woman who might just show up is, I mean, that's absurd. That's never going to happen. So I'm very much in the driver's seat in my relationships. And I allow, and like the door is always open. So at any time this doesn't work, you can leave. But like you're the passenger. I'm the driver because I built the car. I know how to drive it. I know how it operates better than anybody. So as long as this works for you, let's drive together. But I'm not a taxi cab. You don't just get to show up and tell me where we're going. Like that makes you disproportionately powerful. Does that make sense? And I think it took some courage on my part to basically say I'm foregoing the strategy of trying to enter into a sexual relationship with a woman. And by catering to her desires. Which I think is what most guys start off doing. Because on some level that's what Hollywood or their culture teaches them. Or that's kind of the misguided advice that they get from other women or the men in their lives who often don't know what they're doing either. Yeah, that was my misconception up until probably say my early 20s was assuming, oh, I just have to like make her the purpose. Oh, no, don't do that. It was like make her the purpose. Like respect goes down. And it did not work out. Because women don't really want to be the center of your life. That is also way too much power for them. And you'd have to kind of already be somewhat narcissistic to desire that amount of power. And so there's some women out there and there's some men out there who desire that kind of, that degree of control over other people. But no, they want to be able to like look up to a man. And that man is generally looking at something else. That man is generally looking at something else, not down at the woman. Yeah, I hear that's supposed to be one of the effective dating profile pictures is basically you have a guy looking at the camera. And then you have an adoring woman looking up at him. And that's supposed to be a really effective profile picture. Oh, man, it's like all the old Hollywood posters used to do this before we got infected with wokeism. Like look at the old Star Wars poster. Do you remember that one? Can you picture it in your mind? Between his legs on the floor? Yep. That's his sister, you know? And so Leia's like curled around one of Luke's legs looking up at him. And Luke has the phallic lightsaber and he's looking up at the stars. And it's like that's a posture that existed in almost every action adventure movie from that era. Yeah, yeah. Speaking of that, what do you think the, so there's been kind of like a gradient ramping us up to the current wokeness. And I think along the way was a lot of this, oh, men, you should, you're not supposed to be stronger, more competent, whatever, than a woman. You're supposed to be equal. And so do you think that has something to do with men's lack of courage? Like they were talked out of being courageous? Surely there's all these other peripheral factors. Like if you're watching porn all the time, you never have to muster up the courage to actually talk to a woman. Well, I mean, yeah, from a very young age, I was taught men and women are equal. Men and women are equal. Men and women are equal. And that can be interpreted as in many, many different ways. The correct interpretation, in my opinion, is to understand like the way that we use that language in, say, the Declaration of Independence, which is that all men, all men, like the human race, men and women, all men are created equal. Like we're all equal before some sort of higher authority. That from a spiritual level, no one person's life has more value or dignity than any other person's life. But when we get down to this earthly realm where people have to make decisions using limited resources, some people are absolutely more valuable than others. And that depends on your goals. It's like if your toilet is clogged, a plumber is much more valuable than a cardiologist in that moment. Do you understand? And even among all plumbers, some are going to be more valuable than others to you. Some is going to have, you know, this one has 85 star reviews. This one has two. This one is three times more expensive. This one is more affordable. So it's like there's going to be better options for you given your resources and your goals at the present moment. Okay. So I think when you teach kids that men and women are equal, what they often hear is that men and women are the same. Because that's another interpretation of equality. Like when we say one plus two equals three, we're basically saying that those two mathematical propositions are interchangeable. That we can, we can commute them around and we don't lose any truth. That statement is the same backwards and forwards. That's what equality is from a logical perspective. Right. And so I think what that has potentially done culturally is kind of made men more feminine and women more masculine. And I believe that that has made, that has created some opportunities for the sexual marketplace, but it's mostly created confusion and liabilities. And do you think that makes us less attracted to each other? Because me personally, I don't want a more masculine woman. Yeah. So sometimes there's this failure of intersex understanding. So for example, like we were talking about earlier, to the extent that it's true that women find men who are wealthy and professionally successful, attractive or more attractive than men who are less wealthy and less successful, all other things being equal. Then they might think, oh, well, if I find that attractive in a man, then perhaps a man will find that attractive in me. So I'm going to prioritize becoming high powered and high earning and high status and combine that with the idea that I'm looking for my equal. So these women who pursue that path are often not very successful in the sexual marketplace, because generally by the time they're able to get access to those equally powerful high status men, they're much older. And those powerful high status men don't want to wife up women in their late 30s or early 40s, especially if they can get someone much younger who is a more attractive reproductive option. Do you think that the corollary of that is men saying, if I'm more expressive with my emotions and I reveal my emotions more, she's going to like that because that's what women like. Exactly. Yep. Exactly. Mm hmm. Mm hmm. And men are told to to be more vulnerable, to be more emotional, express, emotionally expressive, to be more caring. And, you know, I'm taking that to extreme. They often there's a subgroup of, you know, the current discourse that also calls traditional male qualities of like stoicism and, you know, that kind of emotional resilience to be toxic. Mm hmm. And the narrative between that man and the man who's spilling his purse all over the place, I think it's probably best, at least in terms of his success in the sexual marketplace, for him to be the former than the latter. To check out the full two hour interview with Orion, go to my other YouTube channel, Joseph Everett, that's spelled E-V-E-R-E-T-T. Mm hmm. you