 Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel, I'm Steve Shawn, I'm Steve Shawn, this video, 10 exercises I want you to stop doing, and I'm gonna give you 10 swaps to try instead. Before I get into this topic, if you guys need coaching, coaching is what I do for a living, I would love to work with you, if you're frustrated, please check out the link down below. And I also have a new workout tracker out called PR.O Progressive Overload. It's not just another AI workout tracker. It's something we spent three years developing. It is the best workout tracker in the industry. Please check it out in the description box. All right, so, we're going old school today. I have my handy-dandy little note card here, and I got 10 exercises I want you to stop doing, and I'm gonna give you 10 swaps, something I want you to try. Now, I need to lead with, these 10 exercises are not bad exercises, but some of the swaps, or a lot of the swaps, are things I give my clients, and they might actually upgrade you in a certain sense. So, I want you to give them a try, let me know what you think. Each of them has a different kind of reason for the swap or for the upgrade, and you can basically mix and match things based on your training and goals. So, let's get into things. Now, number one, this is an easy one, laterals. I've been doing lateral raises or side lateral raises for 40 years, and I absolutely love them. But recently, I switched to something that John Meadows was teaching, and that is called the side lateral raise. Typically, with my clients, we are doing about three sets of 20. When I'm doing them myself, I do run the rack. So, I'll start with like 20s for 20 reps, 25s for 20 reps, and I'll work all the way up to 45s or even 50s for 20 reps. Now, partial lateral, you're only going about halfway up. You're not going all the way up. This is a really good way to kick up the intensity and use a little bit more weight without sacrificing stress on the side delts. You would think by only going half the way up, you're going to kind of lose the tension or stress, but by doing more weight and more reps, it's actually equal, if not better, in my opinion, than just doing a basic side lateral raise. Again, there's nothing wrong with a side lateral raise. One thing you can do as well is this awesome superset combination. You can do eight reps of a full lateral raise using a lighter weight and then immediately grab heavier dumbbells and do a set of 15 to 20. So, you do a superset of the full laterals, grab a heavier weight, and then do 15 to 20 reps of partial laterals. All right, number two for the chest. The dumbbell fly is something that tends to irritate the shoulders of a lot of lifters. It can be a really good exercise. It has a reasonable progression opportunity, but we are going to upgrade it by moving you to something called the barrel press. The barrel press is something I've been giving to my clients a lot in the last year. It is a go-between between the dumbbell fly or the incline dumbbell fly and the dumbbell bench press. Now, with the barrel press, you don't have your arms flared all the way. They're a little bit down. You're going to keep your palms facing one another, and you're going to lower your elbows until you get a slight stretch of the chest, and then you're going to press up or punch up, keeping your palms facing one another. So, you're going to be very deliberate with this lift. Lower until you feel a slight stretch of the chest. Punch up or press up. You're going to keep your elbows a little bit below the level of your shoulders. This is a really good way to work your chest without stressing your shoulders. This is a definite, definite upgrade over the dumbbell fly, in my opinion. All right, number three. This has to do with the Romanian deadlift, and I love the Romanian deadlift. I got my Romanian deadlift up to about $645 for a single. I have nothing against this lift, but it is a hard lift to master from a technical standpoint. It is a lift you need to learn to push your glutes back to load the hamstrings, and a lot of people do it wrong. They treat it as a simple hinge, just bending down, seeing how low they can get the weight. There's nothing wrong with the RDL if you like it, but I'm going to suggest something that is a little easier from a technical standpoint to learn, and it's going to be a little bit better on the lower back, a little bit less frustrating. And this lift is called the stiff leg deadlift. Now, the difference between a stiff leg deadlift and a Romanian deadlift is you're going to be pulling with the weight off the ground. Your hips are going to be slightly below your shoulders, and you're going to pull up or deadlift up from this position. The benefit of doing this lift is that you're able to start with a really nice brace. You're starting from a nice brace position. It tends to protect the lower back a little bit more, and it is really good on the hamstrings. Not quite as good as a Romanian deadlift, but still, because it is easier to learn from a technical standpoint, and it's easier on the lower back, I would definitely give this a try. If you don't want to abandon Romanian deadlifts completely, you could alternate or rotate these lifts. Romanian deadlift one week, stiff leg deadlift the next. I think this is a solid option. All right, number four, we're going to address the squat. If I had to go back in time, right, travel back in time 40 years, there is something I might suggest to myself to change, and that is to set the squat aside. Are you ready for this? Set the squat aside and do safety squat bar. Use a safety squat bar. There's nothing wrong with a squat, but over time it's going to start to place a lot of stress on your shoulders, and you might not notice this when you're younger, but the older you get, you're going to notice more and more shoulder stress. We are in this to win this for the long run, so taking care of your shoulders is a good thing. By using a safety squat bar, you have the handles in front of you. It's going to change the dynamics of the lift a little bit, maybe transfer a little bit more of the stress to the quads, and you might find this lift to feel a little bit more natural depending on the individual, but mostly we are going to consider this upgrade to save the shoulders over the long run. There's no real downside. A lot of times people ask me, what is the downside in switching to a safety squat bar compared to a regular squat? There's no downside at all. You can also use it to perform a Hatfield squat by grabbing the rack in front of you. A really good way to work the quads. So nothing wrong with the squat, but in the long run, you might want to consider using this bar to protect the shoulders, and you might find it treats your body a little bit better. All right, next up on the list, we're going to address the barbell curl or the easy bar curl. We're going to do some curly whirlies, and no, I'm not going to suggest the waiter curl like AthleanX. We're not going to do any waiter curls, but I have a really solid variation of the barbell or the easy bar curl that I give to most of my clients, and they absolutely love this variation, and it is called the massive curl. Basically, you start out with really focused eight reps of curls. We're really going to focus on getting a good contraction, a good feel with our biceps, nothing sloppy at all. So you get in, you get eight quality reps of your easy bar curls or your barbell curls, and then once we have a little bit of fatigue, we're going to do four cheat reps. We're not going to get super sloppy. We're still going to focus on feeling our biceps, but we're going to invoke a little bit of English. We're going to add a little bit of English to the lift. So you're going to do eight strict reps, and then four cheat reps. Now, depending on how many sets of massive curls you do, two or maybe three, on the last set, you're going to do maximum safe quality reps, maximum strict reps, and then you are going to do your cheat reps. So on the third set or the second set, if you're only doing two sets of massive curls, you push it for as many reps as you can. If you get 10 or more strict reps on that set, then you add weight the next time. A great, great upgrade, a great way to fatigue the biceps, kick it up a notch with zero penalty. All right, so I have a similar type of action, a similar type of structure for the military press. This is for those of you that do the standing military press. We're going to do strict reps. We're going to do eight strict reps, similar to how we did the massive curls, leading off with eight strict reps. And then once you get to eight, we're going to start to do some push press reps. Now here, I'm going to recommend that you do push press until failure, until you can no longer stand it. So it's kind of the same structure. You're going to do eight super strict military press reps, and then you're going to finish off doing maximum push press reps to failure or close to failure. It doesn't matter if you go to failure. Just get a lot of stress on your shoulders. This is an easy mechanical drop set, and it's called a mechanical drop set because you're moving on to an easier lift from a military press to a push press. This is a great way to prolong the stress, prolong the set, and get more amazing stress on your side delts. All right, we got four left, so don't go anywhere. The next one is going to be scandalous, but this is the deadlift. Are we going to replace the deadlifts? My favorite lift, the deadlifts. Now, I have to say, I didn't stumble upon the deadlifts until around 2008. I was a strict, strict muscle building nut. Around 2007, 2008, one of my coworkers introduced me to something called Westside and some weird sport called powerlifting, and they were doing deadlifts, and I'd never really done deadlifts before then, so I hopped on the deadlift train. I fell in love with the deadlifts, but before then, the first 20 years of lifting, I never did a deadlift. If I had to go back in time, one of the things I would tell myself to build up my base before I moved on the deadlift, or as a good complement to deadlifting, would be the high handle hex bar deadlift. Now, I'm not saying you need to leave deadlifts behind completely, but the swap or the upgrade I want you to consider is doing a high handle deadlift every other week. The benefit is that you're going to be pulling higher off the ground. You're going to be more centered under the bar, so this is going to be lower back friendly, and you're still going to get a lot of traps, upper back stress. This is not specifically a quad exercise, so don't panic. It's not leg day stuff. You're really going to get a lot of back and trap stress, but by introducing the hex bar every other week, you're going to give your lower back a natural break from floor pulling. At my strongest, and I got my deadlift well over 700 pounds. I have a video where I was really fat and doing 700 by 2 or something like that. At my strongest, I was only pulling from the floor basically every other week, so I was doing a lot of rack pulls from 3 to 5 inches, block pulls from 3 to 5 inches, or even power shrugs, but I found by not pulling from the floor every week, it was saving my lower back, and I was really able to attack my deadlifts when I was pulling from the floor, so don't, don't rule out this option. All right, so we have three left. We're going to move from the deadlift to something very similar, the shrug. You know I love power shrugs. You know I love shrugs, and I'm going to give you something to upgrade your shrugs that you're going to absolutely love. So this is what we call bulldozer shrugs. I give this to a lot of my clients, most of my clients that love the shrug. We're going to do eight strict reps of shrugs. You're going to shrug up. You're going to hold just for a split second. You can say a second if you want. Strict shrugs. Hold for a second. Control down. Hold for a second. Control up. Hold for a second. Control down. Hold for a second. You're going to do eight strict mind muscle reps like that. Now, we are not done. Once you are done with those eight strict reps, now we're going to do as many power shrug reps as we can, as many as you can tolerate until you curse my name. So you can do two sets of these. You can do three sets of these. You can do a billion sets of these if you want. But you're going to do eight strict reps. Hold. Control down. Hold. Control up. Hold. Eight strict reps. And then when you're done, you're going to do as many quality power shrug reps as you can. And then icing on the cake for your last set. If you really have big, juicy testicles, just do a static hold until your arms fall off. All right. Next up, we have a tip for the triceps, an upgrade for the triceps. This is a double down. So I'm going to give you two exercises for the triceps that you're probably not doing. Two things I like for the triceps. And look, every tricep exercise is pretty reasonable. You're doing your extensions or overhead extensions, maybe even JM press or whatever the heck you're doing, machine extensions. I want to give you two upgrades that I want you to try and introduce in your programming. You can do these every other week. You can put them in the same slot and rotate them. Number one is the skull destroyer. This is something I created. I don't know. Maybe I was drunk, devious, drunk on pre-workout, feeling extra devious that day. But a skull destroyer, you basically do three reps of skull crushers, nice and controlled, and then three reps of close grip bench. And you alternate three and three or two and two if you want until you get the 30 total reps. Now, the kicker is that if you get fatigued, you can rest with the bar on your chest for a few seconds until you feel ready to go again. So this is a rest pause protocol. But you just keep going two reps, two reps, three reps, three reps, until you get 30 total reps. This is going to kick you hard where it counts. This is a wonderful, wonderful way to really work the triceps. And I would say you're crazy if you don't like it because most people absolutely love the skull destroyers. I recommend only two sets because they are brutal and two sets is generally enough. Now, the counterpart to this is the seated press down. A lot of you know it as like a seated dip, but this is a great way to work the triceps. I love, love, love high volume. I have this station in my home gym. I do three sets of 20 with like 320 pounds or 270 pounds. You have a brilliant big progression opportunity on this lift for the most part. And you can get in a lot of non-punishing volume. So I highly, highly recommend you do three sets of the seated press downs, really nice and focused on the triceps for 15 to 20 reps. So you could do skull destroyers one week and maybe the seated press downs the next, or just work these in where it makes sense. All right, so the last exercise, the last swap, the last upgrade. If you are looking to work your lat in the gym and maybe you struggle with pull-ups or maybe your lat pulled on, they're okay, but you want to kick it up a notch, you certainly could do the dumbbell pullover. But I'm going to give you an exercise you can work in that can really work your lats. And you can use this as a standalone or you can swap this every other week with a conventional dumbbell row. And this exercise is the lat focused dumbbell row. It's going to require that you use less weight than a regular dumbbell row, but it's really going to give you a quality lat feel. So with a regular dumbbell row, you're just pulling up naturally. You're thinking about driving the elbow back. With a lat focused dumbbell row, you're going to think about driving your elbow towards your hip. So you can see, I kind of turn my body a little bit when I'm doing this and lean into it slightly and focus on driving my elbow towards my hip. You can do a lot of volume with this. I mean, there's no reason you need to do more than three sets. But if you wanted to, this week I did five sets of those just because my basement got flooded and I didn't have a lot of exercises I could do. So I just hammered the living crap out of the lat focused dumbbell row. Now, your left arm for most people is going to be weaker. So I recommend starting with your left arm first and then do your right arm last. This is a wonderful, wonderful way to turn a dumbbell row into a lat focused exercise. And again, you can either add this to your workouts, to your back workouts, or rotate it kind of in an A-B manner with your dumbbell rows. Now, before you guys go, I want to suggest this video on six progression opportunities. These are six primary progression opportunities I use in the massive iron world. This would be a great compliment to the information in this video. Let me know what you think and if you're going to try any of these. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day.