 Hey guys, welcome to the Massive Iron channel, I'm Steve Shaw, in this video we're going to talk about four things that aren't going to get you big. Before I get into this topic, if you guys would like coaching, please check out the link down below. Coaching is what I do for a living, I would love to work with you, and if you would like a custom workout, they are available for only $39, and they are not cookie cutter nonsense, link down below. All right, four things that aren't going to get you big. These are pretty prevalent in the modern lifting landscape. We're going to dive into things, let me know what you think, drop a comment down below. Let me know if we missed anything, or if there's anything you would add to the list. All right, number one, micromanaging protein intake. This has been around for a very long time, and it's nothing really new, but I want you guys to understand that when it comes to protein intake, hard training is really the key ingredient, and having a specific amount of grams of protein per pound of body weight or anything like that is completely unnecessary. It's not going to make or break things. Now, I'm not saying here protein intake doesn't matter, but the belief that you somehow need to calculate it off pounds or kilos of body weight, or you must, and that's the key word here, get obsessive and ultra-specific about how much you take in each day really is misguided and unnecessary. You obviously want your diet to be balanced, so you should have a solid protein intake each day. But beyond that, animal-based protein foods are extremely nutrient-dense, which is another reason to rely on them. As long as your protein intake is reasonable and consistent and somewhat balanced relative to your overall calorie intake, you're going to be fine. So relax. The key thing here is to remember the body and the muscle building process are not that fragile. The key driver of hypertrophy is going to be heart training combined with the slight calorie surplus to facilitate recovery, repair, and massing. As long as you address point number two, which we're going to look at next. Before I do that, I want to give you a little bit of take-home information on each of these four things. So number one take-home is men focus on a red-line minimum of 150 grams of protein per day, and women focus on a red-line minimum of 110 grams per day. That should say 110 grams per day. So I apologize. It is a typo. This is certainly not magic, and it's not going to make a dramatic difference when it comes to muscle building, but it is a good indication if you are reasonably balanced when it comes to your diet or if you're eating a lot of crap. If you're eating a lot of crap, generally it'll drive that protein intake down a little bit on the lower end. So these are minimums. It's not like if you go under by a little bit that you're somehow going to compromise the muscle building process, but as a minimum, it is a good indicator if your diet is reasonably balanced. And you can go higher than this, obviously. Men, 170, 180, 200, 220. Who really cares? Just make sure you hit your red lines. All right, number two here, trying to stay at the same scale weight. This is not going to get you big. Bulking has a very bad rap, and there are a number of reasons for this. The main reason is that we often equate bulking with fat bulking. Now, bulking aside, if you staple yourself to a specific number on the scale and want to stick to that number, you're going to dramatically limit your ability to pack on muscle mass. Now, if you ask any fitness professional, they will immediately tell you that the number on the scale is meaningless. This is common knowledge in the fitness and lifting world, yet when it comes to certain corners of the muscle building culture, they almost position themselves with the opposite belief. And this is where it gets weird. They somehow think they can magically staple themselves to a certain scale number, no matter how arbitrary that number is, and then somehow staying at that scale number, gain 20 to 25 pounds of muscle mass, while also magically losing the same equal amount of fat, never allowing the scale to move. This is truly the Harry Potter Hogwarts school of muscle building body recomposition. Body recomposition should not involve stapling yourself to a specific number on the scale. It should service the very definition of what we're trying to do, which is body recomposition. It goes without saying that if you're truly trying to change how you look, then the mirror should be the guiding post, not a scale number. So the take-home point here is focus on cycles of reasonable, massive iron style, lean bulking, and mini cuts. Stick around to the end. I'm going to give you a video link so you can learn more about the massive iron bulking method. All right, number three here. Thinking that a new split or program will save you if I just move to this program or this split, or whatever the magic program or magic concept of the day is, it will save me and I will somehow start building muscle when I'm not building it right now. Program hopping is always viewed in a bad light and for a good reason. It reveals a lot of insecurity in the person when it comes to the process. Lifters jumping around from program to program to program, unable to stick to anything, and maybe searching for a magic way to build muscle. The key thing to think about when it comes to program hopping is that there are no magic programs. Look at the highlighted text here. If you are not building, I want you to hear this. If you're not building muscle right now on your existing program, so whatever program you're on, you're not building muscle, then moving to another program, you're still not going to build muscle. If you don't know how to build muscle on your existing program, moving to a different program isn't going to change anything, and you need to hear that, and you need to understand that. Muscle building is about hard training, and you should be able to pack on quality muscle mass with any reasonable program. So whatever program you're using right now, if it's reasonable and not just created by some monkey that doesn't know programming, you should be packing on a decent level of muscle mass using that program, even if you don't care for it. Certainly, there are going to be programs that you don't care for, and that is perfectly fine. But if you're finding you don't care for anything, and you're constantly hopping around, then you need to take a new way of looking at things. So consider this. Nearly every program contains the same exercises. So if you're hopping around from program to program to program, you're just moving to a different way of performing the same exercises that aren't giving you results right now. It's not the exercises that aren't giving you results. It's that you need to focus on what you are doing wrong, because hopping from a new program to a new program, you're just moving to the same exercises, just sliced and diced in a different way. I want you to look at things through a different lens. Regardless of the program you pick, choose 15 to 20 lifts you want to focus on during the coming year. Focus on improving form on these lifts. Focus on improving focus on these lifts, or getting as much as you can out of every set. And more than anything, focus on improving your strength levels on these lifts. So focus on 15 to 20 lifts, improving your form, trying to get the most you can out of every set, instead of just focusing on programs. So the take home here is focus on improving a core group of lifts rather than programs. All right, finally, number four, the last thing that isn't going to help you build muscle mass, falling for the traps of fear culture. And this is a huge thing right now. So much modern lifting content is grounded in fear culture. You're going to lose gains if you don't do this, that, or the other thing. Is this killing your gains? Is that killing your gains? You must use a specific rep range, or split, or program, or exercises. If you don't, you're not going to gain. Muscle building fear culture has you believing that the body is extremely fragile, and the path is extremely narrow. That is what they are pushing. That is what they are getting lifters to believe. If you don't use a specific split, or rep range, or if you don't use one set to failure, or length and partials, or whatever the trend or fad of the day is, you won't build muscle. Now, you also have a certain segment of the science-based community actually using pseudoscience to bully individuals with their pseudo-intellectualism and their pseudo-science into believing that there is a magic single way of building muscle. The problem with all of this is that if you actually look at the data, the last 70 to 80 years of muscle building, you will learn that the path is very wide, not narrow, and all of this fear is complete and utter nonsense. It's simply wasting your time, wasting the time of the lifting community. When you look at every successful lifter, whether they are enhanced or not, over the last 70 to 80 years of lifting, you begin to understand that it's not the split, not the exercise selection, not the progression approach, not the frequency, or the rep ranges that matter. The important things are that you are remaining consistent, using progressive overload, using a good quality selection of exercise, that don't beat up your body, and doing the most you can in that season of lifting to continue to push the needle forward. This is what we call the Massive Iron Pillars of Success. There are 10 total pillars of success that I teach, and these are just a few of the important ones. Always remember that there is freedom when it comes to lifting, and anybody, and this is important, I want you to remember this, anybody teaching you that there is a narrow path or pushing this fear culture nonsense should be avoided because they don't understand training. So the take home here is focus on avoiding fear culture content, instead embrace freedom and those that are teaching it. Before I go, just a reminder, if you want more information on Massive Iron Bulking, please check out this video. Let me know what you think, drop a comment down below. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day. Thank you.