 Hey guys, welcome to the massive arm channel, I'm Steve, Sean, I'm Steve, Sean, this video I'm going to give you five easy ways to tell if your squats suck. Before I get into this topic, if you guys would like coaching, please check out the link down below, coaching is what I do for a living, I would love to help. Also check out the link in the description box to our new PR.O Progressive Overload Workout Tracker. This is not AI Slop, this is a professional workout tracker. The best in the industry, in my opinion. Alright, so you squat, you want to bring up your squat, you're uncertain if your squats suck. Squat form can be extremely frustrating. I'm going to give you five things to look at in video to help you determine if your squats suck. Stay tuned at the end, I have a bonus tip as well. Alright, tip number one, I want you to film your squats directly from the side. We're going to look at your bar path, so fix that camera. You want to check the squat from the side, you want to be able to see your feet, and you want to be able to see just a direct on picture from the side. So, film your squats, and you want to watch your bar path. You want to make sure your bar path is going as vertical as possible as you descend and come back up. A little bit of variance is normal, so don't panic if you have a little bit of variance in your bar path. But this can tell you a lot. If you're going down and your bar path is moving forward, or if you're descending and your bar path is pushing forward, that's usually indicative that there are some other things going on with your squat, like your stance width might be too wide, like your knees are collapsing, like you're getting loose. We'll get into that stuff in the other tips. But watch your vertical bar position. A little bit of variance is okay. A lot of variance as you descend and come up is indicative that you need to fix a few things. Alright, number two, you can watch this from any angle, doesn't matter. We're looking for dive bombing or general looseness. Are you controlling your descent, or are you just dive bombing rapidly? When you dive bomb your squats and you don't have good control as you descend, you're going to get loose in the hole, you're going to get loose as you descend, and all kinds of chaotic things are going to happen. Usually the bar path is going to push forward as you come up, or your hips might come up quicker than your shoulders on your squat. It's just a recipe for a lot of really bad things to happen on the squat. You want to focus on controlling your squat down to a reasonable degree. We're not trying to do time under tension stuff, but you want to get good control as you descend. That looseness as you descend is going to obviously put a lot of extra pressure on your knees and your hips, but it's going to create a lot of random arbitrary variance, a lot of chaos as you descend. And then when you're coming up, you know, a lot of bad things can happen. If you dive bomb, you're not really probably focusing enough on your knee positioning, because you don't have control. You're just focusing on dive bombing until you get to a reasonable depth. You don't have a good brace at all, which prevents you from having any tightness or focus coming out of the hole. So focus on controlling the descent, staying reasonably tight, so you put yourself in a good position for a squat rep that isn't punishing, and for squat reps that are more consistent. All right, number three, and this is best to film from the front or behind. We're looking for collapsing knees. This is a very common squat issue. I would say it's probably the most common squat issue. Watch your squat from behind or the front, and you want to look at the angle of your feet, okay? You want to have a nice, natural angling of your feet. But as you descend, a lot of times what you see is that a squatter's knees will kind of move in a little bit as they descend or collapse as they descend. A lot of people think this is some kind of physiological issue or weakness issue, or maybe do I have a weakness here or weakness there. Nine times out of ten, this is a psychological issue. This is insecurity. It's kind of what I call airbreaking. As you descend, you're pushing the knees in. You're kind of clenching the legs or the quads together or the knees together to kind of airbreak or control that descent. And this is really, again, insecurity. It's a degree of hesitancy. You're not naturally allowing your hips to open, naturally allowing your knees to open. And if this is occurring, you basically have to lighten the load and really, really work on it. One of the ways you can do so is by putting a band above or below the knees with some really light squat weight. And this will teach you to open the knees. One of the things you can do is just sit in a chair to kind of tell if you are doing this, you know, if it's something you're doing subconsciously. If you sit in a chair and you push your knees in, you can't clench your glutes. So just sit yourself in a chair, push your knees towards one another. You'll notice your glutes are nice and weak. If you sit in a chair and you clench your glutes, what's going to happen? Your knees naturally want to open up. So if you're descending and you're pushing those knees and you're really loose in the glutes and the hips, it's just a form of hesitancy. It's something you need to address. Number four, your stance is way too wide. This is extremely common. People will watch the influencer squats or the powerlifting squats, and they'll get in this ultra wide stance, you know, ready to conquer the world and put the world on their back. But this generally isn't the best place to start. I'm not saying wider stance squats can't have their place. Once you develop a good understanding of squat form and your squat technique is locked in, then you could start to widen it a little bit. But if you go straight to the ultra wide stance squats, a lot of really bad things can happen. You need to learn your tightness. You need to learn your knee positioning. You need to learn all the stuff I'm talking about in this video. One of the major issues with going really wide stance on your squats or even semi-wide on your squats is it makes it harder to get the knee position open. It makes it harder for you to open the knees. When you are squatting, you have the position of your feet, right? A nice natural position of your feet. And the angle of your knees in the hole has to match the angle of your feet. Basically, your kneecap has to be over the front of your foot. That's a generalization, but they have to be lined up like that. Your knee has to be over your foot. And if you do a wider stance squat, it makes it really hard to push those knees open enough. What's going to happen is you're probably going to end up, as you try to hit good depth, you're going to push forward. You're going to see your bar path is going to push forward past the vertical. And you're going to put a lot of extra stress on your knees and on your hips, and you're not going to be able to hit depth. A lot of times, squatters will come to me and they say, I have a hard time hitting depth. And I know it's either that their stance is too wide or that their knees are collapsing or a combination of both. So narrow your stance a little bit. We're not talking super narrow, but you want to have a reasonable squat width. That is a good foundation. Master the squat in this position and then mess around and maybe widen it if it feels more natural. Now, this is a little bit of a rabbit trail, but one of the things I teach if you don't know how wide your squat stance should be is just kind of stand in the room and imagine somebody's going to run at you and tackle you. And you want to put your hands forward and just brace yourself like somebody's running full speed at you. So just kind of squat down a little bit, bend your knees a little bit, get your hands up, like you're bracing for someone to run full speed after you. Now look down at your feet. You should be in a natural, normal squat stance width for your body type. You know, if somebody's running full speed at you, you're not going to, you know, like put your feet out super wide, right? You're going to kind of get in that natural position to brace yourself with your arms in front of you. This is generally a good starting point for your squat. Now tip number five is trying to go too deep. You're trying to, you're obsessed with ass to grass. You just want to go as deep as possible. And this is causing some looseness. This has the potential to cause looseness in the hole. Now I'm not against ass to grass squats and I'm not telling you to squat above parallel or any of that nonsense. But sometimes there's this paranoid that you're not going deep enough on the squats. And it can lead people to go too deep to the point where they get loose in the hole. They pick up butt wink. If you're picking up an excessive amount of butt wink in the hole, basically your lower back is loosening. Your lower back is rounding. Your hips are tucking under and you're getting loose in the hole as you come up. Your hips might come up faster than your shoulders. The bar path will push a little bit forward when you look from a vertical position. If you are struggling with this kind of, am I going too deep or you're struggling with getting butt wink, try bringing your squat up a little bit. Focus on good control as you descend. And focus on maintaining that tightness down to a point where you feel you can maintain that tightness and then come back out of the hole. As to grass squatting or the obsession with as to grass squatting to the point where it ruins your control or contributes to butt wink is not a good thing in the long run. So squat as deep as you can. That is allowing you to maintain good tightness and control. All right. So this is a lot of information to digest, but don't go anywhere. We got one bonus tip left. One of the things I look for is that after every squat rep or before every squat rep, somebody is getting good breathing or bracing. They're taking a big breath, bracing their core, and then they're descending. They're being very meticulous, very deliberate, not pistoning the squats up and down. You know, they're very focused with their breathing and bracing. You should be able to see a visible bracing like, you know, it's like something, a visible bracing before each squat. And when I talk about tightening the core or bracing, you want to think about somebody about to punch you in the stomach before you squat. You don't have to overclench or do anything ridiculous, but you want to get that visible, you know, big breath. And you want to think about somebody punching you in the stomach. You just want to kind of tighten that core like somebody is about to punch you in the stomach. I want to see this before every squat rep. I don't want to see somebody pistoning up and down. This is going to contribute to looseness. Be very deliberate with your squat. Some people try to piston up and down because they pick up cardiovascular stress during a squat. This is normal. Having a bar on your back is going to elevate your heart rate over the course of a set. It doesn't mean you inherently lack conditioning. Just pace yourself. You don't get bonus points for rushing through a squat set. Visible breath and brace before you descend on every single rep. Let me know what you guys think. Drop a comment down below. Thank you guys for watching. Have a wonderful day. Beンボ 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않 않