 Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel, I'm Steve, Sean, this video we're going to ask the question, do barbell rows and dumbbell rows need to touch your body for them to be effective reps? Before I get into this topic, if you guys would like a custom workout, check out the link down below. Custom workouts are only $39. They are not cookie cutter, they are developed from a custom workout, one one one, one one, one one, one one, one one, one one, one one, one one, one one, one one one, one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one like this, that effective reps for your back must touch the body. Occasionally you'll come across the concept that for it to be an effective rep, it has to contact your body. This is complete nonsense. You do not have to do this for it to be an effective rep. I want to walk you guys kind of through what an effective or efficient rep is for back training, when to know when to stop a set, when to know when you can continue beyond failure on a set, and what reps to count. So the way I like to describe initiating or generating power on any back exercise, whether it is a dumbbell row, a pendly row, a barbell row, a machine row, a lat pulldown, or whatever, is I think about driving my elbows and shoulders back at the same time. A lot of times you'll see, you know, the advice, just drive your elbow back during a row or a lat pulldown, that's fine, but I think about driving my shoulder and elbow back at the same time. This helps me really zero in and focus on hitting the upper back and lat. So when I'm doing a dumbbell row, I think about driving my elbow and my shoulder back. When I'm doing a lat pulldown, I think about driving my elbow and shoulder back as well. This is a really good foundation for your back training. Now, don't panic if you can't actually feel, if you don't have a really good feeling of your lats or upper back, just use this kind of a structure and you'll be targeting your upper back, even if you haven't really made that good connection or good feeling with your lats or upper back. So with this in place, we're going to watch speed. When it comes to back training, you want a reasonable degree of power generation. You don't want to be sloppy. What I like to equate it to is like kind of doing an elbow strike in martial arts. If somebody was behind you and you want to give them an elbow strike, right? You want to generate focused power. We don't want to be sloppy on lat pulldowns or dumbbell rows or seated cable rows and just rapidly go through things like an angry monkey. We want focused power, right? We want focused power. We don't want to go really slow, tediously slow on a lat pulldown or a dumbbell row. Sometimes we fear power generation on back exercises and this is wrong. If you think about a bench press to get the bar off your chest, you have to generate a lot of power. It's, you can't really get sloppy with power generation off your chest unless you're using a really light weight compared to your bench press max. But think of a dumbbell row or a lat pulldown or any other back exercises equal and opposite to a chest movement, equal and opposite to like the bench press. You're trying to generate focused power towards your chest. Again, not sloppy, but focused power driving the elbow and the shoulder back. Not slow, focused power. So now that you have this in place, we're going to watch speed. If you're doing like a dumbbell row, for example, you're moving along, you're hitting your reps and all of a sudden you hit that rep where you can notice a little bit of speed loss. This is the rep you want to pay attention to. This is the last rep I personally count as a quality rep. This is basically form failure or technical failure on a dumbbell row, a penalty row, a lat pulldown, etc. When you notice a little bit of slowing of speed, you count that rep. But this is the last quality rep and this is basically failure for a back exercise. Now you can continue to do extra reps beyond this if you can really focus on driving that elbow and shoulder back. It's okay to continue to do reps like this. This is what I would call a post failure repetition. You're moving along on the dumbbell row, you hit that slowing of speed, and now we're going to add in a little bit of English, you know, to kind of move those reps back. You can do this. You don't have to do this. You can certainly do this if you want, but I do not count these reps as part of the set. So this is just a basic primer of how to train your back. Now we're going to circle back to the idea that you have to somehow touch the bar or touch the dumbbell or touch the V-bar handle or the lat pulldown handle to your body or else it's not an effective rep. This is just completely arbitrary. You don't need to do this. If you're generating proper power during a dumbbell row or a lat pulldown, just let the bar come where the bar comes. The only thing you want to worry about is the loss of speed. So when you see that or you feel that loss of speed, that's when the set is over. It doesn't matter if the bar is touching your chest on a lat pulldown, that's completely arbitrary. You don't have to have the dumbbell touch your body or the barbell touch your body during a penalty row. That's completely arbitrary. The only thing we care about is that focused power generation, driving the elbow and shoulder back and monitoring any loss of speed, because again, that is form failure or technical failure. Put aside, put out of your mind that you need to touch the body with anything during a back exercise. Focus on what is important. You will build a big and strong upper back and lats. Before you go, check out this video on back training. It'll give you a little bit more information on training your back effectively. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day. one