 Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel. I'm Steve Shawn. This video, we're going to talk about muscle building, specifically, how much strength is too much strength? Kind of an oddball question, but we're going to talk about that. Before I get into this topic, if you guys would like coaching, I would love to work with you. Coaching is what I do full time. Please check out the link down below. I was coach of the year, online coach of the year, beating out everybody in the whole universe, believe it or not, in 2023. In 2024, I was in the top four. One of the reasons why I made it there, 90,000 plus messages with my clients every single year. This is not an exaggeration. All right, so you're trying to build muscle and you know about progressive overload, progressive overload, progressive overload. You need to get a lot stronger than you are now. You know all the stuff I'm talking about, right? And you've seen my lips. You know, I'm pretty strong. I'm not the world's strongest guy. Never got in this to be the world's strongest guy. But over 40 years of lifting. Yes, I am that old. Over 40 years of lifting. I've gained a lot of strength. But I did so in the lane of hard training. I didn't set out to get strong. I just got strong during progressive overload and trying to beat the log book. Now, one of the interesting topics of conversation is how much strength is too much strength. So let me frame that because it seems like a really, really crazy question. I have said many times if I could go back in time and give myself a little bit of advice, I would say, you know, if you don't get into powerlifting, younger big hairy ugly dude. If you don't get into powerlifting, you could probably cap out your bench at like 225 for five sets of 10 or squats, you know, 315 for multiple sets of 10. You probably don't have to go above those strength levels. Now, sometimes when I say this, it is kind of shocking or doesn't make sense. This type of strength is basically going to get you pretty close to your natural muscle building potential. You're going to build a lot of muscle. We're not after specific strength numbers. But for what I know now, what my strength is, if I can go back in time and counsel myself, I would say this is pretty much all you need. You don't need to be tossing around 380, 390 on the bench press every week. You don't need to be squatting up to 640. I have a video on this channel. I can't remember the number of reps. So don't hold me to the fire. But it's like 640 with change for two or three reps. I don't remember. But looking back the long journey, when I was doing squats, I think about in 1997, I was doing like 315 for eight and then 365 for four. My legs were just about where they are now, maybe a quarter inch, maybe a half inch difference doing a single set working up to about a single set of 315 for eight by 10. And my bench press. Yes, my strength wasn't too far off from where it is now, but I didn't need to do a lot of heavy work. I could have just stayed with 225 for multiple sets of 10. My size was the same, pretty much the same within about 95% as it is now. And that was before I got into the power lifting and really exploded my numbers because there is a difference between power lifting and muscle building. Muscle building is the platform for power lifting. You have to have a muscular base to generate power to be strong. But there is a next level, a next style of training and power lifting that can take you from really strong body building levels to really strong power lifting levels. So if I could go back in time, I would tell myself there are certain strength levels you just don't need to go above. You can just hold steady. When it comes to maintaining muscle, it is super, super easy. So that's one point I want you guys to understand. If you get to about 90, 95% of your natural muscle building potential, holding that muscle is super, super easy. It's not very challenging. You just, you don't have to beat up your body. You don't have to do a lot of shenanigans. You can pretty much just do two workouts of 45 to 60 minutes a week, and you could maintain that muscle mass for life. The question is, okay, you're right there where I was, the 315 on squats for a couple, two, three, four sets of 10. Bench press 225 for multiple sets of 10. Maybe you're at 85% of your natural muscle building potential. You have 16 and a half inch arms. And you're looking at 85%, 90, 95% of your natural muscle building potential. You're trying to figure out how much strength will it take to get to that close to that 100. We never truly get to the 100%, right? There's always some deficiency. Maybe we have naturally small calves or forearms or neck. Maybe you have a pencil neck, whatever the case may be. But does anybody ever truly get to 100%? No, you creep up and up and up and you get closer and closer and closer. And the closer you get, the slower it becomes, the more tedious it becomes. So basically, once you get to that point that I was talking about where you have a solid strength level, you know, like me going back in time and telling myself, that's really all you need. To move from there to like that 85%, 90%, 95% to get that next 5% to 7% bump, you're going to have to absolutely grind, grind, grind for a number of years with heavy, hard training, heavy, hard training. Now, the point of this video is not to tell you not to do so. It is to tell you that once you get to that pretty big level, if you want to go from there to the max, max level, you're going to have to get in the pit, not necessarily gain a lot more strength than you are now. But you're going to have to toss around a lot of damn weight for a substantial number of years. Now, there are two ways to attack that last 5%, 10%, 15%. You can continue to try to push your strength numbers up using heavy, heavy, heavy weight. Or you can use these more moderate rep ranges and try to push things up in those rep ranges. So maybe you're at 225 for four sets of 10. Maybe you can try to push that up to 225 for four sets of 12 or 15 or 245 for four sets of 10. The bigger picture here is the relative intensity that you are using in your training. And this kind of gets lost in the modern bodybuilding landscape. Yes, I was doing many, many years of training with 360 to 400 and even well over with reverse bands and chains. But I would go back and tell myself, you don't need to do all that heavy ass work. You could just stay in that 225 for four sets of 10 range and even move up in reps to 15 or slowly move 245 up to five sets of 10 or 255 for five sets of 10. Yes, that's still mind blowing strength, right? But moving 225 to 45 to 55 on a weekly basis, I would argue is still less punishing than getting in every week and smashing with 315, 335, 355, 375, 395. Is this making sense? So when we talk about strength, one of the things you want to think about is the long term process. You can stay in that lane of that eight to 10, eight to 12, eight to 15 rep range and do multiple sets and progress in that lane and never having to do the really heavy sets. You will build a ton, ton of strength. It'll be more forgiving. It'll be less punishing on the body. And I feel it's a little bit mentally easier as well. It doesn't mean you can never train heavier than that. That's not the message here. The message here is how much strength is too much. What I want to do is just kind of encourage you guys to think a little bit outside of the box. Like if you want to chase a 400 pound bench press, that's fine, but you can do so in the lane I was just describing. Same thing for squats. You could get all the size you want just working with 315 pounds. So once you get to the kind of that level, it's a tough call. How much strength or low rep sets do you want to work with? You don't really have to do that at all. You can stay in that super strong, but moderate rep range and build, build, build in that lane. It'll be less punishing on the body. And I hope this is just freeing a little bit where you don't think you're going to have to get up to like 400 pounds for five sets of five to build big legs. You can build a lot of size just getting up to these strength levels. And again, I know it's an oddball topic, but when I tell people if I went back in time, I would never have to squat more than 315, never have to bench more than 225. It doesn't seem to make sense. But if you process it in the lane I just talked about where you're building, you know, reps or you're building strength or where you're attacking muscle in those kind of lanes that are going to remain safer and less punishing over the long run. You can still work hard, get creative, not beat up the body and not have to get to those crazy strength levels that are going to grind your body down over time. Let me know if this makes sense. Drop a comment down below. If you need some information on progression approaches, please check out this video some of my favorite progression approaches. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day.