 Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel. Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel. I'm Steve Shawn. In this video, I'm going to give you five arm training mistakes that are keeping you small. Before I get into this topic, if you are interested in coaching, coaching is what I do for a living. I would love to help. Please check out the link down below. And if you would like a custom workout, they're only $39. No cookie cutter nonsense. You can check out the link down below. All right, we're going old school here on massive iron. I'm just going to stand in front of the camera and present some information. I got my handy dandy little cheat sheet here. And I'm just going to speak off the cuff a little bit about arm size. Because I don't just want you guys to build big arms. I want you to build the mass you want in your upper body. This is more of an upper body video. We're not going to talk about lower body or leg training. But I want you to have the arm size you want to have. And I want you to have the upper body you want to have to back that arm size. So I'm going to give you five things that are keeping you small. Both arms and your upper body. Now, number one is that you obsessed about biceps and triceps to the point where it becomes your primary focal point. And you're not focused on the rest of the upper body. Now, it might sound really weird for an arm training video to say you're obsessing about your biceps and triceps when you clicked here because you obsessed about your biceps and triceps. And I want you to be obsessed with your arm training. But you need to be equally obsessed with the rest of your upper body. I don't just want you to pour your focus in the curls and push downs or whatever you're doing for biceps and triceps. I want you to think about the other areas of your upper body that can help you pack on size. Like your chest, your shoulders and back. I want you to focus on attacking your arms, okay, with a reasonable amount of volume. But I also want you to put that energy and focus into attacking your chest, your back and your shoulders. If you want to develop the biggest arms possible, you can't just do biceps and triceps exercises. You need to focus on getting the entire upper body as big and as strong as humanly possible. I'm going to talk more about this in point number four. We're going to expand on this a little bit, so don't go anywhere. Now, number two, we're going to talk about avoiding the big hitters. We're not talking about bench press and barbell rows or dumbbell rows or, you know, machine overhead press or military press. I'm talking about avoiding big hitting exercises for the biceps and triceps. You can't just do machine curls and cable curls and concentration curly whirlies or cable push downs or dumbbell kickbacks or the lighter type of exercise. There's nothing wrong with these exercises. But if you want to build big arms, you need some bigger hitters in the mix for both your biceps and triceps. Things with big progression opportunities like for your triceps. Maybe the JM press or the close grip bench press or the incline close grip bench press or the seated press down. Kind of the seated dip type of movement, but really triceps focused. Skull crushers or skull destroyers. Some of these big hitting exercises with big progression opportunities. You need to make this the bread and butter of your triceps training. It doesn't mean you can't do extensions or overhead extensions or dumbbell extensions or machine tricep extensions or anything like that. But you can't just train your triceps and your biceps with foo-foo exercises. You need some big hitters in the mix with big juicy progression opportunities. All right. Now the same thing for your biceps. You know, you can't just do machine curls or cable curls. Get some form of big hitters in the mix. I like to start with an easy bar curl or a barbell curl and combine that with like a dumbbell curl, either a seated incline curl or a standing alternating curl. These are really two cornerstone exercises. I encourage you to consider for your biceps training. They have really solid progression opportunities. Stack these type of bicep exercises with a couple of quality triceps exercises, and then you can add in anything else you enjoy for arm training. All right. Number three, when it comes to your arm training, don't just move weight through space. We're not just trying to progressively overload. We're not just trying to mindlessly add reps. We're trying to get the most we can out of every set. When you go into the gym and you're training arms, is there intent? Is there like an intent to get the most you can out of every set, out of every rep? We're not talking about anything specific like doing slow-mo reps or whatever, but are you focused on just curling that weight up, getting good control during the descent, feeling that bicep work, feeling that tricep work? We don't have to overstate the mind-muscle connection, but ask yourself an honest question. When you're doing your biceps training, when you're doing your triceps training, are you trying to get everything you can out of every rep and every set? One of the things I teach on the Massive Iron channel is trying to maximize every set to get the most you can out of every set. If you do this, you're going to naturally add reps. You're going to naturally progress. Push a set for as many quality reps as you can, stopping that set when your form breaks down or when you feel like you're going to fail on the next rep. Push these sets hard. And if you don't know what hard training is, if you don't know that you're getting the most out of your sets, understand that hard training is a learned skill. It's not something you can just automatically walk into the gym and say, I know how to train hard. Hard training is like getting a belt in a martial art like Jiu Jitsu. You're going to progress from white to blue to purple to brown. Just go in there with the focus. I'm going to try to get everything I can out of my sets. Maximize every rep and try to learn from my sets, from my video footage. What am I doing wrong on a bicep curl, for example? You don't just want to do a quick jerky turnaround at the bottom. What I teach is control the weight down. You don't have to go overly slow. Control the weight down. Make sure you relax or feel a slight relaxation of the bicep at the bottom and then initiate the next curl. Start the curl with your elbow right at your side. Then as you rotate up and you want to feel that bicep work, you can rotate the elbow up to feel the bicep contraction. It's what I call punching yourself in the face. You start with the elbow at the side. You initiate the curl. From there you want to feel the bicep work. Then you can rotate that elbow up slightly to facilitate that bicep contraction or punching yourself in the face. When you are doing a triceps exercise like a seated press down or an extension, when you are going for the lockout, I want you to think about driving the elbows together towards the center of your body. Towards the center of your body. That will kind of engage the triceps at the lockout of your triceps exercise. Point number one was that you obsess too much about biceps and triceps. Point number four is kind of a part B of that. You are not seeing the bigger picture. Big arms come from a big upper body. And a big upper body comes from big lift numbers on your upper body. We are not chasing strength for the sake of strength. We are chasing rep additions or progression in the lane of hard training. So you are going to go in. You are going to train hard. You are going to try to beat the logboat. And you are going to do so trying to get the most you can out of every set. With that said, you are not going to develop big 17, 17 and a half inch lean arms. If your presses are weak, if your rows are weak, you need to go in and be safe and smart. Not beat up the body, but focus on getting your rows and your presses, your chest presses, your shoulder presses, your dumbbell rows, your barbell rows, your machine rows, your seated rows, your lat pull downs, your pull ups. And as big and as strong as you can add weight. We want to be moving up in weight. You are never going to have big arms if you have mediocre numbers. And this is where a lot of early intermediates, late beginners go to diet. They will see reasonably fast progression as they go into the gym. They might get their dumbbell bench up to 55s by 10. Their dumbbell rows up to 70s by 10 and they are wondering where that big arm size is coming. You need to get those dumbbell presses from the 55s up to the 100s for 10. You need to get those seated dumbbell overheads from the 50s, from the 45s up to the 80s, the 85s, even the 90s. You need to get those dumbbell rows up to 150. You need to get some weight on those rows and the presses. We need to develop big upper body strength in the lane of hard training. This is going to take time and do it in the lane of getting everything you can out of every single set. You have to understand this bigger picture. No big lifts on the upper body. No big arms. You walk into any commercial gym, you'll see a bunch of curly-whirly guys not even progressing on their curly-whirlies. Maybe doing some tricep extensions. They have weak numbers. Wimpy numbers. You're not going to build arm size and upper body size doing this. You need to challenge yourself. You need to get not only your arm strength up, but your upper body strength up and up. If you look at my triceps, they are absolutely huge. Now, it would be easy to brush this off as simply genetics, but I am absolutely press obsessed. Every version of the dumbbell and barbell press and machine presses, 80%, if not 90% of my tricep size has just come from pressing. This isn't some kind of minimalistic or just do dumbbells and barbell presses and you're going to get big arms. But what I'm saying is that has been the cornerstone. And then afterwards, I am attacking my triceps with close grip bench, with seated press downs, with overhead extensions. I've done dumbbell extensions. I've done everything over the years. Skull crushers, skull destroyers. Good combination of triceps work, direct triceps work, and a lot of heavy, heavy pressing. Now, finally, your eating sucks. You hear me say this on nearly every video. Your eating is sucking, sucking, and it's unfocused. It's not just good enough to get in your protein and eat healthy, eat your salads, eat reasonable meals. You have to have focused bulking, consistent bulking, not fat bulking, not the old school stuff. But you need to use the massive iron system of bulking where you're aiming to gain about a kilo of weight per month. We're going to aim to gain, for starters, maybe about 10 pounds over four to five months. And then you do a quick mini cut over the course of three to four weeks. And then you jump back into the bulk. In the massive iron bulking system, we are bulking probably about nine and a half to ten months out of the year. You get to stay in a slight calorie surplus most of the year. And you're going to be improving your body composition. There's no fat bulking. This also sets the table for mass increase. If you just staple yourself to the same body weight or your calories are hit and miss or you're not watching the scale, you are dramatically working against your own progress. You can train hard in the gym. And yes, you can gain some muscle mass. But if your nutrition isn't as focused as your training, you are going to make the process five times harder and five times more difficult. Let me know what you guys think. Drop a comment down below. Are there any arm training mistakes that I missed in this video? For more information on biceps training, please check out this video. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day. Bye.