 Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel. I'm Steve Shawn. In this video, I'm going to give you 10 ways to fix your muscle building dumpster fire. Before I get into this topic, if you guys need coaching, coaching is what I do for a living, please check out the link down below. I was a 2023 online coach of the year. I've been involved with this business for a long, long time, been involved with lifting for 40 years and have helped a ton. A ton of people make amazing progress. A ton of people make amazing progress. Also, also, if you are in need of a workout tracker, if you use anything to track your workouts right now, please check out our PR.O progressive overload workout tracker. You can find the link down below in the description box. This is not AI slop. We spent three years developing it and in my opinion it is the best workout tracker in the industry. All right, let's fix the dumpster fire of your muscle building. I have 10 things I want you to think about. I'm going to give you 10 questions to think about in this video. And this will help you kind of refine your training. If your training feels like it's kind of in a dumpster fire right now, listen closely to these 10 questions. Watch the video two or three times if you have to, but you need to take this stuff seriously. All right, question number one. Are you constantly thinking about changing programs rather than on improving exercises? This is something I talk a lot about. If you're a program hopper, you're constantly thinking about changing programs, changing programs, changing programs. Your focus is in the wrong place. You should be focused on improving exercises. One thing I recommend for individuals is to pick 15 to 20 core exercises you want to improve this year and spend this year trying to attack them, trying to improve them, trying to get the most you can out of them, trying to progressively overload them. When you think about exercises rather than programs, it helps you avoid the huge pitfall of program hopping and refine your focus to the point where you can actually get productive training in. Question number two. Are you focused on beating the log book or you have no idea what you did last time in the gym? Every time you enter your workouts, you should be looking at your app PR.O Progressive Overload Workout Tracker. You should be looking at your app or you should be looking at your log book and you should know exactly what you did on this exercise the last time in the gym. Now, when we talk about trying to beat the log book, there can be a lot of confusing discussions about out there about how to how often to train a failure, how many sets to train a failure. But a simple way to approach productive training is to see what you did last time and try to safely improve or try to beat the log book adding one rep over last time. If you do this, you're going to be in a very, very good place. You're going to be building muscle over time. I want you to focus on being safe and sustainable. We're not just going to be reckless trying to add reps over what we did last time at the expense of beating up our body. I want your training to be safe and sustainable. But I want you to be aware on every set what you did last time. And if you can safely add another rep this time, you need to do it. This is all you need to do. Dumb down the process. You don't have to over worry about progression. You don't have to over worry about training to failure. Just use this strategy. If you are confused. Now, number three, are you pressuring yourself to use too many workouts per week to the point where it continues to trip you up? This is a pretty common thing. You'll go on the internet. You'll worry about optimization. You'll worry about how many workouts you need to do per week. And you'll start to create a program and you'll just try to pack so much into your workouts and your weekly workouts that when you hit the gym, you're unable to stick to the program or complete all the workouts. And then you get frustrated. And then you might take a couple of weeks away from the gym and you'll repeat the process over and over and over again. And I think at the heart of this problem is the fear that you need to do like some certain substantial amount of training per week to be productive. What I teach folks is that to be truly productive in the gym, to be truly optimal, you need to be reasonable. You need to set up a program that is sustainable for you, whether it's three days a week or four days a week. It isn't about how many days a week you train during this phase of training. It is about doing what you can, being pragmatic right now, and getting the most out of your training that you can right now. Now, muscle building and strength building is a long term process, five to ten years. You don't have to over train, over stuff your schedule on a weekly basis to build a lot of muscle. It is more about being consistent and getting as much as you can out of your sessions right now rather than how many sessions a week you are doing. So stop trying to over stuff your weekly schedule and put something into place that is sustainable. Number four, are you falling prey to the online optimal crowd over worrying about rep ranges or optimal exercises or optimal frequencies to the point where every time you plug into the worldwide interwebs, the worldwide inner tubes, you are getting some constant barrage of don't do squats because it's not optimal or do the four to eight rep range or do this frequency or do this program, the new fad of the day. You are plugged into this stuff to the point where you are more focused on that than what is actually taking place in the gym. One of the things that I teach is evolving training based on needs. You go into the gym with a starting point. I don't care if it's a science based lifting program or one of my programs, but you go into the gym and you learn what is happening. You figure out what you like and what you don't like. And as long as the changes are reasonable, you can make these changes. This is how you develop optimal training for you. Optimal training on the internet is not optimal training for you. You have to start with a reasonable place for yourself. Something that is reasonable. Reasonable exercises, reasonable rep ranges. Go into the gym, hammer stuff out. And if you don't like a rep range, like if you're doing barbell rows and you don't like the 10 rep range and you want to move to the 8 rep range, that's perfectly fine. If you don't like 3 sets, maybe you like 4 sets of 6 on the barbell rows, that's perfectly fine. This is evolving training based on needs. This is how you develop optimal for you. Optimal isn't something you find on the internet. Optimal is something you create based on preferences in the gym that will help you focus that passion and get the most you can out of your training. All right, number 5, are you over worrying about a single exercise rather than a quality selection of exercises for each body part or each area you are training? This is very common. People will obsess about one exercise. You'll go on the internet and you'll say, you'll hear things like, oh, the bench press isn't optimal for chest or the squat isn't optimal for quads. You'll hear all of this noise and all of a sudden you'll become hyper focused on one exercise like it's the only card in your deck. I often get questions like, hey, big hairy ugly dude, what is better for building your quads? Squats and leg press or squats and hack squats, etc., etc., leg extensions and lunges. What I teach is this. Stop focusing on single exercises. Instead, you want to put together a quality selection of exercises that have a reasonable progression opportunity, meaning you have an opportunity to progress on this exercise and they treat your body good. Using our quads example, it doesn't matter whether you use squats or leg press or hack squats or leg extensions or lunges or Bulgarians. Doesn't matter. Not a single one of these exercises is required. But what is required is that you put together a quality group of exercises that are sustainable, that don't beat up your body and that you can progress or get stronger at over time. So stop the single exercise obsession. Now, question number six. Are you able to get through an entire year with productive training or do you find every year, year in and year out, you're taking weeks off, months off? You're kind of taking one step forward, one step back, one step forward, two steps back. There's a quote from a strength coach, John Christie, who is no longer with us. And I'm paraphrasing. So if I get it wrong, don't beat me up. But it basically says one of the cornerstones that a lot of lifters are missing is that they just don't get into the gym and crush it for a straight year. This should be a huge area of focus for you. No matter what you do, no matter how uncertain you are about rep ranges or exercises or the process or how to train hard, just make a commitment to get into the gym the coming year and stop missing workouts. Get in and do your best to learn to work hard to try to figure out what is working, what isn't working. But no matter what, even if you're program hopping like a lunatic, stay in the gym. Stop missing time. All right, number six, you're online, you hear train harder, train harder than last time. You have to train hard. You must train hard. You must try to get the most you can out of every set. But you have no idea what it means. Generally, you go into the gym, you're just trying to move weight through space, trying to progress. This is an okay starting point. But I want you to start to focus on getting as much out of every set as you can. One of the disconnects with train harder than last time or training hard or hard training is you feel a lot of pressure to go on the gym and just magically understand what hard training is. And it doesn't work like that. Hard training or trying to get the most you can out of every set is a skill. So when you enter the gym, you have to have assessment. You have to look back and say, what could I improve? What could I do better? Your goal is to get as much as you can out of every set. You want to try to beat the log book when you can. You want to try to have that good quality focus. We're not after slow reps, but you don't just want to, you know, move weight through space like a lunatic. You want to focus that set. You want to get good mechanical tension. You want to have it focused on the areas it's supposed to focus. You want to feel like I nailed that set. Now, you don't have to be perfect because that is lunatic talk. You can't go into the gym and be perfect and maximize every set. I've been training for 40 years. And if you think I maximized every set over the course of 40 years, you are crazy. I did not do that. But I do what I can on any given day. You don't have to be perfect. And that's the wonderful news. But you go into the gym and you get as much as you can out of every set. And it's a learning process. What could I do better? Am I uncertain? Maybe submit a form video to me via email, bendthebarman at gmail.com. Join my discord group, link down below. Or just hit me up on Instagram at bendthebarman with a form video. I'd be glad to help. But you need to have somebody like me in your corner if you're uncertain to say, hey, on your lat pull downs, you look like you're having a spaz attack. You look like you're just moving weight through space. There's no focus. Do this. Make this small change. You need to, whether you're going to reach out to a coach like me, if you can't just go on the internet and try to watch videos on how to get the most out of a lat pull down, a seated cable row, a squat, et cetera, et cetera. Constantly be in that refinement lane. Number eight, are you focused on protein intake, but not on maximizing your bulking? Maybe you never monitor your body weight. Maybe you really don't know what calorie level you're at. I want to stress that we do not need to be obsessive compulsive and weigh food or do anything like that. But you need a general understanding of your ballpark range when it comes to calories, when it comes to protein intake, and you need reasonable consistency. Muscle building is a very specific process and you can't expect to maximize it if you are half assing your nutrition. It's eating healthy is not good enough. Eating protein is great. You're getting in your macronutrients, your micronutrients, eating vegetables and fruits and things like that. That's great. But that is not the same as a focused muscle building nutrition plan. Muscle building is a specific process. It's not just going out to run to improve your run. You're trying to build muscle, add muscle to your frame, add weight to your frame, and you need to have a reasonable degree of meticulousness. You need to be weighing yourself at least once a week so you can understand the trends of your weight. You need to have a reasonable grouping of consistency so your calories aren't up and down and all over the place. You don't even need to get crazy with your meal prepping as long as you have repeatable meals that you know about where the calorie intake is. And one thing I can't stress enough is that if you are not doing a proper conservative bulk, not a fat bulk, but a very lean bulk, you are putting yourself in a hole that is hard to dig out on. If you need help with lean bulking, you can go over the main page of this channel and search bulking. I have a ton of free information. You can also go to my website superlivingtoday.com. Check out my massive bulking book. It has an amazing amount of information and it will get you on track. Number nine, do you have crazy unusual expectations? Do you constantly think you're in a plateau because you're not adding a rep to your bench press set every week or you're not adding an inch to your arms every two months? These kinds of crazy expectations are completely disconnected from the real world of muscle building. Once you reach that kind of late beginner, early intermediate stage, even if you're training hard and doing everything right, adding a rep every month on your bench press is good progress. That will add five to seven pounds on your bench press just by adding a single rep to your top set. If you don't believe me, go check out a one rep max calculator. If you only added one rep to your bench press every month, that would be 12 a year and you'd be adding 60 to 70 pounds to your bench in a year. That is huge progress. So to understand muscle building and to stay in a good mental head space, you need to understand that this isn't slow progress. This is normal progress when it comes to adding reps. And we're talking big lifts here like squats, deads, bench press, etc. Adding a rep a month after you become a late beginner, early intermediate is good progress. It's not a plateau. And if you're one of these people that expect to add an inch to your arms every couple of months, you're living in a fantasy world. That's not the way muscle building works. I put out an Instagram post yesterday about this. Basically, it said if you want to add four inches to your arms over the course of your lifting career, that adding an inch a year is extremely, extremely rare. It's a better goal would be to aim for three quarters of an inch to your arm every year. That way, in five years, you could get your arms up to, you know, at least four inches to your arms. This is only one sixteenth of an inch of size added to your arms per month. You need to be measuring your arms every month and you need to be monitoring the trend. This can seem like you're not making any progress at all, but it is a big lie. This is why it's important to take the advice in this video seriously, to follow it, to implement it, to obsess about it, to memorize it, and to trust the process. You can be doing everything right, but it will seem like your bench press isn't going up, your arms aren't going up. This is a huge lie. Trust the process. And finally, number ten. Are you trying to find an easier way to build muscle that doesn't involve getting a lot stronger than you are now, or working hard, hard, hard on big lifts? Now, I'm not saying all you need to do is compound movements. That's not what I teach at all. But you need to embrace the suck. You need to embrace the hardness. You need to embrace the intensity. You can't go into the gym like a wimp and go, I'm afraid to move up in weight because I'm intimidated by the weight. I get it. And you know what? The mental anguish about moving heavier and heavier weight is a real thing. But if you want to be successful in the gym, you need to get over it. You need to climb the mountain rather than trying to go around the mountain. I want you to be safe. I want you to be smart. But for the love of all things holy, you need to get your head out of your butt and embrace the hard things. You need to embrace the hard exercises, not run away from them. You need to embrace the weight changes, not run away from them. Always focus on good form. Always focus on sustainability and taking care of your body. Always focus on shutting down a set when something doesn't feel right. But whatever you do, if you catch yourself trying to find an easier way around the mountain, you have just put a harder path in front of you. For more information on building muscle, please check out this video. Thank you guys so much for watching. Have a great day.