 zamb disso, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, zambit, z So yesterday on Team Massive, and you can find the link down below to the Discord, we were discussing doing what I would call normal training, what I teach, you know, starting in a reasonable place with reasonable volume. And one of the other members talked about the benefits of doing less or minimizing their training and pushing every set to failure. And we got into this discussion about grinder reps, and this is a very interesting discussion. Basically, the argument was the fewer sets you do, the more you're going to push the failure. So you can get more out of less by doing a lot of, you know, failure training, grinding training, basically implying doing every set to failure, which would imply basically grinding every set. So the question is, is this best for long-term muscle building? One of my clients, who is experiencing really, really solid results, mentioned that before he came to me, he was in this mindset where he was doing a lot of grinding reps, and it beat the living crap out of his body. So I wanted to make this video to open the discussion so we can understand that it's not a black or white discussion. It's not like starting with reasonable volume or moving all the way down to like a more minimal volume but pushing every set to failure. It's not some simple black or white discussion. I'm going to get into that in this video and kind of show you why every exercise is a little bit different. Now, the client that was doing this previously said it absolutely beat him up. This hints at the reality that pushing deep or grinding on certain exercises is not favorable. It doesn't treat the body great. So you might be panicking. How can I progress? How can I possibly progress if I'm not training to failure? Well, there's a simpler way to approach it, and it's certainly not weak training. It's how I've trained my entire life. I started training in 1986, and that's a long, long time, and I've learned a lot of things during that time. But we didn't talk specifically about training to failure. Our focus was more on beating the logbook, looking what you had in your little logbook, and trying to improve over time. And yes, some of these sets were hard, and some of these sets were close to failure. But not every set on every day was to failure. And again, I'm going to get into which exercises you can push to failure safely and which are more dangerous. But I didn't go in with the mindset of, I'm just going to train to failure and push every set to the limit. In my original book, The Rep Goal System, we would basically create a rep goal. You would push three sets. The three sets are two sets for an exercise as hard as you could, generally three sets. And you would have a rep goal target, and you would add up all the reps from each of the sets. And when you hit the target, then you would move up in weight. But instead of talking about failure, instead of talking about failure on this channel, I've always stressed a different mindset, a different approach. And let me explain what it is and the nuance, the difference. And hopefully, this will help you guys punish the body less and still make amazing muscle gains. Here's what I teach. Instead of thinking about failure, push a set for as many quality reps as possible. Stopping that set when you feel like your form is starting to break down or when you feel like you might fail on the next rep. Now, some exercises, and again, I'm going to get into that shortly. You can push to failure. But what I am teaching is safe, sustainable training. You want to go in, you want to look at the logbook, and you want to push the set for as many safe, quality reps as you can. You don't want to beat up your body with crappy form. You don't want to do endless, grindy, grindy reps that's just going to tear up your body. You know, you ever get to a rep where, you know, if you do another one, it's just going to be a grinder, and it's just going to be physically punishing? I'm not saying always avoid those reps, but we have to become aware of which exercises really tear us up. And the thing I teach is to push for maximum safe, quality reps. Live to fight another day. Try to beat the logbook. That's what I always did. Just went into the gym, looked at the logbook, tried to beat the logbook. Now, the fear is, if I do this, I'm not going to build muscle because pushing to failure builds muscle. No progressive overload over time builds muscle. And the idea that you have, it's like some sort of black or white switch where you have to train to failure or you're not going to build muscle is absolutely nonsense. Think of the muscle building process like putting a brick on your back and walking around. Your body will acclimate to that, and then you wake up the next day and you put another brick on your body and your body will walk around and acclimate to it. It's external stress placed upon the body. So, regardless of whether you push every set to failure or push every set for maximum safe, quality reps and try to beat the logbook, think of lifting as external pressure being placed upon the body. And the body is pushing back against that by growing. It doesn't necessarily have to be a failure. It's just increasing the overall external pressure and stress on the body in the lane of hard training. As long as you approach things like this, you will grow. So, we do not have to train every set to failure. Now, let's get into what you can safely train to failure and what you should kind of be nervous about when it comes to your gym training. Which exercises should I kind of learn from and maybe not train to failure? Now, generally, your presses and your pulls, your horizontal pressing and your horizontal pulling are pretty safe to train to failure. And let me explain why. Your horizontal pressing are like your bench press or like your dumbbell bench press, like your machine chest press. Your horizontal pulling or rowing is like your dumbbell rows, your barbell rows, your T-bar rows, your seated cable rows, your machine rows. In general, and not in every case, these are safe to train to failure. On the bench press, all that's going to happen is you're going to get a slowing of speed on a rep. And that's basically failure. That is technical failure or form failure on the bench press. When you have a slowing of speed, there's a 99% chance you're not going to be able to do the next rep. You can try the next rep if you want. But when you feel that slowing of speed, there's a 99% chance you're not going to be able to do the next rep. So, that is failure. It's not generally punishing. You can try the next rep. That's a little bit more punishing. But I have found over the years that this is not really physically taxing on the body. But use your own discretion. Now, on horizontal pulling or rowing, it's kind of the same thing. You're going to get to a point on a T-bar row or a penalty row where you notice the speed is slowing. That's form failure. That's technical failure. You can try it. The difference between a row compared to a press is that you can get sloppy and use English to get it up. But, you know, there's no harm in doing a couple of cheat reps on a rowing exercise. But that's how you know you hit failure. It's generally not punishing. You just have a slowing of speed. On your overhead pressing, it's basically the same thing as a bench press. You're going to hit a slowing of speed. And after that, you're not going to be able to add a rep. And that's generally not punishing. And the same thing on a lat pulldown or pullup. So, when you're looking at chest, shoulders, and back, most of the exercises are pretty safe to push the failure. But you don't have to do those grindy, grindy reps once the speed slows. Now, there are exercise variations when it comes to chest and shoulders and your back that you probably shouldn't push to failure that are a little bit more grindy. But that's something you're going to have to find out in the gym. Like dips. I don't know. I don't want to really push dips to failure. I don't want to be doing grindy dips to failure. They're kind of, you know, intense on the shoulders to begin with. So, use your best discretion. Posterior lifts like the squat and the good morning and the deadlift and the Romanian deadlift and all variations like that. You don't want to be anywhere close to failure. These are going to get you in trouble. I mean, I think it goes without saying. You want to have at least a couple reps in the tank on those. You don't want to be doing any grinders. If you do, the more grinders you do, the more you're going to be risking punishing your body. So, avoid, avoid, avoid. Now, when it comes to arm work, I personally have never trained a failure. I find, like, doing bicep exercises in the grindy range is not good for my body. I don't feel it treats my body good. I generally don't do grindy exercises on triceps. My triceps are one of my best body parts. Super strong, super big, but I never train them to failure. Rarely, rarely, rarely ever. Use your own discretion. On the arm work, generally pushing into that grindy zone is not the safest, smartest thing for a lot of exercises. So, we covered mostly everything, but there's, you know, still a lot, a lot of exercise variations out there that I would never, never train to failure or push into the grindy zone. And the point of this video isn't to list out every exercise known to man, but to open the discussion that we have two camps right now. Normal, reasonable volume, something I teach on the Massive Iron Channel. Not every set needs to be to failure. And then you have this growing kind of a cult mindset where every set needs to be pushed to failure. Regardless of the exercise selection and should it be pushed to failure or shouldn't it be pushed to failure, the big message is this kind of cult mindset that's growing that every set needs to be pushed to failure is a little bit misguided. We have to be very careful that we're avoiding grindy reps and not beating up the body. So, the take home for you guys is not to panic. Start with a reasonable program. I don't care if it's one of mine. I don't care if it's a program where every set tells you to push to failure. Wherever you start is perfectly fine. But what we need to do in the take home message is once you hit the gym, if doing something feels like it's pushing you into the grinding zone, stop it. Change your progression approach. Change how deep you push into sets. Change your approach. Evolve your training based on needs. This is truly what's going to create success in the long run. So, you start with a program. You go into the gym. You test it out. You see what's working, what's physically punishing, and what isn't. And you evolve wisely based on needs. For more information on progression approaches, please check out this video. Thank you guys for watching. I hope you learned something. I hope this was helpful. Have a great day. Thank you.