 Hey guys, welcome to the Massive Iron channel, I'm Steve Shaw, in this video I'm going to give you a pocket guide to building the maximum amount of muscle in the minimum amount of time. Before I get into this topic, if you guys are interested in coaching, coaching is what I do for a living, I would love to work with you, check out the link down below. I also have custom workouts available for only $39. So in a lot.! in AI'm going to show you how to structure a workout and pick volume based on how much time you can spend in the gym and how many days per week you have to attend the gym. We're going to look at program structure for two days a week, three days a week for flexible schedules for those of you that need two or three days per week or even three or four days per week. So let's dive in. Now step number one, we need to be realistic about how many training days you can actually do per week. They require you to train about four days per week. They're usually four day schedules. So if you can't commit to four days, we probably don't need to look at body part splits. In this video, we are not going to consider a body part split. If you are desperate, you could always do a push pull legs, which is just a step away from a body part split. Now, one thing I want to stress here before we dive in is that if you have limited time, it's often best to use a flexible schedule. This is something I use with a lot of my clients, meaning you can insert rest days whenever you want, whenever you need to. Upper lower split variations are really good for flexible scheduling. In the massive iron world, we use the upper posterior rotation or the torso limbs rotation, and these are really great for flexible schedules. You can also use something like the upper posterior full body and rotate between these workouts two days a week or three days a week. And we are going to get into that here in just a second. So now that you know how many days per week you can realistically train, whether it's two days per week, three days per week, or maybe even three or four, let's take a look at step number two. So we need to use the number of days per week you want to train and establish a weekly volume based on these number of days, whether it's two, three, or potentially four. Don't worry if you need a flexible schedule of three to four. We're going to use four to determine the volume. Don't worry if you need a flexible schedule between two to three. We're going to use three training days to determine the volume. So if you're unsure whether you can train three or four days per week, determine volume as if you're training four days, and we'll create a flexible schedule that allows you to train three or four days based on your volume or exercise choices. So you can see here we have two days per week, three days per week, and four days per week. We have under each of these categories a normal training volume per week, which is somebody that can work out about 75, maybe 80 minutes per training day. We have a light volume per week, which is someone that wants to get in and get out in 60 minutes. And we have a low volume for those of you that only have about 45 minutes per day. So this pocket guide can help you build muscle on as little as two workouts per week, 45 minutes per training day. So with two days per week, normal volume is going to be 36 total sets per week or 18 per training day. A light volume would be 30 sets per week or 15 per training day. And a low volume would be 24 sets per week or 12 per training day. Now moving this structure over to three days per week, normal volume would be 54 sets per week or 18 per day. Light volume would be 45 sets per week or 15 per day. And low volume would be 36 sets per week or 12 per day. And if you're able to train four days or three to four on a flexible schedule, we're going to start with 72 sets per week, which is normal volume. We're about 18 per day. Light volume, 60 sets per week or about 15 per day. And low volume, 48 sets per week or 12 per training day. Now we're going to move on to step three to determine the starting volume for the four major areas of focus. You have your weekly volume based on how many days you can train or maximum number of days you can train. You have your volume based on how many minutes per day you want to train. Move over to step number three. We're going to determine starting volume for the four major areas of focus. These are not the only body parts, but these are the four major areas we're going to focus on first. Chest, shoulders, back, and quads. We're going to fill in the gaps after we look at these four major areas. So take your weekly volume, the volume we just determined, and apply the massive iron rule of two-thirds. This means we're going to multiply your weekly volume by two-thirds and distribute this number equally across the four major areas. The remaining volume will be dealt with in step number four. So you have your weekly volume. You're going to multiply it by two-thirds, and this is going to give you your weekly volume for all four major areas of focus. So if you're training two days per week with normal volume, you have 36 total sets multiplied by the rule of two-thirds. This gives you 24 total sets or six sets each per week for chest, back, shoulders, and quads. Two days per week, light volume, multiply your 30 sets by two-thirds. You get 20 total sets or five each for chest, back, shoulders, and quads. Low volume, you have 24 total sets per week multiplied by the massive iron rule of two-thirds. This gives you 16 total sets to apply for chest, back, shoulders, or quads or four each for these major areas of focus. If you're training three days per week, your normal volume is going to be 54 sets multiplied by the rule of two-thirds or 36 total sets, meaning nine each for back, chest, shoulders, and quads per week. Light volume 45, that's going to equate to about seven and a half sets each for chest, back, shoulders, and quads per week. You're going to have to do some fudging with this one. And low volume, 36 total sets times the rule of two-thirds is going to give you 24 total sets per week or six sets each for the major areas of focus, chest, back, shoulders, and quads. And of course, if you can train a maximum of four days per week using the rule of two-thirds, normal volume would give you 48 sets for the major areas of focus or 12 sets for each of them. Light volume would give you 60 total sets times the rule of two-thirds or 40 total sets per week for major areas of focus or 10 for each of them. And low volume would be 48 sets per week times the rule of two-thirds or 32 total sets for all of the four major areas of focus. All right, so we have chest, back, shoulders, and quads all distributed. Now we're going to take the remaining volume. So if you had four days per week and 72 sets multiplied by two-thirds, which would be 48 total sets, you would have 24 sets left over. This leftover number, regardless of how many days per week you're training, we're going to take this number now and multiply it by two-thirds again. But we're going to multiply it by two-thirds a second time. This remaining volume that was not allocated to the major areas of focus is multiplied by two-thirds again. And this volume will be applied equally to the biceps, triceps, and hamstrings. These are more minor areas of focus. Don't panic. We're going to figure out how to work in other body parts. Now whatever volume you have left can be allocated in any way you choose. So there's going to be a little bit of extra volume, but you can add it to your arm work if you want, your leg work if you want, or other areas of focus. You can apply it to forearms, calves, abs, traps, rear delts, or even neck training if you desire. Now I can't stress this enough. This is just a starting framework. It's not a rule. You can make adjustments. You can move things around from major body part a little bit to major body part or minor areas of focus to major areas of focus or major areas of focus to minor areas of focus. This starting point is an excellent place to begin. And from here, make the adjustments based on your goals and preferences. All right, step number four. We are going to distribute volume equally. So you have your volume for major body parts, your volume for minor body parts or minor areas of focus, and your left over work. If you're training two days per week, you can use either a two or three workout structure. So you might want a little bit of flexibility. You might want to use just two training days per week. You might want to use three workouts and rotate between these three workouts two days per week. That's perfectly fine. So your program choices, if you are training about two days per week, are a two-day full body A-B split. You also have a two-day upper posterior. So upper is going to be chest, shoulders, and arms. And posterior is going to be legs and back. You have a two-day torso, limbs. Torso is going to be chest, back, and shoulders. Limbs is going to be arms and legs. You also can take a full body three-day rotation like an A-B-C and rotate it over two training days per week. So week one, you might do A and B. Week two, you might do C and A. Week three, you might do blast and cruise. So you can just rotate between these full body workouts as needed. You can also have the three-day structure of an upper posterior full body, which is your upper workout, your posterior, and then your full body, which you can put pretty much anything. And you can rotate between these workouts two days per week. So you have a lot of really good choices here if you're training only two days per week. You just want to take your appropriate volume for your major and minor areas of focus and distribute it in a way that makes sense based on the program you pick. So if you're training three days per week, you can either use a three or four workout structure. This could be a simple full body workout like an A-B-C type of deal, an upper posterior full body, which would work really good. Or you could rotate between the four workout structure of an upper posterior or torso limbs. So you might have upper A, posterior A, upper B, posterior B, four total workouts for the upper posterior. And you could rotate between these four workouts three days per week. You can apply the same logic to a torso limbs, torso A, limbs A, torso B, limbs B, and rotate between these four workouts three days per week. This is a fun way to approach programming because you can get in a quality selection of exercises. Things stay fresh. They don't stagnate. You don't have to repeat the same workouts over and over again. So your program choices for three days a week are a three-day full body with three workouts A, B, and C. A three-day upper posterior full body, which is a fun way to program. Or you can do a three-day rotation through the four workouts of the upper posterior. Or a three-day rotation through the four workouts of a torso limbs. Please understand that these two, the upper posterior rotation and the torso limbs rotation, are flexible schedules. So you can insert rest days whenever you want. Some weeks you might be able to only train three days per week. Some weeks four days per week. You can simply continue to rotate between these four workouts, inserting rest days whenever you need to. So you can work out three days per week, four days per week. It could be flexible. It doesn't really matter. Now, if you're using a four-day program, you can rotate between three or four-day full body workouts. Or even the four workouts of the upper posterior or the torso limbs. So if you're training four days per week, it's pretty simple. You can just use the three-day full body and rotate between them. You can use four full body workouts. Or simply rotate between the upper posterior torso limbs and rest when you need to. All right, we're almost done, but don't go anywhere. I'm going to give you a video at the end that shows you how to pick progression approaches. It's going to show you the six major progression approaches in the massive iron world. Without progression, it's like a car. Without an engine, you need a quality progression approach for each exercise. Now that you have distributed volume to each workout, it's time to pick exercises for each of these slots. Choose exercises you enjoy that offer solid progression opportunities, meaning you can get significantly stronger on these exercises over time. You also want exercises that are safe for your body, that don't beat up your body. They are enjoyable to perform. So once you have your exercises picked for your major and minor areas of focus, distribute these exercises across your training day in a way that makes sense for you. Try to balance the number of exercises evenly across each session. At this point, you can analyze your program and decide which progression style to use for each exercise. Again, stick around at the end. I'm going to have a link to try these six progression approaches. Now once this is done, you will have a balance program that keeps you in the gym for an appropriate amount of time based on your goals and availability. At this point, you want to take a step back, review your program and adjust anything that doesn't make sense, whether that's exercises, training days or redistributing volume between body parts. Always remember there are no rules other than to be safe, enjoy your training and progress or get stronger over time. If you need more help, please send a DM or email. If you would like more information or you have questions on this, you can drop them below or DM me on Instagram at BenTheBarman. Email me at BenTheBarman at gmail.com or send a WhatsApp message at the phone number 513-649-2666. If you'd like a custom workout, they are available on my website, superlivingtoday.com for only $39. Finally, and don't go anywhere, I'm going to give you the link to that video. Please, please understand, you can make amazing progress without training four or more days per week. This pocket guide will help you focus your training and get the most out of this season in the gym. Please check out this video. It will help you pick progression approaches for each of your exercises. Again, thank you guys for watching. Have a great day. Thank you.