 Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel. I'm Steve. Sean. This video, I'm going to give you all the information you need to build big juicy forearms. Before I get into that topic, if you guys would like coaching, I would love to work with you. Coaching is what I do for a living. Please check out the link down below. I also have a new workout tracker called PR.O Progressive Overload. It is the best workout tracker in the industry, in my opinion. Please check it out, please check it out, link down below. Alright, so you want the big juicy forearms, right? You want the big arm size, but you don't want little sticky, sticky things hanging off the end of your elbows. So, so in this video, I'm going to provide the best information I can on building bigger forearms and also explain why you might not need to train your forearms directly at all. Okay, so let's dive into things. Now, one of the things I want to express to you guys is there's a strong chance you don't really have to train your forearms. In fact, I would say you really don't have to train them at all as long as you're building up a quality amount of upper body mass. In all my years in the industry and working with big name lifters and YouTube celebrities and, you know, just a lot of advanced lifters, they all naturally have big forearms because they've been attacking their upper body for so long. So you really don't need to train your forearms to build big forearms. forearms. Wanting to build big forearms is a noble pursuit, but I want you to understand the nature of the goal. It is very likely, and I would say with almost 100% certainty, that you wouldn't even need to train your forearms directly to build big forearms over the course of the next five to 10 years. So the reality is this, if you spend the next five to 10 years building a lot of upper body mass, your forearms are generally going to be big without doing any direct work. For this reason, I don't recommend over investing your workout time. With that said, there's no reason if you have a little bit of extra workout time during the week, why you can't train your forearms. So basically, I don't want you guys to panic if you don't have a lot of extra time, your forearms are going to get big as your upper body gets big. And if you have a little bit of extra time, invest it in some forearm work. When my arms are about 17 and a half inches, my forearms come in at about 14 and a half inches. And I'll share a few photos here. You can kind of see I have really a solid forearm size. That'll give you some perspective as to what a 14 or 14 and a half inch forearm looks like. So if you do want to train your forearms every week, I recommend not adding in a crazy amount of work, but maybe about two forearm exercises each week. And we're going to get into exercises in just a moment. So don't go anywhere. I'm going to give you top tier exercises. I'm going to give you some good secondary exercises and just give you an overview of some bonus stuff that will work your forearms indirectly that you may or may not be interested in doing. So basically two exercises, roughly about six total sets per week. You can adjust this as needed or based on the amount of time you have to dedicate to your forearm training. It is my opinion that additional volume beyond this is unnecessary. Will not expedite forearm growth to any substantial degree in the long run. So don't feel like you have to add in a ton of work and don't fall into the pit that like extra volume is somehow going to expedite your forearm gains. A little bit of extra work will go a long way. Don't feel like you need to add in a thousand sets per week. It's not going to in any way expedite the growth of your forearm size. So two forearm exercises per week, approximately six total forearm sets per week. All right. So what should you be doing for your forearms? Here are some top tier forearm exercises I recommend. Number one, a wrist roller. A wrist roller is a great choice. I put a bonus tip here at the end. They're not very expensive. You can tuck one in your gym bag and use it at your commercial gym if they don't have a fit. Or you can just keep it at home and do wrist roller work when you have time. You can do this after your workouts. When you get home, you can do it on off days. Doesn't really matter. I would consider that my number one priority. You can train the upper part of the forearm, the lower part of the forearm, just by doing that wrist roller action. Some other good exercises, the seated wrist curl. This is very classic with a barbell or dumbbell. Reverse wrist curls. This is another classic exercise. Behind the back wrist curls. I really like this one personally. You can get a barbell, put it behind your back and just do wrist curls or wrist curls up. You can really feel the forearm working. And you can also do cable wrist curls. So these are five top tier exercises you should consider. Again, get yourself a wrist roll. You can find a couple of free minutes each week to work on your wrist roll. Or you can do this at home if you want. That way you don't have to take it along to the gym. All right. So now that we looked at the top tier, here's what I would call extra tier. These are pretty decent exercises worth considering. The single arm wrist curl, a dumbbell variation. Single arm reverse wrist curl. Cable reverse wrist curls. Easy bar wrist curls. And the neutral grip dumbbell wrist curl. This one is kind of underrated. You can just grab a couple of dumbbells and have that neutral grip like you were going to do a hammer curl. So sit down, place your forearms on your thighs. Now, bonus tip, and this is something you can consider if you don't want to do or you don't like any of these exercises. Get an adjustable tension gripper from Amazon or a similar store. They are super cheap. I put on here, you can get them less than $20. I have one. I think I got a whole set for like $12. These plastic adjustable grippers don't underestimate their value. I got one thinking it would be absolute crap. And I absolutely love mine. For $12, you can adjust the tension. You can sit there at your desk and do some really deliberate forearm work. I do some really deliberate forearm work throughout the day using this thing, forearm work or grip work. So this is a really good and convenient way to work your grip and forearm pretty much anytime you have a free couple of minutes. So if you want my bottom line opinion, the easiest way and the most convenient way to work your grip outside of dumbbells and barbells is to get yourself a wrist roller. Get yourself one of these adjustable grippers. You can keep them in your gym bag. You can keep them at home. The adjustable gripper, you can basically take anywhere. Really two solid options. Now finally, some bonus forearm work. You can get the fat grips. And I don't mind the fat grips, but I don't recommend using them on everything and kind of replacing your normal curls with fat grip curls or your normal bench with fat grip benches. I don't think this is a good idea. This makes the lifts harder in the wrong way. You transfer stress to your forearms rather than your biceps, or you make the bench press harder kind of in the wrong way where your grip becomes your focus rather than working your chest and triceps. You can work in some fat grip work. Just do it appropriately where it makes sense. Plate pinches are another fun little thing you can do for forearm work. This is kind of forearm and grip work. You can start with two and a half or whatever, and you can work your pinch grip. So when you start your pinch grip, you can do your thumb and one finger. You can do thumb and two fingers, thumb and three fingers. So you can kind of work it in different ways if you want to. If you don't really feel like you want to pinch two plates together, you can just take one, and you can just work on your basic gripping ability until you feel ready for a couple of plates. Farmer's carries without VersaGrip Pros or without straps are another good way to work your grip. This is a fun and engaging thing you can do on your posterior days like your squat days or your deadlift days after all of your regular hard training is done. You can do dead hangs if you want or just place a barbell in a rack and hold it, you know, like a static hold. That's good for your forearm stress as well. If you're going to do like a static hold, I recommend starting with about 135 pounds and just doing like two or three sets of time to work for as long as you can hold on to the barbell. You can also do things like towel pull-ups or towel rows if you have a really strong grip and you are really good at pull-ups. Most of us aren't, so what can I say there? Now, a final tip I want to share, and this is very important when it comes to not getting injured, not picking up overuse injuries. That can come from a lot of the gripping we're doing during our barbell and dumbbell and hypertrophy work. Understand that overworking your grip can contribute to elbow tendonitis. As a coach, I can tell you elbow tendonitis is the second most common injury I see. Very, very prevalent. It is an overuse injury that comes from all the constant gripping we are doing in the gym. So, this is one of the reasons why I recommend that if you are going to add in forearm work or grip work, that you don't overdo it. A couple of exercises a week. In the long run, a moderate amount of work will treat the body better and reduce the likelihood of overuse gripping injuries. So, just the final word. You don't need gimmicks. You don't need a lot of fancy crap. You don't need 10 variations or an excessive amount of forearm work volume. You probably don't even need direct work at all if you're training your upper body hard. But if you do want to train your forearms, a wrist roller or a wrist curl variation is a good place to start. Six hard sets per week. And, of course, progressive overload. Progressive overload. You just can't go into the gym and do a little bit of work and not progressively overload. You need to get it a lot stronger than you are now. So, you can't just slap on a weight for a wrist curl. Use the same weight for a year and expect your forearms to grow. You must get a lot stronger than you are now. So, that's it, guys. If you want more information on building up a stronger grip for things like your deadlifts, please check out this video. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day.