 Hey guys, welcome to the Massive Iron channel, I'm Steve Shaw, in this video we're going to talk about what is wrong with an upper lower split and how I would fix it. Before I get into this topic, if you guys would like coaching, I would love to work with you, please check out the link down below. With coaching, I don't just check in once a week via email, I'm with my clients five days a week, Monday through Friday, Friday, we work together every single day. Alright, so what is wrong with an upper lower split? The first thing I want to stress in this video is that there are no bad splits. I made a post on Instagram yesterday while I was out running, talking about the fact that there are no bad splits. The key thing with your programming is really not to overly stress about split, but the things you want to look at are weekly volume, do I have a solid weekly volume for each body part? And exercise selection, do I have a solid selection of exercises for each body part? Now with that said, some splits make it more difficult than others to balance the weekly volume per body part, and the upper lower is one of those programs. Again, it's not a bad split, I'm not trying to dissuade anybody from using splits they like, but there are certain problems with nearly any split, and we're going to look at some of those issues and see how we could fix them. Now with an upper lower split, you typically have like four workouts, upper A, lower A, upper B, lower B. So you're kind of rotating between them. It's a flexible schedule, you can really insert rest days whenever you want. You could use it three days a week, you could use it four days a week, or you could train five days a week if you are a masochist. If that's what works for you, great. It's very much a flexible schedule, and that's a positive thing. You can work out when you need to work out, insert rest days when you need to insert rest days, and train three days one week or maybe four days the next. Now the major issue with the upper lower split is that upper days can easily become jam packed. On lower days you're looking at a base structure of quads, hamstrings, and calves. Your upper days you are looking at a lot of different body parts fighting for time. You're looking at your chest, your back, your shoulders, your biceps, triceps. And then in all of this you have to figure out, am I going to try to get in some traps work, maybe some forearm work, maybe some abs work, maybe some direct rear delt work. Now obviously some of this could be pushed to your lower days, but still there are a lot of body parts competing for time on your upper body days. And this can easily create a bloated upper framework. Now on the opposite end of the spectrum, you have a couple of leg days per week if you're training four days a week. And there's not a lot of stuff in the mix on your leg days. Again, hamstrings, quads, calves, and maybe you're stuffing in a little bit more of the peripheral work. Maybe you're putting in some rear delt work or ab work. Not to mention the fact you're doing two leg days per week. And look, honestly, leg days can be very difficult from a recovery standpoint. So you're likely going to have to pull back a little bit. And the fact that you're going to have to pull back a little bit and balance that volume properly to get through the week so you can actually be able to walk means you're going to have a lot of extra filler stuff to fill in on those leg days. So while your upper days are bloated, they have a lot of body parts fighting for time and space and, and how to program things in your lower days. You're kind of reducing the leg volume a little bit to balance recovery. And you have extra space because you're not going to be overworking your hamstrings or calves. Even if you get in reasonable work, it's kind of like you're trying to figure out how to fill in that leg day to almost balance that upper day. And it gets to the point where you're asking yourself why you're doing an upper lower split to begin with. Because one day is super bloated and the other day you're just simply trying to fill in the cracks and trying to figure out how to balance it so you actually get in a fulfilling workout. One of the biggest issues on doing an upper lower split for me is having two substantial leg days. If that's what you like to do, go right ahead. I would consider you a masochist. I don't really like to have two solid leg days per week. But again, you could adjust the volume down to make it work. Now, my final point on the upper lower split is that on paper, it sounds very logical. We're going to do an upper. We're going to do a lower. Everything seems very tidy. We're splitting the body down the middle. The problem is that while it seems logical on paper, when you go to program workouts or when you start to understand programming a little bit, you'll understand that it doesn't make logical, reasonable sense from a programming standpoint. You basically have four major areas of focus when you are trying to build muscle. You have the chest, back, shoulders, which are on the upper body, and you have the quads, which are on the lower body. Then you have minor areas of focus. This doesn't mean small body parts. You have biceps and triceps as more minor areas of focus in the upper body. And you have hamstrings as a minor area of focus in the lower body. Again, not a minor body part, but we're generally doing more work for our quads per week than we are our hamstrings. So if you look at just the seven major and minor areas of focus, not that there aren't other body parts, but these are the starting points for programming. You have five upper body major and minor starting points, chest, back, shoulders, biceps, and triceps. And you have two lower body starting points, hamstrings and quads. Now calves, you probably throw that on leg day. Abs, you could probably throw that on leg day as well. Things like traps and rear delts and forearms, stuff like that. You could move that to leg day. You could move that to the lower body days. If you wanted to, you would have no issue doing that. Still, you're going to have some pretty beefy body parts fighting for time on that upper day. You could certainly do a couple of exercises for chest, a couple for back, a couple for shoulders. You can add a couple for biceps and triceps. If that's the volume you wanted to go with. So as you can see on paper, there are ways to make this work, but I'm going to give you some ideas to maybe try some different things. Some things that might be a little bit easier to program. Now, how would I fix an upper lower split? I would keep the same weekly volume for each body part and keep the same two times weekly frequency. So we're not going to get away from frequency training because an upper lower provides frequency training. And we're not going to reduce the volume for any of the major or minor body parts. We're going to keep that same frequency. We're going to keep that same weekly volume. So what I'm going to do here is give you some different ways to approach frequency without having two bloated upper body days and two lower or leg days per week. Now, solution number one is something I came up with a number of years ago. I don't know if anybody came up with it before me. There's nothing new under the sun. But this is what I call my upper posterior split. Basically, we're taking back out of the upper day and we're combining it with legs. This works really, really well for those of you that do things like Romanian deadlifts or deadlifts because on the posterior day, you have room for squats. You have room for deadlifts. You have back training. You have leg training. On your upper days, because we're moving back out of that upper day, it's a little less bloated. This just kind of fits a little better. So your upper days are chest, delts, and arms. Your lower days or posterior days are legs and back. This is probably my most popular split among my clients. They use a wide variety of splits, but this is kind of the go-to in the baseline. So many people are using this in my client base and they have for a long, long time. In some cases, working legs and back on the same day can be pretty challenging. But I would say it is easier than doing two leg days per week. And it does take away that upper body bloat that you get on an upper lower split. So if you're looking for a quality alternative to an upper lower split, I would start with the upper posterior. All right, fix number two is the torso limbs. The torso is going to be your chest, your delts, and your back. So we're going to take the arms out of the upper split and we're going to move it into our leg day. And that's going to be our limbs day, our arms and our legs. So basically you have chest, delts, and back. And then on limbs day, you have legs and arms. This is another excellent option. Most of my clients that use this absolutely love this. It's not for everybody, of course. But after you get done training a little bit of legs on that day, training your arms almost feels like a nice break. And you feel like you can really focus on your arm training. When you go into the gym and you hit chest, shoulders, and back, you have a lot of big exercises. And a lot of times after you get through those, you don't always feel like you have the energy to devote to arm training that you would on like a torso limb split. Yes, you're going to have some big stuff on your limbs day like squats or leg press or hack squats or whatever you're doing. But you're not doing as many exercises for your legs as you would exercises for your upper body on a torso day or an upper day. So it almost feels like you have a little bit more energy to attack your arms. All right, now we're going to get into some more creative splits that I give to my clients. This is solution number three. You're going to have an upper day, which is chest, back, and arms. You're then going to have a second day, which is a posterior day, legs and back. And then I kind of have a third and fourth day, which allow you to piece things together a little bit more creatively. You're going to have a full body day and you can pretty much plug anything you want into that full body day. And then you're going to have a junk day or kind of a bonus day where you could move in more arm work. You could put things that got missed out during the week like calves or rear douts or maybe forearm work or trap work. This is really a fun split the program. And while I don't have an official, you know, catchy type of name for it, just remember this. If you want a very flexible schedule, you can go and hit that upper day, chest, delts and arms, then do legs and back on that second day. And then with full body, you could maybe do lighter leg and back work, extra chest and delt work. It's really super flexible. You could add extra arm work if you want. If you want extra arm work, I would probably recommend moving it to that junk day. Don't be afraid of the word junk. Junk day simply means you can pretty much put anything you want into that day to kind of fill in the gaps for the week. This is very much a Frankenstein style program, but it allows you to still maintain that quality weekly volume for every body part and allows you to get in frequency. For some body parts, you could even work in three times a week if you wanted to using the structure. All right, solution number four, another Frankenstein type program. You have torso, you have limbs, you have upper and you have junk. So your torso a day, you're going to have chest, delts and arms. And usually this is going to be bench press focused. And you're going to see why we do kind of two torso days or a torso and second upper day. Your limbs day is going to be legs and arms, obviously. And torso B or your upper day is going to be chest, delts and arms, usually a focus on overhead. So basically a couple of torso or upper body days. But on torso A or upper A, you're going to focus on the bench press as the starting point. And on torso B, you're going to focus on some form of heavy barbell overhead press or maybe a dumbbell overhead press as your primary movement. So once you get out of your junk day, you can fit in anything you want. If you are a deadlifter and you squatted on limbs day, you could easily start off your junk day with the deadlift. And then you could fit in anything else you wanted into your junk day. This split is basically a torso limb setup for individuals who really don't care for a lot of excessive weekly leg volume. No judgment at all. Not everybody wants to hammer the living crap out of their legs every week. Maybe you want to just get in a moderate amount of leg work. This would be a good structure for you. It's perfect for somebody that likes the upper lower type of split, but doesn't want to overly work their legs. We're not training our legs like a weak noodle. We're still leaving some room to get in some leg training, but we're just not over baking. We're leaving some good quality room to work our arms and a lot of the other body parts like traps and abs and calves and rear delts and whatever else you want to work. All right. So those are your options. Again, before I go, I want to stress that there are no magical splits. This is not an anti upper lower split. I just think an upper lower is one of the most challenging type of splits to program. So I wanted to give you guys some other options, some other things to think about. At the end of the day, it's all about your weekly volume per body part and whatever split you want to use. If you want to use two times a week type of frequency or one and a half times per week frequency, these are perfect options for you. Now, if you want my honest opinion and my hot take, so to speak, I consider the upper lower to be probably the most archaic and clunky of the classic splits, not necessarily a bad split. So don't come after me, but it is a little bit archaic. It is a little bit clunky. And for somebody like myself that programs workouts for a living, I find it the most difficult and aggravating to work with. Now, if you would like a custom workout based on any of these splits, I would love to help. Please visit my website, superlivingtoday.com and search custom or send me a DM on Instagram at BenTheBarman. Custom workouts are only $39. Before you go, I want you to check out this video on progression approaches. This will help you not only put in your appropriate amount of weekly volume and a good exercise selection, but show you how to set up your progression. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day.