 Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel, I'm Steve, Sean, I'm Steve, Sean, this video, I'm going to show you how I built a formula that will help you determine your arm size and leg size natural potential at your current body fat percentage. Before I get into this topic, if you guys would like coaching, please check out the link down below, coaching is what I do for a living. I also just released the PR.O Progressive Overload Workbook, Workout Tracker, Workout Tracker, Workout Tracker, Workout Tracker, Workout Tracker, this is in my opinion, the industry-leading Workout Tracker. We put nearly three years of work into developing this. It is not AI slop, so check out the link down below. Alright, so over the last 20 years, I've spent a lot of time looking at natural muscle building potential. This is an area of study, an area that I am fascinated with. And then this video, I'm going to give you a formula I developed that will help you determine how big your arms can get, how big your legs can get at your current body fat percentage, and it is super simple. The only thing you need is a basic tape measure like you see in this picture. So you can see here measuring my arm size, my current arm size is, I don't know, maybe about 17.6 inches, give or take. And my current leg size, it looks like about 27.25 inches, maybe if I snug it up correctly. It might be 27.5 inches, maybe 27.27 inches, maybe 27.27 inches. In any case, let's dive into things and show you what your arm and leg potential is at your current body fat percentage. Now, the reason why I say your current body fat percentage is because we don't want to speculate. Regardless of your body fat percentage, whether you're super lean at 12% or whether you're 30%, I want to show you how big your arms and legs can get at that body fat percentage, and then you can kind of back it down using this information or these simple equations. So if you are overweight, you can determine what your body fat percentage would be if you back it down just a little bit. All right, determining your size potential. When you're looking at how big you can expect your arms to get based on your current physique and conditioning, and when you're looking at proportions and reasonable potential relative to your arms, use the following guidelines and structure that I created. The first thing you want to do is measure your wrists above the styloid process. There's a bump on your wrist right here, and you want to measure it above that wrist. You don't want to snug it in like super tight, but you want to get a reasonable measurement above that styloid process more towards your hand, so above that bump. Measure your wrists above this styloid process. If your body fat is 19% or under, take this measurement and add 10 inches. This is going to give you a reasonable arm size potential for your current body fat percentage. If your body fat percentage is around 20 to 27%, I want you to add 10 and a half inches to this measurement. Now, if your body fat percentage is 28% or greater, I want you to add about 11 inches to this measurement. If you're getting up to about 35 or 40%, you might have to add 12 inches. A lot of this at that level is just speculative. Again, what this will do is it will give you an approximate arm potential at your current body fat percentage. Now, you can see where I have it circled here. That is your styloid process. It is a little bump on your wrist, and you want to measure above that bump more towards your hand. I would recommend measuring it two or three times just to get kind of a feel for your accuracy. And if you're getting a little bit of variance, just kind of take an average. So let's look at some examples. Let's say your wrist measure is about seven and a half inches above the styloid process, and your body fat percentage is roughly 22%. In this case, your natural arm size potential would be roughly 18 inches. We are adding 10 and a half inches to your measurement because of your body fat percentage. If your wrist is about 7.25 inches above the styloid process, and your body fat percentage is 15%, so you're relatively lean, your arm size potential is roughly 7.25 inches at that body fat percentage, or we add 10 inches to your measurement above the styloid process. I want to stress this is at your current body fat percentage. Now, this tool and formula are not meant to be limiters, okay? So when we talk about natural potential, sometimes people feel limited. I'm trying to give you reasonable potential and standards. Now next, if you want to figure out your leg size, this is a super simple way to do so. Now that we have your arm size potential, all you need to do is add 9 inches to that arm size potential, and this will give you a potential leg size. So if your arm potential is 17.5 inches, your leg potential would be roughly 26 and a half inches, adding 9 inches to your arm potential. Now if you want to determine your forearm potential, this is really simple. You take your arm potential, your arm size potential, and you subtract 3 inches from that potential. So if your arm size potential is roughly 17 and a half inches, subtract 3 and your forearms should be able to reach about 14.5 inches. For your neck and calves, I use roughly the same potential as your arms give or take. Now women, you're probably frustrated with me and you're saying, what about the women? Well, women are unfortunately a bit harder to provide reasonable potential standards for, simply because there is not a lot of data that exists for top-level natural female physique. So women, please forgive me. My best advice is to measure your wrists above that styloid process and maybe add 8 to 9 inches above that as a starting point. Again guys, this is just a general guideline and not an ultimate limiter. Slight variations can exist, but with that said, very few people will reach these levels. So if you are closing in on them, well done. If you have any questions about this, don't hesitate to hit me up on DM on Instagram at bendthebarman or email me bendthebarman at gmail.com. I would love to help. The tape measure you saw in my image of the styloid process with a pin and push button retraction is something you can get for about $7 on Amazon or Walmart. And also guys, I would encourage you to come over and check out my free Discord community. If you need form checks, lifting advice, or whatever, check out the link down below. Before I go, I want you to check out this video on natural muscle building potential. This will give you an idea of how much mass you can add over the course of your life. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day.