

=== FILE: 4 Things That WON'T Get You Big (AVOID These) [gtSRRIH9uJU].txt ===

 Hey guys, welcome to the Massive Iron channel, I'm Steve Shaw, in this video we're going to talk about four things that aren't going to get you big. Before I get into this topic, if you guys would like coaching, please check out the link down below. Coaching is what I do for a living, I would love to work with you, and if you would like a custom workout, they are available for only $39, and they are not cookie cutter nonsense, link down below. All right, four things that aren't going to get you big. These are pretty prevalent in the modern lifting landscape. We're going to dive into things, let me know what you think, drop a comment down below. Let me know if we missed anything, or if there's anything you would add to the list. All right, number one, micromanaging protein intake. This has been around for a very long time, and it's nothing really new, but I want you guys to understand that when it comes to protein intake, hard training is really the key ingredient, and having a specific amount of grams of protein per pound of body weight or anything like that is completely unnecessary. It's not going to make or break things. Now, I'm not saying here protein intake doesn't matter, but the belief that you somehow need to calculate it off pounds or kilos of body weight, or you must, and that's the key word here, get obsessive and ultra-specific about how much you take in each day really is misguided and unnecessary. You obviously want your diet to be balanced, so you should have a solid protein intake each day. But beyond that, animal-based protein foods are extremely nutrient-dense, which is another reason to rely on them. As long as your protein intake is reasonable and consistent and somewhat balanced relative to your overall calorie intake, you're going to be fine. So relax. The key thing here is to remember the body and the muscle building process are not that fragile. The key driver of hypertrophy is going to be heart training combined with the slight calorie surplus to facilitate recovery, repair, and massing. As long as you address point number two, which we're going to look at next. Before I do that, I want to give you a little bit of take-home information on each of these four things. So number one take-home is men focus on a red-line minimum of 150 grams of protein per day, and women focus on a red-line minimum of 110 grams per day. That should say 110 grams per day. So I apologize. It is a typo. This is certainly not magic, and it's not going to make a dramatic difference when it comes to muscle building, but it is a good indication if you are reasonably balanced when it comes to your diet or if you're eating a lot of crap. If you're eating a lot of crap, generally it'll drive that protein intake down a little bit on the lower end. So these are minimums. It's not like if you go under by a little bit that you're somehow going to compromise the muscle building process, but as a minimum, it is a good indicator if your diet is reasonably balanced. And you can go higher than this, obviously. Men, 170, 180, 200, 220. Who really cares? Just make sure you hit your red lines. All right, number two here, trying to stay at the same scale weight. This is not going to get you big. Bulking has a very bad rap, and there are a number of reasons for this. The main reason is that we often equate bulking with fat bulking. Now, bulking aside, if you staple yourself to a specific number on the scale and want to stick to that number, you're going to dramatically limit your ability to pack on muscle mass. Now, if you ask any fitness professional, they will immediately tell you that the number on the scale is meaningless. This is common knowledge in the fitness and lifting world, yet when it comes to certain corners of the muscle building culture, they almost position themselves with the opposite belief. And this is where it gets weird. They somehow think they can magically staple themselves to a certain scale number, no matter how arbitrary that number is, and then somehow staying at that scale number, gain 20 to 25 pounds of muscle mass, while also magically losing the same equal amount of fat, never allowing the scale to move. This is truly the Harry Potter Hogwarts school of muscle building body recomposition. Body recomposition should not involve stapling yourself to a specific number on the scale. It should service the very definition of what we're trying to do, which is body recomposition. It goes without saying that if you're truly trying to change how you look, then the mirror should be the guiding post, not a scale number. So the take-home point here is focus on cycles of reasonable, massive iron style, lean bulking, and mini cuts. Stick around to the end. I'm going to give you a video link so you can learn more about the massive iron bulking method. All right, number three here. Thinking that a new split or program will save you if I just move to this program or this split, or whatever the magic program or magic concept of the day is, it will save me and I will somehow start building muscle when I'm not building it right now. Program hopping is always viewed in a bad light and for a good reason. It reveals a lot of insecurity in the person when it comes to the process. Lifters jumping around from program to program to program, unable to stick to anything, and maybe searching for a magic way to build muscle. The key thing to think about when it comes to program hopping is that there are no magic programs. Look at the highlighted text here. If you are not building, I want you to hear this. If you're not building muscle right now on your existing program, so whatever program you're on, you're not building muscle, then moving to another program, you're still not going to build muscle. If you don't know how to build muscle on your existing program, moving to a different program isn't going to change anything, and you need to hear that, and you need to understand that. Muscle building is about hard training, and you should be able to pack on quality muscle mass with any reasonable program. So whatever program you're using right now, if it's reasonable and not just created by some monkey that doesn't know programming, you should be packing on a decent level of muscle mass using that program, even if you don't care for it. Certainly, there are going to be programs that you don't care for, and that is perfectly fine. But if you're finding you don't care for anything, and you're constantly hopping around, then you need to take a new way of looking at things. So consider this. Nearly every program contains the same exercises. So if you're hopping around from program to program to program, you're just moving to a different way of performing the same exercises that aren't giving you results right now. It's not the exercises that aren't giving you results. It's that you need to focus on what you are doing wrong, because hopping from a new program to a new program, you're just moving to the same exercises, just sliced and diced in a different way. I want you to look at things through a different lens. Regardless of the program you pick, choose 15 to 20 lifts you want to focus on during the coming year. Focus on improving form on these lifts. Focus on improving focus on these lifts, or getting as much as you can out of every set. And more than anything, focus on improving your strength levels on these lifts. So focus on 15 to 20 lifts, improving your form, trying to get the most you can out of every set, instead of just focusing on programs. So the take home here is focus on improving a core group of lifts rather than programs. All right, finally, number four, the last thing that isn't going to help you build muscle mass, falling for the traps of fear culture. And this is a huge thing right now. So much modern lifting content is grounded in fear culture. You're going to lose gains if you don't do this, that, or the other thing. Is this killing your gains? Is that killing your gains? You must use a specific rep range, or split, or program, or exercises. If you don't, you're not going to gain. Muscle building fear culture has you believing that the body is extremely fragile, and the path is extremely narrow. That is what they are pushing. That is what they are getting lifters to believe. If you don't use a specific split, or rep range, or if you don't use one set to failure, or length and partials, or whatever the trend or fad of the day is, you won't build muscle. Now, you also have a certain segment of the science-based community actually using pseudoscience to bully individuals with their pseudo-intellectualism and their pseudo-science into believing that there is a magic single way of building muscle. The problem with all of this is that if you actually look at the data, the last 70 to 80 years of muscle building, you will learn that the path is very wide, not narrow, and all of this fear is complete and utter nonsense. It's simply wasting your time, wasting the time of the lifting community. When you look at every successful lifter, whether they are enhanced or not, over the last 70 to 80 years of lifting, you begin to understand that it's not the split, not the exercise selection, not the progression approach, not the frequency, or the rep ranges that matter. The important things are that you are remaining consistent, using progressive overload, using a good quality selection of exercise, that don't beat up your body, and doing the most you can in that season of lifting to continue to push the needle forward. This is what we call the Massive Iron Pillars of Success. There are 10 total pillars of success that I teach, and these are just a few of the important ones. Always remember that there is freedom when it comes to lifting, and anybody, and this is important, I want you to remember this, anybody teaching you that there is a narrow path or pushing this fear culture nonsense should be avoided because they don't understand training. So the take home here is focus on avoiding fear culture content, instead embrace freedom and those that are teaching it. Before I go, just a reminder, if you want more information on Massive Iron Bulking, please check out this video. Let me know what you think, drop a comment down below. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day. Thank you.

=== FILE: Back Training - Bar MUST Touch the Body for MASSIVE Gains？ [qoHAqdgabyM].txt ===

 Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel, I'm Steve, Sean, this video we're going to ask the question, do barbell rows and dumbbell rows need to touch your body for them to be effective reps? Before I get into this topic, if you guys would like a custom workout, check out the link down below. Custom workouts are only $39. They are not cookie cutter, they are developed from a custom workout, one one one, one one, one one, one one, one one, one one, one one, one one, one one, one one one, one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one one like this, that effective reps for your back must touch the body. Occasionally you'll come across the concept that for it to be an effective rep, it has to contact your body. This is complete nonsense. You do not have to do this for it to be an effective rep. I want to walk you guys kind of through what an effective or efficient rep is for back training, when to know when to stop a set, when to know when you can continue beyond failure on a set, and what reps to count. So the way I like to describe initiating or generating power on any back exercise, whether it is a dumbbell row, a pendly row, a barbell row, a machine row, a lat pulldown, or whatever, is I think about driving my elbows and shoulders back at the same time. A lot of times you'll see, you know, the advice, just drive your elbow back during a row or a lat pulldown, that's fine, but I think about driving my shoulder and elbow back at the same time. This helps me really zero in and focus on hitting the upper back and lat. So when I'm doing a dumbbell row, I think about driving my elbow and my shoulder back. When I'm doing a lat pulldown, I think about driving my elbow and shoulder back as well. This is a really good foundation for your back training. Now, don't panic if you can't actually feel, if you don't have a really good feeling of your lats or upper back, just use this kind of a structure and you'll be targeting your upper back, even if you haven't really made that good connection or good feeling with your lats or upper back. So with this in place, we're going to watch speed. When it comes to back training, you want a reasonable degree of power generation. You don't want to be sloppy. What I like to equate it to is like kind of doing an elbow strike in martial arts. If somebody was behind you and you want to give them an elbow strike, right? You want to generate focused power. We don't want to be sloppy on lat pulldowns or dumbbell rows or seated cable rows and just rapidly go through things like an angry monkey. We want focused power, right? We want focused power. We don't want to go really slow, tediously slow on a lat pulldown or a dumbbell row. Sometimes we fear power generation on back exercises and this is wrong. If you think about a bench press to get the bar off your chest, you have to generate a lot of power. It's, you can't really get sloppy with power generation off your chest unless you're using a really light weight compared to your bench press max. But think of a dumbbell row or a lat pulldown or any other back exercises equal and opposite to a chest movement, equal and opposite to like the bench press. You're trying to generate focused power towards your chest. Again, not sloppy, but focused power driving the elbow and the shoulder back. Not slow, focused power. So now that you have this in place, we're going to watch speed. If you're doing like a dumbbell row, for example, you're moving along, you're hitting your reps and all of a sudden you hit that rep where you can notice a little bit of speed loss. This is the rep you want to pay attention to. This is the last rep I personally count as a quality rep. This is basically form failure or technical failure on a dumbbell row, a penalty row, a lat pulldown, etc. When you notice a little bit of slowing of speed, you count that rep. But this is the last quality rep and this is basically failure for a back exercise. Now you can continue to do extra reps beyond this if you can really focus on driving that elbow and shoulder back. It's okay to continue to do reps like this. This is what I would call a post failure repetition. You're moving along on the dumbbell row, you hit that slowing of speed, and now we're going to add in a little bit of English, you know, to kind of move those reps back. You can do this. You don't have to do this. You can certainly do this if you want, but I do not count these reps as part of the set. So this is just a basic primer of how to train your back. Now we're going to circle back to the idea that you have to somehow touch the bar or touch the dumbbell or touch the V-bar handle or the lat pulldown handle to your body or else it's not an effective rep. This is just completely arbitrary. You don't need to do this. If you're generating proper power during a dumbbell row or a lat pulldown, just let the bar come where the bar comes. The only thing you want to worry about is the loss of speed. So when you see that or you feel that loss of speed, that's when the set is over. It doesn't matter if the bar is touching your chest on a lat pulldown, that's completely arbitrary. You don't have to have the dumbbell touch your body or the barbell touch your body during a penalty row. That's completely arbitrary. The only thing we care about is that focused power generation, driving the elbow and shoulder back and monitoring any loss of speed, because again, that is form failure or technical failure. Put aside, put out of your mind that you need to touch the body with anything during a back exercise. Focus on what is important. You will build a big and strong upper back and lats. Before you go, check out this video on back training. It'll give you a little bit more information on training your back effectively. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day. one

=== FILE: Building Muscle Mass - How Strong Is STRONG ENOUGH？ [J71Gxn1pSwc].txt ===

 Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel. I'm Steve Shawn. This video, we're going to talk about muscle building, specifically, how much strength is too much strength? Kind of an oddball question, but we're going to talk about that. Before I get into this topic, if you guys would like coaching, I would love to work with you. Coaching is what I do full time. Please check out the link down below. I was coach of the year, online coach of the year, beating out everybody in the whole universe, believe it or not, in 2023. In 2024, I was in the top four. One of the reasons why I made it there, 90,000 plus messages with my clients every single year. This is not an exaggeration. All right, so you're trying to build muscle and you know about progressive overload, progressive overload, progressive overload. You need to get a lot stronger than you are now. You know all the stuff I'm talking about, right? And you've seen my lips. You know, I'm pretty strong. I'm not the world's strongest guy. Never got in this to be the world's strongest guy. But over 40 years of lifting. Yes, I am that old. Over 40 years of lifting. I've gained a lot of strength. But I did so in the lane of hard training. I didn't set out to get strong. I just got strong during progressive overload and trying to beat the log book. Now, one of the interesting topics of conversation is how much strength is too much strength. So let me frame that because it seems like a really, really crazy question. I have said many times if I could go back in time and give myself a little bit of advice, I would say, you know, if you don't get into powerlifting, younger big hairy ugly dude. If you don't get into powerlifting, you could probably cap out your bench at like 225 for five sets of 10 or squats, you know, 315 for multiple sets of 10. You probably don't have to go above those strength levels. Now, sometimes when I say this, it is kind of shocking or doesn't make sense. This type of strength is basically going to get you pretty close to your natural muscle building potential. You're going to build a lot of muscle. We're not after specific strength numbers. But for what I know now, what my strength is, if I can go back in time and counsel myself, I would say this is pretty much all you need. You don't need to be tossing around 380, 390 on the bench press every week. You don't need to be squatting up to 640. I have a video on this channel. I can't remember the number of reps. So don't hold me to the fire. But it's like 640 with change for two or three reps. I don't remember. But looking back the long journey, when I was doing squats, I think about in 1997, I was doing like 315 for eight and then 365 for four. My legs were just about where they are now, maybe a quarter inch, maybe a half inch difference doing a single set working up to about a single set of 315 for eight by 10. And my bench press. Yes, my strength wasn't too far off from where it is now, but I didn't need to do a lot of heavy work. I could have just stayed with 225 for multiple sets of 10. My size was the same, pretty much the same within about 95% as it is now. And that was before I got into the power lifting and really exploded my numbers because there is a difference between power lifting and muscle building. Muscle building is the platform for power lifting. You have to have a muscular base to generate power to be strong. But there is a next level, a next style of training and power lifting that can take you from really strong body building levels to really strong power lifting levels. So if I could go back in time, I would tell myself there are certain strength levels you just don't need to go above. You can just hold steady. When it comes to maintaining muscle, it is super, super easy. So that's one point I want you guys to understand. If you get to about 90, 95% of your natural muscle building potential, holding that muscle is super, super easy. It's not very challenging. You just, you don't have to beat up your body. You don't have to do a lot of shenanigans. You can pretty much just do two workouts of 45 to 60 minutes a week, and you could maintain that muscle mass for life. The question is, okay, you're right there where I was, the 315 on squats for a couple, two, three, four sets of 10. Bench press 225 for multiple sets of 10. Maybe you're at 85% of your natural muscle building potential. You have 16 and a half inch arms. And you're looking at 85%, 90, 95% of your natural muscle building potential. You're trying to figure out how much strength will it take to get to that close to that 100. We never truly get to the 100%, right? There's always some deficiency. Maybe we have naturally small calves or forearms or neck. Maybe you have a pencil neck, whatever the case may be. But does anybody ever truly get to 100%? No, you creep up and up and up and you get closer and closer and closer. And the closer you get, the slower it becomes, the more tedious it becomes. So basically, once you get to that point that I was talking about where you have a solid strength level, you know, like me going back in time and telling myself, that's really all you need. To move from there to like that 85%, 90%, 95% to get that next 5% to 7% bump, you're going to have to absolutely grind, grind, grind for a number of years with heavy, hard training, heavy, hard training. Now, the point of this video is not to tell you not to do so. It is to tell you that once you get to that pretty big level, if you want to go from there to the max, max level, you're going to have to get in the pit, not necessarily gain a lot more strength than you are now. But you're going to have to toss around a lot of damn weight for a substantial number of years. Now, there are two ways to attack that last 5%, 10%, 15%. You can continue to try to push your strength numbers up using heavy, heavy, heavy weight. Or you can use these more moderate rep ranges and try to push things up in those rep ranges. So maybe you're at 225 for four sets of 10. Maybe you can try to push that up to 225 for four sets of 12 or 15 or 245 for four sets of 10. The bigger picture here is the relative intensity that you are using in your training. And this kind of gets lost in the modern bodybuilding landscape. Yes, I was doing many, many years of training with 360 to 400 and even well over with reverse bands and chains. But I would go back and tell myself, you don't need to do all that heavy ass work. You could just stay in that 225 for four sets of 10 range and even move up in reps to 15 or slowly move 245 up to five sets of 10 or 255 for five sets of 10. Yes, that's still mind blowing strength, right? But moving 225 to 45 to 55 on a weekly basis, I would argue is still less punishing than getting in every week and smashing with 315, 335, 355, 375, 395. Is this making sense? So when we talk about strength, one of the things you want to think about is the long term process. You can stay in that lane of that eight to 10, eight to 12, eight to 15 rep range and do multiple sets and progress in that lane and never having to do the really heavy sets. You will build a ton, ton of strength. It'll be more forgiving. It'll be less punishing on the body. And I feel it's a little bit mentally easier as well. It doesn't mean you can never train heavier than that. That's not the message here. The message here is how much strength is too much. What I want to do is just kind of encourage you guys to think a little bit outside of the box. Like if you want to chase a 400 pound bench press, that's fine, but you can do so in the lane I was just describing. Same thing for squats. You could get all the size you want just working with 315 pounds. So once you get to the kind of that level, it's a tough call. How much strength or low rep sets do you want to work with? You don't really have to do that at all. You can stay in that super strong, but moderate rep range and build, build, build in that lane. It'll be less punishing on the body. And I hope this is just freeing a little bit where you don't think you're going to have to get up to like 400 pounds for five sets of five to build big legs. You can build a lot of size just getting up to these strength levels. And again, I know it's an oddball topic, but when I tell people if I went back in time, I would never have to squat more than 315, never have to bench more than 225. It doesn't seem to make sense. But if you process it in the lane I just talked about where you're building, you know, reps or you're building strength or where you're attacking muscle in those kind of lanes that are going to remain safer and less punishing over the long run. You can still work hard, get creative, not beat up the body and not have to get to those crazy strength levels that are going to grind your body down over time. Let me know if this makes sense. Drop a comment down below. If you need some information on progression approaches, please check out this video some of my favorite progression approaches. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day.

=== FILE: Five Arm Training Mistakes Keeping You Small [a3TiGBCaVbI].txt ===

 Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel. Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel. I'm Steve Shawn. In this video, I'm going to give you five arm training mistakes that are keeping you small. Before I get into this topic, if you are interested in coaching, coaching is what I do for a living. I would love to help. Please check out the link down below. And if you would like a custom workout, they're only $39. No cookie cutter nonsense. You can check out the link down below. All right, we're going old school here on massive iron. I'm just going to stand in front of the camera and present some information. I got my handy dandy little cheat sheet here. And I'm just going to speak off the cuff a little bit about arm size. Because I don't just want you guys to build big arms. I want you to build the mass you want in your upper body. This is more of an upper body video. We're not going to talk about lower body or leg training. But I want you to have the arm size you want to have. And I want you to have the upper body you want to have to back that arm size. So I'm going to give you five things that are keeping you small. Both arms and your upper body. Now, number one is that you obsessed about biceps and triceps to the point where it becomes your primary focal point. And you're not focused on the rest of the upper body. Now, it might sound really weird for an arm training video to say you're obsessing about your biceps and triceps when you clicked here because you obsessed about your biceps and triceps. And I want you to be obsessed with your arm training. But you need to be equally obsessed with the rest of your upper body. I don't just want you to pour your focus in the curls and push downs or whatever you're doing for biceps and triceps. I want you to think about the other areas of your upper body that can help you pack on size. Like your chest, your shoulders and back. I want you to focus on attacking your arms, okay, with a reasonable amount of volume. But I also want you to put that energy and focus into attacking your chest, your back and your shoulders. If you want to develop the biggest arms possible, you can't just do biceps and triceps exercises. You need to focus on getting the entire upper body as big and as strong as humanly possible. I'm going to talk more about this in point number four. We're going to expand on this a little bit, so don't go anywhere. Now, number two, we're going to talk about avoiding the big hitters. We're not talking about bench press and barbell rows or dumbbell rows or, you know, machine overhead press or military press. I'm talking about avoiding big hitting exercises for the biceps and triceps. You can't just do machine curls and cable curls and concentration curly whirlies or cable push downs or dumbbell kickbacks or the lighter type of exercise. There's nothing wrong with these exercises. But if you want to build big arms, you need some bigger hitters in the mix for both your biceps and triceps. Things with big progression opportunities like for your triceps. Maybe the JM press or the close grip bench press or the incline close grip bench press or the seated press down. Kind of the seated dip type of movement, but really triceps focused. Skull crushers or skull destroyers. Some of these big hitting exercises with big progression opportunities. You need to make this the bread and butter of your triceps training. It doesn't mean you can't do extensions or overhead extensions or dumbbell extensions or machine tricep extensions or anything like that. But you can't just train your triceps and your biceps with foo-foo exercises. You need some big hitters in the mix with big juicy progression opportunities. All right. Now the same thing for your biceps. You know, you can't just do machine curls or cable curls. Get some form of big hitters in the mix. I like to start with an easy bar curl or a barbell curl and combine that with like a dumbbell curl, either a seated incline curl or a standing alternating curl. These are really two cornerstone exercises. I encourage you to consider for your biceps training. They have really solid progression opportunities. Stack these type of bicep exercises with a couple of quality triceps exercises, and then you can add in anything else you enjoy for arm training. All right. Number three, when it comes to your arm training, don't just move weight through space. We're not just trying to progressively overload. We're not just trying to mindlessly add reps. We're trying to get the most we can out of every set. When you go into the gym and you're training arms, is there intent? Is there like an intent to get the most you can out of every set, out of every rep? We're not talking about anything specific like doing slow-mo reps or whatever, but are you focused on just curling that weight up, getting good control during the descent, feeling that bicep work, feeling that tricep work? We don't have to overstate the mind-muscle connection, but ask yourself an honest question. When you're doing your biceps training, when you're doing your triceps training, are you trying to get everything you can out of every rep and every set? One of the things I teach on the Massive Iron channel is trying to maximize every set to get the most you can out of every set. If you do this, you're going to naturally add reps. You're going to naturally progress. Push a set for as many quality reps as you can, stopping that set when your form breaks down or when you feel like you're going to fail on the next rep. Push these sets hard. And if you don't know what hard training is, if you don't know that you're getting the most out of your sets, understand that hard training is a learned skill. It's not something you can just automatically walk into the gym and say, I know how to train hard. Hard training is like getting a belt in a martial art like Jiu Jitsu. You're going to progress from white to blue to purple to brown. Just go in there with the focus. I'm going to try to get everything I can out of my sets. Maximize every rep and try to learn from my sets, from my video footage. What am I doing wrong on a bicep curl, for example? You don't just want to do a quick jerky turnaround at the bottom. What I teach is control the weight down. You don't have to go overly slow. Control the weight down. Make sure you relax or feel a slight relaxation of the bicep at the bottom and then initiate the next curl. Start the curl with your elbow right at your side. Then as you rotate up and you want to feel that bicep work, you can rotate the elbow up to feel the bicep contraction. It's what I call punching yourself in the face. You start with the elbow at the side. You initiate the curl. From there you want to feel the bicep work. Then you can rotate that elbow up slightly to facilitate that bicep contraction or punching yourself in the face. When you are doing a triceps exercise like a seated press down or an extension, when you are going for the lockout, I want you to think about driving the elbows together towards the center of your body. Towards the center of your body. That will kind of engage the triceps at the lockout of your triceps exercise. Point number one was that you obsess too much about biceps and triceps. Point number four is kind of a part B of that. You are not seeing the bigger picture. Big arms come from a big upper body. And a big upper body comes from big lift numbers on your upper body. We are not chasing strength for the sake of strength. We are chasing rep additions or progression in the lane of hard training. So you are going to go in. You are going to train hard. You are going to try to beat the logboat. And you are going to do so trying to get the most you can out of every set. With that said, you are not going to develop big 17, 17 and a half inch lean arms. If your presses are weak, if your rows are weak, you need to go in and be safe and smart. Not beat up the body, but focus on getting your rows and your presses, your chest presses, your shoulder presses, your dumbbell rows, your barbell rows, your machine rows, your seated rows, your lat pull downs, your pull ups. And as big and as strong as you can add weight. We want to be moving up in weight. You are never going to have big arms if you have mediocre numbers. And this is where a lot of early intermediates, late beginners go to diet. They will see reasonably fast progression as they go into the gym. They might get their dumbbell bench up to 55s by 10. Their dumbbell rows up to 70s by 10 and they are wondering where that big arm size is coming. You need to get those dumbbell presses from the 55s up to the 100s for 10. You need to get those seated dumbbell overheads from the 50s, from the 45s up to the 80s, the 85s, even the 90s. You need to get those dumbbell rows up to 150. You need to get some weight on those rows and the presses. We need to develop big upper body strength in the lane of hard training. This is going to take time and do it in the lane of getting everything you can out of every single set. You have to understand this bigger picture. No big lifts on the upper body. No big arms. You walk into any commercial gym, you'll see a bunch of curly-whirly guys not even progressing on their curly-whirlies. Maybe doing some tricep extensions. They have weak numbers. Wimpy numbers. You're not going to build arm size and upper body size doing this. You need to challenge yourself. You need to get not only your arm strength up, but your upper body strength up and up. If you look at my triceps, they are absolutely huge. Now, it would be easy to brush this off as simply genetics, but I am absolutely press obsessed. Every version of the dumbbell and barbell press and machine presses, 80%, if not 90% of my tricep size has just come from pressing. This isn't some kind of minimalistic or just do dumbbells and barbell presses and you're going to get big arms. But what I'm saying is that has been the cornerstone. And then afterwards, I am attacking my triceps with close grip bench, with seated press downs, with overhead extensions. I've done dumbbell extensions. I've done everything over the years. Skull crushers, skull destroyers. Good combination of triceps work, direct triceps work, and a lot of heavy, heavy pressing. Now, finally, your eating sucks. You hear me say this on nearly every video. Your eating is sucking, sucking, and it's unfocused. It's not just good enough to get in your protein and eat healthy, eat your salads, eat reasonable meals. You have to have focused bulking, consistent bulking, not fat bulking, not the old school stuff. But you need to use the massive iron system of bulking where you're aiming to gain about a kilo of weight per month. We're going to aim to gain, for starters, maybe about 10 pounds over four to five months. And then you do a quick mini cut over the course of three to four weeks. And then you jump back into the bulk. In the massive iron bulking system, we are bulking probably about nine and a half to ten months out of the year. You get to stay in a slight calorie surplus most of the year. And you're going to be improving your body composition. There's no fat bulking. This also sets the table for mass increase. If you just staple yourself to the same body weight or your calories are hit and miss or you're not watching the scale, you are dramatically working against your own progress. You can train hard in the gym. And yes, you can gain some muscle mass. But if your nutrition isn't as focused as your training, you are going to make the process five times harder and five times more difficult. Let me know what you guys think. Drop a comment down below. Are there any arm training mistakes that I missed in this video? For more information on biceps training, please check out this video. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day. Bye.

=== FILE: How Big Can Your Arms REALLY Get？ (Simple Formula) [WMiqsMYe_vQ].txt ===

 Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel, I'm Steve, Sean, I'm Steve, Sean, this video, I'm going to show you how I built a formula that will help you determine your arm size and leg size natural potential at your current body fat percentage. Before I get into this topic, if you guys would like coaching, please check out the link down below, coaching is what I do for a living. I also just released the PR.O Progressive Overload Workbook, Workout Tracker, Workout Tracker, Workout Tracker, Workout Tracker, Workout Tracker, this is in my opinion, the industry-leading Workout Tracker. We put nearly three years of work into developing this. It is not AI slop, so check out the link down below. Alright, so over the last 20 years, I've spent a lot of time looking at natural muscle building potential. This is an area of study, an area that I am fascinated with. And then this video, I'm going to give you a formula I developed that will help you determine how big your arms can get, how big your legs can get at your current body fat percentage, and it is super simple. The only thing you need is a basic tape measure like you see in this picture. So you can see here measuring my arm size, my current arm size is, I don't know, maybe about 17.6 inches, give or take. And my current leg size, it looks like about 27.25 inches, maybe if I snug it up correctly. It might be 27.5 inches, maybe 27.27 inches, maybe 27.27 inches. In any case, let's dive into things and show you what your arm and leg potential is at your current body fat percentage. Now, the reason why I say your current body fat percentage is because we don't want to speculate. Regardless of your body fat percentage, whether you're super lean at 12% or whether you're 30%, I want to show you how big your arms and legs can get at that body fat percentage, and then you can kind of back it down using this information or these simple equations. So if you are overweight, you can determine what your body fat percentage would be if you back it down just a little bit. All right, determining your size potential. When you're looking at how big you can expect your arms to get based on your current physique and conditioning, and when you're looking at proportions and reasonable potential relative to your arms, use the following guidelines and structure that I created. The first thing you want to do is measure your wrists above the styloid process. There's a bump on your wrist right here, and you want to measure it above that wrist. You don't want to snug it in like super tight, but you want to get a reasonable measurement above that styloid process more towards your hand, so above that bump. Measure your wrists above this styloid process. If your body fat is 19% or under, take this measurement and add 10 inches. This is going to give you a reasonable arm size potential for your current body fat percentage. If your body fat percentage is around 20 to 27%, I want you to add 10 and a half inches to this measurement. Now, if your body fat percentage is 28% or greater, I want you to add about 11 inches to this measurement. If you're getting up to about 35 or 40%, you might have to add 12 inches. A lot of this at that level is just speculative. Again, what this will do is it will give you an approximate arm potential at your current body fat percentage. Now, you can see where I have it circled here. That is your styloid process. It is a little bump on your wrist, and you want to measure above that bump more towards your hand. I would recommend measuring it two or three times just to get kind of a feel for your accuracy. And if you're getting a little bit of variance, just kind of take an average. So let's look at some examples. Let's say your wrist measure is about seven and a half inches above the styloid process, and your body fat percentage is roughly 22%. In this case, your natural arm size potential would be roughly 18 inches. We are adding 10 and a half inches to your measurement because of your body fat percentage. If your wrist is about 7.25 inches above the styloid process, and your body fat percentage is 15%, so you're relatively lean, your arm size potential is roughly 7.25 inches at that body fat percentage, or we add 10 inches to your measurement above the styloid process. I want to stress this is at your current body fat percentage. Now, this tool and formula are not meant to be limiters, okay? So when we talk about natural potential, sometimes people feel limited. I'm trying to give you reasonable potential and standards. Now next, if you want to figure out your leg size, this is a super simple way to do so. Now that we have your arm size potential, all you need to do is add 9 inches to that arm size potential, and this will give you a potential leg size. So if your arm potential is 17.5 inches, your leg potential would be roughly 26 and a half inches, adding 9 inches to your arm potential. Now if you want to determine your forearm potential, this is really simple. You take your arm potential, your arm size potential, and you subtract 3 inches from that potential. So if your arm size potential is roughly 17 and a half inches, subtract 3 and your forearms should be able to reach about 14.5 inches. For your neck and calves, I use roughly the same potential as your arms give or take. Now women, you're probably frustrated with me and you're saying, what about the women? Well, women are unfortunately a bit harder to provide reasonable potential standards for, simply because there is not a lot of data that exists for top-level natural female physique. So women, please forgive me. My best advice is to measure your wrists above that styloid process and maybe add 8 to 9 inches above that as a starting point. Again guys, this is just a general guideline and not an ultimate limiter. Slight variations can exist, but with that said, very few people will reach these levels. So if you are closing in on them, well done. If you have any questions about this, don't hesitate to hit me up on DM on Instagram at bendthebarman or email me bendthebarman at gmail.com. I would love to help. The tape measure you saw in my image of the styloid process with a pin and push button retraction is something you can get for about $7 on Amazon or Walmart. And also guys, I would encourage you to come over and check out my free Discord community. If you need form checks, lifting advice, or whatever, check out the link down below. Before I go, I want you to check out this video on natural muscle building potential. This will give you an idea of how much mass you can add over the course of your life. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day.

=== FILE: Jeff Nippard’s “25 Greatest Exercises”… Are They Actually That Good？ [B4u-mCSqEhg].txt ===

 Hey guys, welcome to the Massive Iron channel, I'm Steve, Sean, on this video, we're gonna do a fun little reaction to Jeff Nippard, Jeff Nippard, the only 25 exercises you will ever need with a big dramatic. Before I get into this topic, if you guys would like assistance, coaching is what I do for a living, please check out the link down below. I've also released a workout tracker, this is an AI slide, They have a Wikiclop, we have three years of üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy üçy physique out of the hundreds if not thousands of exercises that i've done in my life these these thousands are the best of the best and here's the crazy part to keep things interesting i'm going to try to set a new personal record on all 25 exercises well i don't really give a crap about that but i do want to see the exercises it's actually harder than i expected usually when i film exercise demos i use light weights so i can focus on proper technique well you're lightweight jeff let's be real your light weight is like everybody's warm upset just just kidding just a joke this video i'm gonna load up some real weight and push myself as hard as was that 275 squats real weight humanly possible still using good technique if i don't hit any new pr's maybe i'm past my peak if i hit pr's on all 25 that means i'm still making gains wish me luck okay in the number 25 spot i've got the machine lat pullover all right so i'm just going to give you my unfiltered opinion love this exercise i think the machine lat pullover is super underrated i wish every gym had a lat pullover station that's all i'm going to say i'm not going to comment about the order i don't know how the order is shaking out here but definitely a thumbs up and a big win for jeff nippert number 24 dumbbell shrugs these are making the top 25 because the upper traps have such a big impact on how now no we're we're not going to go with dumbbell shrugs here power shrugs barbell shrugs big fat juicy hex bar shrugs you're lucky enough to find heavy enough dumbbells in a gym to actually be challenging so nope fail on this one number 23 i'm going with the standing calf raise the cap i don't know about that you know the 25 the only 25 exercise you need i'm not gonna i'm not gonna give it a thumbs up or thumbs on you you're probably gonna need a calf exercise so i'll give it to jeff i like the seated calf raise standing calf raise if i'm gonna do honestly if i'm gonna do one calf exercise i'm probably not gonna do one i'm probably gonna alternate between seated and standing number 22 dumbbell wrist curls and extensions no we're not buying into this one there's nothing wrong with training your fore or your forearms but you know this is kind of a wimpy exercise if you're gonna train your forearms there's other things you could do like a wrist roller and look you know whether you train your forearms you don't that's up to you this is definitely not my top choice for forearm exercises all right number 21 sticking with the theme of commonly neglected muscles that actually make a big difference i've got neck curls and neck extensions just like we're not doing this look if you train if you train over the course of five ten years and you're just doing your normal upper body stuff your neck is gonna get all the size it needs you i've never seen any advanced lifter without a substantial neck without even working there then you know without even doing direct neck work the honest truth is if you only have 25 exercises to do over the course of your life this is not going in it's like the the little flirly whirly lifty wifty uh forearm extensions the fluffy wuffy curly forearm extensions he just did heavy deadlifts and shrugs don't grow your neck you need to train it directly and since most people don't did he just say heavy what deadlifts don't grow your neck i guess i'm doing it wrong jeff just making it in at number 20. now he said they're all elite so i'm waiting for this is a cable crunch you know i wouldn't call it the top 20 greatest exercise of all time it's it's an ab exercise it's not great it's not bad is it you know goat level greatest of all time the you know a top 20 exercise of all time it's just a mid exercise there's nothing great about it i mean you can overload it that's a bonus but it's not going in my top 20 or top 25 let's go okay number 19 the machine peck deck for peck ice i like the pecky decky i don't hate the pecky decky but we got 20 exercises we got the 25 you know that you're gonna rely on for 5 10 15 your entire life i don't know the pecky deck he's kind of sitting in the back you know the back of the way back there trying to fight fight for space i'm curious to see what he does for his other chesticle exercises that's actually crazy number 18 reverse peck deck for the rear delts i do these all right there's nothing wrong with the reverse peck deck but you better have some big ass rows in the mix you better have some penalties or some dumbbells or some big ass rows those are going to build up your rear delts you know like i don't mind having a rear delt exercise in the mix i'm not going to fight him over the reverse pecky decky but you know i want to see what else he has here in the mix pr doesn't count okay number 17 weighted dips dips are an all right nothing wrong with dips i mean weighted dips you know we got we got something better than the pecky decky here so uh you know definitely definitely a top 25 exercise i can't fight him over this one number 16 the nautilus and glute drive if you don't have this machine a barbell hip thrust i don't know if you want to throw a hippie hippie exercise in there that's fine you know whatever hip thrust nautilus glute drive if if you want to do your hippie whippies that's fine still i'm trying to think you know we got 25 exercises to there better be some quality ones still in the mix here i'm not going to fight him over some of this peripheral stuff but we shall see if you got necky curls and and little wristy wistie curls and dumbbell shruggies and all this kind of stuff heaped in there you know standing there better be some big beefy bombing ass exercises in the top 15 jeff nip hard another one okay in the number 15 spot i've got the bayesian cable curl i'll admit i do have a soft spot for this exercise i've been doing it for about 10 years now well apparently i have a soft spot for because you put in your top 20 i you know you need it you need a couple of big uh you know curly whirly exercises this is a reasonable one i like doing the massive curls with the easy bar where you do the strict and then you you progress you do a mechanical drop set to the cheat curls that's my favorite bicep exercise right now i like alternating curls i mean it's a curl exercise so i'll give them this one okay in the number 14 spot this will probably be a controversial one i've got the deadlift this is a controversial thank goodness you actually have it in there i mean if it wasn't in there we were just gonna just rip you a new one jeff but thank you for putting in the deadlift one of the most fundamental strength training exercises yes it is and i really think it deserves to be in the top 20. it's a time-tested basic movement pattern that anyone with a barbell can do it's so controversial for building strength and power yes deadlifts cause a lot of fatigue and yes deadlifts probably aren't the most optimal exercise for pure muscle growth but are you kidding me oh my goodness we're gonna get fatigued and it's probably not optimal for muscle growth my traps will fight you jeff yes deadlifts cause a lot of fatigue and yes deadlifts probably aren't the most optimal exercise for pure muscle growth but even if the deadlift doesn't need to be in every bodybuilding program i still think it's a lift that everyone should learn and get strong on at least once in their life he's quitting i'm gonna end it there my all-time deadlift pr he's quitting after seven i don't care what your all-time deadlift pr is you can only do 225 by seven my mom is like 78 years old and just had two hip surgeries and i'm pretty sure she could give me a run for the money big old jeff nippard at number 13 i've got the ohp also yes yes we got the overhead press praise crom praise crom crom is smiling down upon us and giving us his blessing thank you for putting the overhead press the only thing i'm i'm interested in is you know why not the btn i love the btn i love the overhead i did the btn for the first 20 years of my lifting career really good for the side delts the overhead press is great for the side delts as well but i'm kind of curious to see if this makes it in and the btn doesn't both great exercises but where's the btn love jeff nippard okay number 12 the walking lunge there isn't a lot of research on lunges but who needs research on lunges jeff they're absolutely brutal alternating lunges walking lunges this is definitely in the mix definitely a top tier quad exercise big thumbs up for jeff all right number 11 here we go probably another hot take just outside the top 10 in the number 11 spot i've got the bench press i love the bench press i actually do attribute most of my own pec development just this is so controversial i can't believe you put this in there it's such a controversial lift that everyone should try to get strong at at some point in their lifting career i'm cook okay that's pretty decent i mean 225 by 14 super respectable but it's kind of scary a little bit scary that you hit twice as many reps on the bench press than you did your deadlift jeff but to get a big bench you need to be intentional about it that means tracking your lifts from week to week and officially as of today the best way to do that is using the new macro factor workouts app jeff it's using the pr.o progressive overload workout tracker now available on the apple store and google play okay now we're into my top 10 exercises i'm super excited this is this this is game on time you better have some good exercises in the top 10 jeff you better come through for us of all time so up to here the list was kind of a mix of some personal hypertrophy favorites and some basic fundamentals all right so he just said if you can only do 10 these are the meat and potatoes let's get it on so if someone says i can only do 10 exercises which 10 should i do these are the 10. all right coming in at the number 10 spot i've got the seated leg curl the hamstrings make up a vote well you do need a hamstring x i don't have any i don't have anything against this i mean it's a fine exercise it would be my top 25 i don't i wouldn't put it in my top 10 i mean if i'm gonna cram some stuff into my top 10 we're gonna have a couple big hitters for the quads that are probably gonna hit the uh old hammy whammies indirectly we're probably gonna have deadlifts which are gonna hit the hammy whammies indirectly but you know it's a top 25 not a top 10. okay number nine the leg extension this one is ranked so highly because it really is the easiest most accessible way to isolate your quads okay so i love the leg extension i've been doing a leg extension for 40 years but so far we have lunges for quads um you know where are the squats where the pendulum leverage squats where i mean there's a lot of big quad hitters that deserve consideration uh not that leg extensions are bad leg extensions are good but are there are we gonna see any other quad exercises here jeffrey nip hard the number eight spot i've got the overhead cable triceps extension this may seem like a high ranking for a triceps isolation exercise but i have good reason for it first of all okay i don't want to hear the reason it's it's uh it's an okay tricep exercise but if i'm gonna put tricep exercises in the mix i'm gonna have like a seated push down seated press down those are just such a big overload profile such a big progression opportunity uh you know i'm gonna do skull crushers skull destroyers uh there's nothing wrong with this lift but you know it's not not a top tenny wheny for me number seven is the preacher curl most guys want bigger biceps they're a legit show muscle and there's nothing wrong with the preacher girl i'm glad he has a dumbbell curl in the mix i like the alternating uh curl the the preacher curl doesn't always feel good on my elbow i i never feel i can get really quality sense there's nothing wrong with this exercise so at least he has a dumbbell curly-wurly in the mix here we go the lateral raise the side delts might be the single most important muscle from a bodybuilding aesthetic standpoint all right so i love lateral raises i've been doing them for 40 years uh i do them in a lot of different creative ways but they have nothing for a progressive overload opportunity you can't get a lot stronger at them they're kind of a a finisher they're kind of a last exercise in your side delt you know repertoire they are not a top 10 for me uh the btn press would would beat easily beat this um even a machine overhead press would beat this just because the progression opportunity see the dumbbell overhead whatever but a good exercise i use it definitely not a top 10. hey let's go okay let's get into the top five i'm scared here there's no squats there's no big back exercises i know it's got he's got to have pull-ups in there it's got to have pull-ups so that's one of the five i'm going to say he's going to have squatty waddies in there uh so that but yeah you're gonna have dumbbell row or barb padley row something for the back maybe he'll go a seated cable row i don't know let's find out again if you can only do five exercises across your entire lifting career these are the five i'm picking and i've hit this many prs in the video so far only got five exercises left hopefully i'll hit at least one more so let me think what what are we missing here we're missing squats we're missing pull-ups for the back we're missing a big back hitter like dumbbell or barb pad row um you know shoulders he pretty much has it covered he has the he's got his shoulder exercise i doubt btn is going to be up there chest you know are we going to get a dumbbell bench i don't know probably not i think for hammy whammies he might toss in like the romanian deadlift i'm kind of predicting he might toss in the romanian deadlift so we have the pull-ups and the romanian the squats there's got to be another triceps exercise in here as well all right coming in at the number five spot i've got the chest supported t-bar row i think any horizontal row could be inserted here but this is my personal favorite for the mid-back because your chest all right not a bad exercise but the chest supported t-bar row uh you got to go with the dumbbell row or the pendley row something is something that's a big hitter with a bigger progression opportunity this is a good mid exercise and i don't mean that as an insult it's a solid mid exercise but it is not up there with the regular t-bar the pendley row the dumbbell row etc did not see this one coming okay in the number four spot i'm going with romanian deadlift i think every training program needs a hinge based exercise i called the room i knew he was going to go with the romanian let's see if he does the squats and the pull-ups okay i'm gonna go there that's eight hey i'm shocked after after his deadlift nothing but respect that's a pretty substantial romanian deadlift i apologize for criticizing your deadlift that my mom could beat my number three exercise of all time i'm going with the incline bench press this is my go-to pressing movement because it gives you the best of a vertical press and a horizontal press did not see that coming i didn't see another chest exercise have nothing against this incline bench is a quality exercise definitely a top 25 consideration i can't fight him over that uh you know and having a big chest exercise in the top 10 this is perfectly fine in second place okay here comes a big reveal it's got to be pull-ups and squats it's got to be pull-ups and squats maybe it'll slide something in like a front squat but i'm saying pull-ups and squats it's my number two exercise of all time i'm going with the pull-up shocker over the last year i've built my way up to body weight plus 75 pounds for six clean reps on pull-ups and then once you can hit eight to ten clean body weight pull-ups use a belt to start adding some weight now the only criticism i have against pull-ups i love pull-ups they're a great exercise definitely worth considering if you can actually do them but my experience as a coach most people struggle to get past five to six because of weight or just because it's a tough exercise so yeah it's definitely definitely a quality exercise but it's one a lot of people are going to struggle with here is my number one exercise this means if you said to me i only have time to do one exercise which one should i do what i would tell you is that you should do a squat mri research shows that more than half of your body's muscle mass all right half of your body's thank goodness it was pull ups and squats i don't look like a complete idiot now overall just to wrap things up this was fun i'm not you know i'm just busting i'm just busting jeff nipard's balls a little bit but overall it's a pretty quality selection of exercises there are things i think he left out uh you know i would put in like the pendley rows and the dumbbell rows and i would have some big beefier tricep exercises in the mix the biceps you know it's kind of six and one and a half dozen of the other i think for quads the leverage squat or the pendulum squat gets in the conversation probably pushing the leg extension out though i love the leg extension the romanian deadlift is hard for a lot of lifters to master i think there's a argument to be made for a stiff leg deadlift and there's some foo-foo stuff in here like you know that i would debate like you know the little foo-foo wristy wisty curls you're doing in the neck curls you know your neck is going to get big your neck is going to get strong just from normal lifting and forearms if you're going to do something for forearms get you a wrist roller and let's get it on let me know what you think what exercises hit for you what exercises were a miss for you which ones do you think jeff really nailed and which ones do you think i'm a complete idiot about for more information on my favorite exercises please check out this video thank you guys for watching hope you had fun have a good day

=== FILE: Mind-Muscle Connection & Time Under Tension： Do You Even NEED THEM？ [hhE3ZRYM25I].txt ===

 Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel. Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel. I'm Steve. Shawn, this video, we're going to talk about time under tension and the mind muscle connection. We're going to kind of lump them together in this video and ask the question, if you're not focusing on time under tension or the mind muscle connection, are you killing your gains? Before I get into this topic, if you guys need help, coaching is what I do for a living. I would love to help. Please check out the link down below to coaching and I have a new workout tracker. This is not AI slop. If you want the best of the best in the industry when it comes to workout tracking, please check out the link down below. All right, so time under tension and the mind muscle connection are kind of these two concepts that float out there in the muscle building world and a lot of people are confused. Do I need to worry about these? Is this something I'm missing out on? Should I be worrying about more time under tension? Should I be worrying about more mind muscle connection? I'm going to address both of these in this video and hopefully help you guys understand what to worry about and what not to worry about. And honestly, I couldn't resist tossing in killing your gains because that is kind of the lame catchphrase. So let's talk about time under tension. It used to be way back in the day, you know, 15, 20, 25 years ago that people became obsessed with time under tension, kind of like they're obsessed with science based lifting or, you know, how they became obsessed with length and partials. There was a time in lifting history where time under tension was like the be all end all. And you had to focus on time under tension and even on these, you know, controlled reps and rep timing and all this kind of stuff. People really became obsessed and it became, you know, almost cult like like a lot of things. And lifting do become cult like time under tension is more of a byproduct of a proper program rather than something you need to worry about. What I mean is that if you have a reasonable program with a reasonable amount of volume, what does reasonable volume mean? It means, you know, how many ever days a week you can train, you know, you're, you're doing whatever volume you can do within those number of days, you know, so that is reasonable volume. And you're not just trying to seek a low volume for the sake of seeking a low volume because of something you saw on the internet. So if you have a reasonable volume and you are executing hard training and trying to get the most you can out of every rep and every set time under tension or your overall mechanical tension is going to be a natural byproduct of this hard training. It's not something you need to exaggerate or focus on. It's a byproduct of proper training. So you get in the gym, you focus on hard training, you focus on getting as much as you can out of every set, and you're going to get a good quality amount of time under tension or mechanical tension and stress. So you do not need to worry about it. The only way you need to worry about it is if you're just going into the gym and just training slops, just sloppy training, trying to accrue reps, not trying to get the most you can out of every rep and every set and just kind of, you know, speeding what I call speeding through your sets. When I'm working with my clients, if I see somebody doing like a seated cable roll where they're just trying to rapidly go through the set accumulating reps or a lat pull down or curls just, you know, frantically spazuloiding through their sets, trying to accrue reps, I give them what is called a speeding ticket because when we're just, you know, not trying to maximize our reps, not trying to focus our training, we're not getting good mechanical tension or stress. So we're removing an integral part of the muscle building process. It's not, again, it's not something you need to overly focus on. You don't need to do timed sets, but if you take this out of the equation, you're basically taking out a big driver when it comes to muscle building, and that is good mechanical tension and stress. So the take home point here is don't focus on how many days a week you can train. Pick how many days a week you can train. Get in a reasonable amount of volume for each of those training days. Focus on maximizing your sets, getting as much as you can out of every set, and good quality mechanical tension and time under tension will be a byproduct of this. You don't need to worry about anything else. All right, so the mind muscle connection is a different piece of the puzzle. Do you need to feel a muscle working when you are doing your exercises? Yes and no. No. The mind muscle connection can be an integral part of getting the most you can out of certain sets. Not every set, because when we are dealing with squats and big posterior lifts like deadlifts and Romania deadlifts, we don't want to worry about the mind muscle connection. So let me explain. First off, if you had good solid control like we talked about in time under tension, you had very focused training and you were focusing on hard training and getting the most you could out of every set. You don't need to worry about the mind muscle connection because if you are focused on getting everything you can out of dumbbell curls or cable tricep extensions or pec deck or whatever, you're going to get good mechanical tension and stress. And because you are focused on maximizing that set and getting the most you can out of every rep, you're already getting in quality training and you don't need to focus on the mind muscle connection. Now, there have been periods in my training where I've thought about the mind muscle connection and periods of my training when I didn't and there's no difference between them. But that doesn't mean you shouldn't or can't focus on the mind muscle connection. These days, a lot of my training is more bodybuilding focus. I'm kind of swinging back into that lane. When I'm doing curls, I'm focused on a good quality contraction or feel of my biceps. When I'm doing seated press downs, I'm focusing on really hitting the triceps. There's no downside to adding this mind muscle connection kind of concept or focus to the majority of your training. But there is one major caveat on big compound movements. Not all of them. And I'm going to explain, but on big compound movements, if you try to turn a squat or a deadlift or a Romanian deadlift or something like that into something where you're focused on one specific muscle group, you are putting yourself in a difficult position because these lifts are going to hit a lot of different body parts and your focus should be on proper form. You do not need to feel your quads working on a squat for them to grow. You do not need to feel your upper back or lower back or traps or whatever working on a deadlift for them to grow, for them to experience a lot of stress. Your focus on these big compound movements should be on form, 100% on form and trusting that they are going to hit the muscle groups they are intended to hit. If you take this type of big compound movement and try to turn it into an isolation style movement where you're focused only on your quads during squats or only on a certain body or upper back on deadlifts, as you progress in weight, you're going to increase the likelihood of injury because you're turning a natural lift, something you should be focused on form and trying to make it feel as natural as possible. And you're trying to turn that lift and change form into something that will focus only on one body part. That is a dangerous path to head down. So please do not do that. I don't focus on the mind muscle connection on my bench press. Sometimes I do on my dumbbell bench. When it comes to back work though, I exclusively focus on feeling the back because it is really easy on back work to get sloppy and not focus on driving your elbows and shoulders back so you can feel your lats and your back work. So on back work exclusively, I focus on the mind muscle connection on chest work. I don't during the bench press, but I do a little bit during my like dumbbell bench just to make sure I can feel the chest working on lockout. So I would say as an end cap, don't worry about the mind muscle connection on things like squats and deadlifts and Romanian deadlifts and good mornings and even bench press. I don't focus on the mind muscle connection on my seated overhead presses and seated overhead dumbbell presses either. But anything else, you can kind of, you know, focus on feeling the muscle work, especially your back and arms and hamstring work. So there you have it, guys. I hope this video helped you a little bit in understanding time under tension and the mind muscle connection. You don't have to worry about time under tension as long as your programs are locked in with a reasonable amount of volume. And the mind muscle connection is optional as long as you are training hard and trying to get the most you can out of every set. But you can add it in as you want to get more out of a set. For more information on back training, I want you to check out this video. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day.jetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjets

=== FILE: Science-Based Lifting Has a FRINGE NONSENSE Problem [V9fb0Cyde30].txt ===

 Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel. I'm Steve shot in this video. I'm going to ask the question. Has the science based lifting community. Legitimately lost their mind. Before I get into this topic, if you guys would like coaching, check out the link down below. I would love to work with you. Coaching is what I do for a living. I also offer custom workout programs for only 30 days. I also offer custom workout programs for only 30 days. I also offer custom workout programs for only 30 days. I also offer custom workout programs for 30 days. For only $39. All right. So I have something really interesting here and we're going to get into this. I'm going to put in a overlay of this information. Over on the team massive discord this week, and you can find a link to that down below. Somebody had presented this information. I also made an Instagram post on it. And obviously this isn't a condemnation of the science based lifting community as a whole. This is just one little bit and piece of the information that you can find out there in the science based lifting community. As with anything, we have to put a caveat in. I'm not trying to condemn everything in the science based lifting community. But with that said, there is a lot of really obscure oddball fringe information being put out. Kind of feeding this kind of fear culture landscape that we're living in. And also just some really, really black and white. Either it's this or it's nothing type of information from the science based lifting community. So we're going to dive into things. This is something that was on and I'm not going to name the name of this discord server. But this was on a prominent science based lifting discord community. Sometimes when I post this information, I get comments or questions saying, is this really taking place? Do people really think this stuff? Is it really this out of control or is it really this prominent? The answer is yes, there are communities out there like this putting out this information. There are a lot more people on this particular science based community than are on my team massive community, for example. And I've been doing YouTube for 15 plus years. So I'm going to present this information as just one little snapshot of things floating out there in the science based lifting community. I want you to drop a comment down below. Let me know what you think. This in particular is talking about calories per day for muscle growth. All right. So this is a daily calorie surplus recommendation based on years of lifting. So these guys are trying to math things and science things into a place that feels very, very comfortable for them. So based on years of lifting, you can see one to two years of lifting, two to three years of lifting, three plus years of lifting. And you can see these are the calorie surpluses that they are advocating to help you maximize muscle mass. So let's look at these calorie surpluses, analyze what they mean in the real world, and just basically comb through and see if it is solid advice or if it was completely disconnected from reality. Because in this case, I'm going to argue it's completely disconnected from reality. So it says if you have been lifting for one to two years, your calorie surplus, and I want you to hear this correctly. This is calorie surplus per day should be 21.1. Very specific, right? 21.1 calories to 31 calories per day. That's your calorie surplus. If you have been lifting one to two years, 21.1 calories or up to 31 calories. If you have been lifting two to three years, your calorie surplus should be 13.1 calories to 19.9 calories per day. And if you have been lifting three plus years, you should be eating in a surplus of 5.4 calories per day to 7.9 calories per day. So let's break this down into what it means in the real world. First, I'm going to talk about how much weight this would cause you to gain over the course of a year. And then I'm going to talk about is it even possible to achieve this kind of surplus based just on consistency and precision. So if you are in your first couple of years of training and you're having 21 calories per day of a surplus, 21 times, you know, basically 365 days a year, it's going to be really close to two pounds of weight gain per year, upwards of three pounds. So the range is about two to three pounds of weight gain per year. Now, as a coach, I can tell you, I have my clients graph their weight so we can look for trends. We can see upward trends. We can see if the weight is holding steady. We can look for downward trends. There is no possible way in a realistic manner to understand if you are even in this surplus. You can get a good estimation of where you think your maintenance level is. But over the course of a year, how are you going to know that you are in a 21 calorie surplus on track to gain two to three pounds in a year based on you can analyze all the data you want. You can plot all the graphs you want. There's going to be so much daily fluctuation in your weight. This is just normal because we're not going to eat the same thing every day. We're going to have different stress levels and sleep levels and water retention levels and hydration levels. Anybody that looks at body weight over the course of a year understands there is micro fluctuations. There are going to be fluctuations of two to three pounds in a day easily for a lot of individuals. Now, given this, if you tracked all of your calories and you think you're in a 21 to 31 calorie surplus per day, you could end up at the end of the year looking like, hey, somehow I think I've put this in the chat GPT. And I think it's about two to three pounds over where I started. But the question is, maybe you just didn't poop this morning. Maybe you just are holding a little water from exercise induced inflammation. I'm not trying to be crude, but two to three pounds compared to where you started on January 1st to where you are on December 31st could be just as simple as poop or water or exercise induced inflammation. There's no way realistically to understand if you are in a calorie surplus because it's such a micro change that it could be any number of factors. You could be ill. You could be dehydrated. You could be not pooping. Right. So there's just no way. And this is the maximum amount of calories surplus that these guys are advocating. So if you get down to two or three years, you know, you're looking at like, I don't know, 1.2 pounds to maybe two pounds per year, you know, and then you get to three plus years of lifting and you're in 5.4 to 7.9 calorie surplus. That is about two thirds of a pound a year. These are so unrealistic. It is beyond head scratching. It is in bizarro land. Imagine like if you track this, you would basically have to track this for 10 years and hope you gain two to three pounds or 20 to 30 pounds in 10 years. Now, if you did gain 20 to 30 pounds in 10 years, you probably, you know, you might pack on some muscle mass. There's no doubt there if you're training hard, but do you want to assume you're in a 20 to 30 calorie surplus and wait 10 years to figure out if you're building muscle or perhaps we use a little common sense and we land on the side of just a little bit more calorie surplus to make sure we are actually gaining weight properly. I'm not trying to be overly sarcastic here, but this is ridiculously idiotic. It is just lacking all common sense. Just because you can do math doesn't mean you are a body composition scientist. This isn't science. This is a dream. It is a fantasy. It is completely unrealistic. Now, not to mention that if you're going to start on on January 1st and you are 100% certain you knew where your calorie maintenance level was and you're going to have a 20 to 30 calorie surplus. How many of you this honest question? Let me know what you think below. Maybe I'm the idiot. How many of you will be so consistent for 365 days nailing the surplus that it's never an issue for you? I can tell you in coaching. I've been coaching for a long time. I've been coaching so many different types of people. I have never in all my life seen somebody able to sustain a 20 to 30 calorie surplus per day. Like that level of consistency. Now you might say, well, yeah, we're going to take averages, right? We're going to we're going to take averages and we're going to keep it in that 20 to 30 range. OK, that's fine. That still requires an insane amount of precision. I was over 75 calories. I'm going to pull back 40 calories. This is making my brain hurt and it is so much over complication. It is so unnecessary and it is so unrealistic. I think at the end of the day, when I look at this information, the biggest thing I think about or the biggest thing that crosses through my thick, dense, old school skull is these guys are really afraid of fat gain to the point where they're trying to ride. They're trying to ride the line so razor thin. It becomes apparent that this isn't about bulking or cutting to them. This is about fear of gaining fat. I will tell you, and I think this is very realistic. Anybody that wants to improve their body composition is going to have periods throughout the year where they're going to have to pull back a little bit, even if they're not doing a super strict bulking and cutting strategy. We all have periods during the year where we get a little bit off base and we have to pull back and maybe do a 10 pound cut. This is kind of normal living. Nobody is perfect. There are a few people out there that are so dialed in and crazy dialed in, but they are really the outliers for the rest of us. We aren't going to be that ultra precise. It's not like we're super wild or super. There's some kind of super crazy variance in our calorie intake, but sometimes there are just seasons in our life where we're working crazy or we're overeating a little bit or mom invites you over and you have a big meal or you have a little bit rough holiday season or whatever it is. So realistically, over a five to 10 year period of time, when you are trying to maximize your body composition, you are going to have periods probably every year where you're doing a little bit of mini cut. This is what I would call a normal part of the process. These guys are so worried about fat gain that they're turning bulking into something so unrealistic. It's just mind blowingly dumb. That's the only way to put it. This is not intelligent, rational thinking. For those of you that want to know how I approach bulking with my clients, and I'm not trying to turn this into a commercial, but I have many videos on this channel about the massive bulking system. Basically, it is lean bulking. We do not do aggressive bulking. It does not get you fat. We're looking to gain about a kilo a month over five months. This is about 10 pounds of weight gain. And at the end of the day, you know, you're doing like a four to five month bulk, a little bit of a mini cut to knock off maybe six, seven pounds of fat, and you're getting back in the cycle. So you're staying around a reasonable body weight, but you're eating in a reasonable surplus that helps you facilitate recovery and muscle building. You can find more information in this video right here or head over to my website, superlivingtoday.com and check out my book, massive bulking. Let me know what you guys think of this. Drop a comment down below. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day. Let's go.

=== FILE: The Dumbest (and BEST) Way to Understand Muscle Building - FORGET COMPLICATION [6u6qUFMHoPY].txt ===

 Hey guys, welcome to the Massive Iron channel, I'm Steve Shaw, in this video I'm going to give you the dumbest and easiest way to think about hypertrophy or what is effective training. Before I get into this topic, if you guys would like coaching, check out the link down below, coaching is what I do for a living, I would love to help. I also have a new workout tracker, it's not AI junk, we spent three years developing it. You can check it out, link down below. Alright, so, when it comes to hypertrophy, winning the hypertrophy, there are many ways to think about just how do we build muscle. You know, there's so much confusion, how do we build muscle, what is effective training. In this video, I'm going to give you the dumbest but probably the most important way you can ever think about hypertrophy. The one thing you want to remember when it comes to effective training. I don't want you guys to forget this because there's so much information out there on what is junk volume, should you push the failure, blah, blah, blah. Should you do frequency training, should you do this, are drop sets useless. This one video is going to solve all of the riddles for you and give you something to remember that you will never forget. So right now you're confusiated, your brain is filled with all kinds of kernels and data and all kinds of things just stuffed in there like an over stuffed sack of whatever. Right, your brain is about to explode, you don't know what is an effective set, you don't know what is junk volume, you're worried, you're worried, you're worried about your training. So this is what I want you to remember. The body is always going to respond to external stimulus. Okay, so if you place a stress on the body, a physical stress, you do a hard set, what is it going to do? It's going to respond by pushing back. That is how the body grows. So I want you to think about everything you do as kind of placing a brick on your back. You're going to place that one tiny brick on your back, maybe it's a set of 10 on the pecky deck of your bench press, and your body is going to push back just slightly. So everything you do in the gym is kind of an external pressure or stress being placed upon the body, pressing upon the body. And this is a stupid, simple way of looking at things. You don't have to worry about training to failure, you don't have to worry about junk volume. In the long run, what you want to worry about is consistency and progressive overload, adding more bricks. So your first workout, maybe a chest workout or a full body, you add a few bricks on your back, you know, nothing crazy, five or six bricks, this external pressure, this external stress you're placing on your body, and your body is going to respond by pushing back. Your body is not trying to think of some obscure matrix of sets and reps and effective reps and training volume and junk volume and training a failure and all that kind of stuff. Drop sets, supersets, you should only do this, you should only do that. Drop sets are ineffective, supersets are ineffective, you know, all those voices out there just confusing you. All the body knows is that you placed an external stress upon it. It is going to respond by pushing back. Now part of this equation is stressing a muscle, pushing it, you know, with hard training, you know, reasonably hard, trying to beat the log book, progressively overloading, right? That's a part of the equation. But part of the equation is just overall mechanical tension or stress, placing stress upon the body. Kind of this idea that if you only do one set, somehow it's magical. And if you do three or four sets, somehow it's junk volume. But still, if you think about it, you're placing those bricks on the body, you're adding volume or stress or pressure on the body. And as long as you're progressively overloading, that stress is going to, that stress is going to force the body to respond by pushing back. The idea that somehow if you do four sets of 10, it's inferior to one set of 10, you have to remember that this external stress or pressure you're placing upon the body, the body is going to respond by pushing back. Think of the example of a newbie. A newbie goes into the gym and maybe they do one set of bench press for 10 reps. They put a little stress on the body, this external pressure or force. The body responds by pushing back or growing. If this same newbie went in and did three or four sets, this is extra stress. The body just says, hey, you did more stress than just one set. You did three sets of 10 or four sets of 10 with the same weight. This is more external stress. This is more external pressure. The body is going to respond because it is a greater degree of external pressure. The body is forced to respond. So the body is going to respond to the external pressure or force you are placing on it with an equal but opposite reaction. You do a little light-sy tightsy little workout that's kind of weaky wimpy wimpy workout. The body doesn't have much reason to push back and grow. You get in and you just bomb, bomb, bomb. You get after it with a little bit more volume, not junk volume, a little bit more volume. The body is forced to respond. So the body is going to respond to the external stress or pressure by what? By pushing back and growing. We're not thinking in the lane of junk volume or reps per set or rest pause or drop sets. All you need to know is that a quality stimulus is going to cause the body to respond by pushing back. Now, I hope this is making sense and there's a few things we need to understand here. Now, if you place a stress on the body like you're doing three sets of 10 on the bench press and you never increase that stress by adding reps or getting stronger, the body has no reason to push back anymore. So if you go into the gym and you get to like three sets of 10 on 135 on the bench, you have placed an external stress or pressure on the body and the body is going to acclimate and it's going to stay there. It's not going to grow anymore unless you place more bricks on the back, more reps, more sets, more pressure, more pressure from drop sets, rest pause, whatever. Any type of stimulus or pressure you add to that equation, that 135 for three sets of 10 is going to increase the intensity, external stress, and the body is going to respond by doing what? Pushing back and growing. Isn't this magic? Isn't this eye opening? Isn't this enlightening? Isn't this the greatest thing since sliced bread and Vegemite sandwiches? So what this does in a non-magical kind of magical way is show you reveal the art of training. All these little voices out there that are chattering one set the failure three sets is junk volume. You can't do rest pause. There's no point doing super sets. There's no point doing drop sets. All these confusing conflicting voices. They are missing this bigger picture, external stress, external pressure. You have the freedom to train how you want. You don't believe me? Analyze the history of lifting from the last 70 to 80 years. You have every type of lifter doing every type of programming from rest pause training like DC training to volume training to whatever to full body training to you name it. Every type of program, every type of tool. And the beautiful thing is you can do whatever the heck you want. You can train however you want. As long as you increase the external stress, increase the external pressure over time. And this is called progressive overload. You do this in a sane and smart way. Not just chasing reps. Not throwing bricks at yourself, right? But carefully trying to get the most you can out of every set. Hard training. Trying to beat the log book. And you can do this any way you want. Now always remember if you're at like 135 for three sets of 10 on the bench press. And you add in like a drop set. That is a new external stimulus placing stress on the body, placing pressure on the body. The body is going to respond back initially to that new, you know, external stimulus by acclimating and by growing. But if you don't continue to add to this extra progressive overload, this extra stress, the body has finished acclimating and it's not going to grow anymore. So you can take 135 for three sets of 10 on bench and add in rest pause or drop sets or whatever. And after a couple months, the body has acclimated and it is grown, but then it is going to stagnate. And at that point, you need to continue to add in some new form of external pressure or stress beyond the point where the body has already acclimated. So you can't continue to do additional drop sets forever. You're going to have to eventually find some way to progressively overload and 99% of the time that's going to come right back to adding reps and eventually adding weight to the bar. This is the fundamental form of progressive overload. You can do whatever you want in the mix. You can add external pressure or stress any way you want density training, cluster training, rest pause training, drop sets. You can do frequency training. You can do volume training. You can do body part splits. You can do whatever the heck you want because it is a wide road, not a narrow road like these knucklehead influencers and fake YouTubers are preaching because you know, and you are super smart. That whenever you place an external stress on the body, it is going to do what it is going to respond by pushing back and growing. You do not need to get complicated. Get out your calculus, get out your calculator, get out your AI formulas and try to figure out the effective reps and the RIR and the volume and the thing and the stuff and all the kind of madness. You don't need to think about that. You don't need to worry about that because you are so smart that you know that any type of external pressure or stress placed upon the body is going to cause it to respond by pushing back and growing. And as long as you continue to progressively overload or add more external stress on the body over time, you are going to turn into a freaking beast. You're going to be muscular. You're going to be full of muscles. You're going to be full of strength. You're going to look amazing and you don't need to overcomplicate the art of training. Let me know what you guys think. Drop a comment down below. Please check out this video on chest training if you want some more information. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.482424Z ===
