 Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel. Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel. I'm Steve. Shawn, this video, we're going to talk about time under tension and the mind muscle connection. We're going to kind of lump them together in this video and ask the question, if you're not focusing on time under tension or the mind muscle connection, are you killing your gains? Before I get into this topic, if you guys need help, coaching is what I do for a living. I would love to help. Please check out the link down below to coaching and I have a new workout tracker. This is not AI slop. If you want the best of the best in the industry when it comes to workout tracking, please check out the link down below. All right, so time under tension and the mind muscle connection are kind of these two concepts that float out there in the muscle building world and a lot of people are confused. Do I need to worry about these? Is this something I'm missing out on? Should I be worrying about more time under tension? Should I be worrying about more mind muscle connection? I'm going to address both of these in this video and hopefully help you guys understand what to worry about and what not to worry about. And honestly, I couldn't resist tossing in killing your gains because that is kind of the lame catchphrase. So let's talk about time under tension. It used to be way back in the day, you know, 15, 20, 25 years ago that people became obsessed with time under tension, kind of like they're obsessed with science based lifting or, you know, how they became obsessed with length and partials. There was a time in lifting history where time under tension was like the be all end all. And you had to focus on time under tension and even on these, you know, controlled reps and rep timing and all this kind of stuff. People really became obsessed and it became, you know, almost cult like like a lot of things. And lifting do become cult like time under tension is more of a byproduct of a proper program rather than something you need to worry about. What I mean is that if you have a reasonable program with a reasonable amount of volume, what does reasonable volume mean? It means, you know, how many ever days a week you can train, you know, you're, you're doing whatever volume you can do within those number of days, you know, so that is reasonable volume. And you're not just trying to seek a low volume for the sake of seeking a low volume because of something you saw on the internet. So if you have a reasonable volume and you are executing hard training and trying to get the most you can out of every rep and every set time under tension or your overall mechanical tension is going to be a natural byproduct of this hard training. It's not something you need to exaggerate or focus on. It's a byproduct of proper training. So you get in the gym, you focus on hard training, you focus on getting as much as you can out of every set, and you're going to get a good quality amount of time under tension or mechanical tension and stress. So you do not need to worry about it. The only way you need to worry about it is if you're just going into the gym and just training slops, just sloppy training, trying to accrue reps, not trying to get the most you can out of every rep and every set and just kind of, you know, speeding what I call speeding through your sets. When I'm working with my clients, if I see somebody doing like a seated cable roll where they're just trying to rapidly go through the set accumulating reps or a lat pull down or curls just, you know, frantically spazuloiding through their sets, trying to accrue reps, I give them what is called a speeding ticket because when we're just, you know, not trying to maximize our reps, not trying to focus our training, we're not getting good mechanical tension or stress. So we're removing an integral part of the muscle building process. It's not, again, it's not something you need to overly focus on. You don't need to do timed sets, but if you take this out of the equation, you're basically taking out a big driver when it comes to muscle building, and that is good mechanical tension and stress. So the take home point here is don't focus on how many days a week you can train. Pick how many days a week you can train. Get in a reasonable amount of volume for each of those training days. Focus on maximizing your sets, getting as much as you can out of every set, and good quality mechanical tension and time under tension will be a byproduct of this. You don't need to worry about anything else. All right, so the mind muscle connection is a different piece of the puzzle. Do you need to feel a muscle working when you are doing your exercises? Yes and no. No. The mind muscle connection can be an integral part of getting the most you can out of certain sets. Not every set, because when we are dealing with squats and big posterior lifts like deadlifts and Romania deadlifts, we don't want to worry about the mind muscle connection. So let me explain. First off, if you had good solid control like we talked about in time under tension, you had very focused training and you were focusing on hard training and getting the most you could out of every set. You don't need to worry about the mind muscle connection because if you are focused on getting everything you can out of dumbbell curls or cable tricep extensions or pec deck or whatever, you're going to get good mechanical tension and stress. And because you are focused on maximizing that set and getting the most you can out of every rep, you're already getting in quality training and you don't need to focus on the mind muscle connection. Now, there have been periods in my training where I've thought about the mind muscle connection and periods of my training when I didn't and there's no difference between them. But that doesn't mean you shouldn't or can't focus on the mind muscle connection. These days, a lot of my training is more bodybuilding focus. I'm kind of swinging back into that lane. When I'm doing curls, I'm focused on a good quality contraction or feel of my biceps. When I'm doing seated press downs, I'm focusing on really hitting the triceps. There's no downside to adding this mind muscle connection kind of concept or focus to the majority of your training. But there is one major caveat on big compound movements. Not all of them. And I'm going to explain, but on big compound movements, if you try to turn a squat or a deadlift or a Romanian deadlift or something like that into something where you're focused on one specific muscle group, you are putting yourself in a difficult position because these lifts are going to hit a lot of different body parts and your focus should be on proper form. You do not need to feel your quads working on a squat for them to grow. You do not need to feel your upper back or lower back or traps or whatever working on a deadlift for them to grow, for them to experience a lot of stress. Your focus on these big compound movements should be on form, 100% on form and trusting that they are going to hit the muscle groups they are intended to hit. If you take this type of big compound movement and try to turn it into an isolation style movement where you're focused only on your quads during squats or only on a certain body or upper back on deadlifts, as you progress in weight, you're going to increase the likelihood of injury because you're turning a natural lift, something you should be focused on form and trying to make it feel as natural as possible. And you're trying to turn that lift and change form into something that will focus only on one body part. That is a dangerous path to head down. So please do not do that. I don't focus on the mind muscle connection on my bench press. Sometimes I do on my dumbbell bench. When it comes to back work though, I exclusively focus on feeling the back because it is really easy on back work to get sloppy and not focus on driving your elbows and shoulders back so you can feel your lats and your back work. So on back work exclusively, I focus on the mind muscle connection on chest work. I don't during the bench press, but I do a little bit during my like dumbbell bench just to make sure I can feel the chest working on lockout. So I would say as an end cap, don't worry about the mind muscle connection on things like squats and deadlifts and Romanian deadlifts and good mornings and even bench press. I don't focus on the mind muscle connection on my seated overhead presses and seated overhead dumbbell presses either. But anything else, you can kind of, you know, focus on feeling the muscle work, especially your back and arms and hamstring work. So there you have it, guys. I hope this video helped you a little bit in understanding time under tension and the mind muscle connection. You don't have to worry about time under tension as long as your programs are locked in with a reasonable amount of volume. And the mind muscle connection is optional as long as you are training hard and trying to get the most you can out of every set. But you can add it in as you want to get more out of a set. For more information on back training, I want you to check out this video. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day.jetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjetsjets