 Hey guys, welcome to the Massive Iron channel, I'm Steve Schoen, I'm Steve Schoen, this video we're going to talk about how much muscle you can gain over the course of your life, how much muscle you can gain over the course of a year, and what happens if you don't gain, do you lose it? Before I get into this topic, if you guys are interested in coaching, please check out the link down below, coaching is what I do for a living, I would love to work with you. Also check out the PR.O, where I do a living, I would love to work with you. This, per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per per you have every year? And what happens if you don't build muscle? Are you losing it? So we're going to use this to kind of set things up. This glass right here, we're going to pretend this is how much muscle you can build over the course of your lifetime. Generally, for most natural lifters, it's going to be somewhere between 30 to 35 pounds over the course of a lifetime. We're not trying to make a rule. I'm just trying to give you guys some general guidelines, but this is pretty realistic. So for this video, we will pretend that you're going to gain 32 pounds of muscle over the course of your lifetime. Whether it varies slightly, it's not going to matter. We'll just use this for the sake of the example. So this glass right here is how much muscle you can build over the course of your life. 32 pounds, roughly. Again, this is just an estimate for this video. And each of these glasses we're going to pretend is a year of training. So we have year one, year two, year three, year four, etc. So generally, the rule, the maximum potential you have to gain in the coming year is about half of your remaining gains. So if you have 32 pounds of muscle to gain over the course of your life, and you haven't gained any, during the next year, you have the potential to gain about half of that, or about 16 pounds. Now, with that said, most lifters will not gain that half. You would have to have everything absolutely perfect, all the stars aligned, all the cards in play. So 32 pounds of muscle, coming into it fresh, you would have the potential to gain about 16 pounds of muscle over the course of your first year. Generally, it's going to be about a third. That's more realistic. That's a really solid goal. So we'll say roughly 10 pounds. So if 10 pounds established as more of a realistic goal, most lifters would be lucky to gain eight or 25% of their natural potential the first year. So I want to show you in a perfect world, if you were the perfect lifter, and you were able to gain half of this muscle in the first year. Let's see if we can do this without spilling it. Okay, so we're pretty close. We're going to spill a little bit because, you know, that's life right there. But first year, 32 pounds potential. Year one, you gain 16 pounds. So you have 16 pounds you gain during year one, 16 pounds left. So this is year one, you use up half of your natural potential. This is your remaining muscle gains. In year two, you have the potential to use up half of those. So we'll try to estimate this, we'll try to put about half in. And let's say we got that about right. So year one, you gained about 16 pounds. Year two, you gained about eight. And now year three, you have the potential to gain about half of your remaining gains, which is eight, in this case, four. So let's say that is about four. So year one, you gained 16. Year two, you gained eight. Year three, you gained four. In the first three years, maximum 28 pounds of muscle, you have about four left. So year four, gained about half of that, you gained about two pounds. So that is the rule of halves. In a perfect world, starting with about 32 pounds of muscle gain, you can gain about half, you have the potential to gain about half of the remaining gains you have left. So the recap, we started with 32 pounds, we used up 16 during year one, eight during year two, four during year three, two during year four. And after that, if you had a number of glasses over here, you just be going half and half and half. So you can see, the closer you get to your natural potential, the harder it is to get there, you still have a little bit to gain, but it's going to become harder and harder and harder. At that point, it's not just simple math. You might have some weaknesses, you might have underdeveloped rear delts, underdeveloped calves, there might be some things that are holding you back from reaching your potential that are either genetic or just bad luck or inability to train or injuries, etc. But this model provides a reasonable look at what you could gain over the course of your first four years of lifting. Now we're going to put all the gains back without trying without spilling much of the gains, there's still going to be a little bit of gains left in the gains drop, we're going to put all the gains back. And we're going to show you something that is probably a little bit more realistic. And that is gaining about 25% during your first year of lifting. So you have the potential to gain 32 pounds of muscle and 25% of that during your first year lifting might not seem like a lot, but eight pounds of muscle your first year of lifting is going to be very dramatic. And we're going to gain, we're going to put in here about a quarter of that. We're just going to guess, okay, might not look like a quarter, but it's a quarter. So you gained about eight pounds of muscle your first year of training. So now you have 24 pounds left on your natural potential. And you have the potential during your second year to gain half of that which is 12. But it's more likely you're going to gain about 25% of that or about six. So let's say that's about six. It's a little bit over flooded, a little bit over flooded, but we'll put a little bit back. So you gain eight pounds the first year, six pounds the second year. That's 14 pounds in your first two years. That is a lot of muscle mass. You're off to a good start. You have 18 pounds of muscle left to gain. In your third year, if you gained about 25% of that, it would be four and a half. And you can easily see why reaching your potential is probably going to take seven, eight, nine, 10 years of training, even at this rate. And this is still pretty reasonable. Honestly, if you had the potential to gain all of your muscle or the majority of your muscle in the first seven to eight years of lifting, that would be a pretty spectacular thing because 99% of lifters in commercial gyms don't get anywhere close to that. So even gaining 25% of the remaining natural potential in the coming year is a pretty solid rate. Now I'm not trying to limit you. I'm not trying to say this is your limit. I'm just giving you realistic expectations based off what I have seen in the real world. Getting into the gym and refining things, refining your training, learning how to train hard, learning how to refine your form. All of this stuff takes time. Not to mention there are a lot of trainees that absolutely crush their training, but they suck when it comes to nutrition. So refining your nutrition is going to be a part of this as well. So we looked at how much muscle you have to gain over the course of your life. We looked at what percentage you could gain in the upcoming year being absolutely perfect and more realistic. And now we want to answer the question, what happens if you don't use your progress? If you just waste your gains the first couple of years, does your natural potential go away? So let's return all of your gains back to the empty gains cup. We're going to return all of it back and we're going to pretend you have 32 pounds of muscle to gain over the course of your life. So this is you. This is the average lifter. You have 32 pounds of muscle to gain over the course of your life. And again, this is not a rule. It's a general guideline. It could be 30, it could be 35. Maybe if you're big bone, it could be 36. But here's you bumbling, stumbling, knucklehead, inferior training, don't understand hard training. Your diet sucks, your form sucks. And you head into the gym and you gain like two pounds of muscle the first year. You feel like you're absolutely spinning your wheels. And maybe the second year, you gain two pounds of muscle. You are absolutely sucking wind. You have spent two years in the gym, gain four to five pounds of muscle, and you have all this potential left. You're like the average lifter in the gym, just trying to figure things out, feeling like you're going nowhere. And the question is, have I wasted my natural potential? Now, unless you're 80 years old, and you're absolutely broke dick, and you have nothing left in the tank, you are not wasting, you have not wasted your natural potential. Let's say you've gained only four pounds the first couple of years, and you still have 28 pounds left to gain on your natural potential. What happens if you kick it into gear on your third year, really get your training, really get your nutrition, really get your form, really get everything dialed in? Well, you have the potential to gain half of this in the third year, the rule of halves. Now, we have 28 pounds of muscle to gain. It's very unlikely you're going to gain 14 pounds. If you really give it, it's more likely you could gain nine, maybe 10 pounds. But it's more likely you're going to gain about 25%. So you're going to gain about one quarter of this, and you're going to put about one quarter of that in the pool. So let's say you gained about seven pounds. So you gained two pounds, two pounds, seven pounds, all of a sudden, you've gained 11 pounds of muscle, you have 21 pounds left, and you're looking at year four, you did not lose your gains. 21 pounds of muscle, we're going to say you're going to gain about five pounds during this year, you're doing pretty good. You've gained two, you've gained two, you've gained seven, and you've gained five. So that is 16 pounds of muscle. All of a sudden, your first two years, you weren't doing too well. The last two years, you've gained seven and five. Now you're up to 16 pounds of muscle, you've really sped things up after two years, and your future is looking good. Your gains are not wasted. You have 16 pounds left, it's likely you could gain about four in that fifth year, and maybe about three in that sixth year. All of a sudden, you're roughly up to about 80% of your natural potential by getting things up to speed. So there you have it, guys. I hope this video has helped you some just to understand natural muscle building potential, what you can gain in the coming year, and what happens if you do not gain or waste a couple of years, or maybe even waste a decade. Let me know what you think. Drop a comment down below. Before I go, I want to say I made a similar video about 10 years ago, and I'm going to post that video here if you want to watch that, get more information on natural muscle building potential. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day.