 Hey guys, welcome to the massive iron channel. I'm Steve shot in this video. I'm going to ask the question. Has the science based lifting community. Legitimately lost their mind. Before I get into this topic, if you guys would like coaching, check out the link down below. I would love to work with you. Coaching is what I do for a living. I also offer custom workout programs for only 30 days. I also offer custom workout programs for only 30 days. I also offer custom workout programs for only 30 days. I also offer custom workout programs for 30 days. For only $39. All right. So I have something really interesting here and we're going to get into this. I'm going to put in a overlay of this information. Over on the team massive discord this week, and you can find a link to that down below. Somebody had presented this information. I also made an Instagram post on it. And obviously this isn't a condemnation of the science based lifting community as a whole. This is just one little bit and piece of the information that you can find out there in the science based lifting community. As with anything, we have to put a caveat in. I'm not trying to condemn everything in the science based lifting community. But with that said, there is a lot of really obscure oddball fringe information being put out. Kind of feeding this kind of fear culture landscape that we're living in. And also just some really, really black and white. Either it's this or it's nothing type of information from the science based lifting community. So we're going to dive into things. This is something that was on and I'm not going to name the name of this discord server. But this was on a prominent science based lifting discord community. Sometimes when I post this information, I get comments or questions saying, is this really taking place? Do people really think this stuff? Is it really this out of control or is it really this prominent? The answer is yes, there are communities out there like this putting out this information. There are a lot more people on this particular science based community than are on my team massive community, for example. And I've been doing YouTube for 15 plus years. So I'm going to present this information as just one little snapshot of things floating out there in the science based lifting community. I want you to drop a comment down below. Let me know what you think. This in particular is talking about calories per day for muscle growth. All right. So this is a daily calorie surplus recommendation based on years of lifting. So these guys are trying to math things and science things into a place that feels very, very comfortable for them. So based on years of lifting, you can see one to two years of lifting, two to three years of lifting, three plus years of lifting. And you can see these are the calorie surpluses that they are advocating to help you maximize muscle mass. So let's look at these calorie surpluses, analyze what they mean in the real world, and just basically comb through and see if it is solid advice or if it was completely disconnected from reality. Because in this case, I'm going to argue it's completely disconnected from reality. So it says if you have been lifting for one to two years, your calorie surplus, and I want you to hear this correctly. This is calorie surplus per day should be 21.1. Very specific, right? 21.1 calories to 31 calories per day. That's your calorie surplus. If you have been lifting one to two years, 21.1 calories or up to 31 calories. If you have been lifting two to three years, your calorie surplus should be 13.1 calories to 19.9 calories per day. And if you have been lifting three plus years, you should be eating in a surplus of 5.4 calories per day to 7.9 calories per day. So let's break this down into what it means in the real world. First, I'm going to talk about how much weight this would cause you to gain over the course of a year. And then I'm going to talk about is it even possible to achieve this kind of surplus based just on consistency and precision. So if you are in your first couple of years of training and you're having 21 calories per day of a surplus, 21 times, you know, basically 365 days a year, it's going to be really close to two pounds of weight gain per year, upwards of three pounds. So the range is about two to three pounds of weight gain per year. Now, as a coach, I can tell you, I have my clients graph their weight so we can look for trends. We can see upward trends. We can see if the weight is holding steady. We can look for downward trends. There is no possible way in a realistic manner to understand if you are even in this surplus. You can get a good estimation of where you think your maintenance level is. But over the course of a year, how are you going to know that you are in a 21 calorie surplus on track to gain two to three pounds in a year based on you can analyze all the data you want. You can plot all the graphs you want. There's going to be so much daily fluctuation in your weight. This is just normal because we're not going to eat the same thing every day. We're going to have different stress levels and sleep levels and water retention levels and hydration levels. Anybody that looks at body weight over the course of a year understands there is micro fluctuations. There are going to be fluctuations of two to three pounds in a day easily for a lot of individuals. Now, given this, if you tracked all of your calories and you think you're in a 21 to 31 calorie surplus per day, you could end up at the end of the year looking like, hey, somehow I think I've put this in the chat GPT. And I think it's about two to three pounds over where I started. But the question is, maybe you just didn't poop this morning. Maybe you just are holding a little water from exercise induced inflammation. I'm not trying to be crude, but two to three pounds compared to where you started on January 1st to where you are on December 31st could be just as simple as poop or water or exercise induced inflammation. There's no way realistically to understand if you are in a calorie surplus because it's such a micro change that it could be any number of factors. You could be ill. You could be dehydrated. You could be not pooping. Right. So there's just no way. And this is the maximum amount of calories surplus that these guys are advocating. So if you get down to two or three years, you know, you're looking at like, I don't know, 1.2 pounds to maybe two pounds per year, you know, and then you get to three plus years of lifting and you're in 5.4 to 7.9 calorie surplus. That is about two thirds of a pound a year. These are so unrealistic. It is beyond head scratching. It is in bizarro land. Imagine like if you track this, you would basically have to track this for 10 years and hope you gain two to three pounds or 20 to 30 pounds in 10 years. Now, if you did gain 20 to 30 pounds in 10 years, you probably, you know, you might pack on some muscle mass. There's no doubt there if you're training hard, but do you want to assume you're in a 20 to 30 calorie surplus and wait 10 years to figure out if you're building muscle or perhaps we use a little common sense and we land on the side of just a little bit more calorie surplus to make sure we are actually gaining weight properly. I'm not trying to be overly sarcastic here, but this is ridiculously idiotic. It is just lacking all common sense. Just because you can do math doesn't mean you are a body composition scientist. This isn't science. This is a dream. It is a fantasy. It is completely unrealistic. Now, not to mention that if you're going to start on on January 1st and you are 100% certain you knew where your calorie maintenance level was and you're going to have a 20 to 30 calorie surplus. How many of you this honest question? Let me know what you think below. Maybe I'm the idiot. How many of you will be so consistent for 365 days nailing the surplus that it's never an issue for you? I can tell you in coaching. I've been coaching for a long time. I've been coaching so many different types of people. I have never in all my life seen somebody able to sustain a 20 to 30 calorie surplus per day. Like that level of consistency. Now you might say, well, yeah, we're going to take averages, right? We're going to we're going to take averages and we're going to keep it in that 20 to 30 range. OK, that's fine. That still requires an insane amount of precision. I was over 75 calories. I'm going to pull back 40 calories. This is making my brain hurt and it is so much over complication. It is so unnecessary and it is so unrealistic. I think at the end of the day, when I look at this information, the biggest thing I think about or the biggest thing that crosses through my thick, dense, old school skull is these guys are really afraid of fat gain to the point where they're trying to ride. They're trying to ride the line so razor thin. It becomes apparent that this isn't about bulking or cutting to them. This is about fear of gaining fat. I will tell you, and I think this is very realistic. Anybody that wants to improve their body composition is going to have periods throughout the year where they're going to have to pull back a little bit, even if they're not doing a super strict bulking and cutting strategy. We all have periods during the year where we get a little bit off base and we have to pull back and maybe do a 10 pound cut. This is kind of normal living. Nobody is perfect. There are a few people out there that are so dialed in and crazy dialed in, but they are really the outliers for the rest of us. We aren't going to be that ultra precise. It's not like we're super wild or super. There's some kind of super crazy variance in our calorie intake, but sometimes there are just seasons in our life where we're working crazy or we're overeating a little bit or mom invites you over and you have a big meal or you have a little bit rough holiday season or whatever it is. So realistically, over a five to 10 year period of time, when you are trying to maximize your body composition, you are going to have periods probably every year where you're doing a little bit of mini cut. This is what I would call a normal part of the process. These guys are so worried about fat gain that they're turning bulking into something so unrealistic. It's just mind blowingly dumb. That's the only way to put it. This is not intelligent, rational thinking. For those of you that want to know how I approach bulking with my clients, and I'm not trying to turn this into a commercial, but I have many videos on this channel about the massive bulking system. Basically, it is lean bulking. We do not do aggressive bulking. It does not get you fat. We're looking to gain about a kilo a month over five months. This is about 10 pounds of weight gain. And at the end of the day, you know, you're doing like a four to five month bulk, a little bit of a mini cut to knock off maybe six, seven pounds of fat, and you're getting back in the cycle. So you're staying around a reasonable body weight, but you're eating in a reasonable surplus that helps you facilitate recovery and muscle building. You can find more information in this video right here or head over to my website, superlivingtoday.com and check out my book, massive bulking. Let me know what you guys think of this. Drop a comment down below. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day. Let's go.