 Hey guys, welcome to the Massive Iron channel, I'm Steve Shaw. If you are bored or frustrated with your muscle building, I want you to give this workout a try. Before I get into this topic, if you need help with a custom workout or with coaching, check out the link down below. Coaching is what I do for a living. I also have a new workout tracker called PR.OPROGRESSIVE OVERLOAD. It is not AI Slop. You can check it out, link below. All right, so you're trying to build muscle. Maybe you're a little bit bored. Maybe you're a little bit frustrated. Maybe you're looking for something a little bit different. Here it is. This contains a lot of interesting little techniques, interesting little protocols, things that will spice up your workout, increase the overall intensity, and you will leave the gym feeling like you were in there doing something with a purpose. This is a great muscle building program. I'm going to give you alternatives for the big lifts, so if you want to do squats and deadlifts, you can do them. And if you want to avoid them or they're not your thing, this program has options for you. And I want you to know you only need to train three or four days a week. I encourage you with this program to get plenty of recovery days, and this is a flexible schedule so you don't have to stick to a certain number of days per week. You can train three days one week, four days the next, et cetera. So let's get into things. Now, I do want to mention that you can get the link down below to this PDF. This is absolutely free. It's not going to cost you a thing. Link down below in the description box. Massive BOF. Bored or frustrated, run this. Now, I'm going to skip through the about the author stuff and the introduction stuff and the basics of the massive BOF. I just covered the basics of the program. We're going to dive right into the nuts and bolts, and if you guys don't want to download the PDF, if you're kind of nervous about downloading stuff on the worldwide interwebs, if that's your thing, then you can just simply screenshot this information. So you can see here we have a body part split structure and an upper posterior split structure. We are going to have four workouts you're going to be working with, and again, you can use a flexible schedule. If you use the body part split, you're basically going to need to train every other day, four workouts in eight days, or you can do two on, one off, or you can do four workouts a week and insert rest days whenever you want. I recommend following the structure as listed, chest and triceps, back and biceps, delts, and legs. If you're using the upper posterior split structure, you have upper A, posterior A, upper B, posterior B. The only thing you need to do is insert a rest day after every upper day. You must do this so your arms are fresh, headed into your posterior workouts. Now, if you look at the body part split structure, you can see four chest exercises and two exercises for triceps. The back and biceps, you can see four exercises for the back, two for the biceps. For your delts, four exercises for your front and side delts, one for your rear delts, one for your traps. And for your leggies, you have quads, quads, hamstrings, quads, hamstrings, and abs or calves. You can really do whatever you want with this slot. The upper posterior, the upper days are going to alternate between chest, delt, chest, delt. And then at the end of this day, you're going to do a triceps exercise and a biceps exercise. Upper B is going to flip it a little bit. You're going to do delts, chest, delts, chest. And then you're going to do triceps and biceps. For posterior A, you're going to lead with back and you're going to do back, quads, back, hamstrings, etc. And posterior B, you're going to lead with quads and you're going to do quads, back, hammy whammies, back, etc. So we will dive into the specifics. All right. So this is the body part split, the big lifts. For those of you guys that like to do deadlifts and squats, this is a program for you. Now, all the information is here. You can see you have ramp protocols, you have density protocols, you have savage protocols, you have bulldozer protocols. All of this stuff is listed in the description below the workout. So do not fear. You can screenshot it. You can download the PDF. I'm not going to bore you to death by covering every little minor detail, but it is all here for you to screenshot or download. So basically, you're going to start each day with a ramp protocol. You're going to basically start with the bar for one or two sets of 10. You're going to do a warm up of 45% of five reps, 55% of five reps, 65% of five reps. And then you're going to do two sets of five. On the last set for your big lift, you're going to do maximum safe quality reps. If you hit seven or more reps on this last set, then you will move up and wait the next time you do this big ramp exercise. Pretty simple. We're going to do ramps, ramping warm up sets, two working sets for the big hitters, and we're going to move on with life. Now, after that, we're going to do a density exercise, which features four sets of 60 seconds of rest in between sets. This isn't strict rest pause work, but this is kind of working on your work capacity, bringing up your overall rep quality. This is a very intense and fun muscle building protocol. It's called density. Four sets of six, 10, or 12 reps with 60 seconds of rest in between sets. With the incline dumbbell bench, you're going to use 10 reps. With the pendlay or barbell row, you're going to use six reps or eight reps. With the seated dumbbell overhead press, you can use eight or 10. And with the leg press, you can use 10 or 12 reps. Now, we're going to move on to savage. The savage protocol, you see we have machine chest press, the V-bar lat pulldown. You can do a wide grip lat pulldown if you want. Machine delt press and dumbbell Romanian deadlift. With the savage protocol, you're going to do two sets with the same weight. And then you're going to finish the second set. After the second set, you're going to do two rest pause savage sets. So after the second set is done, you're going to take 10 deep breaths. Then you're going to perform maximum safe quality reps. Then you're going to take another 10 deep breaths. And you're going to perform another maximum safe quality reps. This is very important, especially when you're doing the Romanian deadlifts. You want to make sure you feel physically and mentally ready to go. So don't just rush into them. Take your time, get your 10 deep breaths, then attack. So we did the ramping stuff. We did the density stuff. We did the savage stuff. And now we're going to do the bulldozer stuff, which is straight rest pause training. It is five mini sets with 15 to 20 seconds of rest in between sets or 10 deep breaths. So you're going to use the same weight for each set of an exercise. And you're going to perform maximum safe quality reps. Then rest about 10 deep breaths or 15 to 20 seconds. Rinse and repeat until you hit five total mini bulldozer sets. On the first set, because you are performing for max safe quality reps, when you hit 13 or 14 reps on that first set, the next time you perform this exercise, add a little bit of weight. You can see here we have pecky decky. If you don't want to use a peck deck, use cable crossovers or dumbbell flies. We have the seated cable row. You have the side lateral raise. You have the lig extension. You can swap out some things here. If you want to do a machine lateral, if you want to do a machine row or some specialty row, a panetta row or whatever you have in your gym, use it. Now on the chest and tricep stay, we have some fun. We are going to do skull destroyers. If you have not tried the skull destroyers, they are brutal. They are intense. You basically do three reps of a skull crusher, then three reps of a close grip bench, and you continue until you hit 30 total reps. This is rest pause style, so rest as needed. Just get the 30 total reps any way, anyhow, any way you can get there. You're going to do two sets of this, and then you're going to do cable tricep extensions. They can be push downs. They can be overhead extensions. I don't care. You're going to do those bulldozer style. For back and biceps, you're going to do the massive curls. You're going to do two or three sets. Basically, you do eight strict curl reps. You can use an easy bar or barbell, and when you're done, you're going to finish it off with four cheat curls. You're going to do your strict reps, and then when you're done, you're going to do some cheaty, weedy curls. This will add a little bit of extra stress. Raise some eyebrows from people in the gym like, why is he doing cheat curls? They have no idea. You are blasting the living heck out of your biceps for what the heck you're doing, but this is super effective. And then we're going to finish with alternating dumbbell curls, two plus the Savage Protocol, a rest pause protocol. Over on delts, we're going to do rear delts wings. All of these have, there are links to all of these things. If you can't find them out, simply go to the main page of my YouTube channel and search Skull Destroyers or download this PDF or search rear delts wings. You will find this easily on the Worldwide Inner Tubes. Bulldozer shrugs are kind of like the massive curls. You're going to do strict and controlled shrugs. You're going to control it up, hold for a second or two, control it down. Hold for a second, too. You're going to do eight strict reps. And then when you're done, you're going to do as many power shrug reps as you can stand to finish off that set. Absolutely brutal protocol for your traps. Super engaging, super fun. And now on your legs, you're going to have leg curl density, and then you can do abs of choice. So this is the nuts and bolts of the program. We have some more splits that are featured in this PDF. I'm going to give you a chance to screenshot everything, to look at everything. Again, all of the information for these protocols are right here. You can screenshot it if you don't want to download the PDF. You can see we start with, in the highlighted area, bench press, squat, deadlift, and overhead ramps. It goes on to explain how to finish that, when to progress. It goes on to explain how to do your two working sets and when to progress. Then you can see here we have density information, the four set density information, the savage information, and how to do the bulldozer protocol, which is continued on the next page. More information, we have the bulldozer shrug information, the rear delt swings, the massive curl information, and the skull destroyer information. Hold on. We're not done. We got more splits coming. So this is your body part split with no deadlift or squats. Basically, if you don't want to do deadlifts, we're moving the pendley or barbell rows up to the top with a ramp, and we're backing that up with a machine row density. If you don't want to do squats, we're doing alternating lunges, two sets of about eight reps each leg, and then we're doing leg press afterwards. So we swapped out the squats with alternating lunges. We swapped out the deadlifts with the pendley or barbell row, moved that up, and we added a machine row density after that. So just a few minor tweaks for those that don't want to do or can't do squats or deadlifts. Here is the upper posterior. Basically, it's the same structure as the body part split. We just move the exercises around the board. Same exercises, same protocol. I'll give you guys a chance to screenshot it. Nothing really to talk about here. This is just more of a frequency program. You have to rest after each upper day. And here is the upper posterior split for those of you guys that don't want to do squats or deadlifts. All right, a few notes before we go. Just a reminder, download the PDF down below. Rear delt swings can be swapped or dropped for another back exercise or another rear delt exercise. If you don't want to do shruggies or you don't want to do massive shrugs or bulldozer shrugs, it can be swapped out for rear delts or calves, whatever. Pull-ups can be inserted into the lat pull-down slot. Lat pull-downs can then be moved to posterior B. You can shuffle things around however you want. You could alternate between the seated cable rows one week and the lat pull-downs the next if you wanted to. And this is just a template so you can add anything to it you want. And finally, use massive iron bulking. If you're going to run this program, bulk properly. Don't do fat bulks. Don't do main gain gain gain. Stick yourself to a certain scale weight nonsense. Use the massive iron bulking system. If you don't know what it is, go to the main page of my YouTube and search bulking or get the PDF and click the linky linky. And finally, you can swap out any of the exercises you want in these workouts as long as they are an equal type of swap. And if you don't want to use RDLs, you can use a glued ham on a back extension station. And the link is in this PDF. That's it, guys. Bored or frustrated? Give this workout a try. Before we go, I want you to check out the 30-20-10, which is right here. The video is linked. This is my best, best, best power building, strength building program. If you want an alternative to like Wendler's or StrongLift or Starting Strength, this is the program, Massive Iron Style. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day. Thank you.