 There is a lot of anti-heavy lifting rhetoric going on in the fitness world, worst proponents being the science-based nerves, the functional fools, and your average, just go for high reps, coworkers, you are indeed true. Heavy, you know, tossing aside heavy lifting, because sometimes people equate it to ego, to take to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to to brick on your back or you had a backpack and you put a brick in your backpack and you walked for a week with that brick in your backpack, it would suck the first day, but your body would acclimate after the first day. And then this, or after the first week and the second week, you put another brick and it, you know, we're progressively overloading the stress, the external stress placed upon the body. In this example, we're talking about adding a brick to a backpack, but in practical terms, it's placing more external stress and pressure on the body, which is how I like to dumb down hypertrophy. More and more external stress or pressure being placed on the body, the body responds by what? Pushing back or growing. That's the simplest way to look at hypertrophy. So week two, you put another brick in that backpack. You keep that brick in that backpack for week two, the body acclimates. And then we move on to week three, where we put another brick in. And we repeat this over five to 10 years. At the end of the road, you're progressively overloading. If you don't continue to add new stresses after week two or week three, the body will acclimate and it's done. It has no reason to continue to add more muscle mass because your body has acclimated to, to these first two bricks and it's done. It's not going to turn you into the Hulk just because you want to turn in the Hulk because you added two bricks to your backpack. It's like, Hey, I moved my dumbbell benches from 25s to 45s. Why don't I look like the incredible Hulk? Well, you did add some strength, uh, which is wonderful. Um, but you can't just continue to use that and expect to get stronger for the body to, uh, undergo more hypertrophy. It does not work like that. You need more and more stresses. And the deeper in you get, the heavier, the relative weight becomes. We're not chasing heavy weight. We're chasing, uh, new, you know, new forms of progressive overload. You can't infinitely progressively overload, um, adding exercises, adding volumes. Uh, you can change things up changing rep ranges, but that's just a temporary stimulus change. That's not a long-term change. So if you're doing bench press for a year using the four to six rep range, and then you move it to the 15 rep range, uh, you're going to be sore and the body's going to take about a month to acclimate. But at, at that point, if you don't increase the weight, uh, there's going to be no hypertrophy, no additional hypertrophy. So, um, you have to do something in the only, the fallback variable in all of this is always more weight. Okay. That is the fallback variable for everything. Progressive overload. You can add sets, you can restrict rest, you can add exercises, you can change rep range of variables, but over time, the only thing that's going to continue to drive hypertrophy is progressive overload.