 Hey guys, welcome to the Massive Iron channel, I'm Steve Shaw, in this video I'm going to give you the dumbest and easiest way to think about hypertrophy or what is effective training. Before I get into this topic, if you guys would like coaching, check out the link down below, coaching is what I do for a living, I would love to help. I also have a new workout tracker, it's not AI junk, we spent three years developing it. You can check it out, link down below. Alright, so, when it comes to hypertrophy, winning the hypertrophy, there are many ways to think about just how do we build muscle. You know, there's so much confusion, how do we build muscle, what is effective training. In this video, I'm going to give you the dumbest but probably the most important way you can ever think about hypertrophy. The one thing you want to remember when it comes to effective training. I don't want you guys to forget this because there's so much information out there on what is junk volume, should you push the failure, blah, blah, blah. Should you do frequency training, should you do this, are drop sets useless. This one video is going to solve all of the riddles for you and give you something to remember that you will never forget. So right now you're confusiated, your brain is filled with all kinds of kernels and data and all kinds of things just stuffed in there like an over stuffed sack of whatever. Right, your brain is about to explode, you don't know what is an effective set, you don't know what is junk volume, you're worried, you're worried, you're worried about your training. So this is what I want you to remember. The body is always going to respond to external stimulus. Okay, so if you place a stress on the body, a physical stress, you do a hard set, what is it going to do? It's going to respond by pushing back. That is how the body grows. So I want you to think about everything you do as kind of placing a brick on your back. You're going to place that one tiny brick on your back, maybe it's a set of 10 on the pecky deck of your bench press, and your body is going to push back just slightly. So everything you do in the gym is kind of an external pressure or stress being placed upon the body, pressing upon the body. And this is a stupid, simple way of looking at things. You don't have to worry about training to failure, you don't have to worry about junk volume. In the long run, what you want to worry about is consistency and progressive overload, adding more bricks. So your first workout, maybe a chest workout or a full body, you add a few bricks on your back, you know, nothing crazy, five or six bricks, this external pressure, this external stress you're placing on your body, and your body is going to respond by pushing back. Your body is not trying to think of some obscure matrix of sets and reps and effective reps and training volume and junk volume and training a failure and all that kind of stuff. Drop sets, supersets, you should only do this, you should only do that. Drop sets are ineffective, supersets are ineffective, you know, all those voices out there just confusing you. All the body knows is that you placed an external stress upon it. It is going to respond by pushing back. Now part of this equation is stressing a muscle, pushing it, you know, with hard training, you know, reasonably hard, trying to beat the log book, progressively overloading, right? That's a part of the equation. But part of the equation is just overall mechanical tension or stress, placing stress upon the body. Kind of this idea that if you only do one set, somehow it's magical. And if you do three or four sets, somehow it's junk volume. But still, if you think about it, you're placing those bricks on the body, you're adding volume or stress or pressure on the body. And as long as you're progressively overloading, that stress is going to, that stress is going to force the body to respond by pushing back. The idea that somehow if you do four sets of 10, it's inferior to one set of 10, you have to remember that this external stress or pressure you're placing upon the body, the body is going to respond by pushing back. Think of the example of a newbie. A newbie goes into the gym and maybe they do one set of bench press for 10 reps. They put a little stress on the body, this external pressure or force. The body responds by pushing back or growing. If this same newbie went in and did three or four sets, this is extra stress. The body just says, hey, you did more stress than just one set. You did three sets of 10 or four sets of 10 with the same weight. This is more external stress. This is more external pressure. The body is going to respond because it is a greater degree of external pressure. The body is forced to respond. So the body is going to respond to the external pressure or force you are placing on it with an equal but opposite reaction. You do a little light-sy tightsy little workout that's kind of weaky wimpy wimpy workout. The body doesn't have much reason to push back and grow. You get in and you just bomb, bomb, bomb. You get after it with a little bit more volume, not junk volume, a little bit more volume. The body is forced to respond. So the body is going to respond to the external stress or pressure by what? By pushing back and growing. We're not thinking in the lane of junk volume or reps per set or rest pause or drop sets. All you need to know is that a quality stimulus is going to cause the body to respond by pushing back. Now, I hope this is making sense and there's a few things we need to understand here. Now, if you place a stress on the body like you're doing three sets of 10 on the bench press and you never increase that stress by adding reps or getting stronger, the body has no reason to push back anymore. So if you go into the gym and you get to like three sets of 10 on 135 on the bench, you have placed an external stress or pressure on the body and the body is going to acclimate and it's going to stay there. It's not going to grow anymore unless you place more bricks on the back, more reps, more sets, more pressure, more pressure from drop sets, rest pause, whatever. Any type of stimulus or pressure you add to that equation, that 135 for three sets of 10 is going to increase the intensity, external stress, and the body is going to respond by doing what? Pushing back and growing. Isn't this magic? Isn't this eye opening? Isn't this enlightening? Isn't this the greatest thing since sliced bread and Vegemite sandwiches? So what this does in a non-magical kind of magical way is show you reveal the art of training. All these little voices out there that are chattering one set the failure three sets is junk volume. You can't do rest pause. There's no point doing super sets. There's no point doing drop sets. All these confusing conflicting voices. They are missing this bigger picture, external stress, external pressure. You have the freedom to train how you want. You don't believe me? Analyze the history of lifting from the last 70 to 80 years. You have every type of lifter doing every type of programming from rest pause training like DC training to volume training to whatever to full body training to you name it. Every type of program, every type of tool. And the beautiful thing is you can do whatever the heck you want. You can train however you want. As long as you increase the external stress, increase the external pressure over time. And this is called progressive overload. You do this in a sane and smart way. Not just chasing reps. Not throwing bricks at yourself, right? But carefully trying to get the most you can out of every set. Hard training. Trying to beat the log book. And you can do this any way you want. Now always remember if you're at like 135 for three sets of 10 on the bench press. And you add in like a drop set. That is a new external stimulus placing stress on the body, placing pressure on the body. The body is going to respond back initially to that new, you know, external stimulus by acclimating and by growing. But if you don't continue to add to this extra progressive overload, this extra stress, the body has finished acclimating and it's not going to grow anymore. So you can take 135 for three sets of 10 on bench and add in rest pause or drop sets or whatever. And after a couple months, the body has acclimated and it is grown, but then it is going to stagnate. And at that point, you need to continue to add in some new form of external pressure or stress beyond the point where the body has already acclimated. So you can't continue to do additional drop sets forever. You're going to have to eventually find some way to progressively overload and 99% of the time that's going to come right back to adding reps and eventually adding weight to the bar. This is the fundamental form of progressive overload. You can do whatever you want in the mix. You can add external pressure or stress any way you want density training, cluster training, rest pause training, drop sets. You can do frequency training. You can do volume training. You can do body part splits. You can do whatever the heck you want because it is a wide road, not a narrow road like these knucklehead influencers and fake YouTubers are preaching because you know, and you are super smart. That whenever you place an external stress on the body, it is going to do what it is going to respond by pushing back and growing. You do not need to get complicated. Get out your calculus, get out your calculator, get out your AI formulas and try to figure out the effective reps and the RIR and the volume and the thing and the stuff and all the kind of madness. You don't need to think about that. You don't need to worry about that because you are so smart that you know that any type of external pressure or stress placed upon the body is going to cause it to respond by pushing back and growing. And as long as you continue to progressively overload or add more external stress on the body over time, you are going to turn into a freaking beast. You're going to be muscular. You're going to be full of muscles. You're going to be full of strength. You're going to look amazing and you don't need to overcomplicate the art of training. Let me know what you guys think. Drop a comment down below. Please check out this video on chest training if you want some more information. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day.