 Hey guys, welcome to the Massive Iron channel, I'm Steve, Sean, I'm Steve, Sean, this video I'm going to give you five ways to save your shoulders when benching. Before I get into this topic, if you guys would like coaching, coaching is what I do for a living, I would love to work with you, please check out the link down below. And don't forget, I just released a new workout tracker called PR.O, progressive overload workout tracker. It's not AI slop, it's not AI slop, it's a serious workout tracker for those of you that want something more out of a workout tracker than some little box to put your numbers into. Alright, so, you love the bench, you're bench press obsessed, I'm bench press obsessed, aren't we all bench press obsessed? But you want to save your shoulders. I've been benching for 40 years and I have some good tips on how to save your shoulders on the bench. So I'm going to give you five bench press variations to use in the gym so you can save your shoulders, build a big ass bench press, and not be paranoid about the long term impact of the straight bar punishment. So let's get into things. I want to put in a caveat before we jump in that I'm not trying to induce fear here and scare you that the straight bar barbell bench is somehow just going to tear up your shoulders. It's not generally the case, but the biggest risk for shoulder injuries on the bench press is just overuse over a long period of time. If you know you're going to be benching for a long period of time, again, I'm not trying to induce fear, but you might want to consider rotating in some of these variations just to kind of save some punishment in the long run. All right. Number one, this is probably the most controversial. I've been using this for nearly 20 years now, and it is the Spoto Press. The Spoto Press is extremely controversial. When you put it on video and put it on Instagram or YouTube, somebody is going to flip out and say, you're not lowering the bar to your chest. So Spoto or Eric Spoto is a big time bencher. I believe he benched over 700 pounds and he coined the phrase, you know, he coined it Spoto Press, not lowering the bar all the way to your chest, leaving it several inches above your chest. So when you're doing your bench press sets, you just lower it down to a couple inches above your chest and then press it back up. Not complicated. The thing is, the further back your elbows go during a press, the more inherent stress you're going to place on your shoulders. So if you wanted to slot this in instead of taking the bar to your chest, a great, great alternative, a great choice. If you want to kind of rotate this in every other week as a variation and do bench one week and the Spoto Press the next, really solid option. Just know that if you use this variation, someone's going to come along on Instagram or YouTube and tell you you're cheating. All right. Number two is a bench press slingshot device. I have one of the original Mark Bell slingshots and I'm not simply advocating you run over and buy his product, but I've used his product. I have no affiliation with his product, but it has held up over 15 years. So I'm a big fan. If you get something like this, just get the base model to start with. All right. So the bench press slingshot provides shoulder support and it allows you to overload your bench. This is a win win. So you can keep that bench press in a nice group. It'll help prevent any wacky, you know, elbow flaring and just keep you on a nice groove as you bench and provide a degree of overload. Now, some people fear that it is going to weaken your bench. If you use a bench press slingshot device in all of my years of using one and coaching others with it, I found this is simply not the case in every case. And every lifter I've worked with and in my own personal experience, the overload and the shoulder support just work to build up your raw bench press. So don't fear it. Use it. It's not that expensive. Get one. If you're a serious venture, you don't have to use it every week. You could use it every other week. That's kind of a key theme here. You know, with any of these variations, but give it a try. Now, number three is the Swiss bar or the multi grip bar or the football bar. This is becoming more and more popular in commercial gyms and of course, hardcore gyms. It is a neutral grip bench press. And if you get a chance, I would strongly consider giving this neutral grip or football bar grip or Swiss bar grip bench a try. Because it is not forcing your elbows out with that, you know, with that barbell type of grip, that force grip, and you get to use more of a neutral grip, it'll treat the shoulders a little bit better. So while it is easier on the shoulders, it does come with some downsides. It can be a little bit wobbly at first adjusting to it. I find I can't use as much weight on the Swiss bar because of that kind of mental thing, but it's still a good assistance tool. If you're somebody that likes to bench multiple times a week or bench frequently, this could be a good compliment to your straight bar benching. So you could do some kind of a rotation where you do a straight bar benching and then you do some kind of Swiss bar benching. It's also a really good tool for the close grip bench. You can get a little bit more narrow grip because of the multi grip nature of the bar. All right, so number four is the Elite Shoulder Saver. You've probably never heard of this, so I'm about to have you spend $23.96. The Elite Shoulder Saver is basically this pad that you attach to the barbell, and it functions in the way that like a SpotoPress does. It doesn't allow you to bring the bar all the way to your chest. The pad is about that thick. So when you attach it, you'll be able to lower the pad to your chest, unlike a SpotoPress where you have to kind of, you know, guess how far you are away from the chest. The Elite Shoulder Saver allows you to attach this, lower the pad, touch it to your chest, and then press back up. It is a quality option, and again, I have no affiliation with Elite FTS, but it is only $23.96. You can find it on their website. And before I give you number five, don't go anywhere because I have a bonus tip at the end. Number five is my favorite, Dumbbell Benching. Dumbbell Benching. I love Dumbbell Benching. It allows you to keep your elbows in a more natural, neutral position, and it has a huge overload opportunity. I have, I think I've gone up to 150s for 8s or 160s for 8s on the Dumbbell Bench. Dumbbell Bench. Big opportunity for progression, and this is something that is a good compliment to barbell benching. Just that natural elbow positioning will treat these shoulders a lot better, and you can move some heavy ass weight. I love doing volume with the Dumbbell Bench. It treats my shoulders good. It allows me to build up my chesticles, build those big juicy chesticles, and you can move just some heavy ass weight. All right, so now a bonus tip, and that is don't overdo your bench volume. You can have seasons where you're doing more bench volume. I have programs where I work up to 10 sets of 10 on bench. In fact, early last year I got up to 275 for 10 sets of 10 on bench using one of my own programs. These types of programs are okay occasionally, but you don't want to run them as the bread and butter. You're going to risk overuse injuries. Doing an excessive amount of straight bar benching can be very punishing. So, if you're somebody that is super obsessed with the bench press, you can have these seasons where you're doing a lot of straight bar volume, but consider rotating in some of these variations. So, if you want to bench multiple times per week, you could use a straight bar one day and one of these other variations, or a couple of these other variations mixed into your program. For more information on the bench press and why your bench press might suck, check out this video. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day.