 Now there's a lot of information out there about hard training, progressive overload, a lot of different workout types, but if you do not understand this one specific progression approach, you are in trouble. It is your foundation. Hey guys, welcome to the Massive Iron Channel. I am Steve Jean. In this video, we're going to talk about that. I'm going to show you the one progression approach, the one tool you need to understand, the two progression approach, the two progression approach, all the advanced workouts, all the advanced progression approaches, all the nonsense about optimization, are not going to matter. Before I get into that, coaching is what I do for a living, I would love to work with you, please check out the link down below. I also have a new workout tracker called PR.O Progressive Overload, this is an AI slop, this is in my opinion, DPV, best workout tracker, the best workout tracker in the industry. It doesn't just allow you to put numbers in a little box. It is designed to help you fuel your progress. So check it out. Alright, so there is one aspect of lifting you need to understand. There's so much confusion out there and so much noise about optimization. You need to understand this fundamental progression approach and it is called double progression. What does double progression mean? So, you're worried about how many sets you should do. You're worried about what progression approach you should take. You're worried about how many sets you should push to failure, how close you should push to failure. Don't worry about any of that right now. We're going to worry about double progression. Once you have spent some time in the gym with double progression and you can understand double progression. This is kind of the secret code, the foundational key that once you unlock this door and you understand double progression, everything else will make sense. All these complicated progression approaches, etc., etc. So what does double progression mean? Basically, simplified, you have two aspects of your sets. You have the number of reps and the weight used. So you go to the gym, you're doing bench press. What's your weight and what are the number of reps? Okay, we all understand this. We all know how to count, right? In double progression, what you're going to do is move up in reps and then when you hit a certain rep goal or rep target, then you move up in weight. So that is double progression simplified. That's all you need to know. You move up in reps and once you get to a certain level, you move up in weight, your reps will drop back down. You move up in reps again, then you move up in weight, then you move up in weight, then you move up in weight, then your reps drop back down. This is really the foundation of progressive overload and the foundation of all other progression approaches. So let me give you an example. You're doing bench press with 165 pounds and you start with six reps. You move up in reps until you hit 10 because you decided that 10 is your rep goal or rep target. Once you get up to 10, then you move up to 170. Your reps are going to drop typically by two, three or four. Once you hit that rep ceiling or rep target, then you start to creep up again until you hit 10. Once you do, you put 175 on the bar, your reps will drop and you continue to churn and burn and continue to attack. Super simple. My first 10 years of training, this is all I really worried about. I would think about beating the logbook. So I would move up in reps. And then once I got my reps to a nice, comfortable level, I would move up in weight and continue the process. So every time I would go into the gym, I'd look at my little notebook and say, OK, I did 165 for six on bench. Now I'm going to try to get 165 by seven. Next time I'm going to try to get 165 by eight or nine. It isn't like we're just trying to add one rep per set. We're trying to beat the logbook safely. We're trying not to beat up the body. We're trying to keep our training sustainable. When we go into the gym, we look at the logbook. We're trying to beat the logbook. We're trying to progress. Now you're probably going to ask, you know, the rep ceiling. What is that about? Do I need specific rep ranges? Do I need to set specific rep targets? It doesn't really matter as long as it is reasonable and makes sense for you on that lift. Let's say we're using the bench press example. You might want to set a rep target or rep ceiling of 10 on a specific set. And when you hit that, you move up in weight. Some of you might like a little bit higher reps on the bench press and might set a ceiling of 12. That's perfectly fine. Some of you might want to set a ceiling of eight on the bench press. And when you hit that, you move up five pounds. That's perfectly fine. I highly encourage you to move up just a minimum amount of weight. It will not slow the process of muscle building. If anything, it will facilitate it to a more natural and reasonable degree. If you try to add 10 pounds or more weight to a lift, regardless of whether it's the bench press or curls, when you do move up in weight, it's going to drop the reps dramatically. So if you were at 165 on the bench press and you hit 10 reps and you decided to add 10 pounds to the bar, there's a good chance that next week when you perform bench with 175, you might be able to only do four or five reps. And then it's going to be a slog kind of moving that weight back up again. So if anything, just moving that weight up a minimal amount is going to really facilitate a smoother degree of progression. You can't rush the process, but if you try to get too aggressive with weight additions, you certainly can slow the process and encourage strains and pains. Because remember, it's not just your muscles moving the weight. You have tendons, connective tissue, your central nervous system. Everything else has to strengthen in the body as well. So you're saying, okay, we understand the concept of moving up in reps and then moving up in weight and being conservative with weight additions. But what if we have multiple sets? How does this all work in? Well, you have the freedom to do whatever you want for a given exercise in the long run, as long as you are trying to push one set of an exercise above and beyond where you were the previous workout. Do you have to train all sets to failure? Well, we don't talk about training the failure in the massive iron world. We talk about trying to beat the logbook or pushing sets for maximum safe quality reps. Stopping the set when you feel like you might fail on the next rep or when your form starts to break down. So we're trying to safely progress. You only have to try to beat the logbook on at least one set of an exercise on any given day. You can do more if you want. You can set up elaborate progression approaches if you want. But at minimum, remember muscle building is a long-term process. And as long as you're trying to beat the logbook on one set on any given day, at least one set on any given day, compared to where you were last time on that exercise, you are going to make great progress. You don't have to maximize every set. Now, with that said, there are some exercises that it might feel better for you to maximize every set. It might feel more natural for you to do so. And you can do that. In some exercises, you might feel like you only want to push one set hard and deep. That's perfectly fine. Progression on that one set will kind of draft or bring up the weight on the other set. So it is perfectly fine. Relax. Lifting is not a complex puzzle. It is as simple as double progression. You move up in reps. You get to your rep ceiling. You move up in weight. Rinse and repeat. If you want more information on some progression approaches, please check out this video. It features six of the major progression approaches I teach in the Massive Iron world. Thank you guys for watching. Let me know if you have any questions. Drop them down below. Have a great day. Thank you.