 Hey guys, welcome to the Massive Iron channel, I'm Steve Shaw, in this video we're going to talk about influencer bodybuilding, has it lost its mind, is it detached from reality, I think it is, and I'm going to give you some things to think about in this video. Before I get into this topic, if you guys would like coaching, coaching is what I do for a living, I would love to help if you're frustrated with your results, check out the link down below. I've also put out a new workout tracker, I've also put out a new workout tracker called PR.O Progressive Overload. You can try it for free, check it out down below. This is an AI slop. We spent three years developing this. And in my opinion it is the best workout tracker in the industry. All right. So here we are in 2026 with all this influencer bodybuilding stuff, optimal bodybuilding stuff, science based lifting. We have all this stuff in the mix. right? We have a lot of things going on. Fear culture, the body is fragile, stimulus versus fatigue, and there's really this focus on efficiency, efficiency, efficiency. We're looking at angles and planes and trying to work out exercise redundancies. And it's not like the modern influencer bodybuilding world is anti-hard training. They are really focused on training hard, but training efficiently. But I'm going to argue in this video that their focus is a little bit misguided and detached from what is really driving results or what you are really seeing the top successful lifters doing. So you have what the top successful lifters are doing, naturals. I've been around a lot of the top naturals over the last 20 years. I've trained with them all. I've trained with a lot of them, not them all, but I've trained with a lot of them. I've profiled a lot of them. I've worked with a lot of them. I've been with a lot of them in the gym and I've studied a lot of their workouts. You can see a lot of this work over at muscleandstrength.com. A lot of my old interviews are still there. So you have what these successful bodybuilders are doing. We'll just say naturals and don't even use the word bodybuilders. We'll just have what the successful muscle heads are doing, the guys with maximum muscle. And then you have this influencer concept of optimal or efficient. Now I'm not putting them down. This video is not, this video doesn't exist to put down the optimal influencer type of, you know, scenario. What I want to present to you guys is that they, what they are giving you might actually be holding you back because it is detached. It is not the same thing you are seeing in the successful lifters. For the most part, there are always exceptions. Guys whose training might look more like this influencer style of training, but, but for the most part, in my many years of studying their training, the successful lifters aren't training anything like these optimal guys are teaching you. So let me explain in this optimal world, we are focused on angles and planes and there's, you know, we, any larger amount of volume is almost, you know, framed as junk volume or redundant volume or volume. You can't recover from. And we're looking at stimulus versus fatigue and being more efficient. And just, you know, there's almost this kind of belief that the body is a little bit fragile and we, we don't want to over push things. We want to get in and be efficient and get out 45 to 60 minutes, you know, with a minimum number of exercises and everything nailed from our planes and our angles, like everything overly structured and overly simplified and overly optimized with this concept of efficiency. That's all good and well. But when you look at what these successful natural muscle heads are doing, not just the bodybuilders, this is what I have seen in the gym. Most of them are training harder with more exercise diversity, with more intensity, with more passion, with more brutality than any of this stuff that's being taught in the influencer realm, this efficiency optimal realm. If you go train with one of these individuals, it's not like they're using an obscene amount of volume, but they are using more volume than you see in the optimal efficiency crowd. They are probably using to a degree what some of these guys would consider to be junk volume. They're probably to a degree using an exercise selection. That isn't ridiculous, but they are using more exercises per body part to target each individual body part than the optimal or efficiency crowd is teaching. And the optimal and efficiency crowd would probably consider this to be a little bit redundant. So you have these successful guys training longer with a greater degree of exercise variety, a greater degree of intensity. They're not worried about reps and reserve. They're just kind of going in and training hard, focusing on getting as much as they can out of every set, being a little bit more intuitive. This is a generalization, of course, you know, but it certainly doesn't look like what the optimization crowd is teaching as optimal or efficient. You might even find they're not generally even focused on training to failure. That doesn't mean they aren't training to failure, but they're getting in there and pushing these sets hard. And generally just, you know, when you're in that realm where you're trying to push hard and get the most out of a set, you're getting close to failure on a lot of sets. So they're getting in there and they're pushing really hard. They're trying to get the most they can out of every set. And progression is just kind of naturally flowing from this. They're getting stronger and stronger and stronger. And they might not have an acute focus on failure, but because they're focused on getting as much as they can out of every set, they are generally pushing probably a lot of sets close to failure, not necessarily to failure, but what I teach maximizing sets, pushing a set for as many quality reps as possible, stopping that set when they feel like they're going to fail on the next rep or maybe even failing or when their form starts to break down. So they are focused on pushing forward, pushing hard, pushing deep rather than trying to analyze, you know, how many sets are to failure. And I can't do too many sets to failure. As long as I train one set to failure in the optimization world, that is enough. These guys are doing light years more than that. They are pushing the body harder, deeper with more intensity and generally more punishment. Now, I don't want you to misunderstand what I'm saying. Your training has to be sustainable, but these guys are doing more volume and more punishment and taking the body deeper than what the average trainee thinks is required. And obviously they have things structured, so they are able to continue with this type of training. It's not so punishing that they can't recover or that they're beating up their body and it's taking them out of the gym. Now, the point here isn't just to randomly get on here and say optimal efficiency, science-based lifting, angle-based lifting, all this kind of stuff, you know, is silly. No, the point is to tell you guys that if you truly want to build a lot of muscle mass, you need to understand that the body is probably capable of more than you think and that what is being preached as optimal or science-based or you don't need this, you don't need that, you need this rep range, you need this minimal amount of stuff, this is junk volume, all this kind of stuff is very, very much detached from what is driving results for these lifters. Now, at the end of this video, I'm going to give you another video to watch about how to structure a workout. I've spent my life studying workout structure, what the last, what the lifters have been doing the last 60, 70, 80 years of lifting. One of my goals on this channel is to teach you how to start at a reasonable place with a reasonable amount of volume and a reasonable exercise selection. And the funny thing is that even though I structure things from a reasonable starting point, what I teach is even considered probably high volume, even though it just keeps you into the gym, you know, for like 75 minutes of workout. And what I teach looks more like what the classic bodybuilders are doing to get results. It's actually a little bit on the lighter side. And from there, we teach getting into the gym, being smart, listening to your body and evolving training based on needs. If something isn't working, you change an exercise. If you don't like a rep range, you change the rep range, et cetera. So I just want to encourage you guys, you know, to listen to your body more than anything and, and don't fall into this fear culture type of thing that the body is super fragile or where you're overanalyzing every set. I mean, is this junk volume and it is just, you know, how many sets need to go for failure? And what is RIR? Do I have too many exercises? Are they redundant? This overall obscene kind of reductionist fake idea of what is optimal optimal is you getting into the gym, being reasonable and evolving training based on needs. I want to encourage you guys to train harder. I want to encourage you guys to build your work capacity, not to punish your body, but to step beyond this idea of what is efficient and optimal and develop a bigger picture. Don't box yourself in because the successful lifters are generally not training like the influencer optimal science-based crowd efficiency crowd. How they're training looks nothing like this modern bodybuilding construct. Before I go check out this video on volume, it will help you structure your weekly volume and put you in a good starting position where you can start to evolve your training based on what is happening in the gym. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day. Thank you.