 Hey guys, welcome to the Massive Iron channel, I'm Steve Shaw, in this video we're going to answer the question, are there some bad muscle building exercises you should avoid? Before I get into this topic, if you guys are interested in help, coaching is what I do for a living. I was a 2023 online coach of the year. This is what I am passionate about, I would love to help. Please check out the link down below. I have a aulha it über über über exercises. They could be a variation of the bench press like the Larson press. You could be doing something like the Zurcher squat. We could even talk about things like farmer's carries or even certain Olympic style lifts or variations like the power clean. Now I want to stress that we're not just talking about kind of these oddball variations and when I say oddball I don't mean they don't have any impact or aren't good exercises. We're talking about just exercises in general. How do you know if it's a bad exercise for muscle building? How do you know that you have a good selection of exercises that aren't wasting your time? Now I want to frame it like this. First muscle building is a very long-term process and there is room to have a little bit of fun right? We can relax. Not everything has to be hyper optimal. Over the years I've been training for 40 years. Over the years I've tried nearly every exercise. I've messed around with Zurcher squats. I've messed around with high pose. I've messed around with overhead squats. I've messed around with sled drags. I've messed around with literally everything you can possibly think of. I want to stress because it is a long-term process you can have exercises that are more play exercises. I would say as long as 80% of your exercise selection is just classic muscle building exercises you are fine. Leave some room to have fun. I mean we don't have to be hyper serious. It's not some super fragile process that you have to have every exercise in the mix that is considered classically optimal in a muscle building sense. So with that aside how do you know that the exercises you are using are good for muscle building and how do you know if they are bad or not the best possible choice? Now the first thing we have to establish is that you only have so much time in a week to work out. We aren't just made of time. We're not just bleeding free time. So we only have so many exercise slots a week that we can use and we want to do what we can to maximize these exercise slots so we aren't wasting time. So we are maximizing our time. You want to fill these slots as much as possible with the classic muscle building exercises. Exercises that are known to build muscle that nearly every bodybuilder in the last 40, 50, 70 years has relied on. Not that you can't use variations etc but you want to have a lot of those classic big hitters. Things with a solid progression opportunity that allow you to get a lot stronger than you are now. Barbell exercises, dumbbell exercises, quality machine exercises, Smith machine exercises, quality cable exercises, and quality isolation movements. I want you to sit down and figure out how many exercise slots you have. Okay so if you have three workouts a week usually we're going to start with about six exercises a day. That's a good starting point. If you're a little bit you know short on time you could start with five exercises a day. I'm not trying to make a rule here but as a starting point you want to factor in about six exercises a day as a starting point. If you have three workouts a week that would be 18 exercises a week. If you have four workouts a week that would be 24 exercises. Why is this important? Because it shows you that if you look at the week you have a limited number of exercise slots and you really want to maximize these slots if you want to maximize the muscle building process. So back to the question of this video are there bad exercises? No but what you need to do is write out a list of exercises that you like for each body part. Chest, back, shoulders, quads, hamstrings, biceps, triceps, etc. Even the peripheral stuff like forearms and traps and abs. Make a list of all the exercises that you want to use. Now there are no bad exercises for muscle building as long as you can get a lot stronger at them. But we still have to make some sort of a priority. We still have to put together some sort of a top to bottom which exercises I like which are the best for me as far as muscle building. Now you can't just gravitate completely towards the feely-wheely mind muscle stuff that don't have a lot of progression opportunity. It's okay to have you know 25% of your exercises that are a little bit lighter or less punishing in that sense. You know maybe like a pec deck for chest or a side lateral for your delts. But you need to take this collection of exercises you like. You need to assess do they punish my body? Okay, if they're punishing your body you need to set them aside. We should not be doing them. Do most of these have a big solid progression opportunity? I can get a lot stronger than I am now in the lane of hard training. Without progressive overload there is no long-term muscle building. So you have this collection of exercises and you're trying to fit these into your 18 exercise slots for three days or your 24 exercise slots for four days. So we have to look at each body part, chest, back, delts, biceps, triceps, quads, hamstrings and make a priority list. The best to the worst for me. And you might have to make some hard decisions. You might have to remove some of these lifts that really don't fit into your current goals. You could do some AB work like if you have the dumbbell row and the pendlay row and the t-bar row and you want to fit them all in. Maybe one week you could start with you know the pendlay row and the next week do the dumbbell row. It's okay to do some AB type of alternating. This is something I teach a lot and use a lot in the massive iron world to get in a little bit of you know quality diversity to keep things a little bit fresh. You don't have to go crazy with this. So it is a way to work in some of these extra exercises that don't necessarily easily fit into your current program. But what you need to do is just prioritize what are the best exercises for me. What do they treat me good? Do they have a good progression opportunity? You need to make this list for each body part from top to bottom and then you need to make some hard cuts. When we get back to the original question, are there some bad muscle building exercises? No, not necessarily. Every exercise that you can progressively overload can be good for muscle building. But still, we have limited time in gym. We need to look at the exercises that treat us good. We need to put these exercises in a list and we need to prioritize what we are going to use during this season of training. So when you're asking yourself, should I be using a Zurcher squat? Should I be using this wacky bench variation? Should I be using this new shoulder exercise? Leave yourself 20% room to play around on exercises, but with the other 80% organize your exercises. Put in some quality, impactful exercises that don't beat you up. Don't waste your own time and forget the concept of good or bad exercises. We're going to be more analytical than that. We're going to allow ourselves a little bit of freedom to play around, but with the rest of our exercise slots, we are going to get organized, we are going to get focused, and we are going to build muscle. Let me know if this video helped. Drop a comment down below. I want to give you some more information on building big arms, so please check out this video before you go. Thank you guys for watching. Have a great day. über