Few years ago, I was eating something and I noticed on the nutrition facts that it had zero grams of fiber in it and I thought, "Fuck, does anything I eat have fiber in it?" Turns out no. So, I went on a high fiber kick, baby. Few days go by, I haven't pooped, which is concerning because I know fiber makes you poop. After 12 days without painting a bowl, I decide to consult my primary care physician, Mr. Urgent Care. First questions they ask, "What's your fiber intake like? I don't know, maybe 100 grams a day." They say, "Jesus [\h__\h] Christ, you got to slim that down, bro." I'm a dietitian who specialized in treating gastrointestinal diseases, and this guy is not alone. I've had so many patients come into my office with gas, bloating, pain, constipation, because they started eating tons of fiber after eating minimal fiber their entire life. So, if you want to add fiber to your diet, and you really should because it's really good for your health without all the other side effects that can come along with it if you add too much too fast, here's how to do it. One, add 5 g to your daily intake every week. For example, if you're eating 5 g of fiber a day now, then try 10 g of fiber a day next week. And if you're feeling great, bump it up to 15 g of fiber a day the next week after that. And you can keep doing this until you reach the recommendation of 25 g of fiber a day for women and 38 g of fiber a day for men. Here are examples of high fiber foods along with their portion sizes. Two, if you're really sensitive like me, I have IBS, so I totally understand the pain. Start with cooked veggies, fruits, and beans. For some people, this can be easier to digest than raw. So try roasted carrots over raw carrots or like a blended soup instead of a bean salad. Three, spread your fiber in takeout throughout the day. I repeat, do not get an entire day worth of fiber in one sitting if you are new to this. A balanced day might look like this. I know this is a lot of information. I know it can feel intimidating, but adding fiber to your diet is one of the best things you could do for your health. Go slow and steady. You got this.