

=== FILE: 5 min high-fiber Shakshuka breakfast [5tI3xcD2rpQ].txt ===

 amidietitian, and this is what I eat for breakfast. This only takes five minutes, yet it has almost 10 grams of fiber and 20 grams of protein. First, I add marinara sauce to a pan. In this case, I'm just using leftover sauce for my dinner last night. Then I add cumin and paprika and stir. I'm adding some cannellini beans for lots of fiber and plant-based protein. Then I crack two eggs in for more protein and let it cook. After putting the eggs for a few minutes, I top with cheese and parsley before I take lightly twisted bread and dip. This is basically my very low-effort, high-fiber version of shakshuka. It's filling from the fiber and the protein, and it's also so delicious.

=== FILE: How I make rice higher in fiber [A4TkG6cWCXc].txt ===

 if you love white rice but want something a little more filling and blood sugar friendly, then make this instead. First, add one cup of white rice to your rice pot, then rinse your rice, and then add half a cup of canned black beans, half a cup of canned chickpeas, and half a cup of frozen green peas. Then add two cups of water, and then let it cook. White rice is such an important staple in many cultures, including my own, so it can be unrealistic and unnecessary to tell people to remove it from their diet. It is a perfectly fine and valuable source of energy. That said, I know that some people just need an easy way to add fiber, protein, plants, and variety to their meals, and this is something that works for me. Try it out and let me know what you think.

=== FILE: How to make lemon chicken orzo soup [vGdioNe6Xds].txt ===

 if you're not on the mood to meal prep, make a big batch of soup on the weekend and eat it throughout the week. Welcome back to my soup series. Today we're making a lemon chicken orzo soup. Not only is it easy to prepare and clean up since it's made in one pot, but many soups are also high in protein and vegetables and can be frozen in batches for easy reheating later. First, we're gonna add celery, carrots, and onion to a pot over medium heat and let them cook for a few minutes until softened. Then add minced garlic and Italian seasoning, pour in chicken broth, and then season with salt and pepper. Once it's simmering, add shredded chicken. I'm using rotisserie chicken for convenience. And orzo and let the orzo cook until tender. After that, stir in fresh spinach and a squeeze of lemon juice. And last but not least, top with dill. This soup is the perfect balance of protein from the chicken, carbs from the orzo, and fiber from the spinach, celery, carrots, and onion. I also like to have this with some bread because I love bread, and also because I want more carbs, but you can do whatever you want. And now you have a balanced meal that's easy to prep and just as delicious a few days from now as it is today. So easy and so good.

=== FILE: How to make the best Thanksgiving salad [QuaiTLsxtBk].txt ===

 and this is a salad I make for Thanksgiving every year because everyone always tells me how much they love it. I showed it with you guys last year and you guys also seem to love it, so I'm going to show you how to make it. For sliced or sweet potatoes, I like to leave the skin on for more fiber, nutrients, and toss with paprika, garlic powder, salt, and pepper. Shred your brussel sprouts or a bite pre-shredded for ultimate convenience and toss with olive oil, salt, and pepper. Rinse and dry two cans of chickpeas before tossing in olive oil, chili powder, salt, and pepper. And while you roast these in the oven for around 30 minutes, make the dressing by combining extra virgin olive oil, parmesan, tahini, lemon juice, Dijon mustard, Worcestershire sauce, garlic, salt, and pepper. While you're dressing all over the kale and misage until it softens, and last but not least, assemble your salad by adding in the sweet potatoes, brussel sprouts, sunflower seeds, avocado, and roasted chickpeas. And just a reminder, you do not need to eat salad on Thanksgiving. It's a day to enjoy the foods that make you feel connected to the people around you. And if you're craving something fresh and vibrant alongside all the cozy dishes, this is a wonderful option.

=== FILE: How to make “meal-in-a-bag” kits [L3jZQaaMsx0].txt ===

 Groceries are already expensive, and for a lot of families, it's about to get even harder. Millions of Americans are about to lose access to SNAP, which is a federal program that nearly 42 million people rely on to buy food. That is one in eight Americans and about 40% are children. So today, I took inspiration from Dollar Tree Dinners, and I'm making meal in a bag kits to my local community fridge here in Brooklyn. For this meal, we're making a southwestern black bean soup. Each bag includes canned black beans, corn, fire roasted tomatoes, diced green chiles, vegetable broth, and a seasoning packet. All you do is combine everything in a pot, simmer, and you have a warm, balanced meal. It's filling, nourishing, high in fiber, and everything is shelf-stable. I also printed recipe cards so whoever receives this can easily follow the recipe. I'll also link this on my website for those of you who may be watching this and just need a quick, affordable, nutritious meal, or for those who want to take this idea and use this recipe, which you are more than welcome to do. As a dietitian, I talk a lot about the importance of nutrition, but nutrition starts with access. It's difficult to focus on eating healthy if you're worried about having enough food at all. Health isn't just about individual choices, it's also about having the opportunity to make those choices in the first place. Everyone deserves access to food and supporting that access, even in small ways, is part of supporting health.

=== FILE: My other Thanksgiving salad that everyone asks for [UakR6JQfhHI].txt ===

 if you want to impress your friends and family at Thanksgiving this year, make this salad. Get my roasted butternut squash and brussel sprout salad with pistachios, parmesan, and a shallot vinaigrette, different from the other salad I've already posted, but it's just as delicious. First shred your brussel sprouts you can buy achieved to save some time, and then toss in olive oil, salt and pepper. Then toss butternut squash, I get pre-diced to save a lot of time and energy with olive oil, paprika, and cayenne. You're going to roast the squash for 30 minutes, but add the brussel sprouts halfway through. While you have your cutting board out, then slice an apple for later. Then make the shallot vinaigrette by blending together extra virgin olive oil, 3 fourths of a shallot, red wine vinegar, Dijon mustard, and honey. Lastly, add red leaf lettuce or a spun mix to a bowl. Then your brussel sprouts, roasted butternut squash, pistachios, apple slices, pomegranate seeds, and shaved parmesan before drizzling the shallot vinaigrette all over. And the best part of this salad is that it's as easy as you want it to be. You can grab the pre-diced butternut squash, the shaved brussel sprouts, and even a spring mix to keep the prep super minimal. It comes together quickly, but tastes rich, cozy, and way more impressive than the effort it takes.

=== FILE: Trying the viral sweet potato and cheese snack [CTHcpRCOPlI].txt ===

 I've gotten so many videos of Courtney Koch's Borrow's Sweet Potato and Cheese Snack, so we're gonna do a Sweet Potato and Cheese Flight today. I have an Okinawan Sweet Potato because I'm home in Hawaii, a Japanese Sweet Potato, and your typical sweet potato that you might find at any grocery store. We're just gonna bake these at 400 for an hour. You can also microwave these too, but since I have three, it's easier for me to just put it in the oven and forget about it. Then you're gonna get your Bouturkaza cheese, which is a semi-soft cheese, and then just glide it in. If your sweet potatoes aren't soft enough, then you can just use your knife to make a hole for the cheese. From a nutrition standpoint, all these sweet potatoes have fiber and a good amount of vitamin C and potassium. Cheese provides a little protein, but the fat will definitely keep you satiated. First is the Okinawan Sweet Potato. Now is the Japanese Sweet Potato. Now just your typical sweet potato. Mmm! I like it! I like the sweet potato with cheese. Oh, I get to be honest with that. This is hard. I would give this a 8 out of 10. It's such a good snack. I thought she was so good. I think that finding more ways to eat fiber foods like sweet potatoes is always a good thing. Cheese has some saturated fat, but I still think it's worth trying.

=== FILE: What I ate at a wedding in England [eIMWAWmgzMI].txt ===

 everything I ate at a wedding in England. Today is one of my closest friends, Janelle's wedding, and we ate breakfast at the end we're staying in. I had scrambled eggs with beans, a hash brown, tomato and mushrooms with yogurt and muesli. Then I headed over to the bride's suite to get ready. Janelle is one of the most loyal, loving, and thoughtful people I've ever met, and I'm so honored to be in her presence on such a beautiful day. After the ceremony, we snacked on chicken pâté on sesame bread and deep fried veggies. Lisa and I tried their signature drinks. My mocktail had sea-lip garden with aromatic bitters and elderflower syrup, and it was so refreshing. After we had a seated three-course meal, first I had a roasted cauliflower soup with chili oil and toasted pumpkin seeds. This is really tasty, but I admittedly did feel a little gassy afterwards because of my IVS. For the main course, I got a braised lamb shoulder with potatoes and zucchini, and for dessert, I had a bramley apple and forest fruit crumbletart, and some of their wedding cake, which was also perfect. After a quick nap, we all gathered again. I had some pizza to fill me up for the long night of karaoke and dancing, and it really hit the spot. Congrats, Janelle and Doug. The food was great, but the company was even better.

=== FILE: What I prepped for my colonoscopy [ndZi1vMWH5c].txt ===

 Here's what I've prepped for my colonoscopy in two days. Since I can only have clear liquids the day before, I'm making a simple dashi. Dashi is a basic Japanese soup stock that's used as a base for many of the most popular Japanese dishes, and it's a lot easier to make than you think. All you have to do is bring a pot with butter and kombu to a simmer over medium-low heat for around 15 minutes. Then remove the kombu and add in dried bonito flakes. Remove from heat, let sit for 10 minutes, strain, and store in a jar. And since I have to do this every few years, I've gotten really tired of chicken broth, being one of the only suggested savory clear liquid options, What's made prep feel a lot more doable for me is having something colonoscopy prep-friendly that actually matches my taste preferences as someone who loves Asian food. Something else that really helps is having something semi-solid that counts as a clear liquid so that I don't feel like I'm drinking straight liquids all day long, which is why I'm making Jell-O. Also because Jell-O is super easy and only requires mixing boiling water with powder, stirring until dissolved, adding cold water, and then refrigerating until it sets. I picked up a few other things, so this isn't all I'm eating and drinking tomorrow, but having a savory and semi-solid option ready makes a stressful two days feel a little more manageable.

=== FILE: Why I like to make a snack pack #ChompsPartner [cSFqPdx_aKI].txt ===

 if you struggle to eat regularly throughout the day, or if making food decisions on especially busy days, you can make a snack pack. I always like to make sure each pack has a good balance of protein and fiber. For this one, I'm adding carrots because they're crunchy and rich in beta-carotene, strawberries because they're high in vitamin C, blueberries because they're packed with antioxidants and fiber, whole grain crackers because they provide fiber and carbs, which supports digestion and my energy levels, chomps which has 10 grams of protein and zero grams of sugar in one stick. I love the jalapeno flavor, but I'm also adding a chomps original to the snack pack. And last but not least, almonds that provide healthy fats, as well as some protein, fiber, and magnesium. When snacks are pre-planned and ready to grab, they remove the pressure of having to decide what to eat in the moment, which is something that can feel overwhelming when you're already stressed. Let me know if you wanna see more snack pack ideas.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.564645Z ===
