 ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни ни after that, I had a pineapple popsicle. This was really refreshing and much better than I expected it to be. After that, I had homemade dashi. Honestly, this was all I needed and tasted so good. I was really missing noodles at this point, but I think the comforting taste of dashi was the morale boost I needed for the long night ahead of me. I take the Docolax pills as prescribed around 4pm and hope for the best, and now this is when the harder part starts. I now will spend the rest of my night and early morning drinking a Miralax and sports drinks mixture until I am cleaned out. To make it easier, I occasionally alternate with Miralax mixed with water when it's too sweet, but throughout the past several years, I've tried multiple bowel preps, and this is definitely easier than the others. Something I want to mention is that I have a history of emetophobia, which was still bad during my first colonoscopy eight years ago. I was so nauseous and almost gave up. I figured I just had IBS and that I couldn't have polyps at such a young age, but I pushed through, which led to my polyps being thankfully detected and resected. So to all the people who are scared, regardless of the reason, don't let fear be the thing that keeps you from getting checked. I get scoped every few years for my doctor's recommendation, and I am so grateful that I didn't let fear stop me the first time because that test potentially changed the entire course of my health. This is me after I finished my colonoscopy, and I'm happy to report that my colon was clean and clear, and I continue to be pulp-free. Get your colonoscopy and eat your fiber.