Since colon cancer rates are higher than ever, here's what I ate in a day to prep for my colonoscopy tomorrow. As someone who has done this multiple times because I had precancerous polyps when I was 22. I'm on a clear liquid diet only for today to ensure that my colon is totally cleared out so my doctor can get the clearest view possible tomorrow. First, I had lime Jell-O. I'm a big strawberry jello person, but I can't have anything red today, but this was still pretty good. Then, I had strained fub broth. For me, I need something salty and savory since so much of prep later involves drinking larger volumes of sweet beverages, and this hit the spot. A few hours after that, I had a pineapple popsicle. This was really refreshing and much better than I expected it to be. After that, I had homemade dashi. Honestly, this was all I needed and tasted so good. I was really missing noodles at this point, but I think the comforting taste of dashi was the morale boost I needed for the long night ahead of me. I take the Doax pills as prescribed around 400 p.m. and hope for the best. And now, this is when the harder part starts. I now will spend the rest of my night an early morning drinking a Mirax and sports drinks mixture until I am cleaned out. To make it easier, I occasionally alternate with Mirax mixed with water when it's too sweet. But throughout the past several years, I've tried multiple brow preps, and this is definitely easier than the others. Something I want to mention is that I have a history of aophobia, which was still bad during my first colonoscopy 8 years ago. I was so nauseous and almost gave up. I figured I just had IBS and that I couldn't have polyps at such a young age. But I pushed through, which led to my polyps being thankfully detected and resected. So, to all the people who are scared, regardless of the reason, don't let fear be the thing that keeps you from getting checked. I get scoped every few years by my doctor's recommendation, and I am so grateful that I didn't let fear stop me the first time, because that test potentially changed the entire course of my health. This is me after I finished my colonoscopy, and I'm happy to report that my colon was clean and clear, and I continue to be pulp free. Get your colonoscopy and eat your fiber.