horpeakassimhorpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpe,horpehorpe,horpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpehorpe is very different here than what we saw at the Arnold Ohio. I saw a lot of people complaining in the comments of some of the Instagram posts about the lighting. I agree the lighting's not the best. And I think that, so Wesley looked good. I think he looked comparable to the Ohio show. Mike looked really good too. I mean, I got to admit, Mike's condition here was really good. He looked really sharp, especially from the back. I think he looked, he really stood out in those poses. Really deeply striated glutes, really dense and just really detailed in those back poses. Overall, I think you could say, based on what I'm seeing here, that Mike was sharper overall. But Wesley's pretty damn sharp here too. I mean, he's got striated glutes. He's got a lot of detail in the lower body, a lot of detail in the back. I mean, he's not weak in these poses. I think Mike just is really strong in those back shots. His hamstrings are carved out. His glutes are carved out. And maybe just a little bit drier overall. But again, it's always, it's a very apples and oranges comparison with Mike Sommerfeld and Wesley Vissers here. Because as you guys know, there's about 50 pounds separating these two guys. There's a very clear size difference. Mike is kind of the shorter, more compact, denser, muscled guy. Wesley is the bigger frame. I think the much bigger frame. And the condition, I do think Mike's ahead on condition. But I think the condition is comparable for A-50 pound difference. I mean, I think Wesley is in tremendous shape here. And look, I mean, in fairness to Mike, I think this is a very close top two. And I feel like the judges would be favoring Mike right now. I would have to say, I think Mike is overall sharper. And I think that his lower body is still ahead enough that it, like, exposes Wesley's discrepancy a little bit. Even though Wesley brought up his legs, I think pretty significantly this year. I think Mike's, I think they're still so good that it still shows that imbalance in Wesley. But I think with Wesley, though, I think you really can see how much he's improved his legs. But I think, like, from the back and from the sides a little bit is where you really see the difference in Mike's lower body and Wesley's lower body. It's really just that thickness in the hamstrings, that thickness in size and the glutes. I think that Wesley has brought up the quads to a point where they look a lot better next to somebody like Mike. But it's really in those other shots for me, like the side and the back, where you can really see that leg difference. So, for me, it's tough because I think, as a fan, I would like to see Wesley win. I think, just purely objectively, though, I think I'm leaning towards Mike right now. And I think the judges are also probably leaning towards Mike. Because, honestly, you know, for me, I think I like this version of Mike better than the Olympia version. And if you're just going for overall condition and, you know, the better lower body, a little bit more balance, I'd say Mike. But I still, you know, I don't know. I still think Wesley is kind of right there. I think it's still honestly tough to say. You know, I think right now, like I said, I'm leaning towards Mike. But if Wesley came back a little bit sharper for the finals and if Mike faded a little bit, I could see it still being kind of a coin toss there. But I am impressed with what we saw from Mike and I want to give him kudos for making weight. I wish we would have seen him make weight at the Arnold Classic Ohio because I think we wanted to see this battle there. Who knows? Would he have looked the same in Ohio? Would he have looked this conditioned and just overall? You know, I think it's a really good look for Mike, honestly. I don't know what he's weighing on stage. I'm sure he's over significantly, that 203.6 that he weighed in at. And I know he struggles to make this weight limit. But I don't think he looks bad when he makes this weight limit. I know he's smaller. And he doesn't look as full as he usually would. But I think it's honestly a good look for him. It's a really conditioned look when he has to come in at this height and weight. And I don't know why he so desperately wants to be in that higher height and weight. Because I think this is a really good look. I think when he's in that 212 weight limit, that's where you start having people say he looks like a bodybuilder. He looks like a 212 guy. I like him at this weight. I think he looks more classic at this weight. But let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Who do you guys have winning here? Wesley Vissers or Mike Sommerfeld? I think the finals are just in a few hours at this point. So we should find out relatively quickly here. But let me know in the comments down below. That's going to wrap it up for today's video, guys. I hope you did, in fact, enjoy it. Make sure you like the video. Subscribe to the channel. Click that bell notification icon if you have not already. And as always, I love you guys. I appreciate you guys. Nick Strength and Power, signing out. Thank you for watching today's video. If you guys want more bodybuilding content, you can follow me on Facebook, Instagram, or YouTube. Just search Nick Strength and Power on any of those platforms and follow the verified account. If the daily YouTube videos don't satisfy your need for bodybuilding content, I post 24-7 across those three platforms bodybuilding content all day long. And, of course, like and subscribe here on YouTube. Thank you. Thank you.