 dwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwindwind I think the story, though, this first call-out is interesting. Brandon Curry, Martin Fitzwater, and Patrick Moore cracking the top four here. I'm very happy to see this for Patrick because this was a really good version of Patrick's physique. Granted, this was a bit of a weaker lineup, but compared to how Patrick looked in Detroit, I think he definitely improved here. This was a good look for him. And to see him in that top four, a really solid placing for him. And honestly, I'm just really happy to see this. But as far as Martin Fitzwater goes, I'd say Martin was the biggest thing that I was wanting to see as far as what's his play going to be here. Is this going to be the Martin Fitzwater redemption story after all the drama following the Arnold Classic Ohio with him and Nick Walker, him losing his sponsorships, him deactivating his social media, going dark? I was honestly curious if he was even going to compete in this show. But the people from the Arnold were telling me he was going to do it. And then like yesterday, I was talking to another media outlet and they were saying they were there in the UK. And I was like, is Martin even at the meet and greet or is he at the athletes meeting? Because I haven't seen anybody post any pictures of Martin at any of this stuff. And apparently he was. But from what I've heard, the reason we didn't see any pictures of Martin yesterday is because it seems like most of the media that's there has just been kind of giving him what he wants and ignoring him. So there hasn't been a whole lot of coverage of Martin for this Arnold Classic UK. But what I really wanted to see was, will this be his redemption story? And I think it's safe to say that it's not going to be here at the Arnold Classic UK because I thought there was a potential like what we saw after the 2025 Olympia. Martin came back way better after the Olympia to do that Prague show and ended up beating Samson Dowda who beat him at the Olympia. I thought maybe we could see something like that here. But I don't think that's what we saw at all. I think that to be honest, Martin is pretty off here. This was not a good version of Martin. In fact, I might even say this is one of the worst versions of Martin that we've seen in a couple of years now. I really don't think this was a great look for him. And I don't even have him in my top two. I've got Brandon Curry over Martin here. I think Martin's condition was off. I think that his midsection looked distended. It looked cloudy. There was something going on with his midsection. But this was not the condition that we're used to seeing from Martin Fitzwater. So I think this kind of went the opposite route. And I kind of said going into the show this could go one of two ways. It could be the Martin Fitzwater redemption story. And he takes all this drama and stress as fuel to be better for the UK. Or the drama and stress got to Martin. And he's not going to do well here. And granted, he's still first call out top four. That's still doing well. But right now, the way that I'm seeing this, this is a battle for second place here. This call out and the top three call out that they did of Andrew, Brandon, and Martin. I think Andrew is running away with this pretty handily. I think he's the clear winner. And I don't think it's even close, honestly. I think Brandon and Martin are fighting for second place. And as far as I'm concerned, I've got Brandon in second. I've got Brandon over Martin. Because Martin, you're not seeing like the deep striations in his chest when he hits like a most muscular like you typically do. You're seeing that from Brandon. I think Brandon is actually really on here. And I've got Brandon over Martin. I've got Brandon top two. I really do think that this was a great showing for Brandon. He's proving he's still in the game. But I really don't think either Brandon or Martin are close to pushing Andrew Jack. And I think they did another call out actually of Patrick and Blessing, comparing them for fourth, fourth and fifth. I like Patrick over Blessing this time around compared to Detroit. But as far as the top three, I would go Andrew in first. I would go Brandon in second. I would go Martin in third. And I would go Patrick in fourth. And I'm curious what Martin Fitzwater is going to do after this. Does he get back on social media? Does he stay with like the media blackout? Because he doesn't need to compete until the Olympia. He qualified for the Olympia by winning that Prague Pro at the end of 2025 after the Olympia. So Martin is already qualified. He doesn't need to do anything else the rest of the year. So he could just go back to the drawing board, stay in this dark mode, and prep for the Olympia. I think this was a big opportunity for him to really show people that he could come back like he did in Prague after the Olympia. And maybe bring a much better physique than he brought to Ohio. Unfortunately, we didn't really see that. And I think it's also pretty unfortunate that we didn't see Nick Walker or Hadi Choupin here. Now, as far as Andrew Jack goes, I think he looked pretty comparable to the Arnold Classic Ohio package. The lighting here is different than in Ohio, so I can't really tell if he looks better than Ohio. But I'd say it's a pretty close physique to what we saw at the Ohio show. But I really would have liked to see either Nick or Hadi in this lineup looking for redemption like Martin was doing here. I do think Martin will end up in third, but Andrew Jack, like I said, I think this to me seems clear as day. I think it's Andrew Jack all day. I don't think anybody's pushing him. And like I said, I'm thinking it's just kind of a battle for who's going to be second. And look, I think, you know, this is a two-day show. So tomorrow you could see Martin Fitzwater tighten up significantly and try to move into that second place spot. But I think how it sits here at the prejudging, I really, I'm seeing Martin in third and Brandon in second. Now, again, this could change at the finals if Martin comes in a lot better. But right now I think it's pretty clear one, two, three, Andrew, Brandon, Martin. Let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. What do you think about Martin's look here? What do you think about who do you have winning the show? And what do you think about had Nick or Hadi been here? Would Nick or Hadi have pushed this version of Andrew Jack more so than they did in Ohio if they brought their Ohio physiques or better? Because, you know, I think Andrew looks pretty good here. I think he looks pretty close to Ohio, maybe even tighter. Again, it's hard to tell with the lighting because I feel like the lighting here is so different than it was in Ohio. But I think Andrew Jack looks pretty damn good here. And now Andrew is going to the Olympia off the momentum of winning back-to-back Arnold Classics, UK and Ohio. What does that level of momentum do for Andrew Jack? And where do you have Andrew at the 2026 Mr. Olympia? He was top three in 2025. Do you have him winning in 2026? Is he top two? I mean, he just beat Hadi at the Arnold Ohio, somebody that he's never beaten before in his career. And again, who knows if Nick Walker is going to be at the Olympia this year? Who knows how long his break is going to be where he's taking this time off from prepping? Maybe Nick's not even there this year. Really, the last remaining factor is Derek Lunsford. That's the guy that we have not seen Andrew Jack face or beat since the Olympia. And he didn't beat him at the Olympia. Is the battle at the O going to be Derek Lunsford versus Andrew Jack for that top spot? Let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Make sure you guys like the video, subscribe to the channel. Click that bell notification icon if you have not already. And as always, I love you guys. Appreciate you guys. Nick Strength and Power signing out. Thank you for watching today's video. If you guys want more bodybuilding content, you can follow me on Facebook, Instagram, or YouTube. Just search Nick Strength and Power on any of those platforms and follow the verified account. If the daily YouTube videos don't satisfy your need for bodybuilding content, I post 24-7 across those three platforms bodybuilding content all day long. And of course, like and subscribe here on YouTube. Thank you.