 just did Brandon and Andrew. And I think that was the clear top two after the prejudging. But Martin, I think, got worse for the finals, and they moved him into a separate call-out where he wasn't even with the top two. So Martin was removed from the conversation with Brandon and Andrew. And what was interesting was the call-out that they did with him, with Patrick Blessing and Martin. Towards the end of that call-out, they actually moved Martin out of the center and moved Patrick in. So I think Martin got pretty significantly worse for the finals. But that top two, I was really happy to see Brandon finally get that comparison, to see Brandon in a top two call-out with Andrew Jack, get the look and recognition that he deserved. Because, again, I think at Brandon's age, he's still bringing some of the best looks of his career. I thought he looked phenomenal here. He looked better than he looked in Ohio. Considering all the circumstances that we now know, he didn't even have posing trunks, like right up until having to step on stage, his luggage got lost or delayed or something at the airport. So all those things considered, the look that he brought was incredible. I'm really happy for Brandon. I think a lot of fans thought at the Arnold Classic Ohio, he should have gotten a better comparison, maybe an even better placing. And that's what he got here. But, man, as far as Andrew Jack goes, and, again, the lighting is different, so it's kind of hard to say. I feel kind of comfortable saying, I think this was the best Andrew Jack that we've seen so far. I think the lighting was washing some of these guys out, but Andrew Jack was just so obviously on, and honestly, so obviously miles ahead of everybody else here. I don't think the live stream lighting is doing him justice, but when you look at him pose, I think you're seeing more detail on his physique, in the chest, in the glutes, in the hamstrings, from the back, from the side. I think this is the best conditioned Andrew Jack that we may have ever seen, because I thought every pose, he was just clearly, honestly dominating against everybody else. And granted, there is kind of the caveat that Nick Walker wasn't here, Hadi Chupin wasn't here, but this was, to me, kind of a shutout, kind of a blowout by Andrew Jack. I mean, this was a dominant, dominant physique that Andrew brought, and even though the lineup wasn't as competitive, I do feel like this was one of the best looks we've ever seen. One of the biggest critique points of Andrew Jack has been his lower body, and the more that I watched him at these finals, I feel like this is the best his lower body has ever looked. From the front, from the back, from the sides. And what's interesting about that is, not only does Andrew seem to have figured out the formula to come in condition and win these major shows, it seems to me like he's getting better from show to show. He's improving. So if he comes in even better than this at the 2026 Olympia, I think there's going to be, that's going to be really interesting to see what happens. Because right now, Andrew, based on placings, is number two in the world. The only bodybuilder standing in his way is Derek Lunsford. He has moved Nick Walker, Martin Fitzwater, Heidi Chupin, Samson Dowda, Brandon Curry. He's moved all of these guys out of his way in his last three shows. The UK, the Ohio, and the Olympia. So on paper, Andrew Jack is number two in the world. He's the number one contender right now for the Olympia title. And I think he has the most momentum going into the Olympia. And looking at this pattern of Andrew improving every show, if he's better than this for the Olympia, he is going to be a big problem. This honestly could be the year of Andrew Jack. I mean, after the Olympia, there was a lot of people saying 2026 is going to be his year. I can see it now. Just watching the finals of this Arnold Classic UK, and granted, like I said, it wasn't the deepest lineup. I haven't seen somebody dominate a lineup like this in a long time. And this is one of the biggest shows in the world. And I felt like Andrew Jack was just hands down, lights out, no question. winning the show. Like in Ohio, I know a lot of people had Andrew winning. But I think there was a lot of people that had Hottie winning or Nick winning. It was like a decision that some people disagreed with, right? I know a lot of people agreed. I'm not saying it was controversial or anything, but you could have seen it go different directions at the Ohio show. I feel like here at the UK, I don't think anybody saw this going any other way. It was a dominant performance. Not to say that he wasn't dominant in Ohio, but this was not even close. And I don't say that to insult any of the other competitors like Brandon or like Martin, because like I said, I think Brandon looked incredible. And this is one of the best looks I've seen him bring in a long time. But it's just interesting to see Andrew Jack to reach this level where he is delivering lights out performances. No question that he won. And I think if I'm Derek Lunsford right now, I'm looking at both of these Arnold's and thinking, I'm glad I didn't do those. I need to lock in for the Olympia. So I guess I should get to the actual placings here. So in sixth place, you had Akeem Williams. In fifth place, you had Blessing Awodaboo. In fourth place, you had Martin Fitzwater. Martin slipping to fourth. A lot of people thought he would be the front runner for second here. Patrick Moore moving up into the third place spot. Brandon Curry in second. And of course, Andrew Jack winning the show. I don't think that was a surprise to anybody this time around. And I do want to make a point to point out $1 million Andrew Jack won this month. The first bodybuilder in history to win a million dollars in prize money within one single month of March. $750,000 at the Arnold Classic Ohio. $250,000 here at the Arnold Classic UK. Andrew Jack making history this month winning these two Arnold Classics. And again, this is a monumental moment in bodybuilding history. Arnold said when he came out and gave the award, when he won the Olympia, he only won $1,000. And now Arnold is giving out a thousand times that amount at his own bodybuilding show. So Arnold and Andrew Jack making history together the biggest payout in a single month in bodybuilding history. And that's not even to mention second place. I mean, second place in Ohio was a quarter million dollars. Second place here was $100,000. I mean, these are big money payouts for these bodybuilders. It's great for the sport. It's great for the athletes. It's great for everybody involved. And I always want to make a point to commend that because I think this is huge for bodybuilding. And it's just awesome to see. And it's only up from here. Now, I want to go back to that call out, though, with Martin and Patrick. So again, they kind of removed Martin from that conversation of top two. Brandon and Andrew had their own separate call out at finals. And they moved Patrick to the center of the call out with Martin. And I don't want this just to be I don't want this story just to be that Martin was off because he was. He was off at prejudging. And I think he was even more off here at the finals. And that's really what moved him down to fourth place. He was he was pretty off. But I don't want that to be the only part of this story because I'm very happy for Patrick more. Patrick actually looked great here. This was one of the best versions of Patrick I think I've ever seen. And beating Martin, who even though he was off, even though all this drama and controversy around Martin, he's one of the best bodybuilders in the world. He just beat Sam Sandowda a few months back at the Prague show. That wasn't that long ago. Martin is one of the best of the best. And Patrick Moore, who a lot of people have written off and I believe the last time he did the Arnold Classic Ohio, or it was just a couple years ago that he did the Arnold Classic Ohio, and he was last. Now he's top three at the Arnold Classic UK in the mix with guys like Martin, Brandon Curry, Andrew Jack, and he actually beat Martin. So I wanted to give Patrick some props here because I was really happy to see this. I thought he looked great. And to be honest, going into this show, I honestly never thought Patrick Moore would be beating Martin Fitzwater on an Arnold Classic stage. So it's a huge moment for Patrick. I don't want to take away from it by saying it's only because Martin was off, even though that was a big part of it. I thought Patrick looked just phenomenal here. I think he's made some really good improvements. I think he's brought up his lower body. I thought his condition was really good here. It was just a good Patrick Moore. And for a guy that I believe was a last-minute addition to this lineup, I think it was after Detroit that they added Patrick here. And for him to crack the top three, I found that to be really impressive. So hats off to Patrick Moore. And, you know, hats off to Martin Fitzwater too. Even though he was off here, massive respect to him for still showing up and competing because I'm sure after that whole drama with the Ohio show and him losing his sponsors and all the fallout and, you know, deleting his social media, it would have been very easy for Martin to just say, I'm done. I'm not showing up in two weeks or three weeks at the UK show. I'm just, I'm done. I'm laying low. I'm offline. I'm not competing. So respect to him for still showing up here and honoring his commitment because to me, even though this was a loss for Martin dropping to fourth place, it was not good. I think he took it on the chin and I think this is part of him growing. The fact that he showed up, he probably knew going into this show how he was looking. He probably knew he wasn't going to be really in contention here, but he showed up anyway. He took it on the chin and I think that's commendable. I really do. And I say that because I'm sure that he's going to get lambasted on the internet for how he looked here. He's going to be, you know, he's going to get a lot of negativity after this because he was pretty off. He was pretty watery. He was flat. And I know that he's going to get a lot of negativity after this, but I do think that it is commendable that he showed up and honored his commitment here because he probably knew he wasn't going to win this show. He knew he wasn't going to look good. He probably knew two weeks ago how he was looking. And I just think that deserves some respect because I think there's a lot of bodybuilders and a lot of divisions with this same scenario. They would have just not shown up and Martin showed up and I think that's important. And again, to the Brandon Curry point, I had someone send me some pictures from the very front row, the best seats in the house, front row, dead center of Brandon Curry and Andrew Jack. And I wanted to leave you guys with this most muscular shot because I don't think the live stream did Brandon Curry enough justice. He looked incredible at this show. And I think that this picture really highlights that. Again, I'm not saying I think he should have won or anything like that. I think Andrew Jack was the clear winner, but Brandon Curry looked amazing. And I don't know if it came across as well on the live stream, but this was, this was really one of the better versions of Brandon Curry that we've seen in a while. And I think he deserves some respect for that. This was a really good Brandon and I was very impressed with the package that he brought and he finally got that really good call out. He finally got that good look, the top two spot. And again, it's like $100,000 just to be second. I was really happy to see Brandon get that spot. So let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Really entertaining Arnold Classic UK weekend. As always, like the video, subscribe to the channel, click that bell notification icon if you have not already. And as always, I love you guys. Appreciate you guys. Nick Strength and Power signing out. Thank you for watching today's video. If you guys want more bodybuilding content, you can follow me on Facebook, Instagram, or YouTube. Just search Nick Strength and Power on any of those platforms and follow the verified account. If the daily YouTube videos don't satisfy your need for bodybuilding content, I post 24-7 across those three platforms bodybuilding content all day long. And of course, like and subscribe here on YouTube. Thank you. Thank you.