 naringin, naringin, specifically dedicated to this because I think it's really interesting. This is the first of any of Arnold's kids to step on a competitive bodybuilding stage. He did it naturally. This was a natural competition. This was the NPC Natural Colorado State Championships 2026. He competed in bodybuilding and classic physique, and he won three out of four things. Yeah, three out of four things. So he won men's open bodybuilding in the heavyweight class. He won first. Men's Classic Physique True Novice first. Men's Classic Physique Novice first. Then for the Open Class C Classic Physique, he was second. So a successful outing. And like I said in the last video where I touched on this briefly, I really think it's genuinely impressive that he's willing to do a natural show. Honestly, that he's willing to compete at all because you think about the fact that having arguably the greatest bodybuilder of all time in terms of their overall impact on the sport as your dad. The shadow that that must cast, especially on his sons, and then Joe's situation being a little bit different. I'm not going to touch on that too much. But it's a big shadow that Joe is in competing in a bodybuilding show being Arnold's son. And so the expectations are going to be really high. So I think doing a natural show is really commendable because, of course, he's not going to look like Arnold looked in his prime, like Arnold looked at Joe's age because Joe is natural. And you know there's going to be comparisons made between him and Arnold at a young age. And I'm going to do that in this video. I'm going to find some pictures. I did a little bit of research and tried to find Arnold's first bodybuilding show. Pictures of Arnold competing at the youngest possible age. Because Joe's in his mid-20s. Arnold started competing as a teenager. So after that, obviously, Arnold wasn't natural anymore. So the only pictures that you're going to find of Arnold as a natural athlete are really between like 16 and 18. Ages 16 and 18. From like the mid-60s. So there's not a whole lot to compare to. But like facially, I think Joe looks the most similar to Arnold like in his early 20s when Arnold had the long hair. And obviously physique-wise, they're not going to be the same. But I think it's really commendable for Joe to have done this natural show. And I think also it gives me an opportunity to spotlight natural bodybuilding on this channel. Which I feel like I don't get to do enough. Because there's really not a whole lot that happens that's exciting in natural bodybuilding. And I've found that really anytime I cover it, people choose to tune out or just don't watch that video. So if you guys like natural bodybuilding, give this video a like. Maybe share this video. Because I feel like this is a good opportunity to highlight it. Again, this was the 2026 Colorado State Championships. The natural Colorado State Championships. And Joe competed naturally. Which I think is, like I said, very admirable and puts a big spotlight on it. So I thought he looked pretty good. I mean, this is a reasonable expectation of what you could expect to look like on stage for the first time as a natural athlete. And I think that's one of the important parts about what he's doing here. He's not giving unrealistic expectations. This is about what you could expect for your first show. This is about how I looked at my first show. And just for the sake of giving it a bodybuilding critique here, my critique would be obviously condition. I think coming a little bit tighter. Condition in the legs. I think he lost a little bit of detail in the midsection. I tried to find as many pictures and videos as I possibly could from this. One of them, I believe, was the sponsor of the show, The Muscle Quest. I saw a lot of photos and videos on there. That's where I got some of this stuff. Then also Physique Visuals was the official photographer of the show. That's where these pictures on Joe's page came from. But I think as far as critique-wise, condition, detail in the legs. You can see he has similar attributes to Arnold. I'll go ahead and pull up a comparison here. Because Arnold didn't have the crazy bicep peaks until he really started getting into years of competing and he was obviously not natural anymore. So Joe's biceps, if you look at the front double, and again, this is a really young version of Arnold. This is teenage Arnold versus Joe in his mid-20s. But if you look at the bicep, the shape of him, he's actually extremely comparable to what Arnold looked like when Arnold was natural. Really, the whole physique, I think Joe could have wider lats. I think that's something he could improve on and try to work on getting the waist down a little bit. But as far as like, because I think the interesting thing to think about here is the genetic similarities between Arnold and a son that looks a lot like him competing in bodybuilding. And if you look at the genetic similarities, honestly, natural teenage Arnold, their arms look to me, the shape of the peaks and stuff almost identical. The legs look very similar. The midsection looks very similar. Arnold is obviously a bit tighter and his lats are a bit wider. But there's a lot of striking similarities genetically between Arnold and Joe. And, you know, I don't want to ever push or pressure anybody to get on gear or to stop being natural. But I would imagine that if Joe actually did want to pursue bodybuilding as a career or competitively, and he did start taking gear, I would imagine he would start to develop biceps that were similar to those legendary. And the reason I'm talking about the biceps is obviously Arnold had some of the most legendary biceps of all time. And I think that Joe shares those genetics with Arnold. And so I think if he were an enhanced competitor, you would see a similar thing happen. Because looking at both of them natural, genetically, they have the same arms, man. They really do. And here's another picture here. This is the most muscular, obviously. And if you look at, I think Arnold is already on gear at this point. But just look at the muscle insertions on the arm from the side. That arm on the, I guess it would be the left-hand side of the screen. The arm that Arnold is showing the most of. If you look at the actual insertions, like on the shoulder and by the triceps, they have very similar genetics to their arm. I mean, if Joe were on gear here, I think he'd be looking very similar to how Arnold is looking. But if you look at the insertions, like I said, look at the delt and the tricep. And look at where they meet. And just look at the shape of the arm there. The shape of the muscle. The trap. The shape of the traps going into the shoulder. And look at the little divot in the shoulder where the traps go into the delt. They have like the same muscular genetics. It's like, and look at, dude, check this out. Look at the bicep vein on the arm that's further away from the camera on both Arnold and Joe. Look at the shape of that vein and like where it inserts. They have like the same. It's crazy. They have like the same structure. And I'm being very like positive and optimistic here. Because again, I want to give Joe a tremendous benefit of the doubt here. Because I know there's going to be people that are comparing him to Arnold in his prime. And I don't think that's a fair comparison. Because Joe is natural. And we're just looking at basically what his genetics look like on stage as a natural athlete. And if you really compare him to Arnold back in the day with the lowest gear use or maybe no gear use. Genetically, they're very similar. And honestly, Joe is in better condition than Arnold is in this picture. And Arnold is, I would guess, on gear in this picture. And I'll show you guys, this is kind of an unfair comparison for Joe. This side pose here. Because this is Arnold like in his prime. He's on gear. Joe is natural. And I think this is where Joe looks the most facially similar to Arnold. The hair is like, the hair is crazy. The hair is almost exactly the same in these two pictures. But even though Arnold is on gear in this picture and Joe is natural, look at the insertion of the tricep beneath the bicep. Even though Joe is natural, they have like the exact same insertions there. And you can look at the chest where Joe's tendon, where Joe's chest is flexing there. Even though Joe's chest isn't what Arnold's was. You can see it flexing in that like exact same angle in Arnold's picture. So I think Joe deserves a lot of credit here. I honestly do. I think this was a ballsy move. Even competing at all. I've been looking forward to this for years. We've been talking about Joe on this channel for a long time. Because he was the kid that seemed to be the most interested in actually pursuing bodybuilding of all of Arnold's children. And I feel like he's the kid that kind of got overlooked the most, I would say. But he looks the most like Arnold. So I've talked about him a lot over the years because he's been training and pursuing bodybuilding for years now. And I just wanted to say, Joe, if you're watching this, which you probably are, I'm proud of you. I was really happy to see you do a natural show. I thought that was really commendable. And regardless of what anybody says, I think the fact that you competed at all, massive win. Really cool to see. And honestly, you made bodybuilding history by doing this. So I would say just don't let comparisons to your dad get you down or anything. I know people are going to compare you like your dad in his prime. But for a natural bodybuilder, your first show, you're winning overalls. This is a win. This is a good thing. And I hope that you continue competing and continue down this road. Because I think it will be really interesting to watch your journey, whether it's natural or not. And I'm proud of you, bro. So let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Make sure you guys like the video. Subscribe to the channel. Click that bell notification icon if you have not already. And as always, I love you guys. Appreciate you guys. Nick Strength and Power signing out. Thank you for watching today's video. If you guys want more bodybuilding content, you can follow me on Facebook, Instagram, or YouTube. Just search Nick Strength and Power on any of those platforms and follow the verified account. If the daily YouTube videos don't satisfy your need for bodybuilding content, I post 24-7 across those three platforms bodybuilding content all day long. And of course, like and subscribe here on YouTube. Thank you.