 naringin, valleysc Ohio didn't quite deliver on the expectations. He was sixth place there. And now he still has to qualify for the 2026 Mr. Olympia. Now we heard rumors that he was going to be competing in the New York pro. You also have the Arnold classic South America coming up at the end of this month, a show that he's done and won before. And of course it's in his home country. I'm honestly a little bit surprised that he didn't jump in the Arnold classic UK lineup because the way that he's looking, I think he looks really impressive. And I think he looks tighter here than he looked going into the Ohio show really at any point. And I think had he done the Arnold classic UK, he probably would have been top three because you had Patrick Moore in that third place spot. You had Martin and fourth. I think you probably could have seen Raphael beat both of them and get a pretty substantial payout there. But of course the goal now is to qualify for the Olympia. So that's what he's focused on. New York lineup would be a good one. It seems like that's going to be a decently competitive show, even though we've had several names pull out, including Sergio Oliva Jr. Including Erz Kalosinski. But you've still got Michael Krizzo doing that show. I believe Tony O'Burton is also doing New York. I think that would be a reasonably competitive show for Raphael, but maybe a difficult one for him to win. I don't know if he, if I had to pick someone Raphael or Tonio right now, I think I'd go with Tonio. But if we look at the current IFBB schedule, and I don't think this is fully complete. I think we're missing something here. No, you've got FIBO on there. I was going to say, I think it's missing FIBO, but I looked at this a few days ago and I didn't see FIBO on there. So coming up after the Arnold classic UK, what do we have to look forward to in April? Not a whole lot. These first couple of weeks, that's why this week has been so slow. There haven't really been a lot of stories to talk about. It's been kind of a slow weekend bodybuilding following the Arnold classic UK. And, but April 18th, that second weekend, I guess, would that be the third weekend of April? You've got two shows, the Puerto Rico pro, but that's just, it looks like it just masters this year. But then for open, you've got FIBO. So the next show is the FIBO pro. I saw somebody already pulled out of that. I think I'll talk about that a little bit later on. Um, and then you've also got the Arnold classic Brazil, right after that. So that's the next week. Then you've got the New York pro that first weekend of May. Then the Pittsburgh pro may 16th through the 17th. So April is a little bit on the slower side, but then in May, you really start to kick things off with the, you know, you've got a bunch of shows in May, New York, then Pittsburgh, then Cali. Then you've got Legion also in May this year. So you've got four pretty major shows right in the heart of the competitive season. People trying to qualify for the Olympia. I think any of those would probably be a good option for Raphael, but I, I think we probably will see him do the Arnold classic Brazil, because I hate to say this, but it seems like every year it's not the deepest lineup outside of like the top two, top two or three guys. I mean, the year that good veto won the Arnold classic South America second place, you had Leandro Perez. I don't even remember who third place was without looking back at it. It's a big show. It's a competitive show, but it's, it tends to be not the deepest lineup. I think because it's a bit out of the way, even though it's technically an Arnold title, I think that would probably be logistically the easiest one for Raphael to do to qualify for the Olympia. But I think we're going to see some good lineups in Pittsburgh and New York, and especially with having all these shows clustered together, that's typically the time of year where you have a bunch of guys do the same shows because they're all trying to qualify for the Olympia. So you see pretty good lineups this time of year. You see pretty deep lineups. You start to see those 15, 18, 20, 22 man open bodybuilding lineups around this time of year. So we've got a lot of exciting stuff to look forward to, which is right now, these couple of weeks are going to be a bit slow. And like I said, you've got the FIBO pro, the next open show on the, on the roster here. And the only name, I don't even know who's doing that show because I had heard, I think Sassarati is doing it, but I had heard that, um, Ali Cargbo, Ed Cargbo was prepping for it, but couldn't get his visa. So he's out of that show, but I believe Sassarati is doing it again. But aside from Sass, I haven't heard of like any, any big names doing the FIBO show this year. I guess we'll find out a week from now, I guess a little over a week when that competitor list comes out, but let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Which show do you think Raphael Brando is going to do? How do you think he would have done had he competed in the Arnold classic UK? And if he qualifies for the 2026 Olympia, where do you see him landing? Now, speaking of those upcoming shows, classic physique, one of the guys that I see, I see a lot of people talking about right now. A lot of people looking forward to seeing him step back on stage. And I believe he's doing New York and Pittsburgh. One punch Naz, Niall Darwin. And I saw some pictures of him recently standing next to other competitors. And he's a lot taller than I realized because he's, he's a big classic physique guy. He's five weeks out, 245 pounds. That's a big classic physique dude. He's tall. So his weight limit is high. And I think coming off of the excitement of Wesley versus Mike, Wesley winning the Ohio, Mike winning the UK, there's a lot of talk about the classic physique Olympia this year. And who is the next in line? Is it Mike? Is it Wesley? Is it somebody else? And Niall Darwin recently has entered that conversation. From 2024 at the Olympia where he was 11th to this last Olympia, 2025, moving up to the top five in fifth place and also winning the Tampa pro in 2025. Niall has gotten a lot of attention. I think specifically for his structure, his V taper, I think is one of the craziest V tapers in classic physique combined with like this bubbly 3d muscle look that he has in his upper and lower body. The waist is just crazy. And now that he's put on size, because I think that was the main reason he said he was skipping the Arnold, Ohio. Cause I think he was invited to do it was to have enough time to make improvements and put on size for his next show and then be improved for the Olympia. I think he definitely is a guy to watch. And I think structurally, this is really what classic physique is about. He's got a crazy look to his physique. And I think when you look at the, like the taller guys, the bigger guys in classic physique, this, I really think structurally this might be one of the best of the bigger guys, because when he puts on size, you're seeing it everywhere, but his waist, you're seeing it in his shoulders, his arms, his chest, his lats, his legs, the waist remains just insanely small. And I just think proportionally he looks insanely classic. And I've talked about his front lat spread before. I think being one of the best in classic physique, I think his taper is one of the best in classic physique. And considering the size, I mean, two 45 in the lower body to match the upper body. This, this is a dangerous classic physique competitor. And do I think he could be a challenger to Ramon or do I think he could win the classic physique Olympia title? Eventually I do. Would I say 2026 is the year? I think that's a bit bold, but if he were in the top two, I can't say I'd be surprised. So going into these shows that we talked about, New York, Pittsburgh, he, I think he's the guy that a lot of people are watching in classic physique, because all this excitement from the Arnold's, maybe it's not even Mike or Wesley that are going to be in the conversation this year. Maybe it's somebody new. And maybe that could be Nile Darwin who has improved rapidly from year to year, 2024 to 2025. Will we see another massive placing jump in 2026? Again, he jumped from 11th in 2024 to fifth in 2025. And looking at all his updates, he seems to only be getting better. So maybe we see a jump to the top three this year. But as far as all the hype that I've seen Nile getting recently, I think it's deserved. And I think it's valid because I do think this is like, this is the real deal of what a classic physique is. And he's got the genetics for it. And if he continues to make improvements and put on size and that, that frame and that structure isn't compromised in the process, he's, he's definitely a contender for the title. I think the hype, the hype with him is real, but let me know in the comments below what you guys think about, Nile Darwin. And who do you think, if not Nile, if not Mike, if not Wesley, or maybe if it is one of them, who do you think is next in line? Who do you think could be runner up to Ramon this year? Or if there's a new champ in 2026, who's your guy? Who's your front runner? Is it one of these guys that I mentioned? Is it somebody else? Who do you got for the future of classic physique? Now, next up in the news, Arnold Schwarzenegger's son, Joseph Bania, got a lot of attention for the natural show that he did this past week in the NPC natural Colorado. He's competing again this weekend. And he put up this video of his current look. He's staying natural. And I don't know yet which show he's doing. There's only, I only see two natural shows coming up. And one of them is in Japan. And then one of them is the following weekend at Armbrus Pro Gym, or held by Armbrus Pro Gym in Dallas, Texas. So the fifth and tenth are the only two natural shows that I see coming up. I do see there's a show in San Diego, the NPC San Diego Championships, which Joe is from California, but he did compete in Colorado for his first show. You've also got the Jay Cutler Desert Classic. Again, not a natural show, but that's this weekend. That's in Vegas, so semi-close to California. I guess we'll see. I think Joe looks really good for a natural bodybuilder. I think for a first time, he looks incredible. I wonder if he's going to, if like he's going to try to do a show naturally, even though it's not tested. Because the thing with the natural shows is it's a bit harder to get, to get nationally qualified, I'd say, to go to a good, like an NPC show that would get you to a pro qualifier or pro card. The route naturally is going to be a bit harder, but I don't even know if that's his goal. I wonder if he's just trying to get some stage time under his belt and get some experience. Because I think, you know, again, this, this was his first show ever this past weekend, no stage experience prior. And I think when you consider that and the fact that he's natural, he looks pretty good. I think in this video, his legs look improved from his last showing. I wanted to see a little bit more detail in his legs at the last show, but his legs, you know, size wise for a natural guy, he's got actually really pretty good quads. And I think we'll probably see him have learned from his previous show and probably look better this time around for his show this weekend. But this was, you know, this was a bigger story than I anticipated. It was one of the bigger stories that I've covered so far in 2026, Joe competing in his first show. I think a lot of people are very intrigued by the idea of one of Arnold's kids, the first of Arnold's kids competing in a bodybuilding competition and what the future could hold. I think Joe's got a bright future. I hope that he does stay natural, but I think I see a lot of similarities between him and Arnold if he didn't stay natural. And the more that I'm watching this recent video, like I said, I think he's got really good legs for a natural bodybuilder. They look a lot better here than I feel like they looked on, on the stage a week ago. But this is, this is why I've been talking about Joe for years on the channel now, because he's been training for years. He's been training with Arnold for years. And this, it was kind of this carrot that was dangling as well. He wants to compete someday. And I knew that it would be a big story when Arnold's son finally competed. And now here it is. I think it's really exciting. I think it's really interesting. I think it's really cool. I think he looked good. And it was a bigger story than I even anticipated. It would be a lot of people are interested in this and following his journey. And I'm one of them. So I'm very excited to see how he does at his next show and what his competitive career holds for him. Let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. How does he look? How similar does he look to a young Arnold? I believe Joe is 28. So he's, he's like way past the point of when Arnold started using gear because Arnold started as a teenager. So Joe is much older than any comparison points that we could pull up of Arnold versus Joe. He's probably a decade older or more than when Arnold started using gear. So it's hard to compare because Joe, he's, he's starting a bit late, I would say, but I don't think he really intends to make a career out of competitive bodybuilding. I know that he's pretty successful in real estate. He's got his own thing going. He graduated from college. He's got a good degree. He, he's got things going outside of bodybuilding. I think that's the reason for him just now getting around to it. But just the idea, just the possibility that we could see Joe maybe pursue some type of career in bodybuilding, I think would be really fascinating. And that's part of the reason I want to keep covering it and encouraging it because I hope that Joe sees all the positive feedback that he's getting, all the people that are interested in this journey and supportive of it. And I hope that like fuels him to keep going. Cause I was reading the comments on the video that I did a couple of days ago. It got like a quarter million views and all the comments were cheering him on. Really excited to see it. I look at his page, look at his post. All the comments on his post are really positive, encouraging him to keep, keep going. And I hope that the reaction that he's gotten has maybe, uh, either changed his mind or made him want to go a little bit further than maybe he was initially planning. Cause I think a lot of us want to see where he could take this, but let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. And I would also add to Joe, if he's watching this, he has a really unique opportunity here to, if he's really passionate about natural bodybuilding, to put a really big spotlight on natural shows that really don't get that spotlight. Because again, he is Arnold's son. People are going to watch, people are going to cover this. They're going to talk about these shows that he did probably forever. And looking at the, uh, looking at the schedule earlier, I saw there's a, there's several natural bodybuilding shows this month. There's the big NPC natural Ohio, which is a big natural show. And these are shows that otherwise probably wouldn't get talked about. So if Joe has the time and he's in shape, he has the opportunity to compete a few times and put a big spotlight on these natural bodybuilding shows. Because honestly, the show that he did last weekend, the NPC natural Colorado, to be totally honest, I'd never even heard of that show. I didn't even know that show was happening until I knew Joe was doing it. And so I think it's just something for him to think about whatever natural show he does, it's going to get hundreds of thousands or millions of views overall where, you know, maybe before, if he wasn't doing it, they get a few thousand, but just something I was thinking about here. Now, the final story that I've got for you guys today, both Samson Dowda and Andrew Jack have been confirmed for a guest posing at the Pittsburgh pro. Now we still don't really know what the Pittsburgh pro lineup competitively is going to look like. Obviously last year, it was pretty insane. You had Nick, you had Derek, you had Martin. I kind of feel like we're not going to see any of those three guys competing there this year. We pretty much know Derek's not. Nick said he's taking a break for a while, which included not defending his New York pro title. The Pittsburgh is just a week after New York. So I'm assuming he's not doing Pittsburgh either. If he's not doing New York for the sake of taking a break, Derek said he focused on the Olympia. He's probably not doing it. Martin Fitzwater. It's, it's hard to say based on the UK placing. I mean, to be honest, he was, he was pretty off at the UK and I think the stress really got to him. I think maybe he does need a break going into the Olympia. Again, Martin is already qualified from winning Prague, so he really doesn't need to do anything else other than the Olympian. I think maybe, I think the best move for him is probably to shut it down. So I think Pittsburgh could be an interesting one for somebody new to pick up a big win there. Because now that we have Andrew and Sampson confirmed for the guest posing, we know that they're not there competing. And we know that these other top guys aren't going to be there competing. I mean, the only other guy I could think of would be Hottie Choupin. And that's another guy. We really have no idea what his next move is going to be. Is he done? Is he not? It still hasn't even been confirmed why he pulled out of the Arnold Classic UK. Like, I still don't know for sure that he didn't get the UK visa. Like, I don't know if that was for sure the reason he didn't do it, or if he just pulled out because he was so disappointed with his placing in Columbus. That has never been officially confirmed. But I think the Pittsburgh show, and maybe going back to Raphael Brando, it might be an opportunity for somebody to pick up that big title. And again, a big paycheck, $100,000, that is not one of those top names. Because it looks like we're not going to see Derek, Nick, Sampson, Andrew, Martin. I mean, those are the biggest names right now in bodybuilding outside of Hottie. And I've seen a lot of talk that maybe this guest posing will be interesting because there's a good chance that that could be your top two at the Olympia. Two Nigerian bodybuilders as your top two. Two taller guys, two big guys, two 300-pound plusers, Sampson and Andrew. And I could see that being a possibility. I think Andrew being in the top two is more likely than Sampson. Because we, you know, as interesting as this experiment with Sampson has been, as far as him, you know, putting on all this size, the fact of the matter is we don't know how this is going to play out on stage. It could be really good. It could be his best look ever, or it could go the opposite direction. It could be one of his worst looks ever because we need more condition from Sampson. But it remains to be seen how this is going to play out in 2026 with his new look and his new approach. We don't know that it's going to be a good thing. So I'm still a little bit hesitant to say Sampson is now going to bring his best ever. We really don't know that, but from what we've seen from Andrew Jacked, improving from show to show, winning these two massive titles, it seems very likely that he's going to continue improving into the Olympia and very likely that he could be top two in 2026. And again, I know a lot of people don't like Derek's physique, but the judges seem to like it. And so the problem that I have with, okay, now we're moving Samson and Andrew automatically into that top two spot because people compare those guys to Derek and they don't like Derek. They like these guys. I get, I get the argument, but the judges seem to like Derek. And the problem with that is Derek has beaten both these guys multiple times. And recently, even at Andrew Jack's, one of his all time best looks at the 2025 Olympia where he was third, he wasn't even second to Derek at that show. So the problem is the judges do like Derek's physique and they've told us that. So I think the question to be thinking about here is if Andrew and Samson do become the top two at the 2026 Olympia, what will be the difference maker? What will be the differentiating factor where Derek has continued to beat them up until recently? What will help those guys pull ahead of Derek? Will it just be the size? Will it be now that Andrew Jack has figured out how to bring the condition? And trust me, I, I, I honestly do see somebody that's not Derek winning the Olympia this year. I, I like Derek. I don't see him as like a dominant four or five, six time champion. I, I do see Derek as like, he won the Olympia two times. He's going to be a couple of time champion. I don't see him as like this dominant force as a Mr. Olympia. I, I do see him as beatable and he showed that in 2024. He was beaten. And I think he showed a little bit more of that in 2025 at the Pittsburgh show where Nick beat him at the pre judging. So I do believe that Derek can be beaten by either Andrew or Samson. Again, Samson won in 2024 and he beat Derek to do it. But I think I would, I think I would be comfortable saying that my early prediction for the Olympia this year is that the title will change hands. But the question is to whom if Derek doesn't win it? And that's the question that I have for you guys in the comments below kind of leaving this video with that. Who do you have winning the 2026 Mr. Olympia at this point? And I guess to end things off with that and to help you guys out with those predictions, I'll put up the current qualified competitor list. This is who currently is qualified for the 2026 Mr. Olympia. So these are your current choices to pick from to win. You've got Sergei Danilov, Derek Lunsford, Hadi Chupin, Andrew Jack, Michael Krizzo, Tony O'Burton, Martin Fitzwater, Andrea Presti, Sean Clarita, Damian Cuffel, and Mo Fuda. That is your current qualified competitor list for the Olympia out of these names. And Samson Dowd is not listed here, but obviously he's qualified. He's won the Olympia. He's qualified for this one. It's interesting. I wonder why Samson's not listed here. That's weird. He should be listed here, but let me know your very early 2026 Mr. Olympia predictions in the comments down below. And because they're predictions, there's no wrong answer. So let it fly. Let me know what you got. And that's going to wrap it up for the video today, guys. I hope you did. In fact, enjoy it. Make sure you like the video, subscribe to the channel, click that bell notification icon. If you have not already. And as always, I love you guys. Appreciate you guys. Nick strength and power signing out. Thank you for watching today's video. If you guys want more bodybuilding content, you can follow me on Facebook, Instagram, or YouTube. Just search Nick strength and power on any of those platforms and follow the verified account. If the daily YouTube videos don't satisfy your need for bodybuilding content, I post 24 seven across those three platforms, bodybuilding content all day long. And of course, like, and subscribe here on YouTube. Thank you.