 in, tau, semestay, tau, semestay, tau, semestay, tau, semestay, tau, semestay, tau, semestay, All right, what's going on, you guys? Nick here with Nick Strength & Power. I've got a couple of interesting stories for you guys today. The first story that I've got for you guys today, the big one, Arnold Schwarzenegger's son, Joseph Bania, just competed in his second bodybuilding show. The natural show that he did last weekend in the NPC seemed to get a lot of people excited. A lot of people were interested in that story. This weekend, he competed in a different federation, so he competed in the INBA Iron Gladiator. So this was a natural federation, another natural show. And I want to give a shout-out for the footage from this show to my buddy Dakota. He's kind of a mutual of me and Joe. He was there at the show sending me pictures. I really appreciate the footage, bro. And Joe won again. He competed in classic physique and bodybuilding at this show. He won again in classic physique, and he was second in open bodybuilding. And I've got to say, based on what I've seen so far from this show, I think he's improved significantly in one week's time from the last show. I think his legs looked a lot better here. You can see a lot more separation in the quads. I said this before a couple of videos ago. I actually think Joe has really good quads, a really good lower body for a natural bodybuilder. Good size, good separation, just with a little bit tighter condition. I mean, he's got some really good legs. Especially for a novice, natural competitor. I thought his posing looked a lot better here. I think you can definitely tell he made a few tweaks to his posing, and I think they really paid off. Particularly, I wanted to highlight this kneeling front double bicep pose that Joe did in classic physique. I really liked how he looked in this pose. Again, he's natural. I thought he looked fantastic in this pose. This, to me, looked really reminiscent of the Arnold era, of the bodybuilders of that era. And I just felt like this pose was a really good look for him specifically. And then I also wanted to highlight the front double biceps pose here. This was the first picture that I got from Dakota of the show, and I was really impressed by this. I feel like compared to the last show, he's opening up in his lats a lot more. His waist looks tighter here. The vacuum looks deeper. More separation in the quads. This was a really good pose for him, too. Like I said, that was one of the things that I wanted to see from him in the last show. A little bit more detail and separation in the lower body. And I feel like he really brought that here. I'm pretty impressed. I really hope that Joe does continue competing in these natural shows, or just continue competing in general. Because like I said before, I feel like he's putting a really good spotlight on natural bodybuilding that wouldn't otherwise be there. Especially, you know, a federation like the INBA definitely doesn't get as much recognition as the NPC natural shows. And the NPC natural shows don't really get that much recognition either. And similar to the last natural show that Joe did, I had never even heard of the INBA Iron Gladiator competition. So I feel like he's putting a big spotlight here. Now, here's the thing that I found really interesting. A really interesting possibility here. And this might be the reason why Joseph switched from the NPC to the INBA. So this picture is him with the founder of the INBA, Denny Kakos. And I was looking at the INBA schedule. And what I realized is the INBA is the organization that holds the natural Olympia. So through the INBA, Joe could qualify for, compete in, and potentially win the natural Olympia title in the INBA. Which I think would be a really interesting route for him to go. Now, the natural Olympia isn't something that I've talked about very often. I think I've covered it a few times. But over the years, I feel like it's become a little bit less prestigious. But this is a storyline that I really like the possibility of. And I have no idea if Joe actually intends on trying to do this. But if he tries to win a natural Olympia title as Arnold's son, that would be a really interesting parallel career to Arnold's. I mean, if Joe's goal is to stay natural, which I really respect, and I kind of hope that he does, and he's able to get to the top level of natural bodybuilding and win a natural Olympia title, that would be really freaking cool. And to be honest, I mean, looking at Joe's physique, I don't think that that is outside of the realm of possibility. So when I talk about the spotlight that Joe could put on natural bodybuilding, I mean, imagine that Arnold Schwarzenegger's son, and Arnold is obviously a seven-time Mr. Olympia, one of the greatest bodybuilders of all time. But imagine his son competes in, let alone wins, the natural Olympia. What a spotlight that is for natural bodybuilding, how cool that would be. And I think that's something that we could see. I mean, I could at least see him competing in the natural Olympia. And again, I would say, if you like natural bodybuilding, and you like the coverage of natural bodybuilding, I'd say make sure you like and share this video, because I've covered it in the past, and I've found that when I do cover it, there's very little interest, it gets significantly less views, people just straight up skip that part of the video, etc. If there were more apparent interest in it, I would cover it more. I just haven't seen the interest until this, until we saw Joe do his first bodybuilding show, and it happened to be a natural show. So if you want to see more natural bodybuilding, like this video. And I think I still have a whole playlist of natural bodybuilding videos on this channel somewhere. It's just probably like 10 years old. But let me know what you guys think in the comments down below about Joseph Bania's competitive future, about his second bodybuilding show, about his look here. Let me know in the comments below. Now I want to keep the ball rolling on the positive stories, because next up in the news, something else I don't cover very often, or really at all, men's physique. But I thought this was a really uplifting story. I wanted to report on this. Jeremy Potvin, who's a men's physique competitor, he's 36 years old. He recently, within the last couple of years I believe, had a cancer diagnosis, and I believe it affected his kidneys. He went through treatment, and now he's finally back on stage. He just took the stage again this weekend, at the 2026 Charlotte Pro, again, after overcoming a cancer diagnosis, and he's 36 years old, he placed top three at this show, and I thought he actually looked incredible here. I've always really liked his physique. I always thought he had really unique proportions, especially his chest. But if I'm not mistaken, we haven't seen Jeremy compete in three years now. I believe 2023 was the last time we saw him on stage, at the end of 2023, November, where he was top 10 in the Men's Physique Olympia. And I don't believe we've seen him on stage since, so it's been a while. But he's back, and he still looks great, and this is after cancer. So I know that I rarely cover men's physique, but I thought this was just a really positive story. I was excited for him to see him place in the top three here. I thought this was really good stuff, and I feel like we need more positive stories in bodybuilding. So shout out to Jeremy. I wish him the best. Now, next up in the news, we did get another physique update from Nick Walker, four weeks post-Arnold Classic Ohio. His body weight is 274.8 pounds. A series of physique updates here. He still looks like he's in relatively good shape. It still remains a mystery, however. Which show we'll see Nick Walker do next? Again, Nick does still need to qualify for the 2026 Mr. Olympia if he intends to compete there. That's an important thing to point out. He is not currently qualified. He will have to compete again if he wants to do this year's Olympia. But he did confirm in the comments of this post, he was responding to a comment asking him if he's doing Pittsburgh or New York, and he responds saying no. So we already knew that he wasn't doing the New York Pro. He had specifically said he wasn't doing that, and based on that, saying he wasn't going to defend his New York title, and that show is a week before the Pittsburgh Pro, I already assumed he wasn't doing Pittsburgh, but now we have official confirmation he is not doing the Pittsburgh Pro or the New York Pro. And I talked about this maybe two videos ago, how I feel like this year that Pittsburgh Pro title is wide open. It's $100,000 first place prize money. It's a big show. It's part of that triple crown, as Derek Lunsford likes to call it. And it seems like most of the top six guys from the Olympia that you would expect to be there battling for that title will not be competing in Pittsburgh. We now have confirmation Nick is out. We know Samson and Andrew are doing a guest posing there. We know Derek's not doing it. I think Martin is probably not, but we don't know for sure. I also think that Hadi is probably not doing it. So again, I say that just to say, I think that Pittsburgh is a big opportunity for whoever's doing that show to win a lot of prize money, to win a big title, and gain momentum going into the Olympia because these big names, they're not going to be there. But let me know in the comments below what you guys think the Pittsburgh Pro lineup is going to end up looking like. Now, kind of the inverse of the Nick Walker story. Andrew Jacked confirming that he will be doing the Arnold Classic 2027. I believe he confirmed on stage that he intends on running it back for both competitions, the Arnold Classic Ohio and the Arnold Classic UK, but he responded to the Arnold Sports Instagram page confirming that he will be running it back in 2027. So regardless of how he does at the Olympia, which a lot of people think he's going to win, he's going to return to defend probably both of his Arnold Classic titles in the UK and the US. So we have that to look forward to already in 2027. And I guess I should also mention here that they also confirmed that the Arnold Classic UK will be back in 2027. I know that this has been a show that hasn't happened every year. So it's a bit unpredictable whether we're going to get it each year or not. But they've already confirmed they will be back. There will be another Arnold Classic UK in 2027. It is happening next year. And it will also be in March again, March 19th through the 21st. So again, just a couple weeks after the Arnold Classic Ohio. Now, the final story that I have for you guys today, the latest physique update from Phil Heath. Now, these come pretty few and far between because obviously Phil is unofficially retired. I guess he's never actually said he's fully retired. But he's 46 years old, still is in incredible shape, still holding on to quite a bit of size. And even seeing him in person, it's still kind of hard to believe that he is over half a decade from his last time competing on stage. I mean, he's been away for a while now. But for 46 years old, as a quote-unquote retired pro bodybuilder, you know, half a decade beyond his last competition, Phil looks really good. He looks good. He looks healthy. He's holding on to a good amount of size. And I just kind of wanted to cap this video off with another positive story here. It's good to see, you know, a seven-time Mr. Olympia champ, healthy, still looking the part at 46 years old, five years into their retirement, six years into their retirement now. So that's going to wrap it up for the video today, guys. I hope you did, in fact, enjoy it. It'd mean a lot to me. If you guys liked the video, subscribe to the channel, click that bell notification icon if you have not already. And as always, I love you guys. Appreciate you guys. Nick Strength and Power signing out. Thank you for watching today's video. If you guys want more bodybuilding content, you can follow me on Facebook, Instagram, or YouTube. Just search Nick Strength and Power on any of those platforms and follow the verified account. If the daily YouTube videos don't satisfy your need for bodybuilding content, I post 24-7 across those three platforms bodybuilding content all day long. And of course, like and subscribe here on YouTube. Thank you. Thank you.