 all right, what's going on to you guys? Nick here with Nick strength and power. I wanted to do a little bit more of a deeper dive on Arnold Schwarzenegger son Joseph Bania competing in a second bodybuilding show this past weekend because it's a little bit more significant than I initially realized because he actually earned his pro card here. in natural bodybuilding with the PNBA. So as you guys know, last weekend, Joe made his bodybuilding debut competing in the NPC Natural Colorado State Championships. The NPC is obviously the feeder organization into the IFBB Pro League. But this weekend, Joe competed in an INBA competition. So that is a separate, natural amateur federation. So I'm trying to just kind of explain it in layman's terms here. So at that show, he did bodybuilding and he did classic physique. He competed in two different divisions. In bodybuilding, he was second. But in classic physique, not only did he win his division, but he won the overall title and also his pro card. So the INBA is the amateur. The PNBA is professional natural bodybuilding. So he is a professional natural bodybuilder in the classic physique division. And that little detail at the time that I recorded my video yesterday talking about this subject, that detail I didn't know yet, that he actually earned a pro card here. So again, just to add that distinction for the layman watching this video, not the IFBB. He can't compete in IFBB shows or the regular Mr. Olympia. But I touched on this in my last video. Through this organization, he can get to the natural Mr. Olympia. That is their INBA, PNBA competition. It's completely separate from what the IFBB has with the Mr. Olympia, but they have their own natural Olympia. And so this is the most interesting aspect of this to me. And again, I think it's very significant now because this is bodybuilding history. Because now Arnold's first son to compete in a bodybuilding show. His first kid, period, to compete in a bodybuilding show. One week ago made their amateur debut. Now one week later, he has a pro card as a natural bodybuilder. It's extraordinarily impressive. And that's why I wanted to do a whole video just on this topic. Because at the time that I recorded the last video, I did not know that he turned pro naturally. And to me, this is one of the coolest things ever. I've been doing this. I've had this channel since 2012. So 14 years. I've been doing this as my full-time job for over a decade. And so honestly, anymore, I cover so many bodybuilding stories. There's not a whole lot of things in any given year that really get me excited, like really excited to talk about, like on a personal level. Something I'm excited to see outside of like the Olympia or the Arnold Classic. But like the day-to-day stories, there's not a whole lot of stories that get me actually personally excited or interested. This to me is one of those stories that as a bodybuilding fan and as somebody who's kind of an enthusiast of the sport, this is one of those things that gets me really excited to see. Joe turned pro. And it's interesting because I've been following and talking to Joe and talking about Joe for a while now. And his username on Instagram used to be ProJoe2. He used to have pro in his Instagram username. He no longer has that. But now he actually is a pro natural bodybuilder. And he's Arnold Schwarzenegger's son. Arnold Schwarzenegger is arguably the greatest, most accomplished, most recognized, and well-known bodybuilder of all time. I would say Ronnie Coleman is probably the best bodybuilder of all time just in sheer competitive regard. But how can you as a bodybuilding fan not be excited that Arnold Schwarzenegger's son just earned his pro card? And yeah, I get it. It's natural bodybuilding. People don't get as excited about natural bodybuilding. And also one interesting thing that I noticed is that the INBA, their website, when I was doing a little bit of research on this, they actually own the domain name, naturalbodybuilding.com, which I think is pretty cool. And I want to give a shout-out again to my buddy Dakota Stinson, who sent me all these videos. And that's another reason why I wanted to make this video, because I feel like this is bodybuilding history that we're watching right here. And I wanted to have a good, very compact, like historical record of Arnold Schwarzenegger's son, Joseph Bania, turning pro. So this is probably the most complete collection of videos and pictures that you're going to see of Joe earning his pro card. And I think it's even cooler that Joe earned his pro card in Classic Physique, a division that was essentially created to pay homage to Arnold and his era in bodybuilding, which Arnold pretty much dominated. I would say that a movie like Pumping Iron is pretty much what that classic era of bodybuilding is most known and remembered for. And as far as how Joe looked here, I really liked this look. Again, I've got a ton of respect for Joe competing as a natural bodybuilder. It's a big shadow that his father cast. I mean, it's Arnold, for God's sake. So again, I've got a ton of respect for Joe going the natural route and being successful at it in one week of competing. He turned pro naturally. And now he's got a shot to get to this natural Olympia, which I think would be one of the coolest stories in bodybuilding history. If Arnold's son wins a natural Olympia title, I think that's just one of the most awesome things to ever happen in bodybuilding. I mean, really, I'm not going to talk too much about it because I talked about this in my previous video, but natural bodybuilding doesn't get a lot of attention. It doesn't get a lot of respect. It doesn't command a lot of viewership. What Joe is doing here is putting a massive spotlight on natural bodybuilding. And I think that's really cool. Again, leave a thumbs up. Like this video. Share this video. If you are a supporter of natural bodybuilding, if you want to see more of this, because I think this is really cool. And as far as how Joe looked here, I thought he looked really good. His legs looked better here. More definition in the legs. He's got really good quads for a natural bodybuilder. I've said this over and over and over again. His quads are pretty good, man. He might have better quads than Arnold had when Arnold started out in bodybuilding. I thought his condition was better here. His midsection was tighter. I'm really excited to see what Joe's able to do. His posing was better. He made a lot of improvements in one week's time. From your amateur debut in the NPC to earning your pro card naturally a week later. This is on par with Sam Sulik making his pro debut. This is on par with Larry Wheels and Sam Sulik earning their pro cards. To me, this is as big of a story and as exciting. And I don't want to get too much into the backstory behind Joe. But Arnold has five children total. Joseph, Patrick, Catherine, Christopher, and Christina. Patrick, Catherine, Christopher, and Christina were all with his wife Maria Shriver. Joseph was the child outside of that marriage. I'm sure you guys are familiar with that story. We don't need to dive too much into it. But that's one of the reasons why I'm rooting so hard for Joseph. And this makes me really happy for him, really proud of him, really excited to see this. Because I feel like he is a bit of an underdog. It's kind of an underdog story. At least from the outside looking in. I mean, we don't know the interpersonal relationship. But from the outside looking in, I think it's kind of an underdog story. And for him to be the first of the children to ever step on a bodybuilding stage, I think makes it that much more significant. And it makes me want to root for him more. So I just wanted to send some positive vibes to Joe. I wanted to make this video to kind of have this as a historical record of him turning pro. I think people are going to look back on this video. Because this is a moment in bodybuilding history, honestly. And when I talked to Joe before he competed in his first show, he told me, you know, he's not doing this for the media attention. He doesn't want a bunch of coverage on it. He just wants to compete for the love of the game. And I respect that even more. So let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Make sure you guys like the video. Subscribe to the channel. Click that bell notification icon if you have not already. And as always, I love you guys. I appreciate you guys. Nick Strength and Power signing out. Thank you. Thank you for watching today's video. If you guys want more bodybuilding content, you can follow me on Facebook, Instagram, or YouTube. Just search Nick Strength and Power on any of those platforms and follow the verified account. If the daily YouTube videos don't satisfy your need for bodybuilding content, I post 24-7 across those three platforms bodybuilding content all day long. And of course, like and subscribe here on YouTube. Thank you.