 n-signies-signies-signies-sies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies-ies- first ever bodybuilding competition this weekend, the same night as the Arnold Classic UK wraps up. So he's going to be doing, I talked to him earlier, and he's doing the Colorado Natural Championships. It's an NPC show. It's a natural show. And he's competing in classic physique. So again, this will be his first ever bodybuilding show. This is amateur debut. It's an NPC show. And I think this is really significant because for years on my channel, just over the last, like, I don't know, maybe seven years now, we've mentioned Joe sporadically and the striking resemblance that he shares with Arnold and that he's been in the gym for like the past seven years over there at Gold's Gym Venice following in his father's footsteps. And I think this is really interesting stuff. I can't wait to see what he looks like on stage. And again, he is competing naturally. So, you know, the bar is not, this is a future Mr. Olympia type of thing, but he will be the first of Arnold's children to step on stage in any type of bodybuilding competition. I think that's really interesting. It's very rare that we get a legacy bodybuilder like a Sergio Oliva Jr. that turns pro or a Hunter Labrata that turns pro where they had a dad that was a really successful pro back in the day. And then they go on to become pretty successful pros or just bodybuilders in general. And I'm not saying, you know, I'm not projecting that far into the future for Joe, but let's be real. Arnold is considered one of the best, if not the best bodybuilder of all time in terms of his overall impact on the industry, on the sport and his first son competing in a bodybuilding show, I think is pretty significant. Now, Joe told me he doesn't really care for the media coverage or the attention on this show. He's really just doing it for himself. But I view this as a really cool bodybuilding story. I'm going to cover it tomorrow. I asked Joe if he gets some good pictures or videos to send them my way. He said there is not going to be any kind of live stream for the show. So I'm going to cover it with whatever he sends me or whatever is posted on NPC news online. But I'm excited for this. Let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. But to me, this is a really cool bodybuilding story. I'm excited to see regardless of how he places. I think it's a it's a cool moment in bodybuilding history for Arnold's first son to step on a bodybuilding stage. It's awesome. And I wish him the best of luck. And also, I kind of have double respect for him that he's doing it naturally. Because think about it, man. I mean, I think this is the issue that probably a lot of bodybuilders would face if they had a really successful dad that was a pro bodybuilder. And I think there's no bigger shadow cast than the shadow of Arnold Schwarzenegger. So the fact that his son is doing it naturally, when he knows, you know, the expectations are going to be high, he's going to be judged harshly for it. Maybe not harshly, but a lot of people are going to be looking at it. And the fact that he's choosing to do it naturally, I think is really, really respectable. And I also think it's a good opportunity to put a big spotlight on natural bodybuilding. So let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Now, next up in the news, I want to give some serious props to Brandon Curry. This video that he posted really impressed me. Because I didn't know any of this, that Brandon Curry almost didn't make it on stage for the prejudging. Because he didn't have his luggage, he didn't have his posing trunks. And I think the look that he brought was one of the best looks that we've seen from Brandon in the past five years at this show. He looked incredible. I think he's going to be second here. I have him over Martin and Patrick. He looked great. But he put up this post kind of explaining the situation. He says, pre-judging is done. Happy I made it to the stage despite some matters outside of my control. Thanks to my wife, Believer808, for reaching out to Brent Lalonde on the Arnold Sports UK team and securing me some posing trunks. Special thanks to Mark Hector, Patrick Moore, and Martin Fitzwater offering to let me borrow their trunks. I can't forget the help of my trunk maker bikini lab design studio for reaching out to help as well. I'm truly grateful and blessed to have great people around me. My coach, Tropicana Nutrition, did his thing again, despite not having ideal circumstances in all of my gear. Check not making it yet. It was a fun battle tonight and I hope you enjoyed it. So Brandon is just an all-around good guy. An all-around class act. I've said this for years, but every time that I've met or interacted with Brandon going back to 2018, he's one of the nicest bodybuilders you could hope to meet. And I love to see what's happening with him right now at this UK show because he looked incredible. It's undeniable how good he looked. I think he's going to beat Martin. He's going to be top two with Andrew Jacked. And he deserves it. He brought a really good look. He's not done yet. He's 43. He's got a family. He's got kids that are already, I believe, going to college for football scholarships. But I mean, I just wanted to make a point to say how happy I am to see Brandon with a really successful showing despite this issue that he had with his luggage. He didn't even have his posing trunks. And I also wanted to shout out Brent Lalonde because he is, I feel like he's the unrecognized kind of underappreciated part of the Arnold Classic that really gets a lot of things done. And when I saw that Brandon shouted him out here for helping him get his posing trunks, Brent was the same guy that this year for me at the Arnold Classic Ohio, I needed to stay an extra night to do something on Sunday. I was supposed to leave Sunday, but I wanted to extend it so I could leave Monday. And at like literally seven or eight in the morning, Brent texted me and got it done and extended the hotel room. He's the guy that like handles all this stuff that you don't think about necessarily making a show run, but he's been doing it forever. He deserves credit too. Um, and I just wanted to make sure I included that in this video because Brent has been very helpful to me over the years. And it sounds like he really helped out Brandon here. So I wanted to shout him out as well, but I'm going to go ahead and play Brandon's video here. So you guys understand the circumstance surrounding him competing in whatever the situation was with his luggage and not having his posing trunks. I'm just going to go ahead and roll that here. What's going on guys? Prejudging is over and I'm happy I made it to the stage, man. I'm definitely happy I made it to the stage. You know, it's always a journey. You never know what you can run into. And, uh, you know, I made it here perfectly safe and sound, but unfortunately my luggage is still not here. So, uh, shout out to my wife, all that food she cooked that's gone to waste and shout out to everybody, everybody that offered to help first Mark Hector, uh, Patrick Moore, Warren Fitzwater all, uh, offered to help me borrow trunks, but I want to shout out to my wife specifically for reaching out to Brent and on our Arnold team. And, uh, you know, he ended up looking out for me and securing me some trunks backstage. Uh, so I really appreciate you, Brent, man. Uh, thank you, uh, so much for coming through and making that happen for me. Uh, you know, without luggage, it's kind of hard, you know, I've been in the same clothes for the past since Wednesday. So, you know, he's got to make do. So yeah, I was on stage, uh, and some trunks that I don't only wear, but a shout out to my, uh, trunk maker bikini, bikini labs, of course. Uh, they, uh, actually, actually reached out and, um, was trying to help me find some trunks as well, you know, uh, cause I reached out to her. So thank you everybody that, uh, you know, helped me, uh, try to find some trunks, you know, and get on stage. Cause that's all I really needed. You know, everything else we able to execute, uh, I didn't have my, uh, set up that I know I'm gonna have for my check-ins, but you know, fortunately my coach, he was able to help me execute. Justin was up, helped, helped me able to execute. Sorry. With just, uh, sunlight when the light was able to, when I was able to have sunlight. So we made it happen. I thought I came in with a great package. No other complications were eaten or anything like last time. So I came in fuller. I think we were drawing hard. So happy with the package that I came in. Uh, I haven't got to, I don't think, uh, I've seen any pictures or videos that do really justice cause it's a little dark on stage. But, uh, I think once we get some good pictures, you'll realize the work that, you know, maybe me and the other guys really, really put in. Uh, so shout out to all the guys, man, it was a great battle. Andrew, Martin, uh, Patrick up there. Uh, you know, uh, looks like that's the top four spots, if I'm not mistaken, but it was a great battle, man. Great camaraderie. Um, it's always good to step on stage with these great champions. So, you know, fortunately God's grace was with me and I was able to make it to the stage and it looked, looked, looked pretty decent, uh, despite all the things that went down. So I thank you for all the support, everybody reaching out, all the fans already reaching out. Uh, appreciate you guys for tuning in to the live stream, uh, attending the event and all, all, all the people that came by to the meet and greet last night, right. You really just warm my spirit and just, now next up in the news, I wanted to talk about Sam Sulik specifically at the Arnold Classic UK. We now have the scorecards for the Arnold. Sam Sulik's placing was seventh place. So let's go through the classic physique real quick. Mike Sommerfeld, one Wesley Vissers in second, Jorge Herrera in third, Andrea Mamoli in fourth, Joaquin, this is Kim Angel in fifth, Paul Canu in sixth, Sam Sulik in seventh, Luis Roberto Valenzuela Ramos in eighth, and Angelo Rossi in ninth. So Sam Sulik actually improving upon his placing from the Arnold Classic Ohio and still not dead last. So Sam Sulik at this show, it looked like his approach was to come in a little bit fuller for this show. I feel like he looked like he was a bit bigger on stage, but he definitely sacrificed some condition in the pursuit of that fullness. So I was actually impressed by Sam's look here. I thought he looked like he belonged on that stage more than some of the other guys, especially in the, in that bottom three. And again, this is only Sam Sulik's fourth show. He did the show before the Arnold Classic amateur in 2025 to qualify for the amateur. He did the Arnold amateur as his second show, the Arnold Ohio pro as his third show. And this is only his fourth ever show eighth place at the first Arnold seventh place at this Arnold. I still think this is a win. And I really think watching Sam's routine for the Arnold Classic UK, he worked on his posing between the Ohio and this show. So I think you're seeing Sam make improvements from show to show his placing got better. His posing got better. I kind of liked the look at the Ohio better than the UK, the more conditioned look over the fuller look. But I do feel like from a size perspective with his fullness, he looked like he belonged a little bit. I mean, he did get kind of sandwiched in the first impression call out right between Mike and Wesley, just because of where his last name lands between those two Sommerfeld and Wesley. Sulik is right between those two. So that, that was, that was a hard call out to come out to. But I think again, he looked good. I, the reason I wanted to cover this separately in a separate video is because Sam was like way outside of the conversation to win this show or be top five. But I know that people are still interested to hear how Sam did. So I wanted to do that separately from the main results video because everybody, you know, the main, the main thing was Mike and Wesley and Sam was kind of completely outside of that. But overall, I still think Sam did well. And I think there's still this narrative that Sam was gifted a pro card by the Arnold and gifted the opportunity to compete at the Arnold as a pro. I still think all of that is just kind of jealousy and hate, because if you guys, if you go back and rewatch Sam Sulik at the Arnold amateur, where he earned his pro card, he, he like legitimately won that show. He was very clearly the winner of that show. And then of course, the winner of the amateur is automatically qualified for the pro the following year. I really don't believe that Sam was gifted anything. And when you look at Sam's placings at the Ohio and the UK, eighth and seventh, that's exactly where he deserved to place. He wasn't gifted anything. He did exactly how he should have done placings wise at both of these shows. I think people are just mad that you have somebody that has such a big following and is so successful trying their hand as an IFBB pro. I think Sam has done a good job. I don't feel like he was gifted anything. He certainly wasn't gifted any placings at either of these two shows. And I think he wasn't gifted a pro card either. I think he's exactly where he deserves to be for the physique that he has and the work that he's put in a good run so far, in my opinion. But let me know what you guys think in the comments down below seventh place for Sam Sulik at the Arnold classic UK. That's going to wrap it up for the video tonight, guys. I hope you did. In fact, enjoy it. Make sure you like the video, subscribe to the channel, click that bell notification icon. If you have not already. And as always, I love you guys. Appreciate you guys. Nick strength and power signing out. Thank you for watching today's video. If you guys want more bodybuilding content, you can follow me on Facebook, Instagram, or YouTube. Just search Nick strength and power on any of those platforms and follow the verified account. If the daily YouTube videos don't satisfy your need for bodybuilding content, I post 24 seven across those three platforms, bodybuilding content all day long. And of course like, and subscribe here on YouTube. Thank you.