 ngangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangangan Recently, Sampson hasn't been posting what he's weighing in his past, you know, maybe half a dozen physique updates. He hasn't been posting the constantly increasing number on the scale. So I really don't know what he's weighing here. I don't know if he's still chasing that 350 number. I believe the last time that he posted a body weight was 346.6. But I kind of wonder if at this point with the guest posing coming up, if he's starting to taper down that weight to kind of prepare for that guest posing. Because to me, he looks a little bit more detailed here than he looked in some of the other updates, especially in the legs and the abs. I think his abs are a lot more visible. And this is really the impressive thing to me about Sampson and these crazy body weight posing updates is he really doesn't seem to have sacrificed his midsection at all. It doesn't look blown out. He's still controlling it in the transitions. He's still flexing it in every pose. He's still got deep visible abs in every pose. And that's something that you just don't see when somebody is at this type of body weight. Again, I don't know if he's still hovering close to 350 or if he's come down a little bit. Because, you know, I'm looking at his legs and his abs here and you can see some pretty good separation. I mean, his quads look gnarly in this physique update. And the question that I have for you guys, and this is kind of what I've been thinking about too, as we get closer to the Olympia in September, is will the added size pay off for Sampson and put him back in the top three? As you guys know, in 2025 at the Olympia, he slipped outside of the top three into fourth place. We haven't seen him back on stage since. I don't know if we're going to see him back on stage competitively outside of these guest posings until the Olympia. Obviously, because he's won the Olympia, he doesn't need to requalify. He doesn't need to compete between now and the Olympia. But he has been a guy that tends to do, you know, some random shows throughout the year outside of just doing the Olympia. But I think what's most interesting to me is like the two biggest guys at the top of the sport right now, in terms of just overall size and body weight, Andrew Jacked and Sampson Dowda both, they're actually over 40. Sampson is 40 and Andrew Jacked, I think, is 43. So not only is it unusual to see a bodybuilder at this type of weight at this age, but typically 40 is kind of considered to be past your prime in bodybuilding. So it's interesting to see Sampson hitting like these all-time heaviest body weights at the age that he's at. And it does make me wonder, is it going to pay off on stage? Will this lead to the best Sampson that we've ever seen? Or will the strategy have the opposite effect? Because all the years up until the year that Sampson won the Olympia, the criticism was he wasn't conditioned enough, not that he wasn't big enough. And then in 2025, it seems like he kind of overdid the dieting and the focus on the condition, and he came in a bit too small. I think most people think the sweet spot is somewhere in between, maybe like 300 on stage. And I think right now, as great as Andrew Jacked has been and has proven himself to be winning the Arnold, beating Sampson at the Olympia, top three at the Olympia, I think that if I had to pick between Andrew and Sampson, if they're both at their best at the Olympia, I would have to lean towards Sampson because Sampson has the crazy lower body, the crazy volume to his legs that, even though Andrew's legs I think are the best now that they've ever been, Sampson's are just on another level. So if Sampson is at his best at the Olympia and he's bigger than ever, I would lean towards Sampson over Andrew. I think Andrew might have more of the overall like wow factor to his physique, that crazy 3D look, the crazy deep abs. But if Sampson is on and he's bigger than ever with his lower body, I feel like you'd have to give it to Sampson. And I also think that Sampson is a lot better in the side poses. But that's the question that I have for you guys. As we look forward to the Pittsburgh Pro, Andrew Jack and Sampson Dada are going to be kind of battling it out at that guest posing. But then as we look even further to the Olympia, what do you think the result is going to be? And I know a lot of people think that Andrew Jack can win the Olympia this year, and I think that is on the table. But if Sampson is at his all-time best with this new strategy, this new size, who do you think comes out on top at the 2026 Mr. Olympia? Let me know in the comments down below. Now next up in the news, another bodybuilder at a crazy high weight, well over 300 pounds. Joan Prudels at 322 pounds. He's a really young guy. He's in his mid-20s. I would argue that Joan really had his breakout year in 2025 competing in five shows. He was third at the Japan Pro. He was second at the Romania Muscle Fest. To Andrew Jack. Second at the Poland Pro. Fifth at that Prague Pro. That crazy stacked Prague lineup with Martin and Sampson and Keon Pierce and Michael Krizzo. And he was top three at the British Grand Prix, which Michael Krizzo ended up winning. But I think for a younger, newer bodybuilder, 2025 was really the year that he put himself on the map. He brought some really impressive looks. And a lot of the lineups that you saw him competing in were really stacked, really big names. You saw him in those top callouts, that first callout, or that top two or top three with some of the biggest names in the sport right now. And now clearly his goal for 2026 is to pack on that size and make use of the offseason. 322, I think, is the biggest that we've ever seen him. And I think he is on the taller side for a bodybuilder. I think he is around six foot, which is tall for open bodybuilding. But I feel like now we're in a crazy era of bodybuilding where you see a lot of guys in the offseason, not just at 300 pounds, but blowing past it. And I feel like 10, 15, 20 years ago, it was just maybe one guy. Like one big Rami that was in the 320s in the offseason. And everybody was talking about how crazy that was. And now it seems relatively commonplace to have bodybuilders in their 20s, bodybuilders in their 40s, bodybuilders all across the board in different ranges of where they've been placing, all well over 300 pounds. And you've also got Sergey Danilov is another example of that. But what do you guys think the future holds for Joan Prudels? I think that this year in 2026, my prediction is we see Joan win his first pro show and get his first Olympia qualification. I think Joe, as great as he did in 2025, I have a feeling 2026 could be his breakout year where he wins a show, gets to the Olympia, and potentially makes a statement there. I mean, he brought some really good packages in 2025. And I think he's going to top that in 2026. But let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Now, next up in the news, Raphael Brandau posting a new physique update where he looks absolutely nuts in this most muscular pose. And now, after seeing this update, I'm way more convinced that we're going to see Raphael on stage at the Arnold Classic South America at the end of April because to me, he looks like he's a week or two out from a show. This looks like when we were a week out from the Arnold and we were seeing Raphael Brandau updates from the Arnold, Ohio, I don't think he looked this impressive. He looks absolutely dialed in these latest updates, even more so than he did ahead of the Ohio show. So I think we're going to see him on stage very soon. I think he might also do the New York or the Pittsburgh or whatever in May. But I think he's a couple weeks away from stepping on stage. He looks fantastic here. And to be honest, I personally kind of felt like he didn't really deliver at the Arnold. He looked okay. He looked, I guess you could say, good. But I don't think he was as good as I think people expected him to be. That's where I thought he was going to place in sixth at the Arnold, Ohio. But I think a lot of people had higher expectations for him because the last time we saw him at the Arnold, he was top three. And he just really didn't do enough this time around to be in that range or in that conversation. But as far as the Arnold Classic South America, we still don't really have a good idea of who all is doing that show. Raphael's won it before. I think he's probably going to win it again. And that's going to be how he qualifies for the Olympia this year. And again, I think it's worth pointing out that after the Arnold, Ohio, he left his coach, Neil Hill. And I think it looks like that is paying off for him so far because this is one of the best physique updates I think I've seen from Raphael. Because not only does his condition look on point, and you can see a ton of detail, vascularity, grainy separation, but he looks really full in this update too. I think this is one of the more impressive looks that we've seen from him. And I think he's going to look pretty good at the Arnold Classic South America. That's my guess on what he's doing. He still hasn't officially confirmed what his next show is going to be. But based on this, I think we're going to see him on stage very, very soon. And I think that the final story that I've got for you guys today, the latest couple of physique updates from Michael Crizzo, these were a couple days ago. We know that Michael Crizzo is doing New York. Again, there hasn't really been a lot to talk about in bodybuilding these past couple of weeks. The first two weeks of April, there's not any shows. And the next weekend is the next show, which is the FIBO Pro. I know that Soss Harati is doing it again, but this is kind of a little bit of a lull in between the Arnold and then like this whole string of shows because starting with FIBO, it's like back-to-back-to-back every weekend for like a couple months. FIBO, Arnold South America, New York Pro, Pittsburgh Pro, Cali Pro, Legion, just back-to-back-to-back. So we'll have a lot more stuff to talk about in the coming weeks, but it's just been kind of slow these last couple weeks. But Crizzo, I think, is going to also have a great year in 2026. Again, another guy that's well over 300 pounds, or he was. He was like 320-something when he was like eight weeks out from the show. So like I said, it's kind of interesting that we're in an era of bodybuilding now where 300-plus-pound mass monsters are kind of commonplace. But let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Make sure you guys like the video, subscribe to the channel, click that bell notification icon if you have not already. And as always, I love you guys, appreciate you guys. Nick Strength & Power signing out. Thank you. Thank you for watching today's video. If you guys want more bodybuilding content, you can follow me on Facebook, Instagram, or YouTube. Just search Nick Strength & Power on any of those platforms and follow the verified account. If the daily YouTube videos don't satisfy your need for bodybuilding content, I post 24-7 across those three platforms bodybuilding content all day long. And of course, like and subscribe here on YouTube. Thank you.