 necannit, here with Nick Strength and Power. I've got a couple of interesting stories for you guys today. The first story that I've got for you guys today, Wesley Vissers is in the UK for the Arnold Classic UK. We've got a lot of interesting updates today of Wesley training, Wesley and Mike, Wesley talking about his body weight. I wanted to start out with the physique update that Wesley posted today, the video of him just kind of briefly posing. He's a very imposing guy. Massive, ripped, taller than anybody else on that stage. I think when you look at these guys in the gym, Wesley is the most impressive guy. When you see an update like this, I don't think anybody else really comes close. But again, it doesn't matter until they're on stage. Wesley's on a streak right now. He won the Arnold Ohio. He won the Detroit Pro. Both of those shows, I would say, it was a pretty unanimous victory. I don't think it was very questionable, either one. But I thought the interesting thing here, he did an interview. Wesley's talking to the owner of this gym, Dino's gym. And I thought this was worth kind of pointing out here because Wesley apparently actually did get a little bit taller for, I guess, the Arnold Classic Ohio compared to the last time he competed. I guess he was always 6'3", but he was slightly over 6'3", at the Arnold. And because of that, he could be, I think he said 6 pounds heavier. As far as what his weight limit was, and he was saying that typically he's like 245 on stage and now he's 255, which the takeaway for me from that was twofold. The first one being, that's like a men's open bodybuilder, 255 on stage. Granted, a lot of it is his height because he's probably, what, six inches taller than the average men's open bodybuilder. But 255 is a big dude. And Mike Sommerfeld is in the low 200s. Where Mike is struggling to make weight is like 40 pounds, 50 pounds lighter than what Wesley Vissers is. Because I believe for Mike, the case was he wanted to be over 5'9", which would put him in the 212, literally the 212 would be his weight cap. It would be up to and including 212 pounds, and that would be up to and including 5'10". So I believe the whole Arnold Classic controversy was Mike was, of course, under 5'9", which put him in the up to and including 204, which should be what he is. So that was what he was at the Olympia. That should have been what he was at the Arnold Classic Ohio. And if he's not still planning on trying to get taller, that's what Mike has to be at the Arnold Classic UK, up to and including 204. So 50 pounds lighter than Wesley. It's a significant, significant size difference. Even with the height difference between those two guys, the size difference is very significant. Then with Wesley, I'm just looking at the chart right now. If he was just 6'3", flat, he's not over 6'3", at all, up to and including 249 pounds. So he's saying he was measured slightly above 6'3", which would be up to and including 6'4". So now he is up to 256 pounds. But I believe he said he's still under that at weigh-ins. He's under that on stage. He has no problem making that weight. And it sounds like he never had any problem making weight in the past. And so the other part of my takeaway from this was I really think there should be more transparency with the heights and weights. I would say best case scenario, at least at the bigger shows, we get a full live stream of the weigh-ins, seeing live everybody be measured and everybody be weighed. I get that that's like the best case ideal scenario and probably not a lot of shows are actually going to do that. But at a minimum, I think every show should publish the classic physique heights and weights. What did each guy at each show measure for their height? What did each guy at each show weigh in at? I think there should be like a publicly released record of that for every show. Because when Wesley was talking about his weigh-ins for the Ohio show and he said he was slightly over 6'3", I didn't even realize that that meant he had a now seven more pounds of weight, 249 to 256. Because we don't really think about what these guys measured at other shows. I just wish there was a more concise record that we could refer to of, okay, how tall was Wesley at the last Olympia he did and what did he weigh? And the same thing with Mike, et cetera, et cetera. I think there should be some kind of additional layer of transparency to the classic physique heights and weights. Because I think it's really hard to keep track of from show to show, how tall was this guy? How much did they weigh? And I think Mike Sommerfeld really introduced that to the conversation with the Olympia controversy. So I just feel like there should be more transparency. Now, of course, we did get a lot of photos of Mike and Wesley training together. Now, a lot of people were excited to see this. Because, you know, here's the thing. As negative as I've been towards Mike, it's because I want to see him compete. It's because he was the defending champion in Ohio. We wanted to see him compete. We want to see Wesley at his all-time best tested against the defending champ, tested against the runner-up at the Olympia. It's not that we're mad at Mike because we don't like him. It's because we want to see the champ compete. And when you have the champ miss weight, it's very disheartening. So a lot of people are excited to see ahead of the UK show that Mike is there. He's training with Wesley. He's doing interviews. And one of the big takeaways that I saw from the stuff that was posted of Mike was a lot of people are commenting on how sunken in Mike's face is and saying, well, that means Mike's going to be ready. He's going to make weight. His face never looks like this. And I'll agree that Mike's face looks crazy. His face looks sunken in. He looks really depleted. He looks like he's trying to make weight. Now we did talk about in the last video how Neil said the Saturday before the UK show, Mike is still five pounds above the weight limit. And like I said, we just heard Wesley say that even before the weigh-ins, he's below the weight limit. He has no issue making weight, et cetera. And that's kind of the position that I feel like Mike should be in. So we do know that Mike was still not at the weight less than a week away from weigh-ins. But then also, while I agree that Mike's face looks sunken in, we did almost see this exact same scenario play out before the Ohio show. We saw Mike arrive in Ohio. He's training with Wesley in Ohio. They're doing these photo shoots, talking about the rivalry. They're doing interviews. And what I noticed when I looked back at the Arnold Classic thing, which, like I said, is very similar to what we're seeing here in the UK, I think Mike's face looks almost exactly like it looks right now, but right before the Ohio show. His face was sunken in. It looked crazy for Ohio too. So while I agree that his face looks crazy sunken in, I don't necessarily think that's a good indicator that he is going to make weight because his face did look pretty crazy before the Ohio show. And then, of course, we know what happened there. He didn't make weight and he didn't compete at all. So I'm just kind of saying I'll believe it when I see it. I want to see him make weight and then we can talk about Mike versus Wesley. I get that there's a lot of optimism now seeing Mike training with Wesley and Mike looks really depleted. I just feel like we saw almost the exact same thing ahead of the Ohio show, which I think made it a bit of a bigger shock when Mike didn't make weight because we did get a nice buildup to the Arnold Classic, Classic Physique in Ohio. Like that week of, we were seeing these guys training and posing and interviewing together. They all looked like they were in really good shape. And I think the fact that just like a day or two later, we find out that Mike misses weight, it's surprising because he's there at the show training for the show with the guys that he's competing against. Then a couple days later, he doesn't make weight. That makes it more shocking. And I hope that's not what we see happen here. And going back to the transparency element, I think that one of the reasons why I'd like to see the live stream, and I think that would be the best case scenario is like showing these guys be measured in weight and not just publishing a list of what they were measured at and weighed at is because I feel like in situations like this where they're advertising the returning champion, even though Mike's not the returning UK champion. But in a situation like this where Mike is this big advertised name, I could see a show. I don't think this is out of the realm of possibility. Mike is selling tickets. People want to see Mike versus Wesley. If he misses weight, I could see them looking the other way. You've had all this buildup to a major show. You're selling tickets based on him competing. I could legitimately see scenarios like that happening. If he's off by a couple pounds, oh, we're not going to stop him from competing. He traveled here from overseas. He's here. He's in shape. He's ready to go. We'll just kind of look the other way. We don't really have to tell people anyway. I could see that happening. And that's why, while I was disappointed to not see Mike compete in Ohio, it was kind of refreshing to see that they didn't let him compete. He was their returning champion. I mean, it was a big deal. They were selling tickets based on Mike being there. They could have easily, you know, it wasn't a public thing. They could have easily said, Mike made weight. He's competing. And it was refreshing that they didn't do that. I think it like adds a little bit of legitimacy to it. And I think if they did a live stream or publish the records or whatever, it would add more legitimacy to it. Because we know that Mike didn't make weight only because they told us. We didn't have a video of him being measured. We didn't have a video of him being weighed. If they hadn't told us that he missed weight, realistically, we might never have known if they looked the other way. You see what I'm saying? So while I was disappointed to not see him compete, it was refreshing that they didn't let him even though he's the defending champion because they wanted that legitimacy. These weight classes and these heights, this is what makes the division. This is, it's important. We're not going to look the other way. And look, I've said this before, honestly, for as far as the Arnold Classic UK goes, I'm more excited to see Wesley versus Mike than any other part of that show. I think open bodybuilding will be fun. But I think, I mean, let's be real. I think most of us know or at least most of us think Andrew Jack is going to win that relatively easily. Like I said in the last video, there's a chance that Martin Fitzwater comes in here looking absolutely crazy and he could win the show. But I think realistically we're looking at Andrew Jack. With Mike versus Wesley, it's really hard to say what's going to happen. Is the weight cut that Mike wasn't really anticipating, is it going to affect him badly enough that, you know, you've got a guy that's 50 pounds heavier than you, Wesley Vissers, that's just kind of cruising and saying, look, I feel great. I'm not struggling with my weight. I got like this extra bonus, you know, six pounds. I'm bigger. He's peeled to the bone. His legs are up. You know, it's hard to say. But I do think that the version of Wesley that we saw in Ohio had Mike competed, it would have been, it would have been a battle. I think it would have been tough for Mike when going into the show we thought Mike was going to win it easy. I don't think that's the case. Coming into this UK show, I don't think it's the case that Mike is the favorite to win. But let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Make sure you guys like the video, subscribe to the channel, click that bell notification icon if you have not already. And as always, I love you guys. Appreciate you guys. Nick Strength and Power signing out. Thank you for watching today's video. If you guys want more bodybuilding content, you can follow me on Facebook, Instagram, or YouTube. Just search Nick Strength and Power on any of those platforms and follow the verified account. If the daily YouTube videos don't satisfy your need for bodybuilding content, I post 24-7 across those three platforms bodybuilding content all day long. And of course, like and subscribe here on YouTube. Thank you. Thank you.