 A-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma-perma- And obviously that's not true. So somehow I think maybe in translation, something got lost and they started mixing up these stories because he does need a kidney transplant, but he reposted this. And I guess this was posted by like a non bodybuilding related Brazilian media page. It was like a mainstream media kind of outside of the realm of fitness and bodybuilding. So maybe they just misunderstood the news about the kidney transplant, but Lee Haney reposted it. He says greetings to all my family and friends. I'm alive and well, it's appalling to see how fast rumors can spread. Yes, I am in need of a living kidney donor as communicated by my two awesome children. Many of you have sent prayers my way and I appreciate them deeply. My approach is to be proactive as I face this current challenge. My faith in the Lord has always been my superpower. Thank you all for being genuinely concerned. I'm still well and fully functional. I am not needed in heaven at this time. So just wanted to make sure that I included that in this video clearing up. Now there have been reports that Lee Haney passed away and he of course did not. He's alive and well, but like he said in this post, he is still in need of the kidney transplant. So I would, um, I would still encourage people to share his post about the kidney transplant to help him find a donor that matches whatever the specific criteria he's looking for are. Because again, this is something that I think it's, it's one of the easier things, not that any of it's easy, but one of the easier things to find a donor for because everybody has two kidneys and it's one of the, and I think it's a bit more realistic to find someone willing to donate one. So I still encourage people to share the original post. Now, next up in the news, I wanted to talk about this latest video. I thought this was really interesting and it pertains to this weekend's Arnold Classic UK. One of the biggest topics going into this show, as far as I'm concerned, is the Mike Sommerfeld thing. Classic physique. Will we finally get to see Wesley Vissers versus Mike Sommerfeld? We did not get to see it at the Arnold Classic Ohio. Will we get to see it here to me as one of the bigger stories for this Arnold Classic UK? Because as you guys know, men's open bodybuilding, you're not going to see Nick Walker. You're not going to see Heidi Chupin. You're not going to see those rematches with Andrew Jack. You will get to see Martin, which I still think is a big story here, but we'll talk about that in a second. So this interview with Mike's coach, Neil Hill on Beyond the Stage TV, this interview did not give me a whole lot of faith that we're actually going to see Mike make weight and compete. The first part of it that was a little odd is Neil didn't seem to know exactly how much Mike was weighing. But the second part of it, and apparently this interview was recorded on Saturday. I believe their weigh-ins for the UK are either Wednesday or Thursday. So Saturday would not be a full week from the show. It would just be a matter of four or five days, depending on whether it's Wednesday or Thursday, from when they have to make weight. So what Neil said was he's like five or six pounds right now above the weight limit for the UK show. And for, I think he said five pounds above the weight limit for UK on Saturday. And then for the Ohio show, I believe what he was saying was at that same point, so I guess a week out from the Ohio show, the Saturday prior to the Arnold, Ohio, Mike was like eight pounds heavier. And I know it was a little bit confusing if you listen to the interview. So like I said, my interpretation is he's saying right now, as of the Saturday before the UK show, he's five pounds over in the Saturday before the Ohio show, he was eight pounds over, which is odd because we had heard that Mike missed weight by seven or eight pounds. So in the week from that Saturday to the weigh-ins, Mike didn't lose any weight at all. If he was eight pounds over the Saturday before. And I think that tracks, I think that's an important detail. Again, if I'm interpreting what they're saying here correctly, because I think that kind of confirms what I've been telling you guys I've been hearing is that Mike's plan going into the Ohio show was not to make weight for the weight class that he competed in at the Olympia. He was planning on being taller the entire prep. He was planning on being able to weigh more than he weighed at the Olympia, which would make sense as to why he was eight pounds over the Saturday before. And then he was still like eight pounds over on the day of the weigh-ins because that was his target weight. And that's what he was shooting for. Now, obviously this time I'm hoping what I'm hoping is he's actually shooting for the proper height and weight because there's like three different scenarios that I have in my mind for this. I think scenario one, which to me would be the craziest scenario, right? This is, is Mike dumb enough that he's assuming he can try again to get remeasured, his height remeasured at the UK show. And he's still hoping that he can be that weight class higher. And he's still planning on that because if he does that, then I think he's just an idiot. And that's why I think that's the extreme scenario. The middle scenario is because he's only a couple pounds away from where he was a week out from the Ohio. He's still kind of hoping maybe he's going to be taller, measured taller this time, but he's shooting for a weight that's kind of in between. And that's why he's not underweight or like at the weight he should be at this point. Cause maybe he's still kind of, you know, waffling between maybe I'll be the inch shorter. Maybe I'll be the inch higher, whatever. And he's maybe toggling between those two weight classes and maybe still holding onto a little bit of hope that he's in the higher one. And the third one is that he is planning on trying to make the lower weight class, but he's still having trouble with it. And that's why he's still five pounds over. Because if I were Mike, I wouldn't risk at all the chance that I'm not going to make weight. Whatever height he was for the Arnold Classic Ohio and whatever that weight was that he needed to be, that he was eight pounds over. If I were Mike, I would be trying to be at that weight limit or under a week out. So there's no chance that he makes weight. And that's kind of the question, right? The fact that he's still five pounds over the Saturday before the show to me is alarming. And to me makes me think we might not see him make weight for the UK show. And that's kind of the feeling that I've had going into this. Because if I were him, I would be thinking to myself, there's no way I'm going to risk missing weight again. And I would be as low as I could possibly be the Saturday before the show just to eliminate, even if it impacts his look on stage, even if he doesn't like his look the Saturday before. At this point, if I were him, he's committed to this show. He's already kind of fucked up with the Ohio show. He's on the posters for the UK. He's telling the promoters he's doing the UK. He's telling the fans he's doing the UK. If I were him, my priority would be, yes, obviously he wants to look good and win the show. But the first priority before that is making weight. And that to me would be my number one priority after I just missed weight at the second biggest bodybuilding show in the world. Because I think if it happens again, like I told you guys, I really don't think Mike is going to be able to live that down. I think this, just making weight should be his number one priority at this point. And if he's still holding on to hope that he's going to be taller, to me that's just insane. Because when I hear Neil say here that he's still five pounds over the Saturday before, I mean, think about Sam Sulik, right? Sam, it was his pro debut. He was an amateur and you can think what you want about how Sam looked or his posing or his placement, whatever. At five or six weeks out, Sam was already under his weight limit for classic physique. Mike is less than a week from the show, a week from weigh-ins, and he's still five pounds over. That's concerning to me. I think if Mike doesn't make weight here, he has to go to 212. He has to go to a different division because I think that means that his back is really up against the wall trying to make weight, and his body just can't do it if he doesn't make weight here. And I think that means he's no longer suited for classic physique. The weight limits exist for a reason, to keep it fair. And I think if he can't make weight at these two massive shows, then he just shouldn't be in classic physique because that means all this time, and this is why the hair controversy at the Olympia is so relevant here, because if he doesn't make weight for the UK and the Ohio, then that means that all this time in classic physique, that he was getting away with the higher weight class, and all these really good placings, all these good wins, outside of the 2025 Olympia, of course, winning the Ohio in 2025 at that higher weight class, it means that all of those weren't really fair wins if he's not able to make weight back-to-back at these Arnolds. That's what that tells me, is that he's just outgrown classic physique, and he shouldn't be trying to be taller. He should be going to a different division. That's what I think. And I think it's going to be really disappointing. Like I said, I really do think the selling point, one of the biggest selling points for this UK show, is that we might get to see, finally, Wesley versus Mike, and Wesley looks so good at the Ohio show, I think you could make a strong argument for him beating Mike, especially if Mike is struggling this badly with trying to make weight for the show. And I'm curious to hear what you guys think in the comments below, but again, when I saw this, to me my mind was kind of just blown that the Saturday before he's still five or six pounds over, because like I said, if I were him, my top priority would be making weight, and I'm going to do whatever it is to, I would try to be at that weight or under like a week in advance just to make sure nothing goes wrong, because I think him missing weight for the UK show would be just, I think it'd be like the end of his classic physique career. But let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. I'm just a little bit disheartened to see this interview, and it really, I don't know, it would really suck. Now, I wanted to get into the Arnold Classic UK lineups, which were posted today. Actually, I think they were posted yesterday. So, the Ohio show, the biggest, or I'm sorry, the open lineup. The biggest thing about the open lineup, I noticed that MoFuda, which I talked about in my last video, MoFuda did pull out at the last minute. He was going to come over from the Detroit show, fresh off the Detroit win, and do this show. He is now out. You got Blessing Awodabu, Brandon Curry, Martin Fitzwater, Abu Kanate, Patrick Moore, Hasan Mustafa, Andrew Jacked, Akeem Williams. I think the very clear thing that we're going to be looking at here, in my opinion, Andrew Jacked, Martin Fitzwater, Brandon Curry. I think those are going to be your top three. I'd be really, really surprised if they're not. And I think the, the pie in the sky idea that, and I've said this before, but the most exciting, interesting outcome, is if Martin Fitzwater takes all this negativity that he's gotten, all the stuff from the celebrating the Nick Walker loss, the social media crash, the crash out, all this negative attention that he's gotten. there is a chance, even if it's slim, that Martin could come in here, looking how he looked at the 2025 Prague Pro, for example. And there's a chance that he could beat Andrew Jacked, which I think could be one of the greatest comeback stories in history. If he comes in here after all that negativity and the placing that he got in Ohio, he really wasn't in the conversation for the top three, in my opinion, with how he looked at the Ohio show. But if he takes that negativity as fuel, and he comes back here with a great package, he can beat Andrew Jacked. He's beaten him before. He's beaten him recently. He beat them the last Olympia they went head-to-head prior to 2025. He's beaten him. He's beaten him recently. He beat Samson Douda, who's also beaten Andrew Jacked recently. Samson Douda also won the Olympia in 2024. That was a big win for Martin. And if you remember, Martin came back better from the 2025 Olympia, I think a lot better from the 2025 Olympia to that Prague show, which was a few weeks later, maybe a similar amount of time as the UK and the Ohio show, the gap between those. So if Martin comes back way better, there is a chance, I do think it's a slim chance, that he could beat Andrew Jacked. Now, if I were a betting man and I were to place a bet right now on who's going to win the UK show, I would almost, without a doubt, put my money on Andrew Jacked. But to me, the greatest, most entertaining, I would say not the greatest, the most entertaining possible outcome for the open lineup is a Martin Fitzwater comeback where he beats Andrew Jacked. I know people don't like to hear that because Martin is kind of public enemy number one, as far as pro bodybuilders are concerned right now. And Andrew Jacked is by far the fan favorite, but that's what would make this such an exciting outcome is because a, nobody expects it. A lot of people don't want that to happen, but it would be huge if it did. And then you've also got the classic physique lineup here. So again, this is really dependent on what happens with Mike. You've got Kim Angel, Jorge Herrera, Paul Canu, Andrea Mamoli, Angelo Rossi, Mike Sommerfeld, Sam Sulik, Luis Roberto, Valenzuela Ramos, and Wesley Visser. So Sam is returning. Wesley is returning. Mamoli is returning, who was top three at the Ohio show. And he also won the best poser award. Menengate, not returning. So really, if, if Mike's not here, I think kind of an easy dub for Wesley. And I'll say it again. I really do think that if Mike doesn't make weight for this show, I really don't want to hear anybody talking about Mike going into the next Olympia, 2026, as a contender, as a challenger, as a, you know, guy that can beat Ramon, the next guy in line for the title. I think if he doesn't make weight for this show, I, I have him out of my conversation for the Olympia. I think he should be in a different division if we don't see him compete in the UK. But that's just my opinion. I'm going to wrap up the video there. Again, there hasn't really been a whole lot going on, um, these past couple of days. I think for the rest of the week, we'll go through classic physique, physique updates, men's open bodybuilding, physique updates and kind of do a bunch of preview shows for the UK. But just a quick look through these lineups, my, my quick thoughts on what I think is going to happen. Mike Summerfeld, I think there's honestly a high chance that he's going to miss weight. And again, when I look back at on this, uh, on this Neil Hill interview, when I look back at it, I kind of get the vibe that Neil is distancing himself a bit from Mike. I saw that people in the comments were very critical of Neil, not knowing Mike's exact weight. I think that Neil is smarter than that. And I think the way that he answered those questions, I think he was trying to word it. And this is just, again, my, my speculation here. I think he was trying to word it as if the communication between him and Mike, like Mike telling him what he's weighing is not great. And maybe distancing himself from if Mike doesn't make weight, Neil's like, well, the communication wasn't great. I didn't really know what exactly he was weighing. He wasn't telling me because I did hear that when Mike missed weight for the Ohio show, Neil was really concerned about how that made him look. And I don't think that it was necessarily his idea or something that he fully agreed with. Mike's big idea to try to come in taller instead of just trying to make the weight that he knew he should be at. So my, my watch of this interview with Neil was not necessarily, my impression was not that Neil didn't know how much Mike weighed. My impression was maybe Neil is distancing himself from Mike and saying, if Mike doesn't make weight, it's kind of a Mike thing and not really a me thing, which I, I honestly do believe. I know that Neil is getting some negativity right now because he just recently split with Raphael Brando. Now, Neil has had a good track record in the past and Neil's not a dumb guy. I don't believe that Neil advised Mike to say, okay, this is what they measured you at, at the Olympia. This is your true height. They measured you this height. Try to be taller for the Arnold. I legitimately don't believe that was Neil's advice to Mike. I think that's what Mike wanted to do. And Neil said, okay, that you're my client. That's what you want to do. I will try to help you get there. But I don't think that Neil thought that was a good idea or advised him to do that. Because I think all of us can agree looking at this to think you were just measured for the Olympia. And I know that I'm really hammering this point home repeatedly, but I feel strongly about this to know, that you were just measured at the Olympia. This is your height. It was a big controversy because it clearly wasn't your true height before. They remeasure you. This is your new height. I think we all agree. It's absolutely stupid. If you prepped for the Arnold, Ohio, just a few months after the Olympia, thinking that you will grow taller at 30 years old between those two shows. And to plan on that as you prep for your body weight on stage. I think we all agree. That's just, it's stupid. And I'm going to be, honestly, I'm going to be mind blown. If Mike misses weight for the Arnold classic UK, the five pounds over thing. And I know I'm getting a bit repetitive here, but five pounds over five or six pounds over the Saturday before that makes me nervous for Mike. And I'm really hoping that he's not stupid enough. And I think I'm not saying he is. Like I said, that's the extreme example, but I, I'm hoping that he's not going to try again to be taller for this show. I think it's, I think that would just be insanely dumb. I mean, just imagine that he's thinking, you know, three more weeks on the inversion table. I'll be taller for UK. I hope that's not what he's doing. Just try to make the weight of your actual height, but I'm going to go ahead and wrap it up there. Let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Make sure you guys like the video, subscribe to the channel, click that bell notification icon. If you have not already. And as always, I love you guys. I appreciate you guys. Nick strength and power signing out. Thank you for watching today's video. If you guys want more bodybuilding content, you can follow me on Facebook, Instagram, or YouTube. Just search Nick strength and power on any of those platforms and follow the verified account. If the daily YouTube videos don't satisfy your need for bodybuilding content, I post 24 seven across those three platforms, bodybuilding content all day long. And of course, like, and subscribe here on YouTube. Thank you.