 tffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffenffen got confirmation of a couple of things for you guys. I was not only able to confirm with the people at the Arnold that Mike did make weight. I actually got the weight that he weighed in at. I think this is important because we need to know whether he was remeasured or not. If he was in the upper or lower weight category, was this the same weight that he missed at the Arnold Classic Ohio? And he weighed in, according to my sources, at 203.6 pounds. So this was the Olympia weight and height class, under 5'9", up to and including 204 pounds. So he made weight by just 0.4 pounds, but he did make weight. So we got to give him credit where credit is due. This time around, he made weight. He got there. We get to see the battle that we want to see, which is Mike versus Wesley that we didn't get to see at the Arnold Classic Ohio. Now it's worth pointing out that Wesley Vissers, his weight class is 256 pounds. So we're talking about a 53-pound difference, potentially, just at the weigh-ins between Wesley and Mike. That's significant. Even when you take into consideration the height difference, Wesley is peeled to the bone. 53 pounds is a really big difference. And I saw a really interesting interview earlier with Wesley, and I believe it was Rep 1. And Wesley was talking about Mike missing weight for the Arnold Classic Ohio. And they asked Wesley, you know, what do you think Mike's strategy was? What was the reason that he missed weight? And why did he, you know, gamble so hard on the idea that he was going to be re-hided at the Arnold when they told him at the Olympia he wouldn't? Because look, that's what we were all told after the Olympias. Once they were measured at the Olympia, they wouldn't be measured again. And Wesley said he feels like Mike probably wasn't even re-measured. They just put him straight on a scale, and he doesn't know why he would gamble on that idea, other than maybe that Mike is not confident. And Wesley said this, that Mike doesn't think he can win unless he's at that higher weight, the 212. Now, I actually thought that was a really interesting point, and I think there's some truth to that. Because why else would Mike gamble on coming in taller when he's the defending Arnold Classic champion, and potentially risk not being able to compete, which is what happened unless he truly believed he couldn't win at that weight. So I think that's an interesting point to think about going into this Arnold Classic UK. The size difference, the weight difference between Mike and Wesley. I think that there's a good chance Wesley beats Mike here. We're talking about, again, A-50 pound weight difference between the two of them here. And Wesley's peeled. I mean, we're not talking, you know, there is a height difference. That's a big part of it. Make no mistake. But again, Mike weighed in at 203.6. I think there's a pretty big gap between those two numbers. And again, credit to Mike. I'm happy that we get to see this battle. But I do feel like if Mike loses here, this kind of validates the idea that up until the Olympia, where they hided Mike properly, he shouldn't have been allowed to compete at the weight he was competing at, because he's unable to make that weight when he needs to. So again, now he's back under 204. He was competing at the 212 limit, which is kind of funny because that kind of makes sense as to why so many people say he looks like a 212 bodybuilder. And Wesley posted a video reacting to this too, where Wesley talks about how everybody made weight for Classic Physique, which typically, frankly, they do. We don't typically see people miss weight for Classic Physique. It's kind of a rarity because again, these guys are pros. They know what they have to weigh. They know how to get to that weight. They know what their height is. You typically don't see a whole lot of issues with this. And look, I mean, Wesley did his own video where he's celebrating the fact that everybody made weight. And I like to see that because I think Wesley kind of felt the same way that I felt, I kind of said this after the Arnold Classic Ohio, was I think it's going to take away from Wesley's win the fact that Mike wasn't able to compete. And I think had Mike competed, there's a good chance that Wesley would have still won. But because Mike is the defending champion, that's going to be a lot of the conversation was, well, the defending champion didn't compete. So you can't really say you beat him or uncrowned him or going into the Olympia now, since Mike was the runner-up, that Wesley is the new favorite to be a challenger until he beats Mike, which I think is what we might see here at the Arnold Classic UK. That's kind of my early prediction. And I am a little biased here. I'm a huge fan of Wesley Vissers. I like Wesley a lot. He won my 2017 Mr. Golden Era competition very early on in my channel and really in his channel too, in his competitive career. He wasn't even a pro yet back then when we first kind of got to know each other. And I believe I first met Wesley in 2018, which has already been eight years ago. So full transparency, I am a little biased here. I like Wesley. I like this kind of redemption story that he's on. You know, a lot of people wrote him off after last year's Arnold Classic where he dropped to fifth. And he's made a massive comeback this year. I think he's brought the best physique that he's ever had. And I think that he's got a really good chance at beating Mike, who was just number two in the world. And he's supposedly, you know, still the defending Arnold Classic Ohio champion because he never did get beaten on that stage. So I am rooting for Wesley here. And I do believe in Wesley's ability here. And when you look at it on paper, Mike still is the favorite. We haven't seen Wesley beat Mike in recent history. Mike on paper, still runner up at the Olympia. He's still your 2025 Arnold Classic champion that wasn't beaten. So I just kind of want to see Wesley get his moment. And by his moment, I want to see him compete against the second best in the world. So going into the Olympia, if he wins both these Arnolds, he can say that he's the number one contender at this point on paper. That's what I want to see. I feel like Wesley was kind of robbed of that moment at the Ohio. And, you know, also there's the possibility that Wesley gets beaten here by Mike. And, of course, that's why I want to see Wesley versus Mike. We don't know what's going to happen. And I think that's why it kind of has gotten taken away from his victory a bit in Ohio because there is the chance that Mike would have beaten Wesley in Ohio. I personally, though, think that Wesley stands a really good chance here. I think that weight difference is significant. I think Mike's probably going to come in flat like he did at the Olympia a little bit off. I think that's what we're going to see here. I don't think we're going to see the best Mike. Like, clearly he struggles to get to that weight, which is why he didn't compete in the Arnold Classic Ohio. Clearly he feels he's better at 212 pounds, which he's not here. And I think there's a really good chance that we see Wesley Vissers win his third show in 2026. And he finally gets to beat Mike and goes into the Olympia as a very heavy favorite. But I think that's going to wrap it up for the video today, guys. I think that's really the biggest news that we have this week. I might do another video later tonight, but let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Make sure you guys like this video, subscribe to the channel, click that bell notification icon if you have not already. And as always, I love you guys, appreciate you guys. Nick Strength and Power, signing out. Thank you.mondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmondmond