 arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise arise For some people, there are two IFBBs. There was a split maybe 10 years ago at this point between the IFBB Pro League and the IFBB Elite Pro. Now, Destiny 5 competes in the other IFBB Pro League. That is the Elite Pro. He is considered to be pretty much the best bodybuilder in that other Pro League. For example, this is where we got Good Vito from. This is where we got Michael Crizzo from. I believe even Andrew Jack did one of their amateur shows. I believe one of his first shows was like their equivalent of the NPC. Oh, and I guess also notably, this is also where we got Nexilla, Rubiel Mascara from. So some of the bigger, more viral names in bodybuilding right now have came from that other IFBB. Once they achieved the highest titles and the highest status over there, and the competition got a little bit stale for them, they came over to this IFBB to compete at the Olympia. Now, I do feel like the Olympia is the highest honor in bodybuilding. It's the most competitive stage. I think it's got the most, it really does have the best bodybuilders in the world. So eventually, you see a lot of the top guys from the other IFBB come over here. Now, the interesting thing about Destiny 5 is that he has said on record multiple times that he makes good money in that other IFBB, and he never intends to switch. So it's interesting because I don't think a lot of people really think about even the existence, really, of that other IFBB. But I think it is interesting because I think he's got a great physique. I think he is undoubtedly really genetically gifted. He's got some really strong body parts. Great lower body. Great round 3D muscle bellies. I compare his muscle bellies kind of like Andrew Jack's look. Just clearly not as big. He's not as tall. He's a shorter guy. But like similar muscle bellies. That genetic quality to the muscle that is just very unique. And I think it's unfortunate that we're never going to see him, or at least he says we're never going to see him on an IFBB Pro League stage. I think it would be interesting to see him in the mix at the Olympia. I do think, you know, I tend to see him when he wins some of these shows. I don't think the condition would be enough to be competitive on like the Olympia stage. But I think that's kind of signaling the level of competition in the other IFBB. I think he's so good, he doesn't need to come in crazy condition to win some of these shows. Whereas in this IFBB, he would. And I believe he actually even trains at the same gym as Andrew Jack's. Binus Gym. So it's interesting. And I think I just want to keep him in the mix here and talk about him when he does win shows. Kind of the same way I talked about Michael Crizzo before he came to the IFBB. Or Nexzilla or Good Vito. Before they came to the Pro League, we were still talking about them. Because they were really ahead of the pack in the other IFBB. So even if there's a slight possibility that we see Destiny, Five, Bodebe, Devo, Ndukuru come over. I think it's an interesting thing to think about. Because I really do think he is a fantastic bodybuilder. Great genetics. And I think it's always interesting to see when we get new guys in the mix. In this IFBB. But let me know what you guys think in the comments down below. Now, speaking of Binus Gym, I saw this and I thought it was interesting. I actually saw this. I believe it was on Beyond the Stage TV. That apparently they give Andrew Jacked a bonus. A $15,000 bonus for each Arnold Classic that he won. So $30,000 between the UK and the US. And on top of that, he already got a million dollars by winning those two shows. $250,000 at the UK and $750,000 at the US. And it's an interesting concept. Because you could make the argument that Andrew Jacked is really the one that put that gym on the map. I know that Larry Wheels also trained there when he was living in Dubai. So I guess you could give Larry a lot of that credit as well. But Andrew Jacked, I feel like, really did put them on the map. And I believe they also did something for, I want to say, Kamal El-Gargny when he won the Masters Olympia. But I believe the question posed by Beyond the Stage TV was, will we see more gyms follow suit in these bonuses when they have this really big star bodybuilder training out of their gym and they win a major show like the Arnold Ohio or the Arnold Classic UK? Will we see more gyms give guys bonuses? And I think that we probably won't. Because Binance Gym is a really unique gym. I don't know if you guys have seen pictures or videos of it. But it's a really, really rich gym. It's not your typical gym. There's a lot of money behind this gym. And I think, realistically, it's an outlier. It's an exception. It's not the rule. There's not very many gyms that exist like this gym. I think it's really cool that they give Andrew Jacked that bonus. I don't know that he necessarily needs it. But I do like the celebration aspect of it. They made cakes with Andrew's face on it and pictures from the show. They had a big gym celebration. I think it would be cool to see more gyms do maybe the celebration of somebody from their gym winning a show. And I think that a lot of gyms actually do something like that. Even one of the gyms that I used to go to, they would even hang up pictures of people that won a local NPC show. And they'd have a little celebration for those people. So I think a lot of gyms do the celebrations. But the $15,000 bonus for the win I think is really cool. But I believe that Andrew's relationship with that gym is more like a sponsorship type of thing. So it's kind of a unique situation with him. But you guys saw with that video, they've got like Lamborghinis and Ferraris and G-Wagons parked outside of that gym. It's not your typical gym. It's not your typical clientele. And there's a lot of money behind it. But I do think it's cool. So let me know what you guys think in the comments down below on the topic of gyms giving money to a member when they win a big pro show. But next up in the news, I want to talk about Michael Crizzo a little bit and his updates at around six weeks out from the New York Pro. We know that's the next show that he's doing. He is already qualified for the 2026 Mr. Olympia, by the way. And he qualified by winning that British Grand Prix that was after the 2025 Olympia. But Michael Crizzo has a unique opportunity here in these upcoming shows to really make a statement. And I think that's what he's trying to do. I think he might also do the Pittsburgh show. And we've kind of touched on this in the last video. You think about all the big names that could be competing in these shows. Andrew Jacked, Samson Douda, Nick Walker, Martin Fitzwater, Hottie Choupin, pretty much your entire Olympia top six. They're not going to be there. Or at least it's a pretty safe bet that most of them won't. We've never seen Hottie do any other show in the U.S. besides the Olympia and the Arnold. So I doubt we would see him at the Pittsburgh or the New York. Derek Lunsford already said he's not doing anything besides the Olympia. Martin Fitzwater is already Olympia qualified. We saw kind of the crash out with him. I think he's shutting it down. Samson Douda and Andrew Jacked are both confirmed for a guest posing in Pittsburgh. So they're not doing it. So you've got these big titles that are wide open. And Krizzo, we know, is doing New York. He might also be doing Pittsburgh. He has an opportunity here to pick up some really big wins, some really big paychecks, and some big momentum going into the Olympia. And I think he looks pretty gnarly in the updates that he's been posting at six weeks out. And I even saw that William Bonak had recently posted a physique update where he said he's nine weeks out from his next show. So that would put even Bonak outside of any of the May shows. Because we've got some really big shows coming up in May. Again, we touched on this in the last video. New York, Pittsburgh, Legion. Also the Cali Pro. New York and Pittsburgh pretty close together, too. In both time and, like, geographically. It'd be easy to do both. But I think for Krizzo, it's a unique opportunity to really make a statement because we basically know most of those top six guys are not doing these shows. And these are big titles. The Pittsburgh is now considered to be part of this triple crown, winning the Olympia, winning the Arnold, and winning the Pittsburgh. Derek kind of coined that term. So it's a big title. It's the Mannion show. It could be a really big win for Krizzo. And kind of the core group of guys that seem to be ready in that zone. Tony O'Burton. We know he's doing New York. Michael Krizzo's doing New York. Then that brings me back to Raphael Brando. We don't know for sure which show he's doing. He posted another update today, which I thought looked really, really impressive. And again, I'm surprised he didn't do the Arnold Classic UK. But I think we're going to see these guys that are kind of in that 7 to 10 range as far as Olympia placings are concerned, battling it out in these spring shows. These are some very competitive shows that we have coming up. You've also got the Arnold Classic Brazil at the end of this month, which is the show that I think we'll see Raphael do. I hope that we also see him do New York and Pittsburgh because if Raphael's not in it and it's Tonio versus Krizzo, I think that could get really interesting. Because again, Krizzo is already Olympia qualified. I think he's competing in these shows to make a statement and put himself on the map a little bit more because he doesn't need to compete. And that's what I like about Krizzo. He's already qualified. He could shut it down and focus on the Olympia. But he's not doing that. And I think if he weren't doing that, you might have some kind of underwhelming lineups coming up here in May and in this kind of early spring phase of the competition season. So he's kind of doing us a favor. Hopefully we see Raphael in some of these lineups. But when you really think about it, those big placing guys, and maybe Brandon Curry jumps in a Pittsburgh pro or a New York pro. You never know. But those top-tier Olympia placing guys, they've pretty much confirmed they're not going to be at these shows. So it's kind of wide open for the outside of the top six guys to come in here and pick up some momentum. But let me know what you guys think in the comments down below about these upcoming shows. And I think I'm going to wrap up the video there. Again, there's not a whole lot going on this week. There's not a competition in the open class this weekend. So, you know, not a lot of news. But I'm going to try to make what videos I can for you guys. So I hope you guys appreciate it. I hope you guys liked the video. Subscribe to the channel. Click that bell notification icon if you have not already. And as always, I love you guys. Appreciate you guys. Nick Strength and Power, signing out. And of course, like and subscribe here on YouTube. Thank you.