Hi everyone and welcome. Day four in the Complex Series and today it's 1 hour full body. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are 15 Kg each. I'll be using those for my squats, my Romanian dead lifts, my lunges, and also Renegade Rows. However, I will drop to 8 kg each for everything else. You also need a chair. I'm gonna be using this chair behind me, if you can see it. And that will be for my Bulgarian lunges, and also some body weight dips. You also need a mat, maybe a towel just if your hands get particularly sweaty, holding the dumbbells for such a long duration. And also a bottle of water handy. Please ensure you spend at least five minutes warming up your entire body before we begin. The timer is going to be on, three minutes of work 30 second rest. All the complexes involve just two exercises. However, the quantity of each exercise will vary. It could be 5, 10, 15, 20, or 30 reps. Please go at your own Pace. If you're using heavier weights than me you may go at a slower pace. However, if you're using lighter weights than me, you may of course get through more reps during the duration. So please don't wait on me. Go ahead if you can go that little bit faster but please ensure your form is perfect. Just want to draw your attention also to the bodweight dips. You can move your feet and closer to the chair. If you prefer ease into the depth of these dips, please don't just drop down and drive up as quick as you can. Nice, slow ease into the depth. When it comes to the tricep pushups, really focus on the triceps. It is only five reps. So keep your keys straight down towards the floor. Tuck the elbows in. Try to ascend with the elbows in as well. So really squeeze those elbows in as tight as you can and you'll really hit the triceps. Then once it comes to the second round of those bodyweight dips you should feel those a little bit more. Your whole body will be targeted today. Shoulders, back, chest, core and abs and the lower body. There are some bodyweight exercises in here today, and don't be fooled they are not any easier. I hope you should really enjoy this work out. It's been so long since I did a 1 hour workout, today is definitely going to be a challenge. When you're having those moments where you think you can't go on. Just think how lucky that you are actually able to do these movements. Just take it slow, controlled, you can do it. Let's go.