- Hi everyone, and welcome day four in our circuit series. And today it's one hour full body. For today's workout, you will need a chair. I'm using this chair behind me for my Bulgarian lunges, my decline push-ups, and my bodyweight dips. Also a pair of dumbbells, I'm using 10 kg each, and have your mat handy. You may also want a towel and a bottle of water. The timer is going to be on 40 seconds of work, 10 second rest. In today's workout there are four circuits in total. The first three circuits we repeat three times. The last circuit will only be repeated for two times. We then have a quick finisher at the very end. Once we complete three rounds of each circuit, we then have a minute rest. If you have access to a selection of dumbbells, definitely keep those handy. But I would expect not to be able to lift as heavy as you typically would. There is only 10 second rests and your heart rate will be elevated for majority of this workout. Please ensure you're controlling the dumbbell at all times. This is not HIIT. This is not high intensity as fast as you can. This is quality reps trying to control the dumbbell whilst your heartbeat is elevated. I would just like to draw your attention to some of these exercises. The same applies with our dumbbell burpees. Please ensure when you're lifting the dumbbell, you're not grinding the back whilst lifting and lowering. Before you lift, ensure the heels are flat on the floor, your back is straight, you're looking forward. The same applies when you're descending, keep looking forward, flat back, chest open. Please ensure you spend at least five minutes warming up prior to beginning this workout. This is a full body workout. Some of the exercises today will definitely feel a little bit more challenging even if you are using light weights. For example, shoulder press, that will be coming after the decline push-ups which of course is targeting the shoulders. And also, whilst we work through that circuit, we have the squat depress. Then we return to our decline push-ups then shoulder press. So by the time we get to our shoulder press, that should be a lot more challenging than normal. Go at your own pace. You'll see me not rushing today. I will definitely stop as, and when I need to. It is only 10 second rest, but please don't rush into position. If you're watching this, it means you're ready to work really hard, let's go.