 Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, Chevy, done Epic one, two, three times, you've maybe done iron five or six times. And that applies with the new programs and workouts within the app that I have been working on. And still to this day, I know that many of you maybe don't know that I do have a new platform, my own app, CGX app. And it's probably my fault because I haven't really done much marketing in regards to this platform. We've been building our team up to 22 in our team, but at the moment, no marketing time. The platform has grown very organically through word of mouth, through use, actually discussing with your friends and family, your workouts. So I would just also like to thank you for the growth of the CGX app. Within the CGX app, we actually have four programs. We have the ultimate beginner, we have base mode, earn, unleash, and currently running is intent. Along with that, a whole array of different workouts. No totaling just over 350 workouts at the moment. So yeah, I certainly haven't been taking it easy. And only recently have we launched the web version, giving you access to all my exclusive programs, workouts, mail ideas, form library, and evidence based articles right from a larger screen on your desktop or laptop. So if you're already a member using the mobile app, you can access the web platform for free. It's ready to go. If you're new, signing up on the web also get you access to our mobile apps at no extra cost. We are beyond excited to launch this. We are constantly listening to you, the community, and we have lots of awesome plans in store. You can check out the new web platform at cgxapp.com. Within the app, we also have a huge form library where I go through all of those main exercises that you will see reappearing throughout these workouts. And along with many articles, not just written by myself, but also experts in their field. That was one of the main reasons why I wanted my own platform. I never want to just tell somebody what to do, rather to provide them with the information so they can make an informed decision and informed choice as to their path they would like to take. Especially when it comes to nutrition and build a muscle. There's a lot of different ways you can do it. And the more that you actually learn, the more you realise that there's not a perfect way to do anything. And today is reflective of a way that I've always loved to work out, body weight. So I'm just going to run through the workout so you know what's coming. So I've taken inspiration for this workout from the recent cluster series and also the ongoing current intent program. There is going to be clusters in today's session and the finisher is going to resemble the intent finisher's a 4 minute complex. It's all going to be on the abdominals. But before that, the cluster sets. We have one straight set of an exercise followed by short cluster sets. These are short duration sets followed by a short rest. We perform the cluster sets for either 3 or 4 rounds. Once we do that, we move on to the next exercise. So you could look at it as we're doing one big set of an exercise and then we completely move on. You'll see the stability ball behind me. These are for stability ball roll out. Instead of the stability ball roll out, hip thrusts with a hamstring emphasis. The feet are further away from the bench. Push-up bars are completely optional. As is the yoga block. I will be using the yoga block for my close stance lunges to increase the range of movement available. Wedges, I'll be using those for my heel elevated squats. Aside from that, you will need your glute band, bench and a mat. See it, this is a perfect workout when you just want a wee rest from those dumbbells. I really want you to enjoy this workout. And these types of workouts are quite funny in that we work to get stronger and lift heavier weights gradually over time. And today we're going to take all that away, just your body weight and it's not any easier. And in fact, some of the strongest people I know really struggle with these types of workouts. So yeah, I think that's it. Again, I would just like to say a thank you so much for all of your support, your suggestions, your feedback and your words of inspiration for me. I hope that no matter where you are on your journey, whether you're doing epic, whether you're in the gym, whether you're in the home like me, I really do hope that you're enjoying your training. At the end of the day, training is for life. 60 minutes body weight only, you ready? Let's go! Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you.  alphazine, same as these, play my clear mind, and you walk right back, pretending like you don't see, but yours for the take-ins and I, side-toed, don't be so slow, baby, I'm sure you mind, show me your soul, can't get you this way, past time, I, I, can't get you, can't speak, fill it up, forget it, baby, don't be so slow, and I, I'm sure you, I'll show you mine, baby, I'll show you, oh, I'll think about taking this planet down, if you don't take notice, then come around, if you walk right past me, one more time, like you don't see, but yours for the take-ins and I, side-toed, don't be so slow, baby, I'm sure you mind, show me your soul, can't get you this way, past time, I, I, can't get you, can't speak, fill it up, forget it, baby, don't be so slow, and I, I'm sure you, I'll show you mine, baby, I'll show you mine, I'll show you mine, I, I, can't get you, can't speak, just wait, just wait, just wait, just wait, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that Body me, do that, body me, do that The song is gone, I'm not your nun Don't even know your name But you're standing in my hand Underneath rays of gold Your body also clues No, I can't forget, no When I saw you on the dance floor Oh, I saw you, who's on me first I guess it's history now and I shouldn't care, but it still hurts I didn't realize it's dangerous Cause you're the end of the rainbow And the music was so loud I didn't catch a name, all that I've tried Girl, did you wear a name tag? We thought I wanted to know if you know my own name Girl, did you wear a name tag? I see you, I can't tell you Girl, did you wear a name tag? I still want to check your name You won't go anywhere, you won't buy Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? You can't call for myself I can't find you anywhere Been trying for too long I've been falling out of love Been looking everywhere It doesn't make sense, no Cause I need you on the dance floor 4am and we go home I guess it's history now and I shouldn't care, but it still hurts I didn't realize it's dangerous Cause you're the end of the rainbow And the music was so loud I didn't catch a name, all that I've tried Girl, did you wear a name tag? We thought I wanted to know if you know my own name Girl, did you wear a name tag? I see you, I can't tell you Girl, did you wear a name tag? I still want to check your name You won't go anywhere, you won't buy Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Girl, did you wear a name tag? Thanks for watching! Please subscribe and like! Thanks for watching! Thanks for watching! Thanks for watching! Thanks for watching!  Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Huuu, ayyum, yum-ayyum, huuu, ayyum, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ayyum, huuu, ay Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap Clap I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I