- Hi everyone, and welcome. If you've clicked on this video you are ready for a challenge, 1000 rep lower body. It maybe sounds more daunting than what it actually is, particularly if you've done some of the epic programmes. Because I know some of the leg sessions in there were maybe not too shy of doing 1000 reps anyway. But today we're gonna work through 10 exercises. The exercises though will be split up, so you simply will not be doing 100 reps of something. So, it may be 50 reps of hip thrusts with the band, then 50 reps without the band. It may be heel elevated squats with two dumbbells for 25 reps, then 25 reps with one dumbbell. Then 25 reps body weight only. And then 25 reps half reps. For this workout you will need a chair for your hip thrusts. I'm using this chair behind me, and also for my Bulgarian lunges, and also dumbbells. I'm using one heavier 125 KG for the hip thrusts. Then, I will also use 12 and a half KGs for some squats and lunges. Also, my yoga block for my heel elevated squats. Of course, you can perform normal squats if you prefer. And also the glute band for those hip thrusts. We're gonna be targeting the glutes, the hamstrings, quads, calves, entire lower body. What I would stress with this workout is go at your own pace. I may stop and take a break, say for example, 33 reps in. You may be okay to continue. Just continue, go your own pace. And remember to pace yourself as well. Some of the exercises will be a little bit slower performed. Some you can go that little bit faster. But try not to just rep through the reps and get them done as quick as possible. Still, focus on your form. You have two options when you're doing this workout. You can either count in your head as to how many you're doing as you go along, or you can simply follow me. If you've been following me for a while you'll know that I don't do these too often. But sometimes I just wake up and think I'm gonna do 1000 rep challenge today. (laughs) And today is one of those days, let's go!