- Hi, everyone, and welcome. So, today, we have about a 20 minute full body workout involving primarily compound movements in a format comprising of actual sets for 40 seconds of work, 20 second rest, but also mini complexes, which are gonna be one minute in duration. All you'll need for today's workout is a pair of dumbbells. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference throughout are 10 kg each. So the format today will be basically two variations of an exercise. For example, our rows, we'll do our bent-over row with the two dumbbells, then we'll go into more of a supine row where the palms are facing. Following that, we go into the one minute of the complex. The complex will follow every two exercises. This is the complex today. Remember, it is only one minute and it is actually one rep of every exercise. We go into a squat, we then stand, shoulder press, we then rack the dumbbells, and we go into an alternating rear step lunge, one on one side, one on the opposite. We then come down into a bent-over row, stand tall and lower into the Romanian deadlift, back to the beginning for those squats. And that is the entire duration of that one minute. The complex will appear six times in total and at the end for the finisher, it's going to be the same again, however, everything is going to be for five reps. So we do those five squats, we do five shoulder press, five rear step lunges on one side, then the opposite, five rows and five RDLs. But don't worry, it will all be on screen throughout the whole complex, you can see what is coming up next. It is definitely gonna test your coordination. See if you can remember what is coming up next so you can sort of flow into it. Hopefully, you'll be that busy thinking about what exercise is coming next, that the one minute will just pass really quickly. Please don't rush any of these movements, particularly within the complexes. Really take your time lowering into that Romanian deadlift, and also the bent-over row. I would just like to point out here, I'm doing deep pushups on the dumbbells. This is optional, you can, of course, place the hands on the floor, or if you have pushup bars where you can actually place your hand on those bars to deepen the actual stretch, of course, by all means, have those handy. And I think that's it, a full body workout involving mainly compounds, just over 20 minutes, let's go.