! Hi everyone and welcome! So today we have a 20 minute full body workout. The timer, 40 seconds of work, 20 second rest for pretty much the entire session. Each exercise will be performed for only one set. So yes, this is no repeat. Pretty much every single exercise will be a compound movement. All you will need for today's session is your mat and some dumbbells. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are two 15kg each dumbbells. I will then towards the end drop to two 7.5kg dumbbells. Of course you can use a barbell or kettlebells or some bands if you prefer for some portions of this session. This is a great all over body workout when you just want to get it done in 20 minutes. Even though this is a short duration of a full body workout involving dumbbells, we're still going to control those dumbbells at all times. We're not going to focus on as many reps as possible. We're going to focus on as many quality reps as possible. The main reason I'm actually on today is just to say a big thank you. I've had messages wondering if I'm okay, where am I and as you may have seen from the Q&A, I have been working on something. The truth is I've had my head down. I've been in the zone and I've been working really hard. I am working on a project and it is coming soon. And whilst I haven't been here uploading on YouTube, it is awesome to see so many of you working through the programs series and the one-off sessions. I know it's been a fun time for many of you to actually explore the other workouts whilst we haven't been in a program. I genuinely miss actually training with you guys so I look forward to actually training on a regular basis again really soon. But in the meantime, I hope you smash this session. And no matter how you're moving your body, I hope you're really enjoying it and feeling awesome for it. 20-minute full body workout, dumbbells and your mat. Are you ready? Let's go! So, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so, so I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. This is how it feels. This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how we feel This is how This is how we feel Every time I close my eyes Every time I close my eyes Every time I close my eyes Every time I close my eyes Every time I close my eyes Every time I close my eyes Every time I close my eyes Every time I close my eyes Every time I close my eyes Every time I close my eyes Every time I close my eyes Every time I close my eyes Every time I close my eyes Every time I close my eyes Every time I close my eyes Every time I close my eyes Let me catch my breath I'm feeling stuck And I don't know which way to run I'm on a saddle path A one-way road And I can't take it anymore I thought that I could stop it Stop it, stop it I'm done with feeling lonely Lonely, lonely, lonely I know this world I'm working Working, working, working So go ahead and show me, show me now I wanna wake up in the morning With someone new I wanna do the things they say we should Do I wanna wake up in the morning With someone new And I'd like you to be the one Break the rules that wanna wake up in the morning When you love me I just wanna dance in this control Give me the long done I told you My head's within the clouds My body feels so cold My feet are staying round and round we go I wish I could be strong survival on my own But now I'm running out of hope I need somebody else to save me From myself, a love to pressure to let go I've been searching for someone for my life I keep on wondering where you are Nobody knows I've been waiting for someone to come around But I keep on wondering where you are Nobody knows Nobody knows Nobody knows Nobody knows Nobody knows Nobody knows Nobody knows Nobody knows When I was a child I thought I'll be alright but futures can be full of lies It's never easy to find what you want And if you should find it Don't dare to let go if you hold on tight Promise you'll be alright I've been searching for someone for my life I keep on wondering where you are Nobody knows I've been waiting for someone to come around But I keep on wondering where you are Nobody knows Nobody knows Nobody knows Should I keep it up and don't forbid it, days and Oh, should I keep on searching for the one I haven't met Should I keep on waiting for you, baby, tell me where Yeah, baby, tell me where I've been searching for someone for my life I keep on wondering where you are Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play I'm just a mouth to your play Oh, baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Oh, baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play Baby, I'm just a mouth to your play