- Hi, everyone. And welcome day 45 in the Epic III Program. And today we have EMOM, high-intensity. All you'll need for today's workout is your body well warmed up, a bottle of water and a towel handy, and your mat for cool down. With the EMOM, there's lots of variations that you can do in regards to format. But the usual way that I do the format is a certain number of reps for an exercise or two exercises during the minute. So you try to get those done as quick as you can with good form. So you have a little bit of rest before you have to go again. Typically it will be 10 minutes. That will be 10 rounds of the same exercises. However, today it's going to be a little bit different. We're going to be doing six rounds of the exercises. So basically you do the exercises for one minute. Again, again up to six sets. We then have 30 second rest, and then we move onto another combination. So we have five combinations in total, all involve two exercises. So for example, as you can see here, for the first minute, I'm gonna be doing my 10 hand-to-floor burpees straight into 10 dead stop pushups. I'm trying to get those done as quick as I can so that I have a little bit rest before I go again. And that occurs six times in total. We then have the 30 second rest. And we move on to the next combination. There is jumping in this workout. However, below I will link a low-impact EMOM if you would like to join us for the same duration. It is just as challenging. Trust me. There's just no jumping. Simply by knowing the fact that there is only six sets, as opposed to 10, mentally, this should push you through. Some of the exercises you will totally be able to just ramp it up. However some other exercises you may notice, you have to go that little bit slower. And throughout the workout, we actually alternate between lower body, upper body, lower, upper. So we sort of focus on towards those legs or the upper body. I programmed this with use in mind to keep as much variety as we can through this workout to get through it and finish with a big smile. I hope he's really enjoying it. Let's go.