- Hi everyone and welcome. So today we have a full body dumbbell workout. All you'll need for this workout are those dumbbells and your mat. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are 17 and a half kg each. I will then use nine kg each when we come to the abs portion and also the shoulder press. The timer is going to be on for one minute per exercise, 20 second rest. Most of the exercises will be performed for two sets. However, some may be performed for four sets. If it is performed for four sets, it will include one side than the opposite, then back to the first side, then the opposite. Most of the exercises today are compound movements. So we'll be targeting the shoulders, chest, back, and also the lower body. There is a staple in today's workout and it is this. Our straightforward, static lunges, trying to get that knee to the floor and keeping nice and upright. We will do one minute on one side, 20 second rest and switch to the opposite leg in front. Towards the end, we're on the mat for about three minutes or so of ab-specific work. There's no specific play on tempo or range of movement. This is full range, nice and slow and controlled throughout. This is a perfect workout, when you just want to hit that entire body within 30 minutes, using primarily compound movements. And remember the timer is only a guide so please don't rush into position. Take your time. If you need those few seconds to get into position and make sure you're stable, then take those. In fact, when I am programming pretty much every single strength session, if I have a time that I would like to do for the workout and a specific rest, when it actually comes to it, I will either reduce the rest period by about five seconds or increase the actual work time maybe by about five seconds, as it usually does take you a few extra seconds to get into position anyway. So it just means you're actually ready to go. One thing I've definitely learned through all of my strength training, it's not about the duration of the workout. It's how you do the workout. And today we're going to push through and finish these one minute sets. Let's go.