Hi, everyone. Welcome. So day two in our complex series. And today it's upper body. The timer is going to be on the same as day one, three minutes per complex, 30 second rest. All you'll need for today's workout is a pair of dumbbells. Your mat and an option is of course, that yoga block, you do not need it. It's just simply when I'm doing single arm Renegade rows. I like to sometimes place my hand on a yoga block for that little bit of stability on the arm that I'm not using, and also increase the range of movement that I can actually lift and lower the dumbbell, but it is not necessary. You can simply place your hand on the floor or on the opposite dumbbell. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are 15 kg eight. I will then drop to 8 kg each for more of my isolation work, we will begin with our compound movements, such as our rows and our chest press. And then we move into more of accessory work. So it will be more biceps triceps and some shoulders as well. There is a lot of variety in today's work, I think you will really, really enjoy this one. Remember complexes is an opportunity to really go at your own pace. You'll see me taking it nice and slow controlled. Also, I'm very careful when I'm lifting the dumbbells, particularly when I'm in that bent over row position, really focusing on your form, taking it slow to make each rep as hard as you can, as most challenging and get the most out of each rep really do control the centric, the lowering portion. So with the Renegade rows, lower slowly, as you can see here with the bent-over rows, I really am slowing down the lowering portion of those rows. That is actually where the most of the work happens. Also with lateral raises and our curls. Even when we come to our single arm, curl to press, when you bring it back, dine release it as a curl. So slow release on the bicep to bring it down. So it's not so much a clean and press. It's more curl, rotate, press, and then curl down lock that elbow in. And you'll get the most out of this work that way. And the finisher is just the final complex and that'll be five reps of everything. So keep an eye on the screen. Pretty much all of the complexes involve only two exercises. However, the number of reps may vary. So maybe 5, 10 or 15 reps per exercise. I think this might be one of your favorites of the week. I hope you really enjoy it. Please ensure you spend at least five minutes warming up before, beginning this workout and also warm up your entire body. You will, of course be using your legs for some holds such as your renegade rows. Have fun. We're going to smash it. Let's go.