Hi everyone. And welcome it is day three in our complex series. And today it's glutes. All you'll need for today's workout is a dumbbell or two dumbbells that you can combine comfortably on your hips, a barbell or heavy kettlebell. The dumbbell I'm using for your reference is 25 kg. You'll also need a band. I'm using my pink fabric band behind me. I will link below the one that I use. However, there are loads of great bands out there. I would recommend the fabric one and you place just above your knees. You also need a chair for your hip thrust. I'm using this one behind me. It is fabric. So it's quite comfortable on my middle and upper back. However, if you have a solid chair, you can place a tile or something just to cushion it, to make it that little bit more comfortable. Alternatively, you can perform the whole work with bridges on the mat. I'll also be using a towel to place under the dumbbell to make it a little bit more comfortable on my hips. So the complexes again are going to be three minutes of duration each, and then we have 30 second rest before the next one. Some of the complexes will involve two exercises, others, three, the quantity of each exercise may vary. So it may be 5, 10, 15 or 20 reps per exercise. This is a combination of using the dumbbell as resistance, but also our body with a lot of single leg work. Just a few little points you want to run over really quick with the donkey kicks. I want you to try and aim the heel to the ceiling. So not your toes, the heel to the ceiling, really lock it out at the top and then bring it down slowly into the bottom position. Again, rising that heel up to the ceiling. And then when we come to the pulses of the donkey kicks again, push the heel to the ceiling when we're doing our sidelying lifts and the circles try to aim for as big range as possible. Obviously we will fatigue, stop and pause as when you need to expect to definitely pause quite a bit in this workout today. But with the sidelying lifts, try to really lift that leg as high as possible, but make sure you're controlling the lowering portion as well. So not just swinging the leg up, we're lifting the leg and lowering it. We have a little bit of a finisher, a burner at the very end. You know, I love burnouts and it's going to be a mixture of abduction, pulses holds and full range. So with this type of work, I, I look at it as a positive. If I have to stop, I'm really trying to keep as much tension on and going for that full range of movement that I possibly can. I try my best. And also I bring it back to center as slowly as I can. So with the hip thrust, controlling the lowering with the side leg lifts, controlling the lowering, and even with lying abduction with the band. When I push my knees, I bring it in with control. I don't just bring it out and then let it come in. I bring it out and control it back in. It makes it that little bit more challenging. These glute complexes full of variety. We're going to have so much fun. I've been waiting to do a glute only complex. So yeah, I'm really looking forward to all this today. The Glutes are going to be on fire. Let's go!