- Hi everyone. And welcome. So today we have a 500 rep shoulder challenge. This is actually less about accomplishing 500 reps. It's more about working through at a pace that suits you stopping throughout. We're basically going to be working through 10 exercises, 50 reps, each. By no means do we do the 50 reps all in one go, you may stop after 15 reps, maybe do another 15 reps and then 10 and 10, or you may do 25 reps, depending on the exercise, then drop to 10 reps each after that. It is completely up to you. You go your own pace, but throughout I will put wee markers on the screen just to let you know approximately where I am. You don't need to go at the same pace as me. I will be performing the exercises at a sustainable pace. So I'll not be speeding up or particularly slowing down, the same tempo throughout, that is my aim. But I will absolutely stop and pause even for 20 or 30 seconds when I feel like my form is not 100%, I'm going to take my time, focusing on my form, do the 50 reps, 10 exercises, 500 reps. I would stress to use lighter dumbbells for this workout. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are nine kg each and they're for my shoulder press and Arnold-press. However, pretty much everything else is actually going to be with four kg each. The entire workout I'm going to be seated on this chair behind me. Of course you can stand for the entire duration as well. Just a few wee notes, when you're doing the lateral raises, try to keep your shoulders down and relaxed. Try to not let the shoulders rise up towards your ears. Just reset and keep the shoulder steady. When you're doing shoulder press, keep the arms slightly in front of the body. So we're not straight on perpendicular to the body, always slightly in front. And as always try and control the lowering. So the lateral raises control the lowering just don't let them flap down, and also with the frontal raises control the way down. I'm thinking this is going to be extremely challenging at points, but don't put yourself under pressure. Just relax, work through at your own pace. I hope you really enjoy it, let's go!