- Hi everyone, and welcome. Day 47 in the EPIC Endgame. And today, it's Bulgarian lunges. The timer is going to be on for majority of the workout. 30 seconds of work, 30 seconds of work, with 30 second rest. So one minute of a super set. Between each side, we will always have 30 second rest. So we'll do something on one side. We then have that full 30 second rest before we move to the opposite side and do the same as we've just done. There is a staple in today's workout. As you can see here, it is our forward lean from the hips lunge. So we're gonna come forward, tilting forward from the hips without rounding the upper back. So think coming, your whole upper torso coming forward, keeping your neck in line with your spine as best you can. So your gaze should be down and in front. Keep the shoulders back and chest open. Ease into the depth every single time you do this movement. And the staple, that will be a full one minute on one side, 30 second rest. And then we repeat it on the opposite side. The staple will appear four times in total. This workout is a combination of two dumbbells, one dumbbell, and body weight only. There's also a lot of variation in regards to the tempo. There's isometrics, full range, half reps, and also foot position. And I have thrown in some RDLs as well. So just to mix up a little bit. And the finisher today, it's not Bulgarian lunges, but it is forward lean lunges. As you can see here, our front foot is going to be elevated. Again, we're gonna be in that forward tilt position. 25 reps on one side, 25 on the opposite. Switch, switch, to make that hundred reps. So yes, this is a full lower body work. We're definitely going to target the hamstrings, gluts, and those quads. Balance, core, and the calves are also gonna be involved as well. The dumbbells I'm using, for your reference, are 10 kg each. You'll also need that yoga block, thick book, or small stepper for the finisher, and also something sturdy to place your rear foot on for those Bulgarian lunges. Sometimes I like to switch up the chairs that I actually do use for the Bulgarian lunges. However, what I would say is make sure that whatever you're putting your foot on, it is sturdy. You don't want that actual structure to move when you're in the middle of a Bulgarian lunge, particularly when you're holding dumbbells, because your hands simply are not as free to catch yourself. So make sure, if you're placing your foot on something, it quite sturdy. And also, when we do begin this workout, make sure to ease into these Bulgarian lunges. So straight away, you're not just gonna come straight down as low as you can. You're gonna just gradually ease into it with each set. So towards the end, you will probably notice that you're a lot more deeper into that lunge. I've tried to make this workout as fun as possible, and I actually do think that time is going to fly. There is a lot of variety, and also the fact that the body weight staple is there, it does split up the time. So yeah, we're gonna do this. We're gonna have lots of fun. We're gonna finish strong. Let's go.