- Hi, everyone and welcome. Day Thirty Eight, an Epic III Program and today, back and biceps. The timer's going to be on for a majority of the workout. 40 seconds of work, 20 second rest. This is unilateral training, so one side, then the next. There will be quite a lot of rows and bicep curls within this workout. Get the rows done at the start and then we move onto those curls. Everything that we do on one side, we will then repeat for the next 40 seconds on the opposite side. Some of the exercises may be performed for two sets per side. So we may do the left, then the right, left again, and then right. There is a staple in today's workout and it actually is two exercises. As you can see here, the first exercise you will do for 40 seconds each side, 20 second rest in between is our bent over row. Controlled. Controlled lifting, control the lowering. Then we move into our dead stop rows. Here, we can use a little bit more momentum to get the dumbbell up, however, please control the way down. A lot of the work happens, a lot of the training, is actually the lowering of the dumbbell. So control it at all times. Gently set the dumbbell down, hands off, re-grasp, and go again. That will be one set per side as well. Essentially for this workout, you will need some dumbbells and your mat for cool down. However, optional, I'm gonna be using this chair here to lean against for my rows. Another option of course, is simply place the opposite hand on your knee and row from here. As long as your back is straight, shoulder blades retracted, and keep the chest open. It really is a personal preference. Whatever feels comfortable to you. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference, firstly for the rows is going to be one 20 kg dumbbell and then for the bicep curls, I will reduce my weight to eight kg each. So if you have a heavier weight such as a kettlebell or a dumbbell, you will only need the one weight for those rows. So we're gonna get our head down and get stuck into these rows to kick it off and then we're moving on to the biceps. The tempo of this work is slow and controlled, really great to practise focus. Every single workout that you actually do, use it as a practise session. That's what I do. I always try to get even better at the movements that I do. I think about my positioning in every single exercise. As with any exercise, once you've mastered the actual technique form, you can then manipulate any movements ever so slightly to suit you. We're all different, we all have different things that feel a little bit more comfortable. So there's always room for tweaking any positions. Day Thirty Eight, this is a big back and bicep workout. Let's go.