- Hi, everyone, and Welcome Day 28 in the EPIC Endgame! And, today, we're hitting the back, biceps, and abs. We're gonna be using supersets, 45 seconds of work, 45 seconds of work, with 30-second rest. Even though it is a superset, one exercise straight into the next, by all means, take those few extra seconds. You will see me taking my time making sure I'm in a safe position before I lift. For this workout you will simply need some dumbbells, your mat, and optional is a yoga block. I will be using the yoga block for only a couple of exercises, that being the single-arm renegade row. Basically, I place the non-working hand of that side on the yoga block so that I have a bigger range of movement for that renegade row, it is optional. The dumbbells I'm using for the back exercises are 17 1/2 kg each. I will then drop eight kg each for those biceps. We're kicking it off hitting that back. We then move into biceps. Then into some abs where we'll be lying on the mat for about 10 minutes. And the finisher? 100 reps of our landmine row. This will involve your whole back, also your biceps. For this finisher, I will be using the 17 1/2 kg dumbbell. So, of course, pick a weight that you feel comfortable with. In fact, you could start with that certain weight, and then as you progress through those 100 reps, you could reduce the weight. It is important to stop, stand, set the dumbbell down, a complete break, if you feel anything in your lower back. Make sure to keep your chest open. Even though we are tilting forward at the hips, still keep the chest open. Once we hit the actual ab portion where we're relying on the mat, there will be no specific rest. So basically it will be an exercise for 45 seconds, 45 seconds, and then 30 seconds. We then move on to the next 45 seconds, and so on. You will notice within the description box below, and also when we do the ab portion on the mat, the exercises are grouped together in sets of three. So, for example, 45 seconds of crunches, 45 seconds of three-point crunch, and 30 seconds of pulses. You will also notice just how tired your biceps are by the time we actually reach that point. That is because we've used our biceps throughout so many of those back exercises. And that is why there's not actually a lot of arm-specific training days within these programmes. Your shoulder press, your chest press, and your bent-over row, plus your pushups, they all work arms. Back, biceps, and arms, this is gonna be absolutely brilliant. Let's go!