- Hi, everyone. And welcome to day three in Caroline Calisthenics Series. And today it's glutes and hamstrings. All you'll need for today's workout is your body well warmed up. Also your mat and a chair for some hip thrusts. Today's format is ten sets. It's actually four sets one straight after another. And the timer there will be 45 seconds each exercise. So basically 45, 45, 45, 45, 20 second rest. A lot of the ten sets will involve all on one side. So we do the entire set on one side, then 20-second rest. And then we switch to the opposite side. You may have noticed from lots of the workouts that I've done in the past, I love bodyweight training and also particularly glutes. I really find that it has taught me how to engage and activate and isolate my glutes through even the likes of lunges and squats. I'm really able to connect with the muscles and really get as much range of motion within each movement. So today, take it slow. Focus on the squeeze at the top of each rep. Really do get the most out of every single rep. Control the lowering portion. When we're into our leg lifts, think about squeezing the quad, flexing the foot, as opposed to pointing. And lift, think about lifting the leg with the glute rather than kicking. We're gonna lift the leg, squeeze at the top, and control on the way down. With the donkey kicks, from my experience, I would suggest aiming the heel to the ceiling. I get a really good connection with my glutes during this. So really aim the heel to the ceiling. If you think of that throughout, particularly with the holds and the pulses, get that heel as high as you can. With the Sumo squats, of course you're trying to push your hips back. Try and really push those hips back. Your feet are going to be a wider than normal stance of a squat and also toes slightly pointed out. Keep the chest open, and again, push those hips right back, setting on your heels. When we come to our Sumo to RDL, imagine you almost have a weight in your hands when you're doing the Romanian deadlifts. You're really trying to keep that back extra straight, chest is open, and really try to get into that stretch of the hamstring. You should feel a stretch with every single rep every time you go into that Romanian deadlift. During this workout, you can use your ankle weights if you like, I'm not going to be using mine. However, for the first four trisets, of course you can apply those ankle weights. Remember, take it slow, really focus. You can get a lot out of this workout, and it shouldn't be easy. Let's go.