- Hi everyone, welcome day one in Caroline Calisthenics series. And today it's legs, we're going to be using our body weight as resistance to get a solid workout. This workout is just under 40 minutes. The timer is going to be on 45 seconds of work. 45, 45. We then have 30 second rest. So yes, tri-sets, through eight. Each tri-set will be performed for two rounds where single side work occurs that tri-set will all be on one side. And then of course the opposite side for the next tri-set. All you'll need for today's workout is your body, well warmed up, a chair for some Bulgarian lunges, your yoga block, or a thick book for elevating the height on the feet at some points, and also your mat. Just something to think about as we progress through the week on each of these workouts. With body weight, it really is up to you to make it that little bit more challenging. I could definitely do this workout and make it a lot less challenging and almost cheat in a way, however, with the lunges, et cetera for today, I'm going to make sure I go as deep as I can with the Bulgarian lunges as well, ease into that depth. When I'm going to be tilting forward into Romanian deadlift here, I'm really going to push the hips back and up in order that I feel a big stretch in my hamstrings with every rep. With the squat holds, I'm going to hold at a point where I feel the most tension. So I'm not going to go all the way down. I'm going to be about halfway up where I feel the most tension on my quads and where I am using the yoga block for those lunges, I will try to make use of that extra depth. So I will bring my knee that little bit further down as opposed to a regular lunge and the way I'm going to look at it for all of these workouts this week, if I have to pause, that's good. It means I'm actually really pushing it and focusing on my form, getting the biggest range of motion possible. So please don't feel like it shouldn't be pausing. Think of it as a positive. So yesterday we've got the quads, hamstring, glutes and calves, all working. Let's go.