- Hi, everyone, and welcome. Day 39 in the EPIC Endgame, and today it is full body. We're gonna be doing down sets. 30 seconds of work, 30, 30, 30, with 20-second rest. Every down set is going to be different. However, of course, if there is a down set all on one side, we then perform the next down set on the opposite side. We will be alternating between lower body and upper body, then lower body and maybe some core and abs, then back to lower body. All you'll need for today's workout is a chair for some Bulgarian lunges and decline pushups. Also, your mat and a yoga block, or stepper, or thick book, something to elevate the heels and also to place the foot on during some lunges. And the finisher today, it's all on abs. We're gonna lie down. We're gonna be doing 100 crunches. With this exercise, it is important to make it your own. So, you can, of course, reach for the knees with the hands, and sort of gauge that as your height for every single rep, or you can place the hands behind the neck, particularly as you fatigue, just to provide some support for that neck. And as always, try to make the last rep as good as the first. So, if you're reaching a certain height on that crunch, try to maintain that height, even if it takes you a little bit longer to work through the actual exercises themselves. You can take as long as you need for these 100 reps. Even though there is a quantity to get through, it's still quality. So, yes, I think that you're really gonna enjoy this workout. I'm super excited to get started. This is, of course, dropping those dumbbells and setting them to the side for today. We're gonna be using only our body weight. However, that does not mean it's by any means any easier. In fact, some of these exercises, and throughout this workout, you may find it is even more challenging than actually lifting weights. You will notice these exercises involve a lot of control, remaining calm, thinking about what you're actually doing, how you're moving through that exercise. Can you make it even better? Focusing on your performance. Each rep, making it as good as you can. Quality over quantity definitely applies with these reps. And, of course, body awareness, body alignment, balance all comes into play. But I really hope you all enjoy this workout. I think you will. Let's go!!