- Hi everyone, and welcome day 13 in the Epic III programme. And today, hamstrings and glutes. We're gonna be using super sets the entire workout. The timer is going to be on 50 seconds of work, straight into 50 seconds of work, 20 second rest. No specific rests between these two exercises. However, if you need to pause, which I'm expecting, perhaps I might do with the hip thrusts, but I'm gonna try and push through. Take those few seconds if you need it. Again, it is 1:40 of complete work. So yeah, pause as and when you need to. For today's workout, you will need a pair of dumbbells, your mat, a glute band, and a chair for some hip thrusts, but also to elevate the feet during our bridges. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference, I have one heavier one of 25 kg for my hip thrusts, but I also will be using a 15 kg each and that's for everything else. You'll also need a yoga block or thick book to elevate the feet during some hamstring lifts. So just a few little points that I just want to cover real quick. If the super set begins with maybe unilateral work, so one side of the body, one leg is working, the next exercise is not going to be the opposite leg. Within the super set, it's all gonna be on one side. The next super set will be the opposite side. At the beginning, we're lying and we're doing some abduction and pulses to warm up using just the band. I'm testing out a new band and it is really, really high resistance. So there's not a lot of movement. So in case you can't see, I will be pulsing. It's just sometimes the pulse is very small, but trust me, I'm feeling it. When you're using the band for the likes of the hip thrust, I know I say this every time, but think about knees out when you're rising at the top, and when you're lowering. Don't let that tension loosen. Keep the knees out the whole way up, the whole way down. It's possible to make this type of workout a lot easier, but no, we're not gonna do that. We're gonna push our knees out. Really focus keeping the tension on. Full range of those hip thrusts. Lock in those glutes at the top, slow release. And the same applies, of course, with any of the other exercises. Full range control, lock it out at the top, there are actually no lunges or squats in today's workout. So you can really appreciate that for our routine today. I hope you really enjoy it. Let's go.