- Hi, everyone, and welcome day 28 in the EPIC III Program. And today we have chest, triceps and abs. The first portion of the workout, chest, we then move into triceps, we then move to abs, and we have a finisher, more on those chest and triceps. The timer is going to be on for a majority of the workout, 40 seconds of work, 20 second rest. However, there will be a staple and it is a superset. It appears for total of six times throughout the workout. It is this, our one minute of flys, straight into diamond press. So, with the flys, it is important to maintain a slight bend of the elbows at all times. So, please don't lock those arms and open up. Keep a slight bend in the elbows and also maintain that throughout the whole of the movement. Breathe in as you lower (inhaling deeply) exhale, squeeze to bring up into centre, maintaining that slight bend at the elbow. When we move on to our diamond press, the two dumbells, we're going to squeeze them together. Really try and stabilise those dumbbells together, bring it down to your chest, and right up. Nice smooth movements. The chest and tricep exercises today, of course will target the chest, but also the backs of the arms, the triceps, and also the front of the shoulders. Those front delts will also get a lot of work today as well. Once we reach the ab section we'll be hitting the rectus abdominal muscles. There'll be new specific rests there. It will be 40 seconds of an ab exercise straight into 20 seconds of a variation. We then repeat that, and then onto the next exercise. I'm expecting that 10 minute portion on the rectus abdominous to be quite intense. And, of course, the chest and tricep will be intense too. The dumbells I'm using for your reference are 17 1/2 kg. I will then reduce to nine kg each, and that will be more for the triceps. Apart from that, you will simply need your mat. You'll notice from this workout I'm not actually moving about quite a lot. I'm laying down on the mat for pretty much most of this workout. However, do not underestimate that. Resistance training, slow controlled reps, full range of motion can seem very different to obviously cardio based exercises, where you're moving a lot, heart rate up, and you're sweating. And indeed they are quite different. However, for strength and also the aesthetic side, for developing shape and building those muscles, these are the kinds of workouts that you really should try and focus on. Me, personally, I like to do low impact cardio such as my walking, pretty much every day. But also once a week, hit it hard with some high intensity work. But, again, that is typically only once per week. You will see with even the likes of the pushups today, I'm going really slow. I'm trying to get my chest to the floor. Not reaching with my head, the chest. Trying to get as low as I can with those pushups. Training chest has always been one of my favourites, a great carry over to those pushups, but also a definition, of course, in the upper body. I hope you's really enjoyed the pump. Let's go!