- Hi everyone and welcome day 42 in the Epic 3 Program. And today upper body. The format, we're gonna focus on tempo. Tempo training, there is so much variety that I like to use with the tempo. There's holds, slow eccentrics, slow concentrics, there's half reps, partials, powerful movements. Today, we're gonna focus on that pause. All you'll need for today's workout is a pair of dumbbells, your mat, and a chair for some dips. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference, are 15 kg each. I will then drop to six kg each. Some of the exercises today are paired. So what I mean is the maybe paired antagonist. So back, then the chest, then back, chest, back and chest. However, some of them may be paired with just a bicep exercise, another bicep exercise, and we repeat that. Most of the combinations will be performed for either two or three sets. We do have a stipple, two exercises in today's workout. As you can see here, we have our diagonal raise, so slightly in front, not quite our lateral out to the side. I'm not quite frontal, somewhere in between, and you're going to try and hold it for a brief second, and lower with control, back up, and hold. We then have 20 second rest before we go into the partials of that exercise, diagonal raise, partial reps. Trying to let the arms hit those hips, and keep the shoulders down and relaxed. If you're using dumbbells that maybe you wish were a little bit heavier, what I would suggest for majority of this workout, is to hold those pause reps, that little bit longer. For example, that diagonal raise, which is the stipple. You can hold it that little bit longer, back down, and up. That will increase the intensity. If you apply that to many of the exercises today, even the shoulder press. We're gonna be here. You're gonna hold it even that little bit longer, press up, and down. Same with the bent over rows. Also the push-ups if you want intensify it, hold it that little bit longer at the bottom. The timer will be on for majority of the workout. 40 seconds of work, 20 second rest. When it comes to the pullovers, as you can see here, we're going to be doing sort of tricep. So it's going to be pause reps, holding at the bottom for a pause, not a dead stop. Then we're gonna go into full range for 20 seconds, then back into our pause reps for the 40 seconds, but don't worry, it will all be on the screen. Just make sure when you're holding those positions for that brief moment, make sure you're breathing. Try to keep as relaxed as you can. You know by now that I love variety, and I know that you love variety. I mean at the end of the day, we could all just doing a normal bicep curl. We could all do a normal lunge. We could all do a normal push-up, but where's the fun in that. It's good to change it up. And today is no different. We're definitely going to be hitting the shoulders, back, chest, and those arms. Let's go.