- Hi everyone! And welcome day 43 in the Epic III Program. And today it is leg day. We're gonna be using drop sets to target the quads, hamstrings, glutes, and those calves. You will definitely feel a lot in the core as well, and the upper body. So throughout, you can either hold the dumbbells low or high. It just depends, if you need a we rest on that grip on the forearms, you'll see me sometimes holding up high or down low. The time is going to be on throughout 45 seconds of work, 15 second rest. If we do an exercise in one side, we will then move to the next side for the next exercise. Drop sets can be performed in all different types of formats. And I do love drop sets. You'll probably notice that they actually pop up in quite a lot of the workouts. So for example, you could be doing tricep pushups. Then we maybe go into those cobras, that is essentially drop sets. Today, we're having a slight rest in between. So those 15 seconds, you will need those. The drop sets that we're doing today will range. So some of them will range from two dumbbells, to one, to body weight. Others will range in intensity. So it could be half reps. Then we're going to go to one and a half reps. So essentially on paper, it is slightly easier than full range. So half reps, which is more intense, less breaths. One and a half reps, and then full range. However, it sometimes doesn't work quite like that. In that the first set, those half reps may be really challenging. However, then the one and a half reps, even though it looks like it should be easier. It's not. And of course, the full range, you should be pretty fatigued by the time you've reached that full range. So yes, we're gonna play about with the weight that we're using, but also the range of motion. We have a finisher, it's gonna be a simple drop set. Half rep high squats. And that's going to be two dumbbells, then one dumbbell, then one body weight. For today's workout you will simply need your mat, a pair of dumbbells, and your yoga block, or thick book or stepper that you've been using to elevate those heels. The dumbbells I'm using throughout are 12 and a half kg each. Just some things I would like to run through really quickly. With the suitcase squats, as you can see here, ensure you look forward all times. Push those hips back, keep the chest open. With the Romanian deadlifts, and of course, the staggered Romanian deadlifts, try to tweak it so that you feel it even more. What I mean is open the chest even more. Stick the chest out, shoulders back, push the hips back and up as you lower down. Keep a slight bend in the knee, and the dumbbell close to the body as you slide it down. Try to feel a deeper sense in that hamstring. And as always, with lunges, whether it's curtsy lunges, or rear step lunges, try to get that knee down with every single rep. Try not to cut any corners and go to your own pace. Stop as and when you need to. Typically when I'm doing half rep RDLs, I will stand maybe every eight or 10 reps. It just depends on the weight that I'm using. I may actually go as far as maybe 15 reps, then stand. But certainly, take that we moment that you need and go again. Once we complete this workout, we only have seven more workouts in the Epic III programme. You should be so very proud of yourself for getting this far. It hasn't been easy. But today it's leg day, let's go!