- Hi everyone and welcome day 33 in the EPIC III Program. And today we have a lower body workout. This is gonna be a combination of isometrics and dynamics. So isometrics you're basically going to be holding a position, please don't hold your breath, try to relax, get the oxygen in and relax. Hold the position the best that you can. When I'm holding a position, I'm actually thinking a lot. So I'm making sure I try to keep my breath as relaxed as possible. When I'm holding a squat position, for example, I'm not just holding it, I'm thinking the entire time. So I'm thinking, keeping that chest open, keeping the shoulder blades back, pushing the hips back, and also thinking about pushing those knees back from coming over your feet that little bit more. As you can see, the chair behind me, that is for our Bulgarian lunges. There are only a few sets of those today. And of course there will be holds. With the holds, you simply want to try and lower down that little bit more. Keep on breathing, relax into it, try to hold as deep of a position as you can, keeping your chest up. Think about pushing that front knee back from coming over your foot and hold yourself in a nice upright position. The timer today is going to be on 30 seconds of work, 30 seconds and 30 seconds. That is one minute 30 seconds. So tri-sets. We're going to have a 30 second rest in between. We need the rest. You should need the rest. These holds should be pretty intense because you're going to make it so. You're gonna hold these positions to the best of your ability. Of course, when it does get too much, simply come out of it for a wee moment, pause, reset, and go back into it. All of the transitions today within the tri-sets, please take them slow, ensure that you're stable before you lower at any point. Also with the wall sits, think about your thighs being parallel with the ground. Also your shins being parallel with the wall. And any holds that involve actually going onto your toes, such as a calf raise, really think the entire time during that hold, can you get that heel any higher? The dumbbells I'm using for your reference today are 10 kg and 10 kg. Of course we'll need that chair and a wall for some wall sits. What is an isometric workout without a wall sit? I'm also gonna be using my yoga block for some heel elevated squats, and that will be throughout this workout. Every single tri-set will be different. However, of course, if we do one side, we must do on the other. There is a lot of variety in today's workout. Keep your mat handy as well, as we have some dead stop lunges. And you'll want that just to provide some support for your knee as you lower. But also towards the end, we have a reverse plank lift and that is targeting the hamstrings and glutes. Also with the tri-sets, the first 30 seconds and the last 30 seconds are identical. So you'll maybe do a dynamic movement, you'll hold for 30, and then you go back into that dynamic move for the next 30 seconds. So much variety, I think yous are gonna really love it and the little challenges throughout this workout. Let's go.