- Hi everyone, and welcome. Day 22 in the Epic III Program, and today, we're hitting the upper body using complexes. Each complex will be three minutes duration, 30-second rest. There are 11 complexes in total, and then we have a little bit of a finisher. For today's workout, you will need a mat and also a pair of dumbbells. The dumbbells I'm using primarily at the beginning are going to be 15 kg each, I will then drop to six kg each. However, once we hit the finisher, I'll be lifting those 15 kgs each again at the very end for that finisher. So I'll be doing my heavier weights, then going into the lighter, then for the finisher, those heavier weights. As you can see here also I am using a chair for the shoulder press. This is not necessary. I just prefer, since I'm using 15 kgs, to have a little bit more support, so I will be using the chair for only that exercise. And also, considering that it is actually paired with pike pushups, the shoulders, as well. That is a very demanding first complex. So take it slow. After that first complex, we then move into chest, then into back, then following that, I'll be reducing to the lighter weights, we'll be hitting more shoulders, biceps, and triceps I think you should really enjoy the simplicity of this workout today. Quite a lot of the moves are actually one exercise, but it's all left, and then all right. So for example, bent-over row all on one side, then the opposite, and continue for the three minutes. Same with the lateral and frontal raises, all one side, then switch, switch, and again, for the three minutes. As always, we go at different paces depending on obviously our experience, but also the weight that we're using. Today, I spent quite a lot of time deciding which weights I would use. Ideally, you would use a whole array of different weights for this workout. However, I'm trying to always stay with two pairs of dumbbells, maximum, so today it was the 15s and the sixes. Of course, there'll be some exercises that you find a lot more challenging and it also depends on what it's paired with. For example, that first complex shoulder press paired with the pike pushups. That's a hard one at the very start, but take it slow, have fun, be pride, and go at your own pace. Let's go!