- Hi everyone, and welcome Day 41 in Epic III Program. And today we have some glutes and core complexes. Each complex is going to be three minutes' duration, 30 second rest. We have 11 complexes in total, and eight of those will be focused on the glutes. Of course, our hamstrings will be involved as well. And then the final three complexes will all involve the core. For today's workout, you will need some dumbbells, a chair for some hip thrusts, your glute band, and maybe a towel to place under the dumbbell just to increase the comfort. The dumbbell I'm using for my hip thrusts will be 25 kg. I will also be using that for the sumo squats, and the sumo deadlifts. I will then also be using one 15 kg dumbbell, and that will be for the likes of a staggered Romanian deadlift, and also a forward lean lunge. We're gonna kick it off with some sidesteps today. That will be the first complex. Band will be just above the knees. And you're gonna focus on one side for 10 reps, pushing the knee out. Not so much the foot. So you're trying not to bring that foot like this. You're trying to bring the knee out. Really push against that band. And then we repeat the opposite side, and that will be for the duration of the first complex. We will then move into your sumo squats and our hip thrusts. So today we have two types of hip thrusts within the same complex. It's gonna be full range, however we're gonna try and get those toes up. What I mean is, as you can see here, I'm doing a hip thrust, of course I don't have the band or dumbbell on, but it's the same thing. As you can see, I'm coming down and I'm really arching my back, hyperextending that back. You want to try and avoid that. Try not to extend and bend at that back. As you can see now, I'm coming down all as one. My back stays pretty much the same position. I'm coming down far enough that my actual toes are coming off the floor. But the point of this is at the bottom, you really do need to make use of that band. So as you come up from that deep position, you're pushing those knees out. We then, following that, we'll go into just our half reps. Our half rep hip thrusts where of course, again, you're focusing on the knees out, the full contraction at the top. Just one more thing I wanna run through, one of the complexes actually involve balance. It's a bodyweight RDL. I am calling it an RDL because I actually want you to focus on the stretch on the hamstring on the leg that is on the floor. The other leg that is in the air, don't worry about that. You don't need to kick it up, you don't need to squeeze the glutes. I actually want you to just try and focus on the stretch in the hamstring when you're lowering down, so that you're not rounding your back in order to reach the toe. You're actually trying to keep the hips up, push them back, slight bend in the knee, trying to keep your chest up. That is the main thing. Chest up, shoulder blades back, and you're trying to come down so that you're maintaining that good position to just lightly touch that hand on the foot. And in regards what hand you should reach down, you can play about. You can switch for the left hand or the right hand. With glute workouts, it's less about the actual exercises, it's more I want you to think about how you do them. You can make this workout extremely intense. And we're gonna do it. So don't forget, we have three complexes at the very end involving our core, so you'll need your mat. This is gonna be a tough workout, but boy, we will feel amazing after it. Let's go.