- Hi, everyone, and welcome. Day three in our Epic III Program and today we have glutes, abs, and hamstrings. To be honest, I actually recorded an intro before, but I'm actually rerecording the intro because I've just done this workout. The reason being, I just wanna remind you to push through. This is a demanding workout. As you will see today, I will be slow-paced, I will be focused, I will be using the band to the maximum. I'm gonna push my knees out as far as I can during the hip thrusts. By the time I get to the sort of sumo squat circuit, I'm really feeling pretty tired in the glutes. That is the aim. So we're kicking it off with abs, which is three exercises, three rounds. The second circuit will then all be pretty much forms of hip thrusts. That's five exercises, three rounds. And then we move onto our sumo squats and banded squat walks, et cetera. But I really just wanna stress about the hip thrusts. So when you're doing the hip thrusts, keep your chin tucked in. Nice, smooth movement throughout. No jerking. Keep calm. Make sure you're breathing at all times. Don't hold your breath and don't rush the movement. The same pace on the way up as on the way down. Push those knees out the entire time. Particularly when we're doing a hold, think about the band out and really squeeze at the top. That little extra half an inch makes all the difference. Really squeeze through the glutes at the top of the movement. Go at your own pace as well. Stop as and when you need to. Remember the timer is only a guide. It's not like you need to do the 12 reps and then you rest. The timer is just there to keep you moving. So even if it takes you a few seconds to get into position, take those. For today's workout, you will need: a chair for those hip thrusts, however, if you prefer, you can perform bridges on the mat; a dumbbell or kettlebell or barbell for those hip thrusts and the sumo squats; and, of course, your glute band. I'll also be placing a tile under my hips just to make it that little bit more comfortable. The timer's going to be on for pretty much most of the workout. 50 seconds of work, 10-second rest. However, we kick it off with the abs and there is no specific rest. It's going to be just one minute after another for the nine minutes. I have to say, after completing this workout, I think this is actually my favourite glute workout so far, and the reason being, it was just os challenging towards the end. But I'm happy because I know that prior to the sumo squats, I really pushed it with those hip thrusts and got the most out of every single rep. I hope you do too. I think you're really going to like this one. Let's go.