- Hi everyone, and welcome. This is Day 5 in the EPIC 3 Program. This will be one week complete. Today, we have some high intensity work. The timer is going to be on 30 seconds of work, 15 second rest. Most of the exercises will be performed for two sets. There is, however, a staple in today's workout, and it will appear every fifth exercise, and in total it will appear throughout the workout eight times. It's only 30 seconds of work, as you can see here. It is what I call a half burpee. So you're in that plank position. You're coming forward, lifting your hands off the floor, popping back down to that plank. I'm gonna just break it down a little bit here. As you can see, I'm in the plank, hop forward, lift the hands off the floor. Back down into that full plank position. I would suggest if you're new to this, do it that way. And then over time you will progress and get more fluid into that movement. And then you'll be able to speed up that little bit more. For today's workout, you will simply need your mat, but I would advise to have that bottle of water, a towel, and maybe also a fan or open those windows. You probably know by now, I really only do high-intensity work once per week, proper high intensity. It is a lot on the body and it is a lot mentally as well. The reason I like to do it once per week is so that I can give it my all. You will see I really do try to go as fast as I can whilst maintaining good form, but also during those 15 second rests, I really do need that rest. High-intensity, everybody is different, so what my high intensity is, it may be different from others. My high intensity years ago is very different to what my high-intensity is today. I've built this up and the way I have built up to this level is really pushing it. Really high intensity for the level that I am at at that moment. Don't compare yourself to anybody else. There's always going to be somebody who can go faster, who can go deeper, who can go heavier, but try not to concentrate on that. Focus on challenging yourself. A good example of this for me, is pushups. I'm pretty good at pushups, however, there's always somebody better, but the only way you get better is by really trying your best. Don't get distracted by what anyone else is doing. This should be high intensity for you. It's my high intensity. Make it yours. I hope you really enjoy this workout. Remember have fun. It's gonna be sweaty though. Let's go.