- Hi everyone and welcome day one in our Epic 3 program, let's get it started. We've got 50 workouts, 50 days. All of the workouts will be in between 30 to 40 minutes. All you'll need to complete this programme are dumbbells, your mat, a wall, chair and a glute band, optional extras include a yoga block. However, please feel free as well to add any other extras, such as barbells or kettlebells. You can even incorporate some pushup bars if it's a little bit easier on your wrists for those pushups. And also dip bars as opposed to dips on the chair, they're all optional. If you have them lying about, keep them handy. Please ensure you spend at least five minutes warming up your entire body prior to beginning any workout. I will link below an actual new five minute workout if you would like to join me. Also below I will link the program guide. So the programme guide will contain some frequently asked questions and some guidance for this program. Also within that is the calendar, so you'll be able to take a wee look as to what is coming up over the next 50 workouts, of course there is a description box provided. So below I will list the exercises that will be within the workout, the time, the equipment, et cetera. Also some tips and some more information on the actual work out. For anyone new who's joining us welcome, I will also link below the beginner series. That is based across five days of training, it just gets you a little bit more familiar with the movements at a slower pace, a lot of body weight as well. So today day one, I know lots of us will be starting it together today. However, of course, over the next few weeks, we all sort of progress at a different pace. And the comments section below the workouts is always a fun place to be. There is also a Facebook community group, this group is private and it is monitored, it's a wonderfully positive place to be. I will link that as well below. But for now back on today's workout, leg day. Let's go 40 seconds of work, 20 second rest. Every exercise will be performed for two sets, even if it's unilateral work. So we'll do one side, we will then do the opposite, and again and again. So four sets in total for that, two on each side. There is a staple in today's workout, kneeling to squat. When you come up into that squat, make sure you go that little bit deeper. For the kneeling to squat, I'm using a much lighter weight, I'm actually using 8 kg, that's only one dumbbell. But for the rest of the workout, the dumbbells I'm using are 15 kg each. Towards the end of course, we have more body weight exercises. It's always relief to drop those dumbbells, but it doesn't make it any easier. Please remember to go at your own pace. This is your work out, it's my workout, so I have to stop, pause as and when I need to. You do the same. And make sure you have loads of fun, push through we'll struggle together. Day one of 50 workouts. It's leg day, are you ready? Let's go!