- Hi, everyone, and welcome day 45 in the EPIC Endgame, and today it's EMOM, every minute on the minute. We're gonna have three exercises, certain reps, so it may be 10 or 20 reps. We simply do the first exercise for those reps, the next exercise for those reps, and then the third. We have one minute to try and do as much of that as we can before we have to go straight in again for the next minute. We'll repeat that for six sets. We then have one full-minute rest before we then move into the next combination of exercises. All you'll need for today's workout is your body well warmed up, your mat, and a bottle of water, and perhaps a towel nearby. So simply follow along. It will all be on screen as we go. What I would say is, there are three exercises per set. So for example, we have our jumping jacks. We then go into squat alternating kick, and then to finish we have our mountain climbers. The mountain climbers on the screen will be for 20 reps or 10. So if you need to drop those reps, if you're not getting enough rest before the next minute, drop the last exercise, its reps, by maybe 50%. So instead of 20 reps, do 10. And the same will apply with the lunge or lung jumps. Instead of 20 reps, do 10 reps. You do want at least 10 or 15 second rest before we have to go again. But always remember, we do get a full-minute rest after we complete six sets. Some of the movements can definitely be performed low-impact, not less intensity, just low-impact. So I will, of course, show that on the screen. And the finisher today, it's gonna be on the legs. 100 squat jumps. Alternative, of course, not less intense. It's going to be 100 squats. Keep looking forward at all times. Try to get a good depth with each rep. And of course, just keep going 'til your legs feel jelly and you just need to stop. I actually think you could really enjoy the format. So the first combinations is sort of a full-body, little bit of a warmup. The second then we move into our upper body. The third is lower body. And then the last is more core and ab. EMOM, every minute on the minute. Everyone let's go.