 amlodipine, amlodipine, Hi everyone and welcome. So I just want to sit down. I'm not going to take up too much of your time. I'll try and keep it short. I just want to really update as to what I've sort of been up to because I know many of you have been asking and also just to let you know what is coming. So I'm not going to lie. I really have actually missed training with you all. It has been a good few months and definitely longer than what I had expected. These past few months have been a break, a break from social media. But by no means have I been lying on a Lilo in the sun somewhere, or have I actually been off having a baby, nor am I actually pregnant. There are just some of the wee questions that have popped through over the past few months. But this time away from social media has really allowed me to reflect, plan and create. So just a quick background, if you're new here. It was maybe two or three years ago that I started YouTube sharing my real home workouts during a time where many of us couldn't access a gym. These workouts were actually a reflection of how I've always trained. I've always appreciated the concept of body weight training and dumbbells. The community, credible, we all helped each other. And I'll be honest, during that time, of course it was challenging, but the community really made it a blast. YouTube as a platform allowed me very simply to upload my home workouts to share with those clients that I wasn't able to train face to face during that period. And throughout YouTube have been very supportive with me. But of course there are always going to be limitations, particularly in regards to music that was maybe playing during the workouts, you may have preferred to play your own music or they eased access certain information. And actually organizing the playlists and on a constant loop of uploading meant that I really was shying away from maybe other types of equipment, other durations of the workouts. You may have noticed I do tend to shy away a little bit from social media. However, the internet as a tool for learning and connecting has been always a big part of my life. During the time that I was a one to one personal trainer, I'm working very closely with incredible people. It became really apparent the effect that social media can have on people and it's not always positive. In fact, we're surrounded, bombarded and exposed to more information than ever before. And usually it's extremes. And with all of this extra information, we tend to be even more confused than ever. And it still continues. I get messages and questions. And to be honest, sometimes they're quite shocking. And it is pretty apparent the effects that the likes of social media, not all social media, but certainly a large majority of social media and marketing can have on people. It does make me sad. And it also makes me frustrated and angry. For the past 15 years, I really have been into self development. I have really tried to learn as much as I can. And that doesn't apply to just what I have been reading, but the actual sources where I get my information from. And it's quite interesting because social media, it can be very full of loud, confident voices. However, the sources where I get my information from tends to be, it depends. It's not necessarily one extreme or the other. And I think that's what really has empowered me in my journey. Nobody knows my body and my mind like me. What fits into my life, my lifestyle, my family, that's what counts. So I listen, I read, I learn. And what I do learn, I don't always implement every single aspect of what I've learned into my life. There's pros and cons of everything. So it's up to you to evaluate on what you consider to be important to you. And in fact, when it comes down to it, what's most important is consistency. And often those more boring mundane things, those things that we do every single day, they're what build up your lifestyle, your habits. And over time, that snowball effect, that compound effect, that's what makes a difference. Sometimes it can be easy to listen to marketing. There's a magic pill, there's something out there, something extreme that we can do this week to change our lives. But rarely does that happen. And rarely is that sustainable. Actually appreciating the mundacity of our life is a big part. In fact, I tend to shy away from anything that actually promises something. And that applies to so much in my life. If everything was so easy, we would all have every single thing we want. If there was that magic 10 minute blitz workout to get the body of our dreams, or if there was that perfect time of the day to take that first cup of coffee to really increase our metabolism. Or that one supplement to fix all of our gut issues. It would be pretty cool, but I'm really not a holding out hope. But enough of me ranting. So I have been away the past few months a lot longer than what I had expected. I have been working on a new platform. And finally, it's ready. I have been working hard on creating a new home. A new home for me, and hopefully you too. A place where I'm able to share what I have learned with you. And hopefully help try to cancel out a lot of that noise. I started with a blank canvas. So essentially the revenue from the YouTube home is going into the new home. I've had the honor to work with an incredible app development company over the past few months to develop the vision. I've had creative input from the beginning and will continue so. There's no external investment, but I would of course welcome any input into the growth of this platform. So hopefully this is just the beginning and the name of the platform. It's going to be the CGX app. I hope this to be a hub, a place that you can come to learn, educate, empower yourself, to create your own path. So the CGX app will start as a mobile app. And upon launch, there will be two programs. So the first program is going to be the Ultimate Beginners Program. There is a beginner series here on YouTube. That is more of a prerequisite for the Epic programs, but this is going to be the Ultimate Beginner Program. This stems six weeks in total. It's really for anyone who's completely new to lifting, but also anyone who wants to learn a little bit more about certain exercises. So in regards to the format, I will be talking throughout the entire program. The first four weeks will involve three workouts per week, all full body. Following that for the final two weeks, we will then progress into four workouts a week, two upper body, two lower body. So that's six weeks in total, where I will be guiding you through each of the workouts. We will go through certain variations of exercises, regressions, progressions, and throughout much of that program will be primarily compound movements with some isolation exercises towards the end. Within the Ultimate Beginner Program, there will be no cardio or jumping whatsoever. So of course you can do your own cardio to complement it, such as your walking, cycling, or swimming. It really will be the fundamentals of resistance training. So you can use those six weeks to learn and to get accustomed to certain exercises. And of course you can revisit it. So you can basically do it for six weeks and then revisit it and see if you can increase your weight, which of course you likely will, particularly the near you are to training. So the Ultimate Beginner Program will be ready for you to work through at your own pace. It is spanning six weeks, three workouts per week for the first four weeks, then four workouts per week for the last two weeks. However, of course, you can always manipulate this to your own schedule timetable. You can in fact do one workout per week, two workouts per week, it's completely up to you. And the second program, it's going to be the Basemode Program. This is going to be an interesting 10 weeks. Each workout approximately 40 minutes and we'll be doing five workouts per week. We'll be doing upper, lower, full body and cardio splits. There is actually a very short, two week Basemode series here on YouTube and it was so popular, hence the program. The Basemode is based upon four sets of each exercise with a staple throughout the workout. The fundamentals of hypertrophy of course apply here with our rep ranges anywhere between five to maybe 30 reps depending on the exercise and the weights that you have. Basemode Program will be released on a day to day basis just as it was on YouTube. So we can all do it together as we go through those 50 workouts. So the ultimate beginner program will be ready on the day of launch. The Basemode Program will be released on a day to day basis. So aside from the programs, there will of course be workouts. Within the app there is a discovery section where you'll be able to explore all of the different content. In regards to the workouts, there's over 80 new workouts, all different equipment, all different durations, intensities, so whether you're looking for a quick bicep last or in fact a pistol squat workout, you can simply search there. A popular request that came through was actually how-to videos. So there is going to be a complete form library. This actually involves over 50 form videos where I go into depth on certain movements and exercises that you will see within many of these workouts. So these are not simply just a gift of me performing the actual exercise. I will talk through what I have learned, how I perform the exercise, how you may perform the exercise a little bit differently and really the considerations, internal cues and external cues to apply when you're performing the exercises. With training, progressive overload is an important factor. However, one aspect that is sometimes overlooked is simply how you perform the exercise. I'm able to get out so much more out of just 10 reps of a certain exercise compared to a few years ago. Once you learn the fundamentals of a certain exercise, you can definitely manipulate those exercises so that you get much more out of that rep. Examples within the form library, I'll discuss the differences between the sumo squat and the sumo deadlift, but also regressions and progressions to pistol squats. Also within the discovery section, the hub of the app, there is male ideas. I've called this male ideas because that is exactly what they are. They're ideas that you can maybe manipulate, change and add your own take on them just as inspiration. These are very simple males that I use quite regularly at home. They're convenient and I also find them really cost effective. I use a lot of covered staples and also a lot of produce within my freezer. I am by no means a chef, but I do hope they maybe provide some simple inspiration for you to maybe incorporate some aspects of it into your home. The knowledge base is a place where you can come to be educated and to be empowered. There's a vast array of topics within the knowledge base, including there's training, health, women's specific health, aging, psychology, physiotherapy, composition, nutrition and for those who like to take a deeper dive, the science stuff. Many of these have been written by myself. However, I've also had the privilege to work with experts in their field, not only in research, but also the application of the research. I hope this place can be somewhere where the noise can be canceled out that little bit. In today's society, it's really hard to decipher what is good information and what is not. And it's important to realize that sometimes that not so good information can really have detrimental effects, not only on our body, but also our mind. Science is rarely certain nor is it absolutism. And it really is very empowering to learn this because you're then able to actually cancel out all of those very confident, loud noises. So that's just a quick overview of the actual content within the app, now onto the features and this was a definite one. The option to be able to play your own music. I know some of you really do like that music that I actually handpicked. However, I know that it's not everyone's taste. So of course, what you'll be able to do is simply turn off my music and you can listen to just the beeps. Or you can also play through Apple or Spotify where you'll also hear the beeps. So there's different options. There will be a suggested warmup prior to every single workout. However, you can skip this. I know that many of yous have your own warmup routine. So by all means, you can simply press skip. Within each workout page, there is a journal entry where you can record the likes of the weights that you've used for that certain workout or even how much you loved it. So then should you revisit that workout, you'll be able to see that you maybe use two 10KG dumbbells. So you know that you maybe use that again or you may consider going that little bit heavier. Within the app, there is a calendar function where you can import an entire program into the calendar. It will account for the rest days as per the suggested program schedule where you can then of course change the days should you wish. You can also plan your week where you can go through and maybe you're gonna start Monday, chest day, pick a chest day, put that into your calendar, Tuesday, leg day and so on. You'll also be able to add to your favorites. So I know from YouTube that many of yous have your own favorite workouts that you like to revisit. So by all means, you just heard it and that's added to your favorites. However, I know many of yous really appreciate the printed PDF calendar where you can print it out and you can simply tick off your days. That will be available for both the Ultimate Beginner and the Beast Mode programs. Also within the discovery section, there is a fun area called the progress tests. These are six exercises. Once you hit go, for one minute you perform as many good quality reps as possible for that certain exercise, record your reps and then it will record the date. So you can revisit that, try and beat your previous record even by one or two reps. This includes push-ups, squats and burpees. And of course, what would a workout be without the comment section? There'll be a full functioning comment section under each of the workouts. I know many of yous like to actually explore the comments prior to beginning a workout, just so that you can get a feel for the actual session ahead. It's very simple to cast the TV and also connect your Apple Health or Google Fit. So yes, this new platform, this app, it's simply not just workouts. At the end of the day, I could have just done this within a couple of weeks and it has been built for you listening to all of your feedback throughout the previous years. Having been a personal trainer one to one for many years, it really taught me what is important. This app for you hopefully is more than just the workouts. It's not gimmicky, it's functional. The downloads aspect of the app is nearly finished so that should be a few more weeks. And although this is a mobile app for Android and iOS, the actual web version is currently being created. Should you decide to download the app, you will get a two week free trial. This is important, a time for you to actually explore the app and see if it's a good fit for you. And the launch date, it's going to be Friday, the 28th of April. So you hopefully have that weekend to explore and then Beast Mode will commence on that Monday following. The first of May, I'm super excited to hear your feedback but also to get started in Beast Mode. And just to quickly recap on the programs, the ultimate beginner is a six week program where I will be guiding you through the actual program, talking, however, Beast Mode, I will not be talking. Apart from during the introduction, where I give a general overview of what to expect within that session. And of course, all of the workout series and programs will remain here on YouTube. So you can work through those anytime you like. I will still upload of course to YouTube, it just will be at a lesser extent. And for more information, you can simply visit cgxapp.com where you can access information on those key dates, but also any questions or queries. There is a help desk available to answer many of your questions, whether it's relating to the actual app itself or the programs or workouts. And just two points before we finish. First of all, I want to say thank you for giving me your time today. Thanks for listening to me. But also secondly, I want to actually apologize for taking so long. And I really have missed training with you all. And on that note, I'm going to leave you with just a wee something. And I'll hopefully see you soon. Bye. Immediately, it is just the start of your journey for me, exaggerating at the top, make sure where nice stable position, where similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar similar