- Hi everyone, and welcome day 27 in the EPIC Endgame. And today we're heading the lower body. We're gonna be using complexes. The timer is going to be on for two and a half minutes per complex, 30 second rest. All you'll need for today's workout are some dumbbells, your mat, and a yoga block or thick book, something to elevate the feet and those heels. Within each complex, there will only be two exercises. The reps per exercise may range from 10, right up to the 20. And also some of the exercises may involve one dumbbell, others two, some body weight only. So with the complex, you simply do the first exercise for those reps. You then do the next And you repeat that cycle for the duration, which is going to be two and a half minutes. It is important that you don't rush. Don't put yourself under pressure and please make sure you're stable. Particularly if you're elevating those heels or the feet for those lunges. Always make sure you are comfortable, confident, and ready before you actually descend into any movement. At the beginning of the workout I'm gonna be using just one dumbbell and that will be 25kg. I will then drop and I'll be using two dumbbells at 12 and a half kg each. And the finisher it's gonna be on those legs. It's gonna be 100 hand top squats. The reason I've incorporated the hand top is that it is gonna make you sort of gauge that depth on every single reps. So your first rep and your hundredth rep should be the same. Keep looking straight forward, position your feet that little bit wider if you prefer, drop those hips and push them back, keep the chest open, looking straight forward. Today there's gonna be quite a lot of work, I think on those hamstrings. But of course the courts and glutes all involved as well. Once you do this work, I would really hope that you actually think back during the rest of your day on just what you have accomplished. And I hope it's a really pride, I hope is feel awesome after this workout. I'm ready, are you ready? This is day 27. Let's go.