- Hi, everyone, and welcome day nine in the EPIC Endgame, and today, it's full body. The timer is going to be on pretty much throughout the entire workout, 40 seconds of work, 20 second rest. For this workout, you will need a pair of dumbbells. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are 10 kg each and that is throughout the workout. Also a tariff for some Bulgarian lunges. I'm also using a Yoga Block to elevate my heels during those squats and also a mart. Pretty much every single exercise today is actually going to be a different variation. So when we hit the chest, there'll be three types of chest exercises, same with the shoulders, same with the lower body. However, there is a stipple, as you can see here, we're in a squat into our press. So, you can either do a squat, stand, then press or squat into press in one smooth movement. We then, lower the dumbbells nice and carefully, nice open chest, slide it down into a row, stand up again into an RDL, a Romanian deadlift. At the bottom here, I'm probably going to take it that little bit slower into the RDL, relax and lengthen the hamstrings, before I then, cling back up into squat, to press, row, and back to RDLs, treat each movement individually. However, as you progress, through the 40 seconds, you may get a bit of a flu, so you can smoothly transition from one exercise to the next. This stipple will appear, I think, eight times in total and the finisher 100 reps targeting those abbs. As you can see here, I'm actually doing 25 reps of a toe reach with the dumbbell into leg lower, following that, 25 toe reaches, following that 25 leg lowers, and then following that to finish, the last 25 is a straight leg reverse crunch. Throughout, of course, you can modify as preferred so you can definitely perform these alternate legs or bend at the knees, or place the hands under the hips, just to help keep that lower back on the floor. You will be tired by the time you reach this point, so it is important to really take your time with these reps. I'm definitely expecting, towards the end, to maybe, pause after each 10 or 15 reps, just to make sure that I'm doing it correctly, and I'm actually able to keep that lower back flat to the floor. Also hang positions with the likes of the reverse lunges and leg lower, you can either place your head on the mat, and push that lower back down, or you can actually place your hands behind the head. This is a nice, sweaty, full body workout and we're finishing with abbs. Let's go.