- Hi everyone ad welcome Day 21 in the FUEL Series, the start of week five. We have a lower body leg day circuit. All you'll need for today's workout is some dumbbells. I'm using the same pair of dumbbells throughout that is going to be two 15 kg each dumbbells. However, of course, if you have a selection, keep those handy. You can also use barbells or kettle bells. Play away with any of the equipment that you have access to. The rest period throughout this entire workout will be 20 seconds. However, the sets themselves may change in duration. So one of the sets we may do for 60 seconds, another set it might be also for 60 seconds, but it's split into a tricep 20, 20, 20, or we may have a really short burst of work, 20 seconds only. We simply have one big circuit and we perform that circuit for two rounds. We then have a body weight finisher. Remember with every single workout I perform, these are my real workouts, so I am not recording maybe 20 seconds of a lunge and then rerecording the next bit. This is all in one go. I am here right with you. When you're struggling, I am struggling. These are real workouts, so please make it your own. I definitely make these workouts my own. I do change the hand position where I'm holding my dumbbells. I might rack the dumbbells sometimes. Other times I do like to bring it low to actually increase my grip strength. But also sometimes if my forearms are completely exhausted, I will lift them up here. Again, you can play about with whatever feels most comfortable for you. The same applies with fit position. None of us will squat the same. Some of us may prefer our feet a little bit more aligned or some of us may prefer toes out that little bit more. Feet are slightly wider stance. Others, that little bit closer. You may also squat deeper than me. You may squat not so deep as me. You may prefer to stand tall at the top for a little bit more duration than me or you might prefer to go that little bit quicker pace. Once you rise up, go straight, back down. Again, it's your preference. Whatever makes you feel safe and comfortable. Should any jumping occur, I will provide a low impact alternative. However, there will be no jumping whatsoever with the weights. It's always body weight only. And the finisher, we're gonna play about with some forward stepping lunges and then rear stepping lunges. Forward stepping lunges we'll be doing some exercises all on the one side. We then switch to the opposite. We will then go into rear step lunges, opposite side. Then we have a 10 second rest before we go into either alternating lung jumps or alternating lunges. So that is the finisher. It's quite a long one, but we can do it. Leg day circuit, start of week five, let's go.