- Hi everyone. And welcome, Day Four in the FUEL Series. And today it's a full body workout. We're gonna be using supersets, 40 seconds of work followed by 30 seconds of work, 20 second rest. The format of today's workout is basically we do a superset for the upper body. We then do a superset for the lower body, and we repeat that. So the superset will be performed for two sets. However, we are alternating between that upper body and lower body. If you've done some of my other workouts and particularly the Epic Programmes you probably will have noticed that we've done this sort of training before. There is a fancy word for it, it stands for PHA, Peripheral Heart Action. So basically, it just puts a little bit more demand on the heart and the lungs to get the blood circulating from up the top, all the way down to the bottom. So this format definitely allows us to play with the rest period. Today, it's only 20 seconds. However, if you do, for example, chest exercise at the start, we are then into our lunges and that's for two sets, one each side. It is essentially three minutes before we return to the chest. So it's a big rest period for the chest. And again, by time you come back to the lower body, you're getting over a minute rest there. So I expect to use this type of format pretty much for most Friday workouts the full bodies within the Fuel series all you'll need for today's workout are some dumbbells, your mat, a chair for Bulgarian lunges, however, if you prefer, you can of course perform regular lunges with both feet on the floor. I'm also using a yoga block today that is to elevate the heels for my squats. This will put a little bit more emphasis on the quads, but it is also something you can try if you have limited mobility in those ankles. Some people find that when they actually elevate the heels during squats, they find the squat a lot more comfortable. So you can definitely try that out. Otherwise, you can definitely perform regular high squats with both feet firmly on the floor. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are 17 and a half kg each. And that will be at the beginning of the workout, that will be for chest exercises back and lower body. I will also then be using two 10 kg dumbbells and that will be for shoulders and the rest of the lower body. And the finisher, we're gonna get the heart rate up that little bit more and the blood pumping, as you can see here, our Maker, one minute we're gonna be doing a push up into a Renegade Roll, each side. We then come forward, look straight ahead, curl, make sure your heels are on the floor before you curl, stand press, And then back down. We do that for one minute. Then we have 30 seconds of high squats and again the Maker for one minute. So yeah, I think is really enjoy this format. Just remember that when you do your upper body the next superset is going to be lower body. So you're essentially getting a little bit of a rest that way. Full body fun, Let's go!