 Picasso Picasso Picasso Picasso Picasso Picasso Picasso Picasso Picasso Picasso Picasso Picasso Picasso Picasso Hi everyone and welcome to Day 29 in the mere series and today it's a full body workout. This is no repeat. Every single exercise will be different. The timer will be on for a majority of the workout. Forty five seconds of work with 15 seconds rest. However there is some abs specific in todays workout and when we're on the mat performing that there will be no specific rest. So it'll be 60 seconds of work, 60, 60 and so on. For today's workout you will definitely need some dumbbells. I'm going to be using one pair three out and that is 10 kg each. However, please by all means keep all those dumbbells that you have nearby and you can certainly interchange depending on the actual exercise. Also some of the exercises I'll be using two dumbbells or one. If I'm using one you can continue to use the two or if I'm using two you can use one. Again completely up to you. Aside from those dumbbells you will also need your mat and a chair or bench that will be for decline push-ups, body weight dips and Bulgarian lunges. I will be doing dips on the chair today. However, of course if you have them dip bars by all means bring them out. You'll also see behind me I have my yoga blocks. I actually have two yoga blocks today. I'll be using one for heel elevated squats and I'll also be using both of them for deeper push-ups. However, of course you can perform regular push-ups or on push-up bars. It just depends if you're ready for that extra depth but by all means you can certainly perform regular push-ups and try to get that chest down. And the finisher today is definitely going to involve the core. We have our hover to down dog. For 45 seconds we simply then go into plank to tuck for 15 seconds. We then move into tricep push-ups. That will be 45 seconds. Following that again our plank to tucks and the last minute will simply be a sprawl. So a nice moderate pace today. It's 45 seconds work but we only have 15 seconds rest. They are sort of grouped together and that we'll be doing a little bit upper body then a little bit lower body and so on. However, there may be just one upper body then one lower body then one upper body. And I almost forgot the last thing you need for today's workout is a wall or something to perform a wall sit against. You're going to try and get the thighs parallel with the floor. Shins parallel with the wall. And I think that's it. We only have one more workout after this and that is the Fuel Series Smashed. Have fun with this workout. Feeling strong, push through. Let's go. And I'm done. And I'm done. And I'm done. And I'm done. And I'm done. And I'm done. And I'm done. And I'm done. And I'm done. And I'm done. And I'm done. And I'm done. And I'm done. And I'm done. And I'm done. And I'm done. And I'm done. And I'm done. And I'm done. I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you were, I wish you we'll see you soon we'll see you soon we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we'll see we I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine I wish you were fine  mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh Oh I really need that choceco I really need that choceco I really need that choceco I really need that choceco I really need that choceco I really need that choceco I really need that choceco I really need that choceco I really need that choceco I really need that choceco I really need that choceco I really need that choceco I really need that choceco I really need that choceco i'll give you a lil…. i'll give you a lil…. i'll give you a lil…. i'll give you…. i'll give you…. i'll give you…. i'll give you…. i'll give you…. i'll give you…. i'll give you…. i'll give you…. i'll give…. i'll give…. i'll give…. i'll give…. i'll give…. i'll give…. i'll give…. i'll give…. i'll give…. i'll give…. i'll give…. i'll give…. i'll give…. i'll give…. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this. I'm not sure what to do with this.