- Hi everyone and welcome. Day 11 in the FUEL Series. And today it's the lower body. We're gonna be using cluster sets. The cluster sets, they're basically mini sets. Structured work period, structured rest. 30 seconds of work, 15-second rest. Each compound exercise will be performed for four sets. That's four cluster sets. 30, 15-second rest, and so on. Four cluster sets of the same exercise. However, the fourth set will be a slight variation. It may be more dynamic, less dynamic. Partial reps or isometrics. Also, when it comes to the rear step lunges, we will actually be doing all four cluster sets on the same side. We then will do the cluster sets, four sets on the opposite side. Once we complete each four cluster sets, there will also be another exercise. This will be for one-minute duration, and it will target the calves. So it will either be, as you can see here, body weight calf raise, squats. You're gonna try and balance and lift up. Alternatively, if we're doing single-leg work, we will then go into one minute of our single-leg calf raise on that working leg. But don't worry, it will all be on the screen as you go through the workout. All you'll need for today's workout are some dumbbells. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference for majority of the workout are 15 kg each. However, the very first exercise, sumo deadlifts, I'll be using one dumbbell, and that is 30 kg. You'll also see this bench behind me. This is actually only for to set the dumbbells on during the rest period. When it comes to Romanian deadlifts, we'll be doing 30 seconds of work, but we only have 15-second rest. So it can be a good idea to maybe have something approximately hip height or knee height just to set those dumbbells on, to save you actually lifting them from the floor every time. And the finisher, it's gonna be a combination of suitcase squats, body weight close squats, and calf raises. So yep, we're gonna be targeting the entire lower body in today's workout. And please remember, make this your own workout. This is actually my real workout. So there is some maybe positions that I would do that maybe you might not feel so comfortable. You may do them slightly different. For example, the sumo squats, you may prefer a slightly wider stance or a closer stance. You may prefer toes out that little bit more or less. You may prefer to tilt forward that little bit more than me or less. And also Romanian deadlifts. Of course, Romanian deadlifts, keep that chest open, okay? So you're gonna keep the dumbbells nice and close to the body. Sliding down. Hips are gonna go back and up. Lower to the knees and come up. Trying to keep your neck in line with your spine as best as possible. So you're not lifting too high, but you're also not lifting too low, which will actually encourage curving of the back. And again, that is one of the exercises where range of movement actually depends on you. So you may prefer to bring it to the knees, feel that stretch in the hamstrings and come up. Or you may go past the knees. Absolutely everybody is different. It's the same as if I was to drop right now to the splits. It doesn't mean that everybody has to go right down to the splits to do it perfectly. It just means you move in a range of movement that is comfortable for you. So yep, remember to always have fun with these workouts. Make it your own. Look at the description box below. If you want to actually change any of the exercises, by all means, do so. I really encourage, make these workouts your own. Compound cluster sets, let's go!