- Hi everyone and welcome day one in the Fuel series and today, we're kicking it off with lower body focused. Welcome to Fuel. This is basically going to be six weeks, five workouts per week. They're pretty much mostly going to be involving the entire body per session. However, they will be lower body focused, upper body focused, full body workout. Each workout will be approximately 30 minutes in duration. With Fuel, all you will essentially need are some dumbbells, your mat, a yoga block to elevate those hands, but also for the likes of uneven pushups and a chair or bench, something for Bulgarian lunges and the likes of decline pushups, body weight dips. But of course, if you have other equipment, such as barbells, kettlebells, pull up bars, dip bars, by all means, incorporate them into the workout. It can be a good idea to actually read the description box below each workout. Here, I actually give some cues and tips as well, of course, as putting 'em on the screen throughout the workout, but in regards to equipment, I detail each exercise the weights that I've been using and it also might give you an insight as to what other equipment you might like to incorporate, such as pull ups, dip bars, also hip thrust barbells. Within this series, there is no jumping at any point with any dumbbells. I will of course provide low impact alternatives. These are not lower intensity, just lower impact. Due to the fact that we have two lower body days and upper body days, please be aware that they still involve the entire body. So it is important that you actually warm up your complete body. These workouts will increase our metabolic demand. Those three energy systems will be needed. We have our fast acting energy system so that will be used throughout those shorter bursts of energy, the higher intensity. And as you know, this depletes quite quickly. We then transition into more of that glycolytic system, which is more of those 60 second sets and above, also resistance training, hypertrophy training usually requires that energy system. And then of course there is the oxidative system. That is aerobic, that is those longer duration sets, such as longer running and also in these workouts, it may be complexes or it might be the kind of those giant sets, et cetera. Three systems for fuel. We'll be using them all. You will notice as well, you'll not simply be using one type or the other, they will interchange and blend together throughout. Just in case you aren't aware, it is free to subscribe and also you can then turn on those notification bells, so you actually get a wee alert every time a new workout video is uploaded. Also every Sunday evening, I sit down and I write a little bit of an overview of what is coming the following week, so that can be handy in regards equipment that you may need, general concept, and also any other training that you may be doing, so if you know it's gonna be a very intense leg day, those runs could be done after or before just depending on what your main goal is. And that community post can be found within the community tab on this YouTube page. And of course there is the Facebook community. This is a magnificently positive place, like-minded people wanting to learn and also to be inspired but also to inspire others. I'll link it below, of course, if you would like to find out more and onto today's workout. The timer there is going to be 30 seconds per exercise, 30 second rest. It is going to be giant sets pretty much for today's workout. 30, 30, 30, 30, rest for 30. Every giant set will be performed for two sets. As we progress through this series, we will come across all different types of formatting for these metabolic conditioning workouts. So we may have weight focused drop sets, mechanical drop sets, circuits, complexes, and the list goes on. And rep range anywhere between eight reps, maybe up to 20 reps, a big variety of rep ranges. Who knows that maybe we set A-50 reps. We'll see how we get on. For today's workout, the dumbbells I'm using for you reference primarily at the beginning are 15 kg each. I will then drop to 12 and half kg each. Aside from that, you'll simply need something to put your foot on for those Bulgarian lunges. And don't forget, you can still pace yourself and challenge yourself. Let's go.