- Hi everyone, and welcome FUEL Series. And today we're hitting the upper body. As you'll see from the title, Antagonist Training, simply put, opposing muscle groups. So basically, today, we're gonna be doing a combination within the supersets, back and chest. We're also gonna be doing the lots, and the front delts, biceps, and triceps. We have a staple in today's workout, and we're gonna hit the side delts. As you can see here, we have 45 seconds of slow and controlled lateral raises. I'm using the lightest weight that I have in this workout. It is four kg. So every time that pops up, just for your reference, I'm using the lighter weight. I'm gonna try and keep my shoulders away from my ears, almost flare my lats, bring my elbows to approximately shoulder height, nice and smooth, prevent any jerking. That is for 45 seconds. Following that, same movement, however, slightly different tempo. Still controlling, but that little bit faster. There's a big difference between this, and swinging the dumbbells, okay? So we're gonna stop so you do not need to go any higher than that by any means. So aside from the staple, that is going to be a superset, every time it appears, we will be doing super sets. So for example, our first exercise, dead stop chest press. That will be supersetted with our bent over row. There's also some dips in today's workout. I'll be doing my dips on the bars. Alternatively, of course, you can do them on the chair. If you prefer not to perform dips, you can do tricep press, diamond press, tricep, pushup. And that's the magic with these workouts. This is my workout, and you can make it your own. You may prefer different exercises than me, yet they're still targeting the same muscle groups. You may prefer different tempos. You may prefer using heavier weights, or certain lighter weights, on different exercises. It's always your choice, what you prefer, and what you feel comfortable with. The main thing is, you get a solid, good workout. The dumbbells I'm using primarily for the chest and back, are two 15 kg each, dumbbells. I'd just like to note that I may have went with 17 and-a-halfs, or maybe even 20 kgs. However, due to the fact that I'm actually doing the dips on the bars, and they are essentially at compound movement, I am going to be going that little bit lighter in those chest press, and the rows. But if I was doing the dips on the chair, I probably would've went that little bit heavier. So again, it's completely up to you. So I'll be using two 15 kg each for pretty much all of the chest and back. I'll be using four kg each, for the staple, every time it appears, and also some frontal raises. However, the only thing I'm using eight kg each for, is bicep curls. As with all the workouts, in the description box below this video, I give a full breakdown of the video, and the actual weights that I'm using for the exercises. I know many of you like to actually gauge what weights to lift in comparison to me. So often you may go heavier, or you may go lighter. And for the finisher, it is body weight only. But we're gonna be doing a reverse snow angel, which sounds quite nice, combined with dead stop pushups. I think we'll realise just how hard we've actually worked, by the time we even reached those snow angels. So yes, 45 seconds of work, 45 seconds of work, 30 seconds of rest, the entire duration. We may do two supersets, for example, on the chest and back. However, every time we do those super sets, they will change that little bit. So for example, this super set, we're doing slow pushups. Then we're going into renegade rows, alternating. But we're gonna pause at the top of each row, set it down opposite side. We then have 30 second rests. We do it again, but with a variation, faster pushups, and then alternating renegade row, at our regular pace. So yet we're playing with the weights, two dumbbells, one dumbbell, body weight. We're also playing with pace, and also range of movement. Some dead stop positions in there as well. Antagonist superset training works really well to get a lot of volume in a workout. So today, we're definitely gonna get a lot done on the chest, back, shoulders, and those arms. Upper body, let's go.