- Hi everyone, and welcome day 15 in the FUEL Series. And today's workout is definitely gonna involve dumbbells and those burpees. The timer is going to be on for majority of the workout. 20 seconds of work, 20 seconds of work, 20 second rest. 40 seconds of a work period, 20 second rest. So yes, super sets and the super sets, the format will be a majority body weight only. Then the next 20 seconds will be involving the dumbbells. So for example, lunge burpees, you're gonna do a burpee into alternating lunges. The next 20 seconds will be alternating lunges with the dumbbells. Each super set will be performed for two rounds. Even if it is one side, we then do the other. And we will do that again. So we're still doing two sets per side. There is a staple in today's workout and it is this, our one minute sprawl. You're just gonna do the hands to floor sprawl. So you're just simply gonna stand, come into that plank position and stand again one minute duration. So, yep, in today's workout, there's short, faster movements. Then you have to do a short movement with the dumbbells but at a slower pace because essentially you are holding weights. Then we have the longer duration of those sprawls. All you'll need for today's workout is a pair of dumbbells and your mat the dumbbells I'm using for your reference are 10 kg each, just so we know in regards timing. So yes, we're doing 20 seconds of mainly burpees. We are then essentially gonna lift dumbbells straight away and do 20 seconds with those dumbbells. But I would stress take your time lifting the dumbbells. You may, you a completely different pace when you're doing the burpees. As soon as you finish those burpees, you may need to slow it down, pick up the dumbbells, get into position and perform the next exercise with those dumbbells. So yes, burpees, there's going to be some jumping. There will be low impact alternatives throughout this entire workout. Anytime I'm hopping back into a plank, you can simply step back. Anytime I'm doing a jump at the top of a burpee, you can simply leave that jump out. Trust me, it won't be any easier. And the finisher we have two minutes of work, we're gonna do one minute of those sprawls. Then we're gonna do one minute of our push up into alternating lunges. Nice and steady pace, you're gonna last the duration. So, yep, a good wee mix of higher intensity, some resistance training with those dumbbells and also some endurance work. It's definitely gonna be a sweaty one, let's go.