- Hi, everyone, and welcome. Day 16 in the FUEL Series, and today it's a quad-focused lower body workout, using supersets. In regards timing, the rest period throughout the entire workout will be 30 seconds rest. Some of the supersets will be 30 seconds of work, followed by 30 seconds of work, however, there will be a superset in today, 30 seconds of work, with 60 seconds of work following that. That will be the wall sits. So yes, you'll need something to lean against for that wall sit. When you're doing the wall sit, try to make sure, as best you can, your thighs are parallel with the floor, and your shins are parallel with the wall. Just sit back, and try and relax. Aside from a wall, you will also need some weights. The dumbbells I'm using, for your reference, are 15 kg each. I will also be using a yoga block, to elevate my heels during some of those squats. You can of course use a low stepper, or a wedge, just something to elevate those heels. And then I also have my box here. I'm gonna use that to step up on, body weight only step ups, and also Bulgarian lunges. This is a lower body workout but we're gonna zone in on those quads. And there is a staple in today's workout. It's going to elevate that heart rate for sure, but also more work on those quads. It's body weight only. As you can see here, the first 30 seconds, I'm doing an actual crouch into a jump. I'm landing, looking forward, right down hands to the floor. I'm actually on my toes. Here is the alternative, simply leaving out the jump. Following that the next 30 seconds, it's going to be a crouch to the burpee. So basically we're gonna be in that crouch position, we're gonna hop back, come back in to that crouch, and jump. And the alternative is exactly the same, just leaving out the jump at the top, and stepping back, as opposed to hopping back. That staple will appear four times throughout this workout. And the finisher, it's a combination of dumbbells and body weight, just to really finish off the quads. Remember with squats, keep looking ahead, take it nice and slow. Focus on your depth and control, at the bottom of the movement. I'm gonna come to the wall sits, just try to sit back, relax, and keep that good position. Let's go.