- Hi everyone, and welcome, Day 14 in the FUEL Series. And today it's a full body workout. We're gonna be using supersets. The timer, 30 seconds of work, 30 seconds of work, 20 second rest. We're gonna play about with some tempo work today. So there's going to be slow movements, there's going to be slightly faster movements, there are also going to be very slow movements, one rep movements, and that is actually gonna be in the finisher. With this tempo workout today, we're also gonna include some dead stop movements. So basically these are movements where you actually completely stop your muscles relax, but then they have to turn on again, brace before you lift. So for example, the first exercise, we're going to be doing dead stop chest press. Nice and slow, nice and controlled, bring it right down to the mat, pause for a second, so you're almost pretty much at a dead stop. Then you're gonna drive up, and back down, nice and controlled for 30 seconds, then we're into our chest press, straight away for 30 seconds. So you could look at it again, as pre-ex exhaust, before we do our chest press. Following out superset being completed two times, there will then be another superset, but it'll be a variation. So following the chest press two sets, you can see here, 30 seconds of pushups. Then we're gonna go into 30 seconds of single arm driving up. So normal push up on the way down, but on the way up, you're gonna bring that opposite arm up, back down, and opposite arm. There is also a pair of supersets that will appear two times throughout this workout. So you could call it a bit of a staple. It only appears twice. As you can see here, we have our full range nice and slow and controlled step ups. Following 30 seconds of that, with one foot on the box, the same foot remains, and we're going to tilt forward, and we're gonna do half reps of our step ups. So a little bit faster pace, more time on retention for that front leg. We then have 20 second rest before we do the opposite side. If you prefer to be more grounded during these workouts, of course you can perform rear step lunges. We're gonna keep the torso nice and tall, and we're gonna do 30 seconds stepping back. Then, we're going to turn into 30 seconds forward tilt, a little bit faster in that movement. If you are doing the step ups, please ensure you have something very stable to step up on. I'm using this box, but you can also use a stable chair, or a stepper. All of the step ups today are going to be body weight only. Aside from that, you will need your mat, and also some dumbbells. The dumbells I'm using, for your reference, are 15 kg each. However, I'll be using one dumbbell and that is 10 kg for the shoulders. You'll also see behind me, I have a yoga block. That is to elevate my heels during squats, just to target the quads a little bit more. I will also be using it to elevate the front foot, during static lunges. This is not necessary, but if you have it, you may like to use it. During the static lunges, it basically increases the depth, the range of movement available. So it is not necessary. And the finisher, it's gonna be interesting. We're gonna be doing some very slow heel-elevated squats, and some very slow pushups. And remember, for example, pushups, if it's 40 seconds of one, slow push up, it doesn't mean you have to do the 40 seconds. So if you're able to control the lowering as best you can, for 10 seconds, and then stop and try again, that is perfect. You're actually getting so much work done on the way down. So yeah, just remember that, and try your best. And I think that's it. I know you are really gonna like this one. There's quite a lot of rad in today's workout, so yep, have your dumbbells ready. Let's go.