- Hi everyone and welcome day two in the FUEL Series and today we're focusing on the upper body. Even though it is upper body focused, we will be using the entire body, so please ensure you spend at least five minutes warming up the whole body. All you will essentially need for today's workout are some dumbbells, a mat, and a chair for some dips. However, I'm going to be doing my dips on dip bars. This is completely up to you. As you can see here, these are the dips on the chair. No matter what form of dips that you're doing, please ensure you do not strain to go into that depth, ease into it with each rep, try to stay as relaxed as you can, keep the shoulders away from the ears, so try to relax. Try not to keep all that tension in those traps. So today we're kicking it off with a circuit. Now the circuit is going to be 40 seconds of work, 40, 40 and so on. No specific rest within the circuit. However, you probably will need a few seconds just to reset and to get into position. We have five exercises in the circuit, 40 seconds each. we then have 40 seconds rest before we do it again. So that's only two rounds for that circuit. The first exercise in the circuit is pushups. I'm actually placing my hands on two yoga blocks to deepen that range. However, you can perform normal pushups or use pushup bars. This is a big one for the chest, so, yep, there'll be no chest press in today's workout. We then move onto landmine row where I'm using one dumbbell. Depending on the weight, you may wish to use two dumbbells and do a normal bent over row. I'm using a landmine row, one dumbbell, and that is 20 kg. We then go into push press, shoulder press with some assistance from the lower body that drive. I'm using two 10 kg dumbbells here. Following that, we then go into our dips and then a body weight exercise, simply a crouch into a pushup, Two round of that circuit and then we move on to some cluster sets. So you will definitely see cluster sets throughout the Fuel series. They're short bursts of work with short rest. Today, it's going to be six sets of every exercise, 20 seconds of work, 20 seconds of rest. So we're revisiting those rows, landmine rows, or bent over rows for six sets, then six sets of tricep pushups. Bear in mind it is only 20 seconds, then onto dips, 20 seconds, six sets, Then I'll be using lightweights four kgs and those are for lateral raises. I am goin' a slightly faster pace with these lateral raises. However, I am not swinging the dumbbells. So I'm not just flopping my arms, I am going to maintain control. Again, keep those shoulders down from the ears. And then we finish with some push press, single arm, 20 seconds on one side, 20 seconds on the other. We keep going. That will be for four rounds, then we do it again. And the finisher, as you can see here, chest to floor sprawl. You can hop back or step back. So if you prefer that slightly less impact, simply step back, but even if you are hopping back, you should try to land as quietly and as softly as possible. So we'll be doing that on and off 20 seconds, 20 seconds with our cobra pushups. Really gonna fry those triceps and I think that's it. I know that's a lot of talking. There's a lot in this workout, but don't worry, it's quite simple. We have five exercises for a circuit at the very beginning, we do the circuit, rest for 40 seconds, do it again. We then go into six sets of everything for our cluster sets and a fun wee finisher to get the heart rate up and to finish the triceps. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference is one 20 kg dumbbell and that is for my landmine row. I'll be using two 10 kg dumbbells and that is for my shoulder press, the push press, and those lateral raises with four kgs. Any other equipment you have laying about, by all means, you can use it, kettle bells, barbells, et cetera. At points throughout this workout, it may actually be your cardiovascular system that actually prevents you from doing the next rep or it may be just that muscular fatigue, but either way, just pause, reset and get ready for that next rep. I hope you really enjoy it. Let's go.