- Hi everyone, and welcome. Day Three in the FUEL Series, and today we're targeting the glutes and hamstrings. The timer's going to be on for the majority of the workout, 60 seconds of work, 30 seconds of work, 30 second rest. So that is super sets. 60 seconds followed by 30 seconds. All you'll need for today's workout are some dumbbells, also a chair for some hip thrusts, and a glute band just to place above the knees. I'm also using a towel just to place under the dumbbell during my hip thrusts. If you prefer, you can of course perform bridges, where your back is also on the floor. Aside from that, I'm using a yoga block to elevate the front foot during some lunges. That is not necessary, but please, if you are using a yoga block, or something to place that front foot on, just to increase the depth, the range of movement, please ensure that you feel steady before you actually lift those dumbbells. So a majority of the format of this workout is going to be 60 seconds of an exercise, and a complimentary exercise for the 30 seconds. So for example, our hip thrusts, 60 seconds, nice and slow, controlled, slow release on the bottom, really squeeze at the top, pushing against the band the entire time, we then go into 30 seconds of more explosive movement. So it's gonna be driving up, locking it in, again, driving it up. A little bit more power in those hip thrusts. When it comes to the sumo deadlifts, the first 60 seconds is going to be nice, slow, controlled, aiming for the best depth that you can. Ensure your heels are pushed into the floor the entire time, tilt forward at the hips without rounding the upper back, and ensure your chest is open. So at 60 seconds we then are gonna drop the weight to body weight only, you can either perform partial reps, or we're gonna do sumo jumps. If you are doing the sumo jumps, try to absorb that impact, try and land as quietly, softly, and as gentle as possible. We then have Romanian deadlifts. If you remember, keep the chest open, dumbbells close to the body, lower to your knees where you're feeling that stretch in the hamstrings, and come back up. Over time, you may progress to get that little bit deeper, but please don't overextend in order to actually try and get that little bit deeper, and then rounding your back. Keep the shoulder blades together and stick that chest out. Following 60 seconds of slow and controlled Romanian deadlifts, we're gonna go into one dumbbell half reps. Following that we have some lunges and staggered Romanian deadlifts. Every super set today is going to be performed for two sets. That includes if we do a super set on even one side, we then perform the opposite side in the next super set, and again, so we're still performing each super set two times, even if it's on one side. And the finisher, it's a long one, a bridge burnout. We're gonna be lying on the mat, body weight only. We're gonna be doing three exercises. 30, 30, 30, is the timer on one leg. We then switch to the opposite, then we repeat and repeat. We then finish with two feet on the floor for normal standard body weight bridges. So the first part of the finisher, as you can see here, a single leg glute bridge, full range as best you can. We then either go into a jump with that same foot pushing off and landing, or you can perform partial reps at the top. Really squeeze that glute and control it. Constant tension. We then go back into our full range single leg glute bridge, on the same side. So that's full range glute bridge, jump or partials, then full range. We then switch side and we do that two sets. The dumbbells I'm using, for your reference, are 15 kg each. However, at the beginning, for the hip thrusts and the sumo deadlifts, I'll be using one dumbbell, and that is 30 kg. Aside from that, please ensure you spend at least five minutes warming up your entire body. You will be using your entire body, even lifting the dumbbells. Glutes and hamstrings, you know this is gonna be a tough one, let's go.