- Hi, everyone, and welcome. Day seven in the FUEL Series, and today, we're hitting shoulders, chest and the triceps. We're gonna be using complexes. The timer is going to be on per complex for only two minutes. So these are quite short complexes. 30-second rest between each complex. They may be complexes, but they're quite simple. We only have two exercises within each complex. Each exercise will be performed usually for about 10 reps, though it may be 15 or it may be only 5 reps. It will be on the screen throughout the entire complex. Simply the two exercises that will be performed with the number of reps. All you simply do is perform, for example, the first exercise, 10 reps, you then go into the next exercise for those 10 reps, and then you repeat that for the duration of two minutes. It's not so much AMRAP, as many reps as possible, you should be able to perform these reps with perfect form, stopping as and when you need to, of course. We're not gonna rush these complexes. Even if you get 10 reps of the first exercise and 10 reps of the second exercise, perfect. If you can, try to go again., but by all means do not rush through. Keep your good form. For majority of the workout, I'll be using two dumbbells which are 10 kg each. However, towards the end, which are 4 kg each. It's quite interesting because chest press, for example, today, I'll be using 10 kg each in each arm. And that is actually half of what I can lift in chest press. However, as you will see, by time we reach chest press, we've already been working our front delts, also our upper chest and our triceps. So by time we come to the chest press, those dumbbells will not feel like 10 kg, they will feel a lot heavier. Also with complexes, I often find the first set, the first 10 reps, think, "Yep, I've got this. This is fine." But by the time you come back to that exercise, maybe a minute later, it feels completely different. So remember to pace yourself, and if it is really challenging, well, you're doing it good. There is also a good bit of body weight in today's workout, and you know that's always challenging. So just go at your own pace. If you prefer with pushups, you can, of course, elevate the hands so you're actually pushing a little bit less of your body weight. So you can actually place your hands on the end of a chair or something sturdy so your body is elevated as opposed to parallel with the floor. It's important to warm up your entire body in today's workout. You will also be using your legs. As you can see here, we do have a few of these, a sprawl or a chest floor sprawl. So you'll be hopping back or stepping back. I'm doing this workout in bare feet just because I'm not actually jumping, I'm more hopping back into those movements. So I'm not doing any high impact movements. I am trying to land as softly as I can. And the finisher, a fun week combo of mountain climbers with dead stop pushups. We've got a lot to look forward to in this workout, and you know it's gonna be complete fire. Let's go!