- Hi everyone. And welcome day five in the FUEL Series. And today it's a full body workout. Every fifth workout within the Fuel series is going to be a bit of a combination of usually lighter weights, with more cardio and some hit thrown in as well. Today, we're gonna be doing some resistance training in with some cardio. So the heart rate is gonna be elevated throughout this entire workout. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference throughout are 10 kg each. Aside from dumbbells, you will need your mat. And if you're doing step ups and decline push ups, something to step on. As you can see here, I'm using this box. It is approximately 50 centimetres in height, 20 inches, that is simply for body weight step ups. I'll not be using wits when I'm stepping up, and also decline pushups. As you can see here, the step ups, they're sort of half reps. I'm actually not going to stand at the top of the step ups. I'm gonna keep the tension on that front leg. The timer today is going to be 30, 30, 30, 30. That is a giant set, with 30 second rest. However, it will flow quite smoothly. So you'll be doing one exercise onto the next, the next and the next. So for example, we'll be doing a single arm snatch, into then a single arm press, same arm. Then we're onto our clinged press. Then we finish with an uneven pushup, the same arm on the dumbbell, drop it down for some pushups. An example of a leg focused set will be step out to curtsy, then a static curtsy, squat to curtsy and then body weight only. But don't worry, it will all be on the screen and everything will flow quite smoothly. Just make sure you have your mat handy. Some of the exercises will involve two dumbbells, others one, others body weight only. If you prefer to keep both your feet on the floor for majority of this workout, simply perform regular pushups as opposed to declined pushups. And as an alternative to the step ups, you can actually perform body weight forward leaning lunges. It'll still target the same muscles and just as intense. So yeah, we have lots of drop sets here from two dumbbells, one to zero, but then we also have some mechanical drop sets. We're maybe going from a harder form of that exercise into a slightly easier variation. Of course, it could go the other way, starting with an easier variation, then moving into a more challenging variation. We're gonna go at a moderate pace. This is not high intensity. We're not gonna go as fast as we possibly can but certainly we're gonna try and get through these 30 seconds with good quality reps at a moderate pace. And the finisher, one of my favourites, we're gonna play about with the squat depress. As you can see here, we have our narrow squats then we're go into regular squats, then squat depress, then push press, 20 seconds each. A short re blast just finish us off and really get that heart rate spiked. And I think that's it. This will be one week complete, fifth workout in the bag, let's go.