- Hi, everyone, and welcome Day 18 in the FUEL Series. And today it's glutes and hamstrings. We're gonna be using circuits. We have one giant circuit and we simply repeat that for two rounds. So for this workout, some resistance, weights is needed. I will be using one dumbbell that is 30 KG and that is for my hip thrusts, hamstring thrusts, and sumo deadlift squats at the very end. I will also be using two dumbbells, 15 kg each, and that is for the Romanian deadlifts. The timer today is going to be a little bit of a mixture. So some of the exercises will be straightforward, one minute of that specific movement. Other exercises, the timer may be 30/30/30, a tri-set. And with those tri-sets, the first 30 seconds will be the same as the last 30 seconds. So for example, Bulgarian lunge, we then might do one slow Bulgarian lunge for 30 seconds, back to regular Bulgarian lunges for the next 30 seconds. Aside from dumbbells, I'll be using a glute band placed just above my knees. Also a towel just to place under the dumbbells during the hip thrusts. I'll be using this chair here for my hip thrusts. However, you can also use a bench or something sturdy simply to place the upper back on. Alternatively, you can of course perform bridges where you're lying on the mat. So we're kicking it off with the hip thrusts and some hamstring thrusts. Within these sets there are some full range movements, of course, more explosive so we're going that little bit faster on the way up and controlling the negative. Also some isometrics and gentle, smooth pulses. These are all things that I've always incorporated into my training, so, yeah, I'm excited for this workout. I know it's gonna be a tough one. Remember when you're using the band, push against the band as well. Following the hip thrusts we're moving into a Romanian deadlift. So following the hip thrusts, your hamstrings will be tight. So please ease into the Romanian deadlifts. You will notice you will not get as deep as compared to maybe you've maybe done four or five sets of those Romanian deadlifts. Take it nice and easy. Don't strain to get that little bit lower. Following that we're on to some body weight-only Bulgarian lunges and also rear step lunges. With the rear step lunges it is important to tilt forward that little bit more to target the glutes and hamstrings but please don't round the back to come forward. Tilt from the hips, so think of your torso nice and tall. Simply come forward from the hips. And the finisher I'll be using the heavier dumbbell, 30 kg. We will be doing sumo deadlift squats, just not standing fully up at the top. Then we move into our sumo to plank. So sumo position, body weight only, into your plank and back up. You can hop back or step back and finishing again with those sumo squat deadlifts. So, yep, we're playing about with tempo, also isometrics in here today, and as well a lot to do with the angles, all about your positioning. So manoeuvre yourself to get into that position that feels good for you. Glutes and hamstrings, let's go!