- Hi everyone, and welcome day nine in Epic 3 Program and today it's full body. Unilateral, or one side then the opposite. The timer is going to be on 45 seconds of work, 15 second rest. So for this workout you will need a pair of dumbbells, your mat, a chair for just a few little Bulgarian lunges, and also a yoga block. And the yoga block will actually be used to elevate the front foot for the lunges, but also the hand during uneven pushups. There is a staple in today's workout. It is this, our rear stepping lunge body weight only. So you'll be glad when that appears, you'll be able to drop those dumbbells and get into those lunges. Tilt slightly forward to hit the glutes and hamstrings that little bit more. And make sure you're making use of that yoga block. The yoga block is there to increase the range of movement. So, try and get that knee down that little bit deeper. Today's workout might feel a bit like a superset workout, in that we'll be doing an exercise, and then the next exercise will be related to that. However, there is a rest, so it's not technically a superset. We'll pretty much be moving from our lower body to your upper body. Then the staple, lower body, upper body, staple. We finish on the staple, where we're actually gonna go for those reps. We're really gonna try and go for a little bit of a burnout, just tapping that foot when you step forward, straight back into that lunge. So definitely a lot in the legs today. Of course, the back, chest, the entire body. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are 17 and a half kg. I'll also be using 12 and a half kg. Because the dumbbells may actually look sometimes similar in size. I'll put on screen, whether I'm using my heavier weight or my lighter weight, just for your reference as we go. If there's one thing I want you to focus on today, it is have fun with this work out, feel strong, confident, push through and enjoy it. You'll enjoy the body weight. You'll also enjoy the combination of the upper body to the lower body, then the staple. Full body workout gonna leave you feeling amazing. Let's go!