- Hi everyone and welcome, day six in the Epic III Program and today, back, biceps and core. The timer is going to be on for the majority of the work, 50 seconds of work, ten second rest. However, once we hit towards the end, the bicep portion, 40 seconds of work, 20 second rest. We will need that 20 second rest. For today's workout, you will need a pair of dumbbells and your mat. In regards to the weight that I'm using, I'm actually gonna be using only one heavier dumbbell, and that is 17.5kg and that is for the likes of all of my rows so my supine rows, my normal bent-over rows, renegade rows, pullovers and landmine rows. Once we come to the bicep portion, I'll not be using my 17.5s, I'll be using it 8kg in each arm. An option for today's workout, as you can see behind me, I have a yoga block, that is for the renegade rows. So, when we do the renegade rows today, it's going to be all 50 seconds on one side, then ten second rest, we switch, opposite side and repeat that. So basically, one hand is going to be on the floor and you're gonna be doing your renegade row. However, you can put your hand on the block. This basically gives you more range of movements or bigger range to row, but also it can be a little bit more comfortable, then maybe if you wanted that extra height, placing it on the dumbbell, the other dumbbell, it is more comfortable I find on the block. But it is completely your choice. So, the first 22 minutes is all back, we move then into some planks and core work, and then we finish with the biceps. Just a few quick little points I wanna run through before we begin. With the bent-over row, as you can see here, I'm very high up, I'm not really coming over and I'm really just throwing that dumbbell up and letting it come down. Really, you're gonna lose a lot of the work on the way down. You want to slow the way down. Control the same pace on the way up as the same pace on the way down. However, as we progress in this workout, there are something that I call momentum rows so you're using a little bit of momentum to get it up. However, you're still gonna control the way down. So just make sure you come over far enough and also push the hips back, keep the chest open and control the lowering at all times. With the renegade rows, imagine, yep, there is that glass of water on your back, and you're trying not to spill it. Squeeze the quads, core should be really tight, steady, lift solely with the back. And with the core section, just try your best to stay in line so neck in line with your spine as best you can, squeeze those quads, really good form, take it nice and slow, make sure you're breathing and brace that core. It's a big back day, let's go.