- Hi everyone, and welcome. This is Day 33 in the EPIC Endgame, and today we're hitting the glutes and some core. The timer's going to be on for 30-seconds, 30, 30, 30. So that is giant sets with 30-second rest between each giant set. We're gonna be doing seven giant sets in total, and we perform each round twice. So that is basically going to be a circuit. We're gonna do those seven giant sets, and then we're gonna repeat it. All you'll need for today's workout is a dumbbell or a kettlebell or a barbell. Also a chair for some hip thrusts, a glute band, and your mat. If you prefer, you can perform bridges simply on the mat, so you may not need that chair. The dumbbell I'm using throughout for your reference is 25 kg. This workout is formatted so that every giant set is going to be different, in that you'll do maybe hip thrusts for that 2-minute giant set. You then have 30-second rest before we then go into sumo deadlifts. Or it could be band only hip thrusts, then we move into a plank variation involving the glutes. So the reason I'm saying this is that during each giant set, say you're doing your hips thrusts, really focus on making that 2 minute count. Focus, if you're wearing the band, push against the band the entire time. Really squeeze the glutes at the top. Because it is only two minutes, and then we're gonna be into a completely different position. And the finisher, we have 100 reps of hip thrusts. However, this time, it's only gonna be with just that weight, full range, work at your own pace. You may do 20 reps, so that will be five sets. Or you may prefer to do a larger amount at the start, 30 or 40 reps, and then probably having to reduce it to maybe 15 or 20 reps thereafter. But try to make sure that your last rep, that 99th and 100th rep is as good as the first rep. And there's one thing I would like you to think about when you're actually starting this workout. Within the first minute, you should feel this. You're gonna be using that band, and I want you to really try and practise pushing against it and full squeeze of those glutes at the top. So that is a little bit of challenge. Just how hard can you actually make it? How challenging can you make it on those glutes? And of course, I'll put some tips on the screen as we go along, particularly with those planks. We're gonna try and keep our hips down, even though we may be lifting alternating leg, or holding one leg in the air. We're gonna try and keep centred hips facing the mat, neck in line with the spine as best we can, and those hips down. Day 33, glutes and core, let's go!