- Hi, everyone and welcome. Day 23 in the EPIC Endgame and today it's glutes and hamstrings. For today's workout you will need some dumbbells or you can also use of course, a barbell for those hip thrusts. Also a chair for those hip thrusts and a glute band placed just above the knees. I'm also gonna be using a towel. Just to place under the dumbbell to make it that little bit more comfortable. The dumbbell I'm using for the hip thrust and the Sumo squat is 25kg. I will then use 15 kg each for the staggered Romanians and Romanian deadlifts. Most of the exercises will be performed for one minute with 30 second rests in between. And that will be for two sets. When it comes to these actual exercises, such as the Sumo squats, Romanian deadlift, staggered Romanian deadlifts, what I would say is, it is a minute, so you've got time there to really relax into it and go at a pace that suits you. So, also what I mean is you can pause a little bit more at the bottom of that Sumo squat, if you prepare. You can actually stand tall or not so tall at the top. Also, with the Romanian deadlifts you can slow down your centric even more or pause at the bottom, trying to lengthen the hamstring even more. So you can certainly play about, really relax into these exercises. There is a staple in today's workout and it appears four times in total. It is actually a giant set, followed straight away by our banded walks. So as you can see here, this is the giant set that we're going to be doing. Full range hip thrusts with the band, pushing the knees out, full extension of hips at the top. So firstly, the giant set is going to be 30, 30, 30, 30. We're gonna be doing 30 seconds of traditional, full range hip thrusts. Using the band, pushing against the band and driving the hips up. We then go into pulses. Nice, smooth pulses. We then go into 30 second hold. Following that, the last 30 seconds will be faster. That little bit more explosive at the top. Bring it down, drive it up. We then stand. Keep that band on, we're going to be doing lateral banded walks. It is completely fine if it takes you 10 or even 20 seconds to get into position after the hip thrust. Just relax, get ready into that position. You've got a full minute of banded squat walk, so it's okay if it takes an extra 10, 20 seconds to get into position. When you're doing the lateral banded walks, few things to think about. Make sure your chest is open. So I mean, you can certainly look down, but make sure your chest is open. Shoulders back and you're pushing your hips back. You're then gonna step out to the side without the knees caving in. So you're gonna really try and push against the band and in. So you can spend half the duration, maybe moving towards the right and the second half towards the left, It's completely up to you, as long as you sort of do, approximately the same length of time per side. And the finisher, 100 reps of glute bridge with the band. So, bodyweight only, but we're gonna be using this band. As we bring our hips to the floor, we're gonna come straight back up again. Bring it down, straight back up. Again, these aren't meant to be performed in one go, so you may do 25 reps, four sets. But be sure to get the most of that finisher, pushing against the bond the entire time. I think this workout is gonna be a lot of fun on those glutes. Let's go!