- Hi, everyone, and welcome! Day 47 in the Epic III Program, and today it's lower body with giant sets. Four exercises one after another. The timer is going to be on. 30 seconds of work, straight into 30, 30, 30, with 30 second rest. Each giant set will be performed for two sets. However, some of these are on one side and then of course the next giant set will be the opposite side. All you'll need for today's workout is a pair of dumbbells, a chair for some Bulgarian lunges, and a yoga block or thick book or stepper for some heel-elevated squats and also elevate the front foot during lunges. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are 15 kg each. However, for the sumo squats, I'm using one dumbbell: 25 kg. So if you have, of course, a heavier dumbbell, kettlebell, or even a barbell, you can use those for your sumo deadlifts. This is a lower body workout. There are no hip thrusts in today's workout. However, the glutes will definitely be targeted. Also the hamstrings and those quads. There's quite a lot of variety in today's workout, so just remember, when it's getting really tough, the next exercise is going to be slightly different. And remember, it's only 30 seconds. So by the time you really start to feel it, the beep will go to change into the next exercise. Just to point out, the timer is only ever used as a guide, so if it takes you a few seconds to get into position, please do take those. You'll see me. I will definitely take a few seconds to make sure I am steady, I am stable before I actually descend into any movement. I think this is gonna be a really interesting workout. If you don't know by now, I love to play with the flow of movement and how we can change from one exercise to the next and increase the intensity, even though it's getting a little bit easier. So yes, in today's workout, we have a little play with some drop sets, but also tempo work, some isometrics, range of movement, but also tweaking the exercise ever so slightly to intensify it. We have a fun little finisher involving some squat walks and sumo deadlifts. So yes, I'm looking forward to getting started, working really hard in this workout, and feeling pretty awesome after. Let's go!