- Hi, everyone, and welcome. Day 48 in the Epic III Program, and today it is upper body. We're gonna be using giant sets to target the chest, back, shoulders, and arms. The timer is going to be on for each set. 30 seconds of work, 30, 30, 30. We then have 30 second rest. Each giant set will be performed twice, so that is two rounds of each giant set. For today's workout, you will simply need a pair of dumbbells and your mat. The dumbbells I'm using primarily at the beginning are 15 kg each. I will then drop to 8 kg each. So we've reached day 48, and no doubt by now you love as much as I do tempo training, partial reps, all that jazz. There's been a lot of it throughout this programme. This workout, however, we're gonna bring it back to a little bit more basics. So it's pretty much mostly going to be full range of movements. No focus on tempo other than always controlling the negative, controlling the lowering portion. There are a few little partial movements in today's workout, such as lateral partials, and also rear delt fly partials. As you work through the workout, you will notice there'll be tips on the screen. It would be great if you could try and incorporate some of those tips into the actual exercise, such as small little tweaks to increase the range of motion even further and also intensify. So we're kicking off with chest, triceps are involved as well, then onto back, the biceps are involved there too, onto shoulders, and then we mix around with biceps and triceps. We have a wee finisher that's two minutes in total and that will primarily target the biceps and also the front delts. This is a solid upper body workout. I want you to really have fun with this. Push through. Just so we know the format of the dance sets, we'll do the first exercise for 30 seconds, we do the next exercise for 30 seconds and we repeat that. So the third exercise will be the first and the fourth exercise will be the second. So of course, by the time you've reached that third and fourth exercise, the intensity is there. I hope you really enjoy this workout. Remember, it is going to be challenging, but you've definitely got so much stronger. Push through and let's finish with a smile. Let's go.