- Hi, everyone, and welcome. Day 31 in Epic III Program, and today, we have hamstrings and glutes giant sets. The timer is going to be on basically for four exercises, 45 seconds, 45, 45, 45. We then have 30 second rest once we complete each giant set. There is a staple giant set in today's workout, it involves hip thrusts. As you can see here, I'm doing a half rep hip thrust, then I go for the next 45 seconds into full range. Now, when I'm doing the full range with the band and the dumbbell, I'm focusing on pushing my knees out when I'm driving up and when I'm driving down. We then drop the dumbbell, we go into half rep with just body weight, here even more important to get those knees out. Then we move into full range body weight only. Tuck the chin in, push through the heels, really squeeze at the top. For today's workout, you will need a pair of dumbbells, or you can use one heavier dumbbell like me, I'm using one 25kg. You can also use a kettlebell or a barbell. You will need a chair for hip thrusts, your mat, and a glute band. I'm also going to be placing a towel under the dumbbell during my hip thrusts. Something about training glutes, for me, nearly every single glute workout tends to become even more challenging. And I think a lot of it actually has to do with that mind-muscle connection. I can make the most simplest glute movements with a band on really intense. The more I push my knees out as I lift, the more I push my knees out as I lower, but also at the top, that full contraction of the glutes, slow release down, contract at the top. Today will definitely be no different. We're gonna sit back and put the work in. We kick it off with some glute activation. We then move into hip thrusts. We then play about with some sumo squats and RDLs. Before we have a little bit of a finisher. In total, there are only 11 giant sets. This will go quickly, focus on every rep, go at your own pace. Also, if you want to make those dumbbells feel that little bit heavier, slow it down, hold at the top, if you prefer as well, really intensify, push those knees out the entire time, as you move up and as you descend. A lot of thrusting is ahead, let's go.