- Hi everyone. And welcome, day three in our circuit series. And today it is glutes. The timer is going to be on 50 seconds of work. Ten second rest. There are three circuits in total. The first circuit you'll perform for three rounds, the second circuit, two rounds, and the third circuit, three. Once you complete, for example, the three rounds of the first circuit, there is still only ten second rest, before we move on to the next circuit. So that is not a lot of time to get into position, but if you need a few extra seconds, please do so, there is no need to rush at the end of the day. This is 45 minutes, all on glutes. So those extra 10 seconds won't do any harm. For today's workout, you will need something heavy, either one dumbbell or two dumbbells, a kettlebell, or a barbell. The dumbbell I'm using for your reference is 25 kg. I'm also using this chair for my hip thrusts. However, you can also perform bridges on the mat. You'll be using your glute band 308 and also a yoga block or thick book to elevate. However, this is not essential. I'm also using a towel just to place under the dumbbell. So it's a little bit more comfortable on my hips. The first circuit is all hip thrusts. So when you're using the band, think about knees out, whether you're at the top, middle, bottom, or actually moving up and down, think about pushing those knees out on the way up. And then as you lower, knees out as well. Once we come to the third circuit, we'll be standing and using the band and we'll be either bringing our leg to the side or behind us, or doing our lateral walks. In regards to positioning, you can come a little bit lower or tilt more at the hips, use a wall for support, it is completely up to you. Make sure you're comfortable and you're not feeling anything in your lower back. So yes, this is primarily glutes. However, even when you're doing solely hip thrusts, your quads and hamstrings are absolutely involved. So don't worry too much if you feel it, of course, in your hamstrings or a little bit in your quads, there are no squats in today's workout, just a couple of lunges, but you'll mostly be doing hip thrusts and standing with the band. This is a lot of work compressed in about 45 minutes. And remember, make each rep as best that you can. It's gonna burn, let's go.