- Hi, everyone, and welcome, day 43 in the EPIC Endgame, and today it is glutes and hamstrings. All you'll need for today's workout are some weights, a chair for some hip thrusts, a glute band, and I'm also gonna be using a towel just to place under my dumbbell. I will be using one dumbbell, which is 25 kg, and that will be for my sumo deadlift squats and my hip thrusts. However, I will also use two 15 kg each dumbbells, my Romanian deadlifts, and one set per side of lunges. The timer is going to be on for majority of the work 20, 20, 20, so it's going to be tri-sets, with then 20 second rest. We perform each tri-set for two sets. If it is all on one side, then the next tri-set will be the opposite. There is a staple in today's workout, and it is quite a long staple. As you can see here, we're going to be doing one minute full-range of our sumo deadlift squats. Remember, keep that chest open, tilt forward at the hips, make sure your heels are pushed well into the floor, toes slightly out, feet about a little bit wider than normal squat position. Slowly lower. Really try and get as low as you can, whilst keeping the chest open, shoulders back. Try to remember to keep your neck in line with your spine. Of course, we all sometimes look down that little bit. Try to keep it in line. So you should be looking slightly down and in front. Following that one minute, then we have 20 second rest where we then go into half reps. So it'll be half reps off those sumo deadlift squats, and the timer there is going to be 20 seconds of work, 20 second rest for six sets. So that means it is a short work period. It doesn't mean go fast as you can for those 20 seconds. It actually means you may only get five or six half reps done, but we're really gonna take it slow and aim for that depth. This staple will appear three times in total. And the finisher? It's gonna be on the glutes. So if you remember a few weeks ago, we did full-range, body weight only, banded hip thrusts. Today, it is going to be half reps. Half reps, but the most important part here, I really want you to try and push the knees out. I know I say it every single time with the band, but at the end of the day, it does make it a lot easier if you're not pushing against it. When you're up in the top position, moving up and down, and also at the bottom, you should be thinking about pushing against the band. With the hip thrusts and even the sumo squats, we can make this a lot easier by not maybe hitting that depth that we can all do. Let's make it as challenging as we can. Take it slow, focus, and you'll really love this workout. It's definitely gonna be fire on these glutes. Let's go.