- Hi everyone. And welcome day six in IRON Series. And today it's the quads. We're gonna be using dumbbells to isolate the quads, but of course the entire lower body is pretty much going to be involved throughout most of these exercises. The timer's going to be on throughout, one minute of work, with 30 second rest. All we'll need for today's workout are some dumbbells, also a chair for some Bulgarian lunges, and a yoga block to elevate those heels during those squats I'm saying need, but you can, of course, just perform normal, standard, two-feet-on-the-floor lunges, as opposed to Bulgarian lunges, if you prefer. And also you can perform just front rack, high squats, as opposed to actually placing the heels on that yoga block. The dumbbells I'm using, for your reference, are 20 kg each. I will then also use two 12.5 kg. The 20 kg dumbbells will be used at the very beginning for those static, closer set lunges, and also the goblet squats at the very end. But the rest of it be pretty much with those 12.5 kg dumbbells. There is a little bit of body weight in today's workout as well. And the finisher is solely body weight. My favourite finisher for the quads, it is body weight, heel elevated squats. Most of the exercises will be performed for two sets. However, if it is lunges, it will be on one side, opposite, then again, then again. With many movements, and especially squats, we all have different alignment. We are all different heights. We all have different positions that feel more comfortable for us. So if you prefer, you can, of course, place those toes out a little bit wider than me, or narrower. And of course aiming for that depth is comfortable for you, but also mobility wise, that you can actually control that weight at the bottom of the position. When coming up from any lunge, or squat, try to prevent severe locking of those legs. Try not to lock the knees out, every time you come up. Nice and soft, you can stand tall at the top, but just keep those knee nice and soft, but straight legs. When you're lowering into any of these movements, even try and think about your quadriceps lengthening, as you lower, and then as you come up, you're gonna squeeze the quads. So definitely play around with position, particularly those Bulgarian lunges, just so that you can feel it even more in the quads. And I think that's it. I'm sure we're all gonna feel in our quads, and maybe a good pump after, also a little bit of tightness in those quads, maybe the next couple of days. Ready to lift? Let's go.