- Hi everyone and welcome. Day 10 in the IRON Series. And today it is back and biceps. The timer's going to be on for pretty much most of the workout. One minute of work with 30 second rest. Most exercises will be performed for two sets. However, when it comes to the biceps, the first exercise, the first set, we will do for that one minute the next one minute will be a variation. So as you can see here, we have our curls. We're going to be doing one minute. However, it's gonna be broken up. 20 seconds full range, 20 second isometric hold, 20 second full range. The next set will be simply full range. So yes, there is some isometrics in today's workout When it comes to the biceps. One of my favourite trainer methods to incorporate into many of the workouts and also one of the most underutilised. Make sure to breathe when you're holding that contraction and get ready for the full range after it. So, we're kicking it off with the back. We'll be doing a variation of some rows into pullovers, rows, pullovers. The dumbbell I'm using for your reference for the back is going to be one dumbbell and it is 20 kg. When it comes to the bicep curls I'll be using eight kg each. So yes, you can certainly use a heavier dumbbell if you have it, or a single heavy kettlebell for those bent over rows. Make sure when you're coming forward into that row position you're really keeping that chest open, shoulder blades back and down, push the hips back and up as if you're going into that Romanian deadlift. Please take your time, slowly lower, and then contract. Even for that full contraction at the top, and ease to lower. And the finisher today it's a wee combination on the back and those biceps. We've got one minute of supine rows with then 30 second rest. We then have a variation of our palm-up curls. It's gonna be 21s. We're going to basically do seven bottom half, seven top half, then seven full range. I would expect by time we reach that point, the 21s of those palms-up curls should be very, very difficult, especially if you're trying to do it correct. If you're trying to not move those elbows. Sometimes with back and bicep movements, we may incorporate some momentum. So sort of momentum rows, momentum curls. Always controlling the eccentric, but today we're gonna try and minimise any momentum, strict curls, strict rows. When it comes to the bent over rows, you can of course perform them just as I am doing here. But, here is an alternative if you prefer to keep that hand on something locked in in front, such as a table or a sturdy chair. I personally like both variations, but today I'm just going to be using body weight, leaning on the opposite knee. Back and biceps, ready to lift? Let's go.