- Hi everyone and welcome. Day 21 in the IRON Series. And yep, it's leg day. The timer's gonna be on for majority of the workout. 60 seconds of work, 60 seconds of work, 30-second rest. So yep, those two are a super-set. However, as always, take those few seconds to get into position. We are moving from lunges to step-ups. All you need for this workout today are some dumbbells and also something to elevate the heels. For heel-elevated squats, I'm using a yoga block. And also something to step on. So as you can see behind me, I'm using this brown box. This is 20 inches high, about 50 centimetres in height. You can absolutely use a bench, a chair, or if you prefer, you can of course perform normal static lunges or forward stepping lunges. It is completely up to you. In fact, you could change it the opposite way 'round and do Bulgarian lunges. All of the step-ups in today's workout are actually going to be body weight only. So as you can see here, the first part of the super-set, we're going to have our static lunge. So my right leg is forward. Then when it comes to the step-up, it is the right foot that is staying on the box. And the same will apply to pretty much most of this workout. If we're working one side in a lunge, then that foot will stay on the box for the next part of the super-set. There are many variations to step-ups but today, this is what we don't want today. We don't want to be just coming up and down, up and down. In fact, we're gonna go slower the better, especially on the eccentric. So you're gonna keep your shoulders retracted. You're gonna keep your torso as upright as possible. You're gonna lift, trying to use that back leg as little as possible. Stand up tall when you're at the top. Then you're going to try and slowly lower. Try to lower as slowly as you can with control so there's no harsh hitting of that foot on the floor every time you land and there's no extreme push-off, no extreme acceleration, at the bottom before you step up. This will intensify it. These are body weight. However, because it comes after the lunges, you will definitely feel that leg working quite considerably. In fact, you can actually make these body weight step-ups really challenging. It's all about just how you do it. Think about using that foot, that leg that is on the bench. You've only got one leg. Imagine you're just trying to lift yourself up with that leg solely. And the dumbbells I'm using for your reference throughout are 15 KG each. So today we're absolutely gonna be hitting those quads, hamstrings, and gluts with these lunges and step-ups. And also, towards the end we have some calf work. And the finisher, we're gonna be doing heel-elevated squats. But note, it's not gonna be 100 reps or half-reps. Today, it's going to be just slow and controlled, full range. We're gonna be doing 30 seconds with two dumbbells, 30 seconds with one, and then a full minute body weight only. This is gonna be a pretty intense leg day. It's up to you to focus and think about those cues and the tips that will appear on the screen. So rather than simply just going through the motion and stepping up, stepping down, think about how challenging can you make it? But I think these are absolutely gonna love this workout. Let's go.