- Hi everyone and welcome day 29 in the IRON Series and today it's full body. This is the last full body in the Iron Series. So, well done. This workout, in fact, is all com pound movements and the timer will be majority of the workout, 45 seconds of work with 30 second rest. The way this is gonna work, we're gonna alternate between an upper body exercise, lower body, upper body, lower body throughout the entire workout. So for example, we're starting with our shoulder press. We do one set. We're then into lunges, back to shoulder press, lunges, shoulder press, lunges. Everything will be performed for three sets. So, it'll be three upper body, three lower body, but we'll be interchanging those. This simply allows for extra rest. You're definitely getting over a minute rest by the time we hit the shoulders again and that means this workout is actually a perfect one to maybe see if, and to revisit, if you want to test out a slightly heavier weight. Even for a couple of the exercises. In this workout, there are actually only six exercises. We're starting with shoulder press. As you can see, I am seated. However, this is not necessary. I just prefer, when I'm seated, I can go that little bit heavier. We're then into lunges, static lunges. We're gonna be doing 45 seconds on one side, we still rest for 30, opposite side. When you're doing the lunges, try to be mindful of that knee. If you are able to bring your knee right down, try to make pretty much every single represent where that knee is just shy off the floor. But again, don't strain yourself into that depth. Following three sets of those, we are then into chest press, combined with high squat with a pause. So, our chest press lying on the mat. Of course, if you have a bench, you can do it on the bench. This is definitely one of those exercises where if I am lifting that little bit heavier, I do tend to actually inhale on the way down, big exhale on the way up. And then our high squat looking straight ahead. We're gonna pause at the bottom. So mobility, we're gonna control it at the bottom of that position before we drive up. Keep your torso up throughout. And the last two exercises of today's workout, pullovers and Romanian deadlifts. A great alternative for the pullovers, if you can, is pull ups. You can do wide over hand, close under hand, it is completely up to you. So, just throwing that out there as a little alternative. And then of course, our Romanian deadlifts. I'll be using the dumbbells. However, of course, you can use a kettlebell or a barbell. For your reference, the dumbbells I'm using for the majority of the workout is 20 kg each. However, some of the exercises, I will also be using two 15 kg each dumbbells. The lighter dumbbells, the fifteens, will be used for my shoulder press and the Romanian deadlifts. And the finisher, a fun wee set of Bulgarian lunges with pushups. We've got one minute of Bulgarian lunges straight forward. We then straight into opposite side one minute. We then come to the floor, 30 seconds of pushups. If you have a selection of weights, keep those nearby and any other equipment, you may wanna use it in this work. Let's go.