- Hi everyone, and welcome, Day 23 in the IRON Series, and today it's the glutes and hamstrings. The timer's going to be on for majority of the workout, 45 seconds of work, 30 second rest. So yes, we have supersets. Supersets basically two exercises combined, with no specific rest. However, if it does take you 5 or 10 seconds to get into position between each exercise, by all means, take those few extra seconds. In today's workout, we're starting with some Romanian deadlifts and sumo deadlifts, so that is going to be a superset. We then move into some hip thrusts and bridges today. Towards the end, we also have some bodyweight exercises. As you can see here, I have one heavier dumbbell, and that is 30kg. I will be using that pretty much for the entire workout. However, at the very beginning, when I'm doing the Romanian deadlifts, I will be using these dumbbells, which are two 15kg dumbbells. You can, in fact, use one dumbbell for Romanian deadlifts, or a barbell. It's simply up to you. Aside from the dumbbells, I'll be using this chair for my hip thrusts, and also a glute band. The glute band will be for those hip thrusts and also, as the finisher, in a bridge. Throughout the workout, I will be provide some cues, and these cues are simply things that I actually think about when I'm doing the exercise. So when I am doing the exercise, I'm not simply just moving the dumbbell. I'm actually constantly thinking, trying to remember to constantly push against the band when I'm wearing it, try to remember to slowly control that eccentric lowering portion, and ensuring that I'm locking out at the top. With the Romanian deadlifts, I'm constantly thinking keeping my chest open even more, trying to relax into that depth, and also keeping the hips as far back and up as possible, slight bend in the knees at all times. So there's no denying it, this is simply gonna be glutes and hamstrings. A tiny bit of quads will be involved with those sumos and the hip thrusts. But aside from that, it is pretty much all the Let's take it slow and embrace the burn. Let's go!