- Hi everyone and welcome. Day 20 in the IRON Series, and today, we have some arms, abs and core. We're gonna be doing super sets, and the timer will vary depending on the muscle group. So ever so slightly, you might get a little bit more rest when it comes to the biceps and triceps, less rest when it comes to the abs and core. But don't worry, it will all be on the screen. During the rest period, there will be showing the next two exercises within the superset. And today's workout is actually technically no repeat. Every exercise will be different. However, they will be very similar. To begin with, we'll be doing pretty much eight exercises on the actual triceps. We then move to abs and core. Then onto the biceps, where we'll be doing essentially eight different exercises on the biceps. All you'll need for today's workout is your mat and some dumbbells. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are 12.5 kg each. When it comes to some of the tricep exercises and then those biceps, I will be using two dumbbells, eight kg each. So I'm sure yous are aware by now, if you actually slow down the movement, and I'm talking about these bicep curls and the tricep exercises, slow down the eccentric, keep the elbows in during those bicep curls. Also with the tricep press, tricep overhead extension, et cetera, trying to keep the elbows in, it will make it that lot more challenging. So it's less about the width that you're using. It's how you're performing it that will really intensify the workload on the triceps and biceps. So we're starting with triceps. We then move into abs and core. We then go into biceps, and then a fun little finisher, it is combining some triceps and biceps. As you can see here, our dead stop tricep pushups, that is only for one minute. Every time you lower down gently onto the floor, you can sort of relax for a quick second, let those muscles almost come to a dead stop. Then tuck the elbows back in again, brace and lift. And the next part of the finisher, we're gonna grab one dumbbell. I'm gonna be grabbing the heavier one, which is 12.5 kg, and it's simply a bicep curl burnout. This is gonna be a fun workout packed with variety, but by no means less intense, let's go.