- Hi everyone and welcome day one in the IRON Series. And today it's leg day. But before we get into the actual workout, I just wanna run through a few little things relating to this series. So, this series is six weeks in total, and there will be five workouts per week. Each workout will be approximately 30 minutes. That will exclude the cool down at the end. Of course, warm up, I do have some warmup videos that you can follow along below, in and around five to 10 minutes. Even if it is a upper body workout, please ensure you warm up your entire body. Same with legs, warm up the upper body as well. You will be holding the dumbbells, and you'll be using your back and core. Same with the upper body, you may be using your legs in certain exercises as well, such as renegade rows. Within the week, typically there will be two lower body focus workouts, two upper body focus workouts, and then one full body workout. Most of these workouts primarily will involve dumbbells. Maybe the finishers will be body weight only. And also, if it is more core and abs focused, that is likely to be a lot more body weight only. The full body on a Friday, it's going to be fun. So it'll be a complete mixture, a big play around with those dumbbells and using our full body. With any exercise programme and exercise in general, of course it has to fit around your life. So you may prefer to do these in the morning or in the evening. And also, in relation to maybe other activities that you do, such as running, you might prefer to do your running first, then the workout, or the actual workout, then your running. It just depends on what is your priority. For me, I'll be doing the workouts, and then, of course, keeping up with my daily walk, which is usually about 60 minutes and in moderate pace. So there's no specific HIIT workout within this series. However, every single Sunday, after the arms or core and abs, typically going to be on a Sunday, I will be performing one of the HIIT workouts or the cardio workouts. I tend not to actually charge or use my watch when I'm doing resistance training. However this time, when it comes to the actual HIIT workout, I am going to actually have a little look at my stats after the HIIT workout. So within each Sunday session, within the description and also the add-on, I will suggest to you, you can join me if you like, the actual HIIT workout that I'll be doing that day. And I'll maybe share some of the stats from when I actually do that workout every Sunday. And also, I just thought I'd mention, below you'll see a link to a 500 rep cardio challenge. That is actually one of my favourite workouts. I think I've done that maybe three or four times since I actually recorded that workout, and I actually did it twice during this two week break. It's not for everyone. Some people love that sort of thing, where you're aiming for a number. Others maybe prefer to do something else. But I just thought I would throw that in there. You can subscribe to this channel for free, and also turn on your notification so you will get a we notification when, for example, a video is uploaded, and also on a Sunday night when I share a community post. So the community post every Sunday will basically be an overview of what to expect that week, such as a guide into weights and any equipment. And also just so you can get a sense of what is coming. Throughout this series, of course we'll be using dumbbells, so this is perfect for home or the gym. If you have a selection of dumbbells, definitely keep those nearby. Aside from dumbbells, you'll also need your mat, a chair sometimes for decline pushups or Bulgarian lunges, a yoga block, or something to elevate the heels, something steady and sturdy, and also a glute band. The glute band I use is actually fabric, and it's quite high resistance. As we progress through the series, there will be step ups. Step ups perhaps into rear lunge, or just simply step ups. That could be a combination of dumbbells and body weight. So you could certainly consider having a look for something sturdy to place one foot on so that you can step onto it. The height of the stepper of course depends on your height, and also what you feel comfortable with, but certainly in and around knee, mid-thigh height might be perfect. If you don't, of course, feel comfortable with doing step ups, simply perform normal lunges. I will of course provide an alternative on the screen as we go. Aside from that, feel free to use barbells, kettlebells, whatever you have lying about. And also if you have access to dip bars, you can of course bring those out and do body weight dips as opposed to dips on the chair. So I might incorporate that as well, just to show you something that maybe you could even consider trying to progress to. But of course, if you don't have dip bars, which many of us don't, you simply perform dips on the chair. Further information can be found below in the description box, and also within each workout. The description box below actually provides me a really good place to actually give some tips, insight into the weights that I'm going to be using, et cetera. And on to today's workout, leg day. Timer's going to be on one minute of work, 30 second rest. The dumbbells I'm using, for your reference, are 15 KG each. In regards reps per minute, you're probably aiming somewhere between eight and 15, depending on the exercise, and also the weight that you have at home. I would say if you're using lighter weights than you maybe could do, even slow down the reps even more. So for example, a lunge, control it that little bit more on the way down and on the way up. So you're not necessarily going for more reps, you may just be slowing it down to increase time under tension. Keep a wee eye out for those tips as we go through the workout. Primarily compound movements, the entire lower body is gonna work hard. Are you ready to lift? Let's go!