- Hi everyone, and welcome, Day 25 in the IRON Series, and today, it's shoulders. We're pretty much gonna be working with supersets today, 45 seconds of work, 45 seconds, 30 second rest. Every single superset will be performed for two sets. In between each pair of supersets, there will be a staple. As you can see here, it is our Arnold press. I am sitting down; however, of course, you can perform these standing. That's completely up to you. With the Arnold press, the palms will be facing you, and you're gonna try and keep those elbows in. You're gonna then rotate to a range that is comfortable for you. So don't overextend and twist if it's not comfortable. Aim towards the palms facing outwards. However, you do not need to go that big range. It's completely up to you. Move within a range that is comfortable. And, of course, control the lifting and that lowering. All you will essentially need for today's workout are some dumbbells. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are 10kg each for the staple. However, everything else will actually be with 4kg each. The staple will appear six times in total. So yep, that is six sets of Arnold press. So by all means, have a selection of weight if you have it nearby. You can start a little bit heavier, and then obviously decrease the weight if you wish. With all of the workouts that I record, I do try to keep my weight selection to a minimum, just to keep it a little bit more simple and straightforward for you to sort of follow along, and also in regards reference to the weights that I'm using. So here, I'm using 10s. I maybe could've started with 12s or 15s, and reduced as I went, but I'm happy enough sticking with the 10s. So I'm gonna try and push through and little to no pause. And that's the great thing about these workouts. You can play around with your weights. Some days, you may feel like you wanna go that little bit heavier; other days, you may feel like you just wanna go that little bit lighter. But in my experience, going lighter doesn't make it easier. So yep, we're hitting the rear delts, the side delts, front delts, and quite a lot of pressing. Within the Arnold press, we'll be hitting those front delts as well throughout that movement. I want you to try and stay as relaxed as possible. Think about those shoulders down, away from the ears. Try to relax your breath. This is gonna be a solid shoulder workout. Ready? Let's go!