- Hi, everyone, and welcome to day 30 in the IRON Series, and today, it's arms, abs, and core. This is the last workout of the IRON Series. This has been, hopefully, a really good six weeks for you. These 30 workouts have been made up primarily with all of those compound movements, with some isolation maybe towards the end, but mainly compound movements and longer sets and shorter rest periods, so it has maybe allowed you to actually increase the weight on some of these movements. This is a perfect six-week programme to actually repeat, and again and again, and progressively lift heavier. You will not progressively lift heavier every single set, every single workout, even every few months. Some exercises do definitely take a lot more time in order to actually progress up to the next weight, in a controlled and safe way, but also if, for example, there is an exercise and it's maybe three sets, you can always go that little bit heavier the first set, drop it down on the second set, and again on the third set, so you can definitely play about with your weights. For me, personally, over the last six weeks, I have gone a little bit heavier on some of the movements, so for me, a very productive six weeks. And also, I hope I've provided some insight as to how you can change up your training at home. So, for example, instead of pullovers, you could do wide position pull-ups. Instead of dips on the chair, you could actually progress to the bars, and of course, you can always use barbells, kettlebells, and whatever else you have lying about. Thank you so much for joining me for these six weeks. It really has been a blast. There's been very demanding moments throughout, but also, so rewarding. I really hope you've enjoyed the sense of actually building your body, feeling stronger, and I know it appears on the screen quite a lot, but it really is a case of you versus you. It's your workout, you challenge yourself, but on today's workout, the timer is going to be on 60 seconds of work, 30-second rest for a majority of the workout. We're starting with the triceps. We then move into abs and core. We finish with biceps before the finisher, which is actually gonna be a combination of dips, curls, dips, curls. The first exercise hitting the triceps. As you can see here, I am gonna be performing body weight dips on the bars, however, alternative, simply on the chair, and if you prefer not to actually do body weight dips, you can, of course. In this instance, I would recommend doing tricep press, where you're squeezing two dumbbells together, tricep press. Most exercises today will be performed for two sets, so that applies to the triceps. Once we then move into the abs and core, the timer there will be 60 seconds of work, 30 seconds of work. We then repeat that two sets. Then we move onto another pair of exercises, hitting those abs and core. Following that, we're onto our biceps, 60 seconds of work, 30-second rest, two sets per exercise. The weights I'm using for your reference are 12 1/2 kg each. That will be for the triceps. However, the biceps will be eight kg each. Aside from dumbbells, all you will need is your mat, and of course, if you're using dip bars or a chair, or you're doing diamond press, simply lie on your mat. Again, you're probably sick of hearing me say it, but bicep curls, keep those elbows in. Really let the bicep do the movement. So if you think about it, if you're rocking, there's a lot less demand on them biceps, whereas if you're actually focusing on keeping the elbow steady, get a lot more work on those biceps. And with the tricep press, elbows are gonna be in by your sides at the bottom, and then remain in line as we drive up. Back down to the bottom and up. Make sure not to do severe jarring at the top, so we're not extending sharply at the top. Nice, smooth movements, locking the arms out, but nice and smooth. And just one point on the abs and core, as you can see here, I call this a small tuck, so what I'm really thinking about doing when I'm performing this exercise is the knees to the chest. Then control it on the way down, knees up to the chest, and then back down. So yeah, that's it, well done, everyone. This is our final workout. I hope you've had a blast, as I have, and I hope you all continue to lift safely and continue growing. Let's go.