- Hi, everyone, and welcome. Day five in the IRON Series. And today, it's arms with some abs and core. The timer is going to be on for majority of the workout. One minute of work, 30-second rest. However, when we reach the core and ab section, it's going to be one minute of work, 30 seconds of work, one minute of work, 30 seconds of work. Today we'll be alternating between the biceps and the triceps. So each exercise will be performed for two sets. We'll maybe do one exercise for the biceps, two for the triceps, back to the biceps, back to the triceps. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference for the triceps is going to be 12.5 kg each. With the biceps, I'll be using eight kg each. Aside from some dumbbells you will need a chair for some dips and your mat. However, today for the body weight dips, as opposed to the chair, I'm just gonna show you some body weight dips on some bars. I know some of you have this at home, but also I wanted to show you this just for maybe something to think about for the future. Something you could definitely aim towards. No matter whether you're doing the chair dips or the full body weight dips, please ensure you warm up your entire body, particularly the shoulders. So, yes, even though this is an arm workout, you'll be using a lot more than just your arms. With any dip, and really any movement in particular, when you're lowering, ensure you lower under control. So please don't just drop into that position. Ease into it. Relax and slowly lower into that position. Also, when you're coming up, try to prevent any severe jolting. So severe locking out of those arms at the top. Bring yourself up. You can straighten the arms, but just try to prevent that jarring and jolting movement at the top. The dips today actually come after two sets of diamond press. So your arms will be a slightly fatigued, so ease into it. And the finisher, we have a little bit of combination between body weight and curls. We're gonna be doing one minute of tricep pushups followed by one minute alternating curls. The one thing I wanna stress about the curls today, you've probably guessed it, elbows steady. Elbows locked in. When you're bringing the curl, whether it's an actual palms up curl, hammer curl, et cetera, control it on the way up. Think about keeping those elbows close, and even more so on the way down. Let the bicep slowly release on the way down. Keep the knee nice and soft, shoulders back and down, chest nice and open. If you are considering new equipment for maybe training at home, I would recommend these bars. You can also do inverted row which are fantastic on these bars. And also you can actually tilt forward that little bit more on dips to target the chest as well. And there are also some cool core and ab movements you can do. So yes, this is pretty much all on the arms with some abs and core. Ready to lift? Let's go!