- Hi, everyone, and welcome, day 15 in the IRON Series. And today it's Simply Shoulders. The timer's going to be on for a majority of the workout. One minute of work, 30-second rest. Every set will be performed for two rounds. However, the first exercise, shoulder press, will be for three rounds. All you'll need for today's workout are some dumbbells. The dumbbells I'm using, for your reference, at the start are 12 and a half kg each. I will then drop to four kg each and that will be for the remainder of the workout. The first exercise in today's workout is shoulder press. You can stand or you can sit down. I'm gonna be using a chair just to sit down. And that is for three sets in total. Apart from that I will be standing for the duration. Just a few points when you're actually doing standing shoulder exercises, so the legs can be straight but just keep those knees nice and soft. Make sure your abs are braced. So imagine somebody was going to punch you. Just you'd be bracing that core. Keep that braced throughout. Breath is completely up to you. You can sort of try and match it to the actual movement, but me personally, unless it's something like chest press or some squats, I tend to just make sure I breathe. And that is it, I try not to focus too much on the actual breath. Just make sure I'm actually gaining oxygen in, trying to keep as relaxed as I can. And that applies to the shoulders. Try to keep the shoulders as relaxed as possible. We are working these shoulders but we're trying not to keep them up towards the ears, down and relaxed as much as possible. Any movement involving a dumbbell away from the body, such as frontal or lateral raises, it depends on the weight that you're using. So if you're using a slightly heavier weight you may prefer a slight increase in the bend at the elbow or, if it's a slightly lighter weight which I'm gonna be using today, I will definitely try to keep that arm a little bit straighter but it will not be straight by any means. Maintain a slight bend, at least in that elbow. I think that's it. This is Simply Shoulders and it's gonna be a sizzler. Are you ready to lift? Let's go.