- Hi, everyone, and welcome! Day 24 in the IRON Series, and today, it's full-body. The timer is going to be on. 60 seconds of work, 30 seconds of work, 30-second rest, supersets. The superset will be 90 seconds in total, so yep, 60 seconds, 30 seconds, followed by 30-second rest. This is actually supersets in a circuit. So basically, we have five supersets, and we simply perform the circuit for three rounds. And all I'm gonna be using for this entire workout is one pair of dumbbells and a mat. The dumbbells I'm using, for your reference, are 10 kg each. However, if you have access to a selection of dumbbells, by all means, you can maybe go that little bit heavier on the first exercise of the superset. For example, squats. You'll be doing that for 60 seconds. You could then drop the weight for the following squat to press. And the same applies for the rows, so you could do 60 seconds of a bent-over row, slightly heavier, and then you could drop that weight slightly for those makers. It is completely up to you, but I know that this is going to be intense with me just using 10 kg throughout. With the makers, as you can see here, we simply go into a push-up, renegade row, renegade row, then hop forward or step forward. Heels must be on the floor before you actually then look up and curl, then go into your stand to press. So with the maker, you can absolutely hop back, or you can step back. And the finisher today, it's gonna be a well-deserved time on the mat. It's simply going to be a super quick mini ab circuit, three minutes. So yeah, work really hard for those 30 minutes or so, and then we can look forward to lying on the mat. We're definitely gonna be sweaty, we're gonna get the heart rate up throughout pretty much this entire workout, however, all of the movements will be performed at a moderate pace. We're not just gonna fly through these. This is not HIIT. We are just gonna control the dumbbells, still perform with perfect form, and I think time is really gonna fly, particularly because it is only three rounds of the circuit. I hope you really enjoy it, and remember, at the end, it's only three minutes of abs, so give it your all. Let's go!