- Hi, everyone, and welcome, Day 12 in the IRON Series. And today it's chest and triceps. The timer is going to be on for a majority of the workout, 60 seconds of work with 30-second rest. Pretty much every single exercise is going to be performed for three sets. All you will essentially need to do this workout are some dumbbells and your mat. However, as you can see here, I also have my chair. That is for some body weight dips. You can also use your dip bars. Just note that the dips are more towards the end of the actual workout. So today I have decided to do those on the chair. And in fact, if you prefer not to do any dips at all, of course, there is an alternative today you can see here, as it is three sets, you have the option to do those cobra push-ups. Just make sure that your elbows are in nice and close to your sides throughout. The dumbbells that I'm using for your reference are 17 and a half kg each. That is for the chest press, then onto everything else it will be two 10-kg each dumbbells. Push-up bars, so I'm gonna include these within the finisher today. We have a variation of three types of push-ups at the very end. We have wide push-ups, then we have standard hand-position push-ups, then tricep push-ups. So I'm gonna use these for the wide and the standard push-ups, however it's not needed. Again, I'm just trying to show you what sort of equipment that you can easily bring in to that home to get a little bit more and more variation out of your workouts. Many people actually find these a lot more comfortable on the wrists when doing push-ups because your wrist is that much more neutral, but also you are of course elevated. So there is definitely that bigger range of movement. So when you're doing those push-ups, wide push-ups, et cetera, you can even go that little bit lower, particularly if you're actually hitting the chest on normal push-ups. I hope you really enjoy this workout today, chest and triceps. However, the front of the shoulders are definitely involved. And in fact, a little bit of those biceps within the flies as well. Please go at your own pace throughout this entire workout, depending obviously on the weights that you're using and also any other equipment. And the timer is only ever a guide. There's really no need to rush into the next movement. Even if it takes you up to 10 seconds to get into position, just take those extra 10 seconds. You'll still have the whole 50 seconds to follow. It is important that you feel safe before you lower those dumbbells. Day 12, chest and triceps. It's a lot of upper body. Let's go.