- Hi, everyone, and welcome day 18 in the IRON Series and today it's glutes. We're gonna be doing primarily supersets. The timer there will be 45 seconds of work straight into 45 seconds of work with 30-second rest. Each superset will be performed for two sets. That will include if there's any unilateral work. So if we do on set on one side, the next set will be the opposite side. For this workout, you will need some resistance, some weights. So today I'm going to be using dumbbells, and that is going to be one dumbbell, which is 30 kg, and that is for hip thrusts and sumo squat deadlifts. I will also be using two dumbbells, 15 kg each, and that is for lunges, a lot of forward tilting lunges and front foot elevated lunges. I will be also using this chair behind me for my hip thrusts. However, you can of course perform bridges just on the mat. Also, a glute band placed just above the knees and your mat. Also, I have my yoga block and that is to elevate the front foot during those lunges. Basically, it just increases the range of movement, but it is not necessary. So we're gonna kick it off with a little bit of activation, then we go into our sumo squat deadlifts. We then go into hip thrusts, lunges, back into some hip thrusts, and then we have the finisher, and the finisher is actually gonna be quite similar to activation in the warmup at the very beginning. So you'll be needing that band. As with nearly all the glute sessions that I do, I do like to incorporate some body weight only. The reason for this is I really do feel that connection. I really can connect with the muscle and it actually helps me with other exercises, such as those hip thrusts and lunges. So once we complete the lunges, it's actually gonna be body weight 'til the end. Remember, your body doesn't know how much it's lifting. So really connect with that muscle. Even with the body weight exercises, think about those glutes. Whether it is a single-leg hip thrust, think about squeezing that solely one glute. For me, over the years, I really came to realise that it's not always about just how heavy you lift. Rather than just thinking about getting from A to B, think about how you're gonna get there. Think about the journey. So the actual movement pattern, activating, squeezing full contraction, and then slow release. Even when it comes to forward leaning lunges, you can manipulate those to suit you to feel it in the glutes that little bit more. And I think that's it. This is a glute workout but you can be guaranteed that those hamstrings and the quads and the core will be involved as well. We're gonna relax, then squeeze those glutes for the next 30 minutes. Let's go.