- Hi everyone and welcome. Day 16 in the IRON Series. And today it's the hamstrings. Timer's gonna be on for majority of the workout. One minute of work, 30-second rest. All you'll need for today's workout are some dumbbells and a chair. The chair is for some hamstring-focused hip thrusts. Day 18 is glutes. So yes, a lot of crossover. Even if it's leg day, then a few days later it's glutes, they're still crossover. Today we're gonna try and target those hamstrings. The entire lower body will be involved, as well as the core and the forearms, back, and particularly that lower back. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference pretty much throughout are 17 and a half kg each. I also have one heavier dumbbell, which is 30kg and that is for those hip thrusts targeting the hamstrings. As you can see, I also have a smaller dumbbell. This is just an option. It is one dumbbell, 12 and a half kg, and I'll be using it for the balancing RDLs. As you can see here, we're slowing it down. We're not just gonna drive forward and come back up, swinging that back leg. We're gonna focus on the front leg. The back leg, don't worry about it so long as it is off the floor. Focus on feeling the stretch in the front leg, the hamstring, hips, back, and up. Open the chest throughout. Take your time. It's a lot harder than it looks. As always with RDLs, ease into it. I've came to really like this actual slow eccentric as the first set. So it really allows you to take it even slower. Focus on the pace, lengthening as you go down, and then coming up. Nice, smooth movement. And when it comes to the staggered Romanian deadlifts, as you can see here, the back foot is actually on the floor. The toes are on the floor for stability. It isn't an actual specific balancing exercise. We're just trying to target one side of the body as opposed to the other. The other leg is just there for stability. Same setup applies. So keeping that chest open, hips backing up, lower to where you feel that stretch in the hamstring but no effect on that lower back or the upper back rounding. And the finisher, it's a slow one. We're gonna be doing one minute of our RDLs with two dumbbells. Then we finish with just the one dumbbell. So yet, it's hamstrings. We're gonna take it slow. We're gonna really try and actually feel those hamstrings lengthening and contracting. Let's go.