- Hi, everyone, and welcome Day 13 in IRON Series, and today, we're hitting the posterior chain. So basically, we're gonna primarily target the back. That's including the upper back, mid, and lower back. Also, our hamstrings and our glutes. With the back exercises, this also involves the rear delts as well, and when we're doing those rows, we're also actually involving the rear delts or the backs of the shoulders and also core within those renegade rows, not to mention the stability required from the lower body. The timer's gonna be on for the majority of the workout, one minute of work with 30-second rest. This is actually technically no repeat. However, what we do on one side, we will then do on the opposite side. I say no repeat, however, there may be three or four variations of the same exercise, but every single exercise will be that little bit different. The dumbbells I'm using, for your reference, for the back and the Romanian deadlifts is going to be 17 1/2 kg each. I will then use one dumbbell, and that is 30 kg, and that is for the hip thrust and those sumo squats. So today, we're starting with the back. Following that, we move then into our hamstrings, then we go into some sumo deadlifts, then we finish with our hip thrusts before the finisher, which will in fact be some sumo squats. One important thing I would like you to think about when you're going into that first rep of those Romanian deadlifts, please take it easy. You may be tight in those hamstrings, even in the lower back, it just depends also on what you've been doing maybe the previous days. You'll see me the first rep, typically I don't go so deep. I just go within a range that makes me feel comfortable in order that I can relax for the next rep. So I ease into that depth, and by no means do you actually need to go past your knees. So long as you're feeling the stretch in your hamstrings, that is far enough. Then slowly rise. Remember to really exaggerate the chest, hips, back and up, slide those dumbbells close to the body the entire time. And you know with the hip thrusts, make use of that band. Push against it the entire time, whether you're at the very bottom moving up or down or at the very top. Lock out those glutes and push against the band. So yes, aside from the dumbbells for this workout, you will need your mat and also a chair, I'm gonna be using this chair behind me for those hip thrusts, and also a glute band, which I placed just above the knees. I will also place a towel just under the dumbbells just to make it that little bit more comfortable on my hips. So this is essentially a full body workout, please ensure you do spend at least five minutes warming up your entire body. The entire back, those glutes, and hamstrings will work hard today. Let's go!