- Hi everyone and welcome. Day 17 in the IRON Series. And today it's upper body. The timer's gonna be on for majority of the workout. 60 seconds of work. Always 30-second rest. There is a steeple in today's workout and it will be performed for only 30 seconds at a time. As you can see here, you can perform dips on the chair. Alternatively, you can perform dips on bars if you have access to those bars. But of course you can change this up. So if you prefer, you can even practise your pushups and do tricep pushups or skull crushers or even tricep press with two dumbbells. It's completely up to you, just so long as you select an exercise and every time you see that steeple pop up on screen, you perform your chosen exercise for those 30 seconds. Due to the fact that it's going to be a tricep-specific steeple, you will notice that it may be that more challenging if you've just done some chest exercises such as chest press or diamond press. So we'll be working through a range of exercises. And remember, each exercise will be performed for two sets. So for example, we'll start with two sets of chest press, steeple, two sets of a back exercise, steeple, on the chest, steeple, and so on. And then towards the end, we have some exercises targeting the shoulders before we hit the finisher for some more shoulders. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference today are two 20 kg dumbbells. I will also be using two 10 kg dumbbells and that will be for the Arnold press. And then I will also drop to four kg each and that will be for the shoulders at the very end. So again, just for your reference, chest and back exercises, I will be using my two 20 kgs. Once it comes to the shoulders, I'll be using the 10s for the Arnold presses. And everything else at the end will be with four kgs. So even though I'm saying chest, back, and shoulders, there's a lot more involved than just those. Your entire arms and your core and your lower back will all be involved in this workout. Make sure to go your own pace relevant to the weight that you're actually lifting. Again, pause as when you need to. The timer is only ever a guide with any of these workouts. There's no need to rush into position. 30 minutes, we're gonna lift. Let's go.