- Hi, everyone, and welcome to day eight in IRON Series. And today it is hamstrings and glutes. The timer's going to be on for a majority of the workout. One minute of work with 30 second rest. Pretty much most of the exercises will be performed for two sets. However, if it is just one side we will then do the other and then repeat that. So it's still, essentially two full sets. All you'll need for today's workout are some dumbbells, a chair, or bench for some hip thrusts, your glute band. And also I'm gonna be using a tile just to place under the dumbbell when it's on my hips for those hip thrusts. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference is one dumbbell, which is 30 kg, and that is for the hip thrusts. I will then also be using 17 1/2 kg each, and that is for the Romanian deadlift and a few lunges. So we're gonna kick it off with some Romanian deadlifts. Remember ease into it. Really take it slow, particularly even the first 10 reps of this workout. Really puff that chest open. Push the hips back and up. Try to relax. The more relaxed you are descending into that Romanian deadlift, the more you're gonna actually feel that lengthening of the hamstring. Following some Romanian deadlifts, we then move into some hit thrusts. Also some hip thrusts focusing a little bit more on those hamstrings. Then we're into staggered Romanian deadlifts. So the staggered Romanian deadlifts, as you can see here, essentially it's the same position as a normal Romanian deadlift. However, we're gonna target just one side. The opposite side that we're not working, you're just gonna use the opposite leg for balance. You've maybe seen these where you actually lift that rear leg off the floor, but we're gonna keep it down for balance just to get that little bit deeper and more control of that hamstring Romanian deadlift. And the finisher today, it's going to be some hip thrusts, but again, focusing on those hamstrings. No band will be used for the finisher. Just the weight. Please ensure you spend at least five minutes warming up your entire body. You will definitely be using your forearms and your back a good bit with these Romanian deadlifts, particularly the lower back. Glutes and hamstrings. Let's go!