- Hi everyone and welcome day three in the IRON Series. And today, it's the glutes. The timer's going to be on for majority of the workout. One minute of work, 30 second rest. Most exercises will be formed for two sets. If we do something on one side, we will then do the opposite side, and then repeat that. For this workout today, you will need some dumbbells or a barbell or a heavy kettlebell. Also your mat and a glute band. I'm gonna place it just above my knees. And a towel to place under the dumbbell during the hip thrust just to make it that little bit more comfortable. The dumbbell I'm using for your reference for the hip thrusts and the sumos is 30 kg. However, I will also use one 15 kg and that will be for Bulgarian lunges. These are gonna be forward tilting from the hips Bulgarian lunges, just to hit those glutes that little bit more. Most of this workout will involve using weights as resistance, however, towards the end, we do have a little bit of body weight only. Body weight only training specifically for the glutes. Definitely one of my favourites, it's really taught me that mind muscle connection. Slow it down, connect with the muscle, imagine its lengthening and then contracting, squeezing through the glutes. Maximal contraction at the top, slow release to lower. And aside from those dumbbells, the glute band, and the towel, a mat, a chair for those hip thrusts and Bulgarian lunges. As you can see here, I'm using this chair. This will work perfectly for my Bulgarian lunges and my hip thrusts. As always, make it your own work out. If you prefer, you can perform normal lunges, simply still tilt forward from the hips, and bridges as opposed to hip thrusts, where you can actually lie on the mat. We're gonna finish with a little combo of body weight, band resistance hip thrusts. One of my favourite finishers. So yes, glutes. Of course, the hamstrings and quads and core are going to be involved as well. We're gonna take it slow and we're gonna focus on not only that lift, but the lowering, let's go!