- Hi everyone. And welcome Day 26 in EPIC Endgame. And today, it is chest and triceps. This is gonna be a highlight of the week for me. I've been really looking forward to this one. I've been looking forward to actual exercises that are going to be in this, and particularly, the finisher. The time is going to be on throughout. One minute of work, 20 second rest. All you'll need for today's workout are some dumbbells, your mat and the chair for some body weight dips, or dip bars. I'm also using a yoga block towards the end of the workout, but that is not necessary. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are 17 and a half kg each. I will then also use nine kg each. It is a combination of dumbbells and body weight. There is a staple in today's workout. It appears four times throughout this actual workout. As you can see here, we have one minute of our chest press. We then have 20 second rest. One minute of our flies, 20 second rest. One minute of our push ups, 20 second rest. This has always been actually one of my favourite trisets, chest press, flies, followed by pushups. However today, we do have that 20 second rest, so it's not specifically a triset. Throughout the workout I'll pop on the screen some cues and some tips just to think about when you're actually doing this workout. Remember, it is quality over quantity. Pretty much all this workout, I will not be rushing. I will not be rushing into position. I will not be lowering down quickly in those push ups. I will be controlling the lowering, controlling the lifting. And the finisher, 100 reps on those triceps. We're gonna start with 50 neutral position Cobra push ups. We're then gonna go into 50 of our diamond hand position Cobra push ups. When you're doing these Cobra push ups, it is important that you try to relax your shoulders, don't strain your lower back. Nice smooth movements on the way up and the way down. When we're doing the neutral hand position, you can actually, when you're on the floor having a rest, you can let the elbows come out and completely relax. But before you actually lift, squeeze those elbows in by your side again, and lift up by extending, pushing the palms into the floor. Also at the top, you are trying to straighten your arms, but not a severe lock out. So at the end of the day, you don't want to be doing locking out these arms every single rep. Just think nice smooth movements and straightening the arm at the top without that severe lock. This is definitely gonna be one of these workouts that you will finish and you'll realise just why you actually love strength and resistance training. I hope you really enjoying it as much as I'm going to. Let's go!