- Hi, everyone and welcome day seven, in EPIC Endgame. And today we have such a fun leg day. All you'll need for today's work are some dumbbells, your mat, and a chair for just some body weight only Bulgarian lunges. I'm also going to be using a yoga block to elevate my heels and my feet during some of the squats and lunges, but this is not necessary. The dumbbells I'm using throughout for your reference are 15 kg each. Today's format is super sets. 45 seconds of work. 30 second rest. All of the exercises today are unilateral. So we'll maybe do an entire super set on one side, but then we have to switch. There is a staple in today's workout our Romanian deadlifts. First 45 seconds is going to actually be with two dumbbells. We're then gonna drop to just the one dumbbell. So of course, it's going to be lighter. However, your CNS, your central nervous system may allow you to relax into that actual stretch that little bit more. So 45 seconds with two dumbbells, 45 seconds with one dumbbell. And then we rest. This staple appears a total of six times. I regularly put staples into my workouts. It's just a way to actually focus and come back time and time again to the same exercise. You'll definitely notice that you will loosen up in regards to these Romanian deadlifts as we go through the workout. Remember with Romanian deadlifts, shoulders back, really pronounce the chest. You're gonna push the hips back as you start to lower, maintain a slight bend in the knees at all times. So not too much and definitely not straight-legged. So we're gonna keep the chest open. We're gonna keep the dumbbells in close contact to the body the entire time. Lower down only to where you can maintain that flat back. So for a lot of people, of course, it is actually to knee depth here, just the dumbbells to the knee and drive up. Please don't overextend aiming for that floor because if you round your back, you're really gonna take a lot of work away from those hamstrings. And also you could strain your lower back. So just know each superset is gonna be all in one side. The next superset is going to be on the opposite side. And of course the finisher, 100 reps of our lying hamstring lift. So you can appreciate lying down. The further away the feet are from the torso, the more challenging it is going to be. So as you progress, if you need, of course, bring those feet in all the way and even into a bridge, you can also perform these body weight. So no doubt, the hamstrings, glutes and those quads are gonna be working very hard for the next 38 minutes or so let's go.