- Hi everyone, and welcome, Day 26 in the Epic III Program, and today it is back and biceps. We're gonna be using a superset format today so it's gonna be 45 seconds of work, 45 seconds of work, then we have 30 second rest. Some of the exercises are unilateral, so maybe do one side then the opposite. However, it could be both or it could be an exercise and then the next 45 seconds is a variation on the tempo. For today's workout, you will need a pair of dumbbells, your mat, and a yoga block. The dumbbells I'm using primarily at the beginning of the workout are 17 1/2 kg. I will then drop to 8kg each for the latter part of the workout. And that will be primarily the curls. The yoga block will only be used to elevate one of the hands during the renegade rows so you can get that little bit more range of movement when you're doing the renegade rows. So, today we're gonna play with tempo. A lot of it's going to be slow eccentric so basically, you're going to row, for example, or curl, and you're going to control the lowering. Try and resist that lowering, slow it down as much as you can. There are also some pauses at the top. So you may bring it up, hold briefly, and release, still controlling the lowering at all times. There are also some cheat and momentum curls and rows. So, with the momentum rows, basically, you're sort of throwing it up a little bit. You are using a little bit more momentum. However, the key here, still control the lowering. So, you're cheating your way up and control the lowering. Same with the curls. Today, we're going to do some cheat curls. You're gonna sort of use a little bit of momentum from those hips, get the curl up, but then you're going to control it on the way down. Also with the rows, I just want to show you here with the momentum, this is a difference of me simply throwing the dumbbell up and throwing it down. You're really gonna lose out on a lot of work. Also, if you have lighter weights and you're wanting them to actually feel that little bit heavier, slow it down, control it even more. If you do have slightly heavier weights, you could give them a go for a couple of the sets today. I was intending to go a little bit heavier, such as 20kg, however, due to the fact that it's tempo work, I'll save the 20s for another day. Also, by the time we reach the actual bicep portion of today's workout, which is towards the end, you will have been using your biceps quite a lot throughout this workout already, such as the bent-over rows and the renegade rows. You really are using that bicep and contracting at the top. So, with the biceps, just give it your best shot. Remember, stop when you feel like your form is just not perfect. And as always, control the lowering, set the dumbbells down when you need a quick break. We have a fun little finisher with hammer curls. Basically, you're just gonna go all out, two dumbbells, hammer curls. Then you're gonna drop to just the one dumbbell. However, the key here, keep the elbows in. Please don't let them move. Make it as hard as you can. Keep it steady, go for that burning. So, this kicks off week six. I've got to be honest. I think this one's gonna hurt, but there's a lot of variety in today's workout and the time should go fast. I hope yous really enjoy it, let's go.