- Hi everyone and welcome. So today we have a Q and A. I have really been looking forward to doing this for quite a while. So many questions from all of you in the comments, I've really enjoyed reading all of the comments and trying to answer the questions as best I can. So I thought definitely a Q and A is due. We're gonna cover a whole range of topics from the training that is on YouTube. Also some nutrition and tips. So yes, lots to get through, let's begin. (relaxed music) My name is Caroline, I am 36 years old. I live in Northern Ireland, I know many of yous have been trying to figure out my accent. So yes, I live in Northern Ireland, I am from Northern Ireland. I am married, I am mother to two beautiful little children. I am a certified personal trainer, five foot two, approximately 57kg, about nine stone. I tend not to weigh myself, but that is approximately what I am. So yes, I do love to read, I love learning new skills, so whether it's gardening, I love painting. We as a family are quite active, we love days out. We go here, there, and everywhere. There's lots of cool places in Northern Ireland to visit and lots of fun days out. I've always been active. Once I became a mother, I sort of realized that there was so much information out there. And speaking to friends and family, people were on all sorts of diets, they were trying all different types of training and most of them weren't really having success. They were either focusing too much on the skills, not eating enough food, tracking every single thing that they did, spending so much time, effort and money. Sometimes for me, it was quite difficult to hear the stories that I was hearing from people I knew who were really putting in so much effort. Also combined with guilt, if they had a slice of cake. Exercise and wellbeing in general, it's a positive thing, it should be positive. Everybody can do it in their own little way. There's so much information out there. There's so much focus on aesthetics. It takes you to enjoy the journey and to be honest, it should turn into a journey that you don't want to end. We're all different, we all enjoy different things, whatever you enjoy doing, do it, make healthier choices, be active and have fun. That's basically it. Balance is key with training, nutrition and lifestyle and everything in general, balance is really important. When the COVID-19 situation arose, I just decided to grab my phone and record one of my home workouts just to send to family and friends so that could maybe help motivate them, also to those people who I wasn't able to train. Of course, over time, more and more people started watching it, I am amazed as to how it has grown. I sometimes can't quite believe that how many of you fantastic people join me in these home workouts. So yeah, I hope yous are all having so much fun. So now we're onto some questions, all relating to the actual workouts that you guys have been joining me in. Can you gain muscle at home? Absolutely. All you'll need is your body weight, that is enough to build strength, build muscle, muscular endurance and also burn a lot of energy. Of course, mixing it up is great as well if you have dumbbells, kettlebells, ankle weights, anything, as you know, we've used books and chairs as well to compliment our training. So yes, you can certainly build muscle at home. What calories can I expect to burn during this workout? So this is definitely one of the most popular questions that I get asked. Basically, I am unable to sort of say how many calories you will burn during any sort of workout. And the reason is everybody is different. So many factors come into play talking about actual calories. First of all, your work settings. So you can have it on high-intensity or cardio or strength or weights, it could be a whole array of different settings, but mostly it has to do with your level of fitness, your weight, your rate of recovery, main thing, rate of exertion, how hard are you actually pushing yourself during this workout? So for example, you could burn 400 calories in a certain workout, the next week, if you do the same exact workout and maybe you just haven't had maybe enough sleep that week or you've been training a lot prior, you may burn 300 calories, so certainly the calories differ from person to person, day to day, workout to workout. How should I breathe during exercise? So a typical rule of thumb is to exhale on the exertion. So the hard part of the movement, exhale. If you're squatting, typically you inhale on the way down as if you're going underwater. As you come up out of the squat, you're coming out of the water and you're gonna exhale. So you're trying to imagine that there. Also chest press, inhale and you're gonna exhale on the hardest part, which is obviously the push-up. The main thing is though, don't hold your breath. Sometimes you could be doing squats or chest press with lighter weights and you're gonna have a little bit of a faster tempo. As long as you're breathing, try not to overthink the actual breathing process, sometimes you can't always match your breathing to the actual exercise itself. So please don't hold your breath and just ensure that you're breathing, you're quite comfortable letting oxygen into the muscles. So the next question is definitely something that I want to cover. If I do lower abdominal exercises, will this burn belly fat? If I do inner thigh workouts, will this burn fat in my inner thighs? The simple answer basically is no, to an extent. If you were to do lower abdominal exercises for 365 days a year, you may not lose belly fat in the lower abdominal area. If you did inner thigh workouts every single day for two weeks, will you lose inner thigh fat? Not necessarily, it comes down to so many things. So basically I can't say in any of my videos, lose belly fat within two weeks, lose inner thigh fat within a month, that sort of thing. You cannot put a time on it, it depends on so many factors. Number one, nutrition. Because you cannot spot reduce anywhere on the body. Yes, you can actually target certain areas with weight training, so say you really want to build up your shoulders, you can target shoulders. With strength training, you can target your glutes, your quads, certainly, you cannot target fat loss. Fat loss is a whole over the body. Of course, we store fat in different areas. Maybe some people have it more slightly on their tummy area. Maybe some people more on the outer thighs, but certainly it comes off generally as a whole, reducing body fat is overall. It involves nutrition, moving your body and basically that's it, in order to reduce fat. Of course, targeting certain areas will help tighten that area. Working the quads, the glutes, the inner thighs, all helps strengthen that area. Very beneficial of course to your overall training. So just bear that in mind, if you ever see lose inner thigh fat in seven days, there's a lot more to it than just simply doing that exercise for seven days. How many times a week should I do HIIT? Everybody's different, some people love HIIT and they do it five days a week. I love HIIT. However, I only do it once per week usually. Once a week, for me, I'm able to give it my 110 percent effort, I really look forward to it actually on a Sunday morning, so generally on a Saturday night I'm having my takeaway and I know that I'm gonna get up and I'm gonna smash those burpees. In regards to high-intensity interval training, if you ever do a workout and you think that it wasn't that difficult, maybe it is just because you haven't tried hard enough and I actually do mean that, what I mean is there's days where you're maybe just not feeling like you're really ready to smash that certain workout and sometimes it's better to just do something else. The HIIT that I provide it is time-based. So even if you are super fit, if you're knocking these workouts out of the park, especially the high intensities, you should be pretty fatigued because you're going at your max. You're given it the best that you can. So depending on your level of fitness, everybody should be pretty tired after a HIIT session because hopefully you've been able to give it your all. So if you do maybe 40 seconds and you think that wasn't so bad, maybe try next time, jumping higher, landing lower, holding it a little bit deeper or even completing more reps within the time period. So certainly bear that in mind, every HIIT session should be challenging. Lifting weights really does change your shape. Cardio, you will of course, over time with correct nutrition, lose body fat. However, combined with the strength training, that is what actually changes your shape. Plus the feeling of feeling and stronger, which is pretty epic in itself. Yes, of course there may be times when you can't do certain movements, you've maybe never done them before or you just haven't quite mastered them. I would certainly suggest just taking it slow, doing maybe half of the movement itself, still pushing yourself, still practicing. Push-ups is a perfect example, does take practice and a lot of dedication over a bit of time to be able to do all different types of push-ups. If you can't and it is within the workout, simply, as I've shown in other videos, maybe put your hands on a chair and do incline pushups. Of course, absolute beginners can begin on the wall where you're pushing off the wall. There is of course the option of the knees. So you can always alter any version of the exercise to suit yourself on that day as well, how you're feeling and your ability. Training on your period. So yes, I've had this question quite a few times. Can I do HIIT on my period? Should I train on my period? And the answer is it is completely up to you. Always tailor the workouts to yourself, how you're feeling. It is just really a personal preference. So another common question I get is how do I work my arms typically? I would work my arms normally within all of my chest sessions, my back sessions and also body weight training. Very rarely would I actually do arm specific workouts. My triceps are usually covered within chest sessions, my biceps within back sessions. Also my triceps get a good workout when I do my shoulder workouts, all of those push-ups of course really help with the triceps as well. It is important in my opinion, to incorporate chest and back workouts, obviously chest you're working your pectoral muscles, it will help so much with your other training, such as your push-ups, holding your weight in those planks. Back training really helps those pull-ups if that's something that you're wanting to work on. It does overall give you that balance between your lower and upper body, so definitely I would suggest, always try if you see a video chest and triceps or back and biceps, give them a go. I know some people maybe haven't trained specifically back before or chest for that matter, it's so beneficial for the arms definition, overall strength and overall your whole entire training. So some people have asked about rest days. What can I do on my rest days? Everybody is different, you can do absolutely nothing. However, some people like to maybe do an hour of yoga. Some people class a hike or walk, a long walk as a rest day. Others may be swimming. For me, a rest day would usually still involve walking Winston for at least one hour and also I may do maybe 30 minutes stretching while I'm watching TV. Make your rest day something relaxing, something that you enjoy to do. You can even use it as time to work on your flexibility or balance. Basically repetitions are so important. I will always incorporate repetitions within many of my workouts, incorporating repetitions for the muscle gains is definitely, definitely so important. Of course, we all love no repeats, we don't know what's coming next, every exercise is different and they're so much fun, still beneficial of course. I do suggest you try and embrace those repetitions. Yes, okay, sometimes I do four sets of some things, sometimes I may do 10 sets of something, but that's just the way I like to train. And hopefully it works for you too. If a workout pops up for that day and you're unable to do it, for example, you simply don't have that certain equipment like a stability ball, of course, I have many workouts all in the playlist section on the YouTube page, all categorized body weight glutes, we've got dumbbell, shoulders, that sort of thing so you can go through and certainly pick a different workout for that day. Dumbbells ideally would be two pairs of dumbbells, one heavier pair and one lighter pair. However, I know how hard it is to actually get your hands on dumbbells at this moment in time. So yes, certainly that is optimum if you can have two pair of dumbbells, one pair of dumbbells is great too, because then you can just drop to one dumbbell as and when you need to. Kettlebells are handy, ankle weights, stability ball, also booty bands, resistance bands, ab wheel, push-up bars. There is quite a range and you can do so many things with all of these types of equipment to get a solid workout at home, changing it up is so important and it keeps it fun and interesting. Of course, I know many people prefer not to jump for certain reasons, there are many low impact workouts on my playlist as well. So if there is ever a high-intensity workout or one-hour workout that involves jumping, there is always the low impact options that you will find on my playlists. Another comment I do notice quite often is following an ab workout if there are crunches in it, a lot of people do experience strain in the neck. Over time, your neck does strengthen in that you're able to lift your head without straining your neck. It does take time, I would say stop as and when you're feeling too much strain in your neck. But a few little tips if you're in that crunch position flat on the floor and you're going to raise up, look at a spot in the ceiling, not straight ahead above, but above and in front. So keep your eye on a spot in front on the ceiling and aim to lift your head, neck and upper back all at the same time through using just your upper abdominal muscles, so you can practice that, take it slow, lower with control as well. Your neck shouldn't actually move. It should come up as part of your upper back. So now I'm just gonna cover some simple tips for you all. So these are quite general tips, they may not apply to everybody, but there's some of the major tips that I would certainly say to people when I was training them. My number one tip would be portion size. Now I don't mean actually getting the scales out and weighing your food, what I mean is learning about how many calories are in chicken breasts, how many calories are in an egg, for example, how many calories are in the egg white? A perfect example of this is actually nuts. If you take a handful of nuts, what you're maybe think you're eating in regards to calories is maybe a lot different than what you're actually consuming. The calorie counting apps that are now available, a lot of them for free, are fantastic for getting that little bit of knowledge. Focus on your body composition, focus on how your clothes feel, how you feel, focus on your performance rather than focusing on the skills. I just want to cover a wee example. A few years ago I did a little experiment, my own little experiment. I stood on the scales every single day for about a month. So what happened was during the morning, I weighed myself. Of course, that night, I was maybe about four points heavier pretty much every single night, obviously because I had been eating, then it came to the time of the month. And when I was on my period, I actually went up to about six points heavier. If I was on a weight loss journey for that month and I was tracking my progress every single day, I wouldn't know where I was because basically I was up, down, up, up, down, down up, down, but day to day, it can be extremely demotivating to stand on those scales and see you've maybe put on three or four pounds, but really it's just your natural fluctuation in weight. Also I would advise to incorporate some form of stretching. Of course a cool down is some gentle stretching. However, sometimes spending just even 15 minutes per week stretching like maybe your hamstrings a little bit extra, foam rollers are great for that as well, to help prevent injury. Touching on what I had sort of mentioned before about trying to ditch those skills as much as possible. Another great way to track your progress is progress pictures, you don't need to show these to anybody, but have your own little picture. And of course over time, take another picture. The difference you see can sometimes be quite remarkable. 'Cause sometimes you forget how far you've came. Also focusing on your actual performance, nailing those first push-ups and maybe holding that complete wall-sit for one minute, All these little accomplishments all add up over time. So always try to think of your performance, little goals and also how you feel in your clothes. Another great tip is to change up your training. I love pulses, slow paced, fast paced, pyramid training, drop sets, all these little methods that can all be incorporated, it's good to change it up. Keeps it interesting and keeps your body guessing. You may notice real improvements in your training if you've been sticking to the same sort of format. Same with running, running of course, it's great to go into your 10k, changing up your running can also be hugely beneficial. For me, I love doing 10k, I love doing 20k. I also love sprinting for 400 meters. Or if I'm doing maybe a 5k I will do 4k and try and run as fast as I can for the last kilometer. Take a break before beginning and go for that last kilometer. So yeah, changing up can have many benefits over time. Just some simple nutrition tips that I would maybe suggest as a general sort of guide, increasing your vegetable and salad intake, whether it be with your dinner or your lunch, swapping white bread and white rice for the likes of whole grain breads and brown rice. If you're eating out, try to maybe go for the tomato-based pasta rather than the creamy-based pasta. Try to pick the leaner option of the steak. Try not to let yourself get too hungry, you should always have accessible, healthy snacks readily available. There are so many different ways to incorporate a little bit more activity into your day. Not taking the car so much, walking if the shop is handy, taking the elevators, run the stairs, of course a typical example, but certainly all these little things add up. Enough sleep, this is a tricky one. I know we all have busy lives, but certainly for me personally, I do try to get at least eight hours every single night. For me, it really helps with obviously my training. When you are tired, it can have an effect on your appetite. You could be more hungry simply due to higher levels of cortisone, which is a stress hormone. And one final little tip, have fun, that's what it's all about, you should want to come back for more and more. Being active can mean anything for everybody. It could be walking your dog. It could be rock climbing. It could be doing triathlons and it could be strength training. Have fun with it, do whatever pleases you. So now we're onto nutrition. So yes, this is definitely a big question I've been asked. What sort of plan do I follow? What diet am I on? Basically I am on no diet, I am on no plan. I don't follow any structure basically to my day. There are a few things that I don't do. So I don't count calories, I don't count macros, I don't cut, I don't bulk, I don't take protein supplements and I don't take pre-workouts, et cetera. I train hard and I eat as healthy as I can. Day to day my calorie intake as well varies, I know that some days I'm hungrier, some days I'm not as hungry. If I feel hungrier, I will eat more food, that's it. I do eat out once or twice per week. Also, of course my takeaway nearly every single Saturday night. When I do eat out, I do try to make a little bit healthier choices in that I would pick the leaner choice of proteins, a leaner steak, also fish is a big one and chicken for me, I always order as well a side of vegetables and a side of salad, as well as my chips or sweet potato fries. I do generally ask for the sauce to be separate. So whether it's peppered sauce or Caesar dressing only because sometimes it can be drenched in the dressing. So that's another little tip, sauce or condiments on the side. I would typically look as well for the baked, grilled or steamed options, as opposed to certainly deep, fat fried. If for example, it was my birthday or it's Christmas day, obviously you eat a lot on Christmas day, which is just fantastic, who doesn't love Quality Street for breakfast? But the next day, all I do is return to my normal pattern of eating. So my nutrition, basically a lot of lean protein. So it's generally gonna be the chicken breast. It's gonna be turkey, lean mince, lean steak. I also love salmon, I love tuna, so I would typically have a fish two or three times a week also. Eggs are always in our fridge. If there's ever a day I open the fridge and there's not an egg, I'm like "I need to go get some eggs." Eggs are so versatile. I actually love eggs as a snack, all mushed up with a little bit of pink Himalayan salt. My main carbs with my dinner would typically be the whole grain rice or sweet potato. Vegetables, I eat a lot of vegetables. I have vegetables every single night with my dinner. Also, I would have a lot of vegetables sometimes with my lunch, depending on what it is. Fruit wise, I tend to eat my fruit rather than drink it. I would just rather have a piece of fruit. So whether it be apples, I do love berries of all kinds, I love watermelon and I love bananas. There's a few things I always have in my cupboard and I'll show you when I do, what I eat in a day, you will probably see a big supply of some of these foods. So I always have a lot of nut butters, rice cakes, porridge, there's always avocados in the fridge, honey, tins of tuna, Greek yogurt's always in the fridge, I love the Fage ones. We'd always have cheese of some sort. There's usually feta and Parmesan, I love Parmesan cheese sprinkled on my chicken Caesar salads. In the freezer, there's always at least one tub of Halo ice cream, one of my favorites, two scoops of Halo ice cream on an ice cream cone, perfect little snack anytime of the day. I am a big fan of nuts, I have different jars of different nuts, I usually try to buy them chopped, if not, I will simply just crush them myself. But yeah, I would have Brazil nuts, walnuts and almond nuts, I love sprinkling them onto everything. And maybe a bowl of Weetabix with warm milk and banana. But more typically recently it has been two slices of whole grain toast with two boiled eggs and maybe four turkey rashers into like a toasted sandwich. So that would be my breakfast of choice at the moment. However, I do love porridge or sometimes I will simply have a slice of toast with avocado and egg. So yes, I change it up. I always have protein of course, with every single meal that I have through the day. Lunch could again of course be that omelet. So I may have chicken or ham or tuna omelet with peppers, onions, some cheese sprinkled. I'd maybe have one egg and three or four egg whites and some sliced avocado on the side, or it may be another one of my favorites, is my take on a chicken and bacon Caesar salad. Sometimes I just use my turkey rashers if I have some left, cut those up, they're great to throw in as well. I have my homemade croutons and of course, sprinkling of Parmesan. For dinner, I'm a very traditional kind of gal. My meat and two veg. So typically it would be a steak or my salmon or chicken, I love to grill chicken, along with that then, obviously a lot of veg, salads as well. A definite favorite of mine would be sweet potato fries, but then other nights I might make a burrito bowl. So I do like to change it up. Typically I have of course my protein, my carbs and my healthy fats of some sort within my dinner. For dessert nearly every single night I do have my Barebell protein bar. I absolutely love the Barebell protein bars. I'm not sponsored by the way, there is quite a collection of Barebell chocolate bars in my cupboard. So yes, I will show you that in an upcoming video. So top snacks for me, definitely I would sometimes have maybe four snacks through the day. I really don't like to get hungry and I do always have little snacks readily available of course, banana and peanut butter on rice cakes, yum, yum, yum. Or tuna and smashed avocado on rice cakes, watermelon. But one of my favorites would be the Fage yogurts. So yes, certainly a Fage yogurt in a bowl with some homemade granola, just sprinkle it in then strawberries, blueberries, honey, chocolate sprinkles. So yeah, quite delicious, I would definitely mix it up. Greek yogurt is definitely a staple day to day for me. I love tea, I love coffee and water wise I would drink about two to three liters a day. I generally drink quite a lot in the morning time. So by the time I come training, I've already drank a lot of water. No we're onto my sort of typical training. So what you see on YouTube is actually my training, that is how I train. One day, it could be no weights, body weight only, loads of reps of lunges. The next day it could be weighted lunges, the next day it could be HIIT training. I like to mix it up as you know, so yeah, I like to have fun, I like to train how I feel. Some people have asked, do I compete? No, I have never competed in a show. To be honest, I'm not sure I would have the dedication with the whole nutrition, weighing, macro counting calorie thing, basically I just like to eat food and train hard, that's it. I would say I do look pretty much the same all year round. However, I don't know if you've noticed after bicep workout, I do have a pump on. And if we're talking about glute day, I mean, I train for the feeling, not aesthetics. I really focus on having fun with my training, trying new things out, not really focusing on how my body's going to look. So certainly with hard training though, does come aesthetic changes in regards your body composition, but I would suggest definitely focusing on your actual training and those changes will happen as a byproduct. Rest days, normally I do have one or two typical rest days. However, since I've been sharing my videos on YouTube, of course I haven't had a rest day in so many days. One definitely coming soon. But what I would say is altogether, it is about four or five hours training a week, which is definitely certainly not overdoing it for me anyway. Have been times, of course when I just basically take maybe five days off and do nothing, maybe apart from just walk the dog, sometimes it's nice to have a good little break as well. Those few days taken off from training is perfectly fine. After a few days you're back at it and you're ready to go and hit it even harder. My current cardio. So my cardio at the minute, as you see is the HIIT on a Sunday, I love it. Also of course, walking little Winston every day. I am not running at the moment. I haven't run since I think November last year. I finished the year off with running the New York Marathon. So yes, I haven't run this year at all. Obviously with doing YouTube, I also haven't had the time or felt that I needed to anyway. There'll be times where I simply don't run for six months at a time and then maybe do a little bit of running coming up to running season, that sort of thing. The music is all from Epidemic Sounds. I will put a link in the next community post with some of the top favorite songs that you like and I like, as you probably noticed, I do have a few favorites and they keep popping up in lots of the workouts. Music is definitely one of those ones. It is personal choice. So I know that I can't please, everybody. I do try to hand pick most of the songs to suit the workout. Sometimes I know people prefer a little bit faster, but certainly if I'm trying to maintain a sort of slower pace and focus on the movement, I will try to incorporate slower paced music to compliment it. One of the most common questions is how do I incorporate your actual workouts on YouTube into my weekly schedule? I did do a post a few weeks ago with a suggested weekly training split and yet I can completely understand the fact that you don't know what's coming up next. So then you sort of think, okay, should I rest my chest today in case tomorrow is gonna be chest? Or should I do that run today because tomorrow might be a leg session? I completely understand that, so in response to all of this, I'm actually going to be taking the next one week off from providing daily workouts. And that is only because I do have a few little things that I need to finalize. I have been working on something that hopefully yous will all love and here's just a little preview. (upbeat music) (rock music) So yes guys, there you go. That is coming the 21st of September. There will be definitely more information coming real soon in the community post section. So keep your eyes open for that. In regards to the program, ideally you would like a pair of dumbbells. I know not everybody has a pair of dumbbells. However, just bear that in mind, if you're ever out and about and you're able to gain or even borrow a pair of dumbbells from somebody who isn't using them, ideally in a perfect world, you would have two pairs of dumbbells, a lighter weight and a heavier weight. Of course you will need a mat. Also as well as the dumbbells, you may wish to gain a booty band, also ankle weights. However, these are definitely not compulsory. You just something that you may like to have. If you ever see them in the shop and you're able to purchase them or even online, they're always great handy to have, and you can put them into some of the workouts that will be coming just to make it that little bit more challenging. So you guys, I think that's it. One last thing, I want to thank you all so much. It's been so much fun. It's been such a journey and I just love your comments. Keep them coming. While I am missing an action, by the way, I will put up a suggested training split for this week. I'm so excited, ready to get started. I will see you next Monday. Everybody have a super week happy training, train hard and I'll see you then. Bye! (relaxing music) ♪ There's a legacy between us ♪ ♪ We grow, we go, ♪ ♪ But in the middle ♪