- Hi everyone. And welcome to Day 3 in the EPIC Endgame. And today, it is just glutes. We're going to be doing complexes. Three minutes of work, 30 seconds rest. Within each complex, there will only be two exercises. So basically, you do the first exercise for the number of reps that it says on screen. You then do the next exercise for the number of reps on screen. And you repeat that for the duration of the three minutes. All you need for today's workout is a chair for those hip thrusts, a mat, a dumbbell, and a glute band. I'll also be using a towel just to place under my dumbbell. The dumbbell I'm using for your reference is 25 kg. However, you can also, of course, use a barbell. The band that I'm using, I'll be placing it just above the knee. And when I'm using it, if you remember from previous EPIC programmes, I am going to stress, push against it. Push the knees out, make it that little bit more challenging. With glute workouts, it's definitely possible to make it less intense. Focus on every single rep, really contract at the top with the glutes during those hip thrusts and push against the band when we're wearing it. With the sumo squats, sumo deadlift squats, ease into that depth. Really push those hips back. Really keep the chest open and shoulders back. Heels flat on the floor, push through the heels to lift. We will also be on the mat for some side lying leg lifts and also fire hydrant circles. Try to get your thigh that you're actually lifting on that side, the thigh parallel with the floor. Think about really lifting and squeezing the side of the glute. Lift it up and control back down. During the head thrust today, we're actually not only gonna focus on the squeeze at the top, but also the range of movement, including that bottom portion. When you're wearing the band, push against it on the way down and on the way up. Also, as you can see here, this would aggravate my lower back. I'm arching my back with every single rep. What I want to do is tuck that chin in, bring my upper body down in line as I'm lowering my hips. And the same as I rise up, but keep the chin tucked. The finisher today, 100 reps of banded hip thrusts. However again, we're going to involve those toes up. So I'm going to want you to come all the way down keeping that back straight. Don't let it arch, keep the chin tucked. Push against the band on the way down Lock out at the top. This is a mixture of dumbbells, bands and body weight. And it's all glutes, let's go.