- Hi everyone and welcome day 34 in the EPIC Endgame. And today it is full body. We're gonna be using pyramid sets. You've maybe done some workouts involving pyramid sets with me already. There are so many ways to incorporate pyramid sets into your training. It could be increasing the weight with each set or decreasing along with the time. Today it is going to be time focused. We're gonna be doing 20 seconds of work then into 40 seconds of work, 60 seconds, 40, back down to the 20. We have 20 second rest between each of those. So think about it 20 seconds up to 40, maximum is that 60 seconds back down to 40, then 20. So yes that first exercise and the first set, 20 seconds. You'll definitely be thinking okay I've got this. 40 seconds, it starts to bite a little bit. And then that one minute, just push through. By the time you then get to that last set which is the 20 seconds you will find it challenging. However you'll be very very motivated because that is in fact the last set of that exercise. All you'll need for today's workout is a pair of dumbbells, your mat, a chair, and a yoga block. The chair will be for some Bulgarian lunges and the yoga block will be for some hill elevator squats, and also the finisher. The finisher today, 100 reps of renegade rows. This isn't gonna be easy. As you can see here I'm doing 25 reps all on one side, then 25 reps on the opposite side. Hips, keep them steady. We then finish with 50 reps of alternating. So that's gonna be one, two, three, four, every row is a wrap. When it comes to renegade rows I really want you to try and brace that cord really tight as if you're gonna be braced for impact. Also your quads, keep them nice and tight. Feet a little bit wider than typically you would use for pushups for example. In fact what you could do is the last set when you're actually doing the alternating renegade rows you could place in fact something on your back to see if you can balance it. For example, the yoga block. You'll notice just how much more challenging it is but also how it actually keeps you very very stable and allows you to lift more solely with just the back. So yet we have some lower body. We have a good bit of shoulders today. Some chest and triceps combined, and we finish with that back which also incorporates of course the core. And in fact the entire body. Day 34, a full body and it's pyramids, let's go.