- Hi everyone, and welcome, day 49 in the "Epic III" Program! And today it's a full body dumbbell workout. The timer's going to be on for complexes, two minutes. So these are shorter complexes. I think there's 16 complexes in total. We'll work our way through each complex for two minutes, 30 second rounds before move onto the next complex. Within each complex, there are only two exercises, so we'll obviously do that on rotation for the two minutes, but of course it will be all on the screen as we go along. The dumbbells I'm using, for your reference, are 10kg each. Due to the fact that it is only two minutes per complex, you may not actually get through a lot of rounds of the exercises, and that is completely irrelevant. If, in fact, you do maybe 10 of one exercise and 10 of the other, and you don't even get back to the first, that's completely fine as well. I want this to be performed nice and slow and controlled, particularly some movements will definitely be needed to be performed a little bit slower. Other ones you can pick up the pace a little bit, such as the makers, but when you're doing the exercise, try and think about making them that little bit harder, getting even more out of each rep. As you can see here, the supine row, I'm really gonna elongate my arms away from the body, stress the upper back and then at the top, really focused on that squeeze with the upper and mid back and also the biceps, really reaching it away, and then contract. With the double deadbug, here I'm really going to push my door back into the floor. I'm gonna fully brace before I extend my legs and my arms. And also I'm trying to elongate my legs as long as I can and as low as I can. With the flyes, inhale as you lower, (inhaling) and then exhale to contract and bring the dumbbells up close. Maintain a slight bend at all times with flyes. Always maintain that slight bend and take it nice and slow. Get a good wind, a big stretch across the chest and bring in. When you're performing the partial laterals today, try to keep your knees slightly bent, core of course is tight, however, you're going to tilt forward that little bet, nice and gentle, smooth movement throughout. And lastly, I just want draw your attention to the frontal raise. So you're gonna be holding just the one dumbbell, and you're gonna bring it out in front with keeping an ever so slight bend at the elbows, so trying to lock your arms fully, your core must be really tight. Relax your shoulders back and down, core braced, bring it out and then control the lowering. You could do this for a long time, however, we're gonna bring it out, and we're gonna control bringing it down, but that's enough of me talking. We've got 16 complexes, two minutes duration. It's day 49. Let's go!