- Hi everyone and welcome. Day 34 in the EPIC III Program. And today it is full body using pyramid training. The timer is going to be on 20 seconds of work, 40 seconds, 60 seconds back down to 40 back, back down to 20. 20 second rest in between each of those. So we're gonna work through only eight pyramid sets, and they're gonna target the shoulders, the chest, the back and the entire lower body. One of the pyramid sets is the Maker, so that is a full body movement. All you'll need for today's workout is a pair of dumbbells, your mat, and also a yoga block or something just to elevate those heels for those squats. Just a few little points I want to run through real quick. With the push press, you're using the momentum from the lower body to actually lift that dumbbell up. Try to prevent any jerking So any sharp movements, you're pushing it up, but you're gonna descend nice and slow. Bring it back down, push and control the lowering. With the heel elevated squat, they're going to be half reps. However, every 10 seconds you do get to stand fully. So you stand, take tension off those quads. When you're doing the half reps, try to not neglect the depth. Really aim for that good depth, keeping the chest open, pushing the hips back. With the bent-over row, every 20 seconds you will get to stand as well. So you can either just stand, take a break here, or you can hold the dumbbells up here if you need a break for that grip. Reset and go again. When it comes to the pushups on the dumbbells, I'm gonna have my hands just on the bar of the dumbbells and I'm gonna really aim for my chest as low as I can, try to get it to touch the floor. When I do need a break, which I expect I definitely will, I'll simply go into downward dog position. So I'm going to try and not let my knees touch the floor, the entire duration. So you can definitely challenge yourself with that one. We have a wee mini pyramid set at the very end, just as a finisher. So today I would say pace yourself, good quality reps, pace yourself, enjoy your rest, climb that mountain, and then you're back down the opposite side. It's always easier going down. Day 34, full body. Let's go.