- Hi everyone and welcome day 19 in Endgame. And today it's full body. For today's workout you will need some dumbbells, a chair, and also a yoga block and your mat. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference, primarily at the beginning, are 15 kg each. I will then use 9 kg each for some of the exercises towards the end. The timer will be on for 40 seconds of work, 20 second rest. So today we're gonna incorporate a format also known as pre-exhaust. Pre-exhaust also can be implemented in many ways in workouts, but the way we're gonna do it today, for example, we're gonna do chest press. That will be for 40 seconds, 20 second rest. We then go into pushups, which of course is still targeting the chest and triceps. We then go back into a variation of our chest press. So by the time you reach that third exercise, you've already done your first chest press. You've already done a body weight chest exercise. And then we finish with that final test press variation. Some of the exercises will be two dumbbells, one dumbbell or body weight. Of course, if I use two dumbbells and you would prefer to use one by all means do so. Also, if I do use one dumbbell and you prefer to use two, keep those on you. And the finisher, it's OBS, we're gonna line them up. We're gonna do 52 reaches with the dumbbell, then 50 leg lowers holding the dumbbell. With all these finishers, it really is important that you go your own pace. You may take more breaks than me, for example, or you may take less, you may complete it faster, or you may need extra time. Today for example, when we're doing the leg lowers, I will stop and set the dumbbell down and rest, particularly my lower back. If I find that I'm just not keeping my lower back pressed right to that floor as my legs lower. So maybe after 20 reps or 30 reps, I will take a break. It's so important to do quality reps over quantity. So no matter how long it takes you, just take your time, relax, and really engaged with every single rep. And I think that's it. There is a lot of variation technically on paper. This is no repeat. Of course, what we do in one side we have to do in the other. But yeah, pretty much every single exercise is a variation. Let's go.