- Hi everyone, and welcome. Day 46 in the EPIC III Program and today, we have pushups and abs. The timer is going to be on for a majority of the workout, 30 seconds of work with 30 second rest. Pretty much all of the exercises are going to be varied. However, there is a staple in today's workout. It is this, one minute. It is the tricep pushup, throughout here you're going to try and keep your elbows in by your sides on the way down and on the way up. Try to keep those elbows in. Gaze straight down and lower your body in one go. Keep your quads nice and tight and core braced, as with all of the pushups. I always approach pushup workouts as again, a practise session. I'm always trying to get that little bit better, that little bit deeper, keeping my body even more tighter as I lower. You may, of course, come across some variations that you're still trying to master. So if that does pop up, you can, of course, perform regular pushups or regular tricep pushups. There is also always that option to place the hands on an elevated surface, such as a chair, just to reduce the actual amount of body weight that you're actually pushing against. It will make it slightly easier. Take each rep nice and slow. You may only get five or six reps per 30 seconds and that's perfect. You'll definitely see me, I am not going to rush any of these exercises and I will probably be in around six to eight reps per 30 seconds. All you need for today's workout is your entire body warmed up, including those legs, 'cause you will be using those in your pushups and also your mat. We then towards the end, move into our ab section. The timer there, 30, 30, 30, the whole duration for pretty much nine minutes. There is no specific rest during the ab section and basically the format is we have two exercises, so we're gonna do one exercise. Then the next, repeat that combination three times in total. We move on to the next combination three times, and then another combination. We then finish with more on those pushups. You may also notice today, the pushup workout is more specifically trying to target those triceps. However, of course, there are some pushups that more involve the shoulders and also the chest, but primarily most of the exercises, we'll really try to focus on those triceps. So try and keep the elbows in where you can. The triceps are going to work really hard, let's go.