- Hi everyone, and welcome to today, it is day one, day one in the final Epic Program. We have 50 workouts. We are gonna smash through these workouts and have so much fun along the way. So the next 10 weeks are going to be a reflection on all of the previous Epics. If you're new, you can certainly start with me today on day one. For this programme, I'll be taking inspiration from the previous three programmes. This will be all combined into a super-fun, super-challenging 10 week programme. In the description box below, I will provide a link to the guide. So this is just an overview, a guide to inform you of what to expect for the next 10 weeks. Also link to the suggested warmups, and of course, those optional add-ons. Also within each description on every single workout will be some information that I provide in regard to the actual workout. And also the weights that I use for your reference. The weights I use during this programme will range from about 4 kg right up to 25 kg. The weights that I actually select for the workout also depends on the format. So it could be complex training, tempo, isometrics, unilateral, even playing with the range of movement available. Also angles, repetitions, drop sets, and the list goes on. So it's quite a good idea to sort of gauge as to what the workout may require when you see what weights I'm using. One thing that's gonna happen in every single workout for the next 10 weeks is going to be a big finisher. The finisher slash burnout, you know they're always in all of my workouts, and this programme is gonna be no different. However, the burnout is gonna be 100 reps of a certain exercise. This burnout could relate to the actual workout that we've just done, or it could simply be some abs and core. On those days where it's maybe active rest day, we're not actually uploading a workout. I will sometimes upload an actual workout that you can do on that day, such as an ab and core or some cardio. So if you're not yet subscribed and you do subscribe, make sure to hit the notification bell. It means that you'll get alerted as to when a new workout is uploaded. So yeah, I'm super excited to get started. Today, it's leg day, all you'll need is a pair of dumbbells and a yoga block. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are 10 kg each. The timer is going to be on for one minute each exercise with 30 second rest. There is a staple. It is this. Our high squats, nice and slow, focusing on the depth. So whilst you're trying to go as low as possible, you should still be in control, focusing on the mobility, looking straight forward, no jerking whatsoever, mostly compound movements, and also mostly full range. We have some half reps. However, there are no parcels and things like that, that will come very soon. Today is day one. We're gonna start with the simple exercises and then we'll move on to the more fun stuff. But we'd just like to say, thank you so much for joining me, this is day one. Let's go.