- Hi, everyone, and welcome Day 18 in the EPIC Endgame! And, today, it's arms an core. The timer is going to be on throughout one minute of work, 20 second rest. All you'll need for today's workout are a pair of dumbbells and your mat, and, of course, your body well warmed up. Make sure you warm up your entire body. You will be, of course, using the lower body as we will be in some planks. In the description box below, I will link a suggested five-minute full-body warmup. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are eight kg each. Towards the beginning of the workout, we'll alternate between triceps and biceps. So it will be two sets of an exercise for those triceps, two sets of an exercise for biceps, and we carry on, then we move into more core. So that will involve some planks, which will also involve the triceps. And the finisher? 100 reps alternating curls. With the finisher and, in fact, every other exercise in today's workout, really focus on those elbows. I know I do say it quite a lot when it comes to these sort of exercises, but it really does make it that bit more challenging. You'll get a bigger range of movement and you'll really connect with the muscle. Control the lowering at all times, even at the finisher, when we're maybe going through with a little bit of a quicker rep range, still control the dumbbell. So we're not just gonna swing them up and swing them down. We're not actually doing this today. We are gonna bring it up, control the way down, control. The same applies with all of the tricep exercises. So our skull crushers, elbows in, lower down as far as you can, try to even get the dumbbells to tap the floor, and then drive up, whilst keeping your upper arms steady and your elbows in. Try not to let those elbows flare out. There is no problem stopping and pausing. Definitely I will probably stop three or four times at least with that finisher of 100 reps, because I'm gonna actually do quality reps over the quantity. So it may take me an extra minute to get through those reps, but I'm under no pressure and I'm gonna take my time. With the plank to hover, as you can see here, what you're trying to do is when you come round and that arm is to the side, and you're actually looking down at the floor, try and align your hips as well. So keep the bum down, it is a lot harder than it actually looks. When it comes to the uneven push-ups, we're basically in a staggered-hand position. The rest of the body tries to stay in line. You're just gonna bring one arm slightly in front, and one arm more towards your belly button. When you're actually pushing up into that push-up, you're basically trying to use mostly this arm, the arm closest to your torso, trying to keep that elbow in. And this arm is basically mostly just for balance and a little bit of support. You're trying to mostly push through this arm. I think you will really enjoy this workout. We're gonna be alternating between those biceps and triceps. We have then some core with some triceps, and then we have that fun finisher, 100 bicep curls. I hope you really enjoy it, let's go!