- Hi everyone, and welcome. This is day 22 in EPIC Endgame. And today we're hitting the upper body. We're going to be using a series of super sets along with a staple to hit the shoulders, back, chest and the arms will be working throughout. A majority of the super sets are going to be 50 seconds of work, 50 seconds of work, 20 second rest. However, the actual first super sets involving chest press are going to be 45, 45 with 30 second rest. I think we should need that 30 second rest. All you'll need for today's workout are some dumbbells and your mat. The dumbbells I'm using, for your reference, are 17 and a half kg each. I will then use 8 kg each more towards the end of the workout. And the staple today is a super set involving the chest, which also incorporates of course, the triceps and the back, the lats particularly. So as you can see here, we have our diamond press, one dumbbell I'm using the heavier one. However, you can also use two dumbbells, maybe lighter and actively squeeze them together. We do that for 50 seconds. We then move straight into our pullovers, really trying to extend behind the head, trying to keep a slight bend in the elbows at all times. Inhale as you bring behind and a big exhale to bring it back up. So we're going to start with chest, then we move on to back, and then we're onto shoulders. And the finisher today, we're going to be lying down doing some abs. As you can see here, this is 100 reps of our reverse crunch and two toe taps. So really bringing the hips up, crunch, and then into our toe taps. So of course you can break this up, you can do 25 reps, four sets, pausing in between. I'm going to see just how I go. I may do 50 reps and then pause quite often after that, but just make sure after you do the reverse crunch and you're bringing those feet towards the floor, that you're actually pressing your lower back right into that mat. There's just something I would like to draw your attention to, as you can see here, this is a staple row, so we're controlling the way up and the way down. However, there is a variation that will appear as well, and it is our momentum rows where basically we're using a little bit of momentum to get that dumbbell up. We're still controlling the way down, really using that momentum to get that dumbbell up, control to lower and back up. This is a solid upper body work out, the chest, back, shoulders, and the arms are going to be working very hard. And then we finish with some abs, let's go.