- Hi, everyone, and welcome. Day seven in the Epic III Program, and today it's lower body. We're gonna be using complexes. The timer is going to be on three minutes of work, 30-second rest. So, yes, there's gonna be two exercises per complex. Simply do the first exercise for the reps, then the next exercise for the reps, and repeat for the duration of the three minutes. For today's workout, you will need: a pair of dumbbells and your mat; a chair for those Bulgarian lunges, however, if you do prefer, you can perform normal lunges; and also a yoga block or a thick book, something to elevate the heels for those squats and also the foot for front elevated lunges. Again, you can perform normal lunges and regular squats with the heels on the floor if you prefer. The dumbbells I'm using, for your reference, are 12 1/2 kg each. Throughout this workout, you will have the opportunity to go from holding the dumbbells in this position to up high and then also one dumbbell and body weight only. So it is giving your grip a little bit of a break through this workout, especially because during this week, week two, there is quite a lot of upper body. So today we're gonna be hitting those quads, hamstrings, the glutes, of course, and the calves. Be sure to work through this workout at your own pace. Everybody is different. We all have different levels of experience, also access to different weights in dumbbells, and range of movement and motion, and also balance experience. So some of these exercises today, for example, the Bulgarian lunges and also squats involving our calf raises, that is balance. So please go your own pace. We have a little finisher involving the squat rocks. I just wanna show you and highlight the squat rocks. What you're actually doing is think about coming onto your heels, you're lifting your toes, then the opposite. You're actually going onto your toes, lifting your heels as high as possible, whilst maintaining a low squat position. Keep the chest open. Please don't round that back. Keep the hips pushed back. And I think that's it. Every muscle in the lower body is gonna be worked right now. Let's go.