- Hi everyone, and to welcome day four in EPIC Endgame. and today, it's full body. We're gonna be doing circuits, the timer's going to be on one minute per exercise, then we have 20 second rest before we move on to the next exercise. There are nine exercises within the circuit, and we perform the circuit for three runs, that's it, we then have the finisher. Within the circuit, it's mostly going to be compound movements, we're really gonna slow it down, so you may do 10, 12, even 14 or 15 reps per one minute. Take it nice and slow and focus on the eccentric, so focus on slowing down the lowering portion. When it comes to the push press, obviously, you're using the assistance from lower body to get the dumbbells up, then we're really gonna bring it down nice and slow before we explode up again. With the lunges, think about coming down in a straight line, nice and slow on the way down, knee as deep as comfortable. With the renegade rows, as you can see here, the same applies, you're trying to set down the dumbbell nice and easy, you're not trying to bang it on the floor, drop it on the floor, lift with control, lower with control. The renegade row is a full body movement in my opinion, I really engage my core, my quads, my glutes, everything is braced and tight. However, I'm still breathing and staying as relaxed as possible. When it comes to the diamond press, here, we're squeezing the dumbbells together and we're actually gonna actively squeeze them together the entire time to recruit more of those chest muscles, but also the triceps will be working overtime as well. When it comes to the Bulgarian lunges as you can see here, it is completely up to you as to whether you use weights or not. These are challenging enough body weight only, so by all means, you can drop the dumbbell and perform body weight, if you are, I would stress the still try to go at roughly the same pace that I am going up, nice and slow, relaxing into it, you should get a little bit deeper as you ease into this workout. The fun finisher today is 100 reps of sumo squats. This is gonna be full range, you're gonna keep your shoulders back, chest open, nice and smooth, so we're really gonna prevent any jerking, we're not gonna just gonna drop down to the bottom and stand lock the legs on it, we're gonna keep it nice and soft, but full range. You know it's a hundred reps, we're not gonna fly through it, I am today gonna try and do it by 50 reps, then take a break, and then maybe down to literally 10 or 15 or 20 reps at a time just to complete the last 100. Certainly, don't rush in order to get those hundred done, take your time, it may only take two or three minutes. So you can use that certainly for your reference, when it comes to everything in the circuit, I'll be using the 15 kgs. However, when it comes to just the shoulder exercises, those two within the circuit, I'll be using those lighter weights, which are nine kg. Apart from dumbbells, you will need, yes, that chair for those Bulgarian lunges and a mat. I'm excited to get started, I'm really gonna focus, you're gonna probably see the focus on my face today. I'm gonna ensure I breathe through it this whole workout, try and stay as relaxed as possible, and focusing on my technique. I know that I'll finish with a big smile on my face, happy that it's done. Full body circuits, let's go.