- Hi everyone, and welcome day 36 in the Epic III Program. And today, we are hitting the chest and the triceps. Of course, the front delts will be involved, too, as well as our core. The timer is going to be on for the super sets, 45 seconds of work, 45 seconds of work. We then have 30-second rest. For this workout, you will need your mat and a pair of dumbbells. The dumbbells I'm using primarily for the chest exercises, are 17 and a half kg. However, when we reach the triceps, I will then reduce my weight to nine kg each. Some of the exercises today are also body weight only. Each tricep will be performed for either three sets or two. It will all be on screen so you can simply follow along. Just a few little points I would like to run over before we begin. We have a few slow push-ups in today's workout. So the push-ups is going to be 45 seconds for one push-up. You can do this different ways. You can maybe work your way down slowly lower to about 22 seconds, so you're then halfway, and then slowly come back up. Or if you prefer, you come down that little bit faster, and then come up that little bit slower. You can play about with your tempo. Make sure you're breathing and ensure you're squeezing your quads and glutes. Keep your core nice and tight. Think about keeping your neck in line with your spine throughout. When it comes to the tricep push-ups, try to keep those elbows in as much as possible. These one-rep push-ups for 45 seconds will be very challenging. So even if you're able to do five seconds lower, and then five seconds rise, come to your knees, take a moment and try again. Please use the body weight exercises today as practise. We get a lot of time in our high intensity HIIT training to do loads of reps and rep them out. Today, we're going to focus on our alignment. Keep the legs nice and tight, neck in line with the spine. gaze is straight down. Try not to bring your gaze towards your feet, think about bringing them straight down. Another exercise I want to run over is our cobra push-ups. Try to relax the neck and pretty much the entire body. You're going to keep your shoulders down and relaxed. Bring the hands towards the chest, whether it's going to be diamond or normal cobra. Elbows in if it's the cobra standard push-up, so to try to keep those elbows in. With the diamond, the elbows will flair out that little bit, but still try and keep them in. Smooth movement on the top and the lower. Lower nice and gently. When you do push-up, try to extend and really lock out those elbows as much as you can, but please don't jerk. Keep it still that nice smooth movement. And one more exercise are staggered push-ups. So with these, you're going to be doing one side for 45 seconds, and then the opposite. The aim here, if you're for example, in this position, and this hand is behind, I'm actually trying to primarily push through this arm. This arm is just for balance and support. This is the working arm. Think about the hand that's closest to your hips, is going to be working. You're going to try and keep that elbow in, push-up and back down. Then we swap to the opposite side. As always, we have a quick little finisher. It's only one super set to burnout those triceps. Chest and tricep super sets, this is going to be super hard. Let's go!