- Hi everyone and welcome, Day 36 in the EPIC Endgame, and today it is shoulders. We're gonna be doing circuits, each exercise one minute duration. We then have 30 second rest between each exercise. The circuit will be performed a total of three times. Within each circuit, eight exercises. All you'll need for today's workout are some dumbbells. The dumbbells I'm using are 9kg each. I will also be using 4kg each. There are just a few little exercises. I just want to run through really quickly. So as you can see here, this is the 20 runs of our frontal raises. We have 20 seconds of our bottom position, so we're just gonna raise to approximately shoulder height. Keep the knees nice and soft, and your core really tight, chest open. So half the height, then the next part, the next 20 seconds, you're gonna bring it up, and you're going to really have to brace that core. Control, bring it down to about shoulder height, and back up. Make sure here that you're not actually driving them hips forward, and you're leaning back. Keep the core nice and tight, the knees soft slightly. Okay, so you're gonna bring it down, really hold that, and back up. Then the last 20 seconds is our full range. However, with this one, still remember to always control the negative. So control that lowering when you bring it up, control it on the way down. You'll really feel your core in this one. With the half rep shoulder press, basically you're going to be doing half sort of reps, nice and controlled, and every 10 seconds, you're gonna go into a full range shoulder press. And the last exercises in the circuit are upright rows. With this one, it is really important that you slow it down and really focus on the range of movement, that you're not actually going too far. So when you're here, you're basically going to draw it up, keeping the chest open and shoulders back. You're gonna bring up no more than really chest height maximum. To be honest, if you're more comfortable here, by all means do that, and can control the lowering. So please make sure that you're not actually rounding your back. Keep that chest nice and open, stand tall, and also then again, be aware of the height that you're actually bringing this to. Definitely do not let your hands go higher than your elbows. So lead with the elbows, try and keep the shoulders relaxed, chest open, and slowly lower. And the finisher today, 100 reps of our partial lateral raises. Try to prevent any reps involving just flopping the dumbbells about. At the end of the day, you could do that for quite a long time. You're gonna open your chest keep your shoulders back and down. Really exaggerate that chest. You're gonna bring the elbows out really thinking about that height of the elbows. Now we're not focusing on obviously coming full range, but we're still trying to do those sort of half reps and controlling it, so we're not just bringing up flap, flap. No, we're gonna control it the whole time. There's quite a lot of time under tension here for those laterals. So yes, the circuit is packed with so many of our favourite shoulder exercises. It will progressively get that much more challenging, and our is to keep form. Keep it really good, stop when you need to, try to think of the last rep being as good as the first rep. Take a pause or completely set the dumbbells down when you need to. Go at your own piece. In fact, when I do have to stop and sometimes just set those dumbbells completely down, I look at it as positive. This is time-based training rather than reps, so it is really just all about focusing on how good you can do it. At the end of the day, we could all just rep out a few more reps, but the reps mightn't be as good quality. There is no problem stopping when you need to, in order that your next few reps will be perfect. This is gonna be a sizzler of a shoulder circuit. Let's go.