- Hi everyone, and welcome day 23, in the Epic III Program, and today we have some tempo work for those glutes and hamstrings. The timer is going to be on for the majority of the workout, 45 seconds of work per exercise, 15 second rest. However, there is a staple in today's workout, the staple only appears for three sets. As you can see here, it is a single leg, bodyweight only, hip thrust. So for the 45 seconds, we're going to do those hip thrusts, full range, really tuck in at the top, squeeze the glutes. For this glute and hamstring session you will need, a pair of dumbbells, a chair, a comfortable chair, or a bench for those hip thrusts, of course you can't perform bridges on the mat. And also a glute band, ideally a fabric one, make sure no matter what the resistance is, that you're pushing against it. Really try to get the most out of each and every rep. Today, in regards to dumbbell, I'm actually going to use just one dumbbell throughout, and it will be a 25kg dumbbell. I can use that also for my Romanian deadlifts. However, if you have a range of dumbbells, keep those handy, you can also use a heavier kettlebell, or a barbell of course, for the hip thrusts. So we'll be working through a range of exercises to target, of course, those glutes and hamstrings, there will be tempo work, so it may be slow on the acentric, slow release on the way down, or it could be a pause and hold at the bottom, slow on the way up, or it could be half reps at a slightly faster pace. Make sure to control the dumbbells at all times, and full extension, full squeeze of those glutes at the top. And of course, as always when you're wearing the band, knees out the entire time, push against it. These are the types of workouts, it's really up to you to make it that little bit more challenging. Give it your all. And also bear in mind, it's only 45 seconds, you do get a rest, 15 seconds. Even though the staple is a bodyweight only exercise, I'm expecting that one to be pretty tough, let's go.