- Hi everyone and welcome. Day 16 in the EPIC Endgame and today it's shoulders. The timer is going to be on for one minute per exercise, 30 second rest. All you'll need for today's workout are some dumbbells. The dumbbells I'm using, for your reference, are eight kg each. I will then drop to four kg each. There is a staple in today's workout. It is this, our alternating shoulder press and for this exercise, I will be using the eight kgs. Aside from the staple, when it appears, that will be performed just for one set. Every other exercise will be performed for two rounds. At the beginning of this workout there is quite a lot of pressing, so this is why I went for that little bit lighter weight, but as you work through this workout, we'll go into our laterals, frontals and our rear delts and the finisher today, a combination of a core exercise whilst also demanding a little bit more on those shoulders. As you can see here, 50 reps of plank to dolphin pose, nice and controlled. When you go into that plank, make sure you're trying to get those hips in line. A nice long plank. We then go to 50 reps of our plank saw. Here you really do need to keep the legs nice and straight, so tension in the quads. Brace your core. Simply come into a slight forward lean and back into your plank. I'm expecting the finisher to be pretty tough, particularly as we have just worked our shoulders. So of course, split it up. You may wanna do 25 reps, 25 reps. Then on the next exercise, 25 and 25. The main thing is that you don't rush. You perform quality reps and simply come to your knees when you need to. I just want to take a wee moment to say, first of all, well done everyone. This is the start of Week Four. I really do hope you's have had a lot of fun so far with all these wee challenges and pushing through and finishing it with a big smile. As you probably know by now, this is all my real training. I am with you every step of the way. There isn't one workout that I don't find challenging. I actually really enjoy the challenge, embrace the challenge and love those moments when I actually just get over that wee hurdle and that makes finishing the workout even more rewarding. I'm sure often the points that you're finding most challenging, I probably am as well, but we're here at Week Four. I hope you's have a really good workout today. This is shoulders. It's gonna be tough. Let's go.