- Hi everyone, and welcome day 31 in the Epic Endgame. And today, it's leg day. The timer's going to be on for 40 seconds of work, a 15 second rest. But today, we're doing circuits, and in order to fit what I just wanted in, that is the timer. We're gonna be doing 13 exercises, 3 rounds. All you'll need for today's work are some dumbbells. The dumbbells I'm using for you reference, primarily throughout the whole workout, are 15 kg each. However, where there is an actual flow complex, I will be using 9 kg each. So basically, we're gonna kick it off, as you can see here, with a flow complex. This is only one rep per exercise. Our high squat into rear lung, opposite side our RDL. Following that, we then move into main compound movements. So then we're gonna go into high squats for 40 seconds, our static lung, static lung, Romanian deadlifts, and then we do the same type of thing again, however, it's going to be staggered, all unilateral. We're gonna do one side, our flow, which is going to be our RDL into high squat rear lunge. Then, the next set is gonna be the opposite side. We then go into staggered squats, each side, rear step lunges, each side, and then our staggered RDLs. But please don't worry, it will all be on-screen throughout. We simply do one circuit, we do it again and again. So yes, again, just for your reference, I will be using the heavier weights, pretty much for the whole workout, apart from those mini complexes. And the finisher, we're gonna finish off those legs. We're gonna be doing 100 reps of body weight, squat to rear lung. We're gonna basically do 25 on one side and then we switch 25 on the opposite side, again and again, amounting to 100 reps. Every time you do a squat, think of that as one rep. It is important when you're doing this finisher, don't rush it. Make sure your lunges are still pretty awesome. And your squats, you're looking straight ahead and leaning, bringing your torso slightly back as you go into that rear lung. With all these exercises today, please don't rush. Take your time. Try to make that flow as flowing as possible. Nice smooth transitions. So, yeah, it is leg day, the quads, hamstrings, glutes, and the calfs are also gonna be involved. Time is going to fly by in this work. I hope you really enjoy it. Let's go!