- Hi, everyone, and welcome. Day 49 in the EPIC Endgame, and today it is full body. All you'll need for today's workout is your mat, a pair of dumbbells, and a yoga block, or that thick book that you've been using the entire of this Epic Endgame. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference throughout are 10 kg each. The timer is going to be on for one minute of work, 30 seconds of work, 30 second rest. So it is super sets. The first exercise is going to be full one minute. The second exercise will be complimentary, and it will be 30 seconds. We then rest. Each super set will be performed for one set only. However, if it is on one side, we then do the opposite side on the next set. There is a good bit of variety in today's workout. This is a full body, however, we are gonna focus a little bit more on towards those hamstrings and the back, so the posterior chain. As you know, this week, we've already done quite a bit on the chest, triceps and some shoulders. And the finisher today, 100 pullovers. I'll be using the 10 kg dumbbell. Due to the fact that this is a hundred reps of pullovers, 10 kg is just perfect for me. I know that so many of you have actually enjoyed the 100 reps as the finisher, and so have I. It's actually brought back a lot of memories because over the years, when I've maybe spent my day planning workouts for all those lovely people that I used to train one-on-one, when it came to just training myself, sometimes I would literally just do 100 reps of everything. So some days it may be 100 lunges each side. That may be with heavier weights, so I may do 10 lunges, opposite side 10, so that would essentially be 10 sets of 10. Or other days, I would try and do 100 on one side on one go with lighter weights and then switch. And the same would apply then if I was doing my chest, for example. I made you 100 pushups, or I may do 10 sets of 10 of my dumbbell chest press. I personally have always enjoyed mixing body weight and dumbbell training, and also those high reps with those low reps, lighter weight, heavier weight. And I hope this is shown through these entire Epic programmes. I'll put tips on the screen throughout this entire workout. This is a full body workout. We're gonna be hitting pretty much every single muscle in the body today. Day 49, be proud. We're gonna smash it. Let's go.