- Hi everyone and welcome. Day 32 in the EPIC III Program. And today we have shoulders and arms using super sets. The timer is going to be on 30 seconds of work, straight into 30 seconds of work. We then have 20 second rest, so it will be 30 and 30, it will be the super set. Each super set will be performed for three sets. However, there is going to be a staple in today's workout. I think it appears four times. It is this, our partial shoulder press, nice and smooth. Then into full range shoulder press, again, nice and smooth. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are nine kg each. However, I will drop to six kg each, for example, the laterals, the frontals, and also the Zottman curls, just because it's quite a lot on the wrist, particularly when you're trying to slow down that lowering portion. You'll also need a chair for some dips and in the finisher we have just one 30 second worth of decline push-ups and also keep your mat handy. We'll be doing our beloved skull crushers and also tricep press. So we'll be working on the shoulders first, moving then on to our triceps. Then finishing with our biceps. The finisher is three variations of pushups. We've got our decline pushups into tricep pushups and finishing with the cobra push-ups, just to make sure our triceps are fully finished. Remember as always go at your own pace. I try to not put myself under pressure to keep going. I do pause as in when I feel like I'm just not gonna be able to get the height for example, during the lateral raises, I will simply pause at the bottom, reset and try to make sure that I'm getting my elbows up, not my elbows above my hands, but trying to get level with the shoulders. Try to do quality reps over quantity, go at your own pace. You may actually only do six or eight reps per 30 seconds. That's perfect. And if you have a selection of weights, definitely keep those handy, you can alternate as you go. You may feel by the time we reach the first tricep exercise, the triceps have already been working with all of those overhead presses. You are using those triceps when you're extending the arm. And as always with the dips, ease into it, please don't just drop and any jerking movements. Lower to a comfortable level, and then push nice and slow, no jerking, smooth movements at all times. Bring the feet in that little bit closer to the chair so your full foot is flat on the floor if you need a little bit more support. I'm ready to work hard, focus and bring the heat to my upper body. Let's go!