- Hi everyone, and welcome, Day 16 in the Epic III Program. And today we're hitting the shoulders. The timer is going to be on 50 seconds of work, 10 second rest. Quite a lot of work is going to be accomplished in this session. However, it is unilateral. So basically you'll do one side for 50 seconds, rest for 10, other side. Again, we repeat that. So we'll do the right side, for example, then onto the left, right side again, and then left. So it's two sets per side. It does work out that you're getting just over a minute rest per side. All you'll need for today's workout are a pair of dumbbells. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference at the beginning of the workout are 9 kg. I then drop to 6 kg each. You might've noticed from the format of these workouts, the different tempos, time, rest, et cetera. Very rarely do I go actually very, very heavy. I really don't feel the need to go super heavy all the time. For example, seated shoulder press. I may pick 15 and 15. But for standing shoulder press, and with limited rest, generally I would go maybe 9 kg or 12 kg. It just depends on the actual workout. Your body doesn't know what weight you're lifting, it just knows how hard it's working. So with any exercise and shoulders in particular, safety is number one. Please make sure you're not jolting and you're controlling the movement. With the rear delt flies, make sure your chest is open and your back is flat. It's quite easy to sometimes forget about your positioning of your back. Make sure your hips are pushed back as well. And you're going to raise up and you're going to control the lowering portion. Keep a slight bend in your arm at all times. Rise up. Slow back down, control. Keep the shoulder blades together and push the chest tight. You may need to stop at several points just to reset. Maybe relax your shoulders, stick your chest out a little bit more. Keep your shoulders nice and down. So we've got nine exercises, four sets each, two on each side and then a fun finisher. Let's go.