- Hi everyone, and welcome. This is it. Day 50 of the EPIC Endgame. I mean, what more can I say apart from huge well done and congratulations? We're gonna smash this workout and you're gonna be feeling so proud when we finish. So the Endgame has basically been a follow on from all of the previous EPIC programmes. And the EPIC programme was actually created by yous for yous. It was at a time when so many of yous plus me were looking for some sort of structure, something to keep us going through that challenging about year and a half. And basically that is what the EPIC programmes have always been about. Trying to make you realise just how epic you are and how fortunate we are to be able to actually move our bodies in so many ways. It has been challenging physically and mentally but exceptionally rewarding, I hope. As you well know the feeling that you actually gain following a really tough, challenging workout. I mean, if you could just bottle that feeling up and bring it with you and take it anytime you need it, it'll be pretty awesome. All of the EPIC programmes, including EPIC eight will all of course always be available on YouTube. So you can certainly work through those at your own piece if you wish. And if you have actually been joining me for all of these EPICs, I actually expect, for example EPIC one day seven, if you were to actually revisit that, you'd probably find it less challenging if you use the same weights. Certainly less mentally challenging. I can't thank you enough for joining me. It really has kept me motivated. It's kept me moving. It's kept me thinking and working hard. So yeah, I just wanna say thank you all for support me and joining me in my home. I know so many of you have been training in your home for majority of these workouts. However, some of you have been able to visit the gym and obviously incorporate these workouts into your gym training as well. Not only have we been training hard but hopefully we've all been learning stuff. Learning obviously about some exercises maybe we haven't thought of but also learning some things about ourselves just how mentally strong we can be. And when we final message just before we actually get into the workout. So I know that I am not the fastest person in the world. I'm not the strongest. I don't have the biggest shoulders, etc. etc. But the point I'm trying to make it is, it is very unfortunate to be able to be in a position to appreciate just where you are. Enjoy the journey continually trying to be the best version of yourself. It is you versus you. And to be honest, I think that's what really pushes me when I'm struggling in these workouts. I don't compare myself to what maybe other people might do. And that's one thing I would suggest to always try and remember. That you're not always going to be the best. You're not gonna be perfect. Some days, that simple dumbbell will feel a lot heavier. Other days, it will feel lighter. Somebody may be more flexible than you but then you may be more stronger. You may be better at power but then somebody else may be better at endurance. And these programmes have encompassed all of those sort of training methods. So yeah, you'll probably know that you have your certain exercises that you prefer and certain ones that when they pop up, you do like them so much. However, when you do of course, do them, you still feel pretty awesome for finishing it. I personally love Bulgarian lunges. I know others do, but I also know some people don't. Lots of people love to plank. Lots of people don't like to plank. And if there's one final thing I would like to say, it is, we're all individual and very special in our own ways. Forget trying to fit in when you can stand out. With that in mind, we're gonna get stuck into this workout. This is a full body workout combining some strength, some endurance, and a little bit of high intensity. The timer's going to be on 45 seconds of work, 45 seconds of work, 30 seconds rest. Super sets. Pretty much every single super set is going to be different. All you'll need for today's workout are a pair of dumbbells and ideally, a heavier weight. I'm gonna be using one dumbbell, which is 25 kg. And then also two dumbbells, which are nine kg each. You will actually only need the heavier one dumbbell for one type of exercise. And that is our sumo deadlifts squat where you're gonna tilt forward slightly at the hips. This will appear five times in total. It's the same movement. That is the only bit repetition in today's workout. You will do that sumo squat deadlift for 45 seconds five times through the workout. However, what it is going to be super setted with will vary. Aside from those five sets of the sumo squat deadlifts, everything is going to be no repeat. It is a mixture of dumbbells and body weight only. If there is any jumping I will provide low impact alternatives. And here we go, the finisher. It's going to be 100 chest to floor burpees. You're gonna be very fatigued by the time you even reach this point. But you know what? We can do this. Even if it stopping at 15 reps every 15 or every 10, just work through it, press pause on the video or try to keep up with me. Or you may even go faster than me. Make this your own workout as you know. This is gonna be tough. There's no denying it, but we can do it. Your legs will be obviously tired and your arms fatigued from all the previous exercises. Try and go a steady pace. And when you are actually bringing yourself down to the floor, try not to just slam yourself down. Lower with the sort of sense of control. And we are gonna finish feeling very epic. Even though this is the last EPIC workout, I hope that you take a little bit of EPIC with you every single day in your life. I have been so fortunate to work alongside you, guys for the last year and a half or so. So I just wanna say a huge, huge, thank you. Are you ready? Let's go.