- Hi everyone. And welcome day 44 in the EPIC Endgame. And today it is full body. All you'll need for today's workout is your mat and some dumbbells. The dumbbells I'm using throughout, for your reference, are 10 kg each. We're gonna work through two circuits today. Each circuit will be performed for three rounds and the timer for majority of the workout is going to be 40 seconds of work with 22-second rest. The first circuit involves five exercises and we repeat that for three rounds. One of the exercises within the circuit is actually our flow. So we're gonna be doing a Romanian deadlift into your squat, to press, to row, back to the Romanian deadlift. The other four exercises within the circuit will actually be just those exercises. So we will have a Romanian deadlift our high squats, our presses, and our rows. Once we do that circuit three times we then move to the next circuit. And the second circuit is going to be based upon the maker. As you can see here, we do our pushup on the dumbbells, alternating renegade row. We then hop forward or step forward, look forward, make sure our heels are planted well into the floor. We do a curl and then we stand to press and that will be within the second circuit. So there's six exercises within the second circuit and the maker is going to be one of them. And the other five exercises involve variations of that maker. So we'll be doing our deep squats. We'll also be doing renegade rows, pushups on the dumbbell, plank to deadlift and our squat to press. Once you repeat the first circuit for three rounds, second set for three rounds, we then have one down sort of complex. It is only two minutes long. However, it is definitely gonna involve quite a lot of coordination. We're gonna combine that first flow with the maker. So as you can see here, we're gonna do for example, our maker, one full set of that. We then go into that flow where we do our Romanian deadlift into squat, to press, to row, back then into the maker. And that is for the two minutes. And the finisher we're gonna lie down and relax. Not quite, but we're gonna definitely hit those abdominals. As you can see here, we're gonna be doing 25 little hip lifts to leg lure. Then we're into our toe reaches, 25 reps, each exercise. And we repeat that for two sets. This is strength, coordination, endurance. At times your heart rate will definitely be up. I hope you really enjoy it. It's full body. Let's go.