- Hi everyone, and welcome day 10 in EPIC Endgame, and today, we have some high tensity work. The timer is going to be on 20 seconds of work, 10 second rest throughout. All you need for this workout is your body well warmed up, a bottle of water and a towel handy and also your mat. Keep your mat handy as you will be using it throughout the workout. Bear in mind, there's only ten second rest, so of course, coordination and the ability to adapt into the next exercise definitely comes into play today. It's only 20 seconds of work, so push through and focus with each rep. Even when you're performing lunges, try to make sure you're going to the proper depth. Even though we're going as fast as possible, we're still trying to maintain good form, good depth, and range of movement. There's a lot of unilateral work in today's workout, so one side, then the opposite, back to the start, and then the opposite. So pretty much all the exercises will be performed for four sets, that's only 20 seconds, so for example, we may do something on the left side, 20 seconds, 10 second rest, opposite side, the right, back to the left, and then finish with the right. There's some movements involving a little bit of jumping, so I'll provide some low impact alternatives. The finisher today, 100 reps of hands only to the floor sprawls. The first 50 are going to be alternating hand, so tread carefully with that one to the hand on and pushed back into that plank position. Go at your own pace with these, so we're gonna be doing 50 in total, and then we switch to both hands on the floor, so you may be able to go a little bit faster when we reach those. So just to recap, it's 50 of alternating hands, so you'll end up doing 25 on one side, 25 on the opposite, then we make it into doubles. And just something to bear in mind when you're actually doing any of those positions where you're actually coming back into your plank, try to think about the fact that you still are going into an operate plank, so you're trying to keep those hips in line, a nice long body, bring your feet back far enough that you can actually bring those hips in line. Some of exercise, you'll notice you can go a lot faster, others are a little bit more technical and you slow down. I'm pretty certain this workout is gonna go pretty quickly, we're gonna be moving in a whole range of different directions. High intensity, let's go.