- Hi everyone and welcome Day Six in Epic Endgame and today, chest and triceps. This is gonna be a wee sizzler. The timer's going to be on one minute of work, 30 second rest. You should need that 30 second rest in order to complete the next set. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are 15 KG each. I will also be using nine KG each. Aside from that, all you'll need is your mat. There's a staple in today's workout as you can see here, our overhead tricep extension. This appears five times in total. When you're performing this exercise, please ensure it's smooth throughout, at the bottom and at the top. Slowly lower, take time to lengthen those triceps, then squeeze, contract, lift and also at the top, you can straighten the arms, but just no harsh locking out. Try to keep it nice and smooth throughout. Keep the core braced and knees soft. I will, of course, put some tips and things to think about for the next exercise during the rest period. But one thing I would say about this workout, definitely try to relax. Focus on the actual movement, the range of movement, focus on what you're doing and of course, keeping it smooth movements throughout. There are just a few pushups in today's workout and any variations that you maybe are yet to master, simply perform normal pushups. Of course you will definitely progress by practising it, so use this time to practise those push-ups if you haven't quite mastered that technique. And of course, the finisher, 100 reps of our tricep press. Elbows are gonna be in. You're gonna bring the elbows down and then you're gonna extend, straightening the arms at the top, however, please no harsh locking out because at the end of the day, that's a hundred reps. Every time you don't want any harsh locking with every rep. As always, when it comes to the finisher, you can either join me, go at my own pace and finish when I finish, so even if you finish 60 reps, 40 reps it is irrelevant so long as you're pushing it. Or of course you can continue even if it takes a little bit longer while I'm stretching and cooling down, you can take that little bit extra time to finish your hundred reps. It's completely up to you, so long as you're performing them with good technique. So this is chest and triceps, however, the front delts are definitely gonna be involved as well and the core. Let's go.