- Hi, everyone, and welcome to day 46 in the EPIC Endgame,. It is week 10. We're kicking it off with some shoulders, primarily, with a little bit of chest and triceps. The timer's going to be on one minute of work with 20 second rest. Each exercise will be performed for two sets. However, there is a staple in today's workout, as you can see here. Our lateral raise, then our frontal raise, and that is for the one minute. All you'll need for today's workout are some dumbbells and your mat. The dumbbells I'm using, for your reference, are nine KG each, primarily, at the beginning. And then I'll move to my four KG each. The staple, I will be using the four KG each dumbbells as well for that staple. If you've been joining me for a while, you will notice that sometimes I do play about with my weights, even if it is the same exercise. So, sometimes, with, for example, lateral raises, I will use eight or nine KGs, other times six KGs, other times four KGs. And there is no specific reason as to why I change up my weights, but it's really just the variety, but all it does feel that little bit different. When I have those lighter weights, I'm able to keep my arm that little bit straighter. By no means am I actually locking out the arm straight, but I'm able to just maintain a slightly longer range away from the body. But, no matter what weight you're using, try to keep your shoulders down and relaxed. If you are using slightly heavier dumbbells, you may need to simply increase the bend at the elbow, but, of course, as always, control the lowering portion. So, in this workout, we'll be primarily targeting the shoulders, also tricep specific, but triceps are involved in pretty much most of the shoulder exercises as well. And the finisher today, it's on the abs. We're gonna be lying down, and we're gonna be doing a hundred reps split up 25, 25, 25 and 25. As you can see here, I'm reaching my hands through to gently touch my hands, and then extend. The next 25 will simply be extending the legs away from the body. The next 25 will be hands behind. However, this will be straight-legged to lower. And then the last 25 is just your leg lowers. With the likes of leg lowers, it is really important to stop and pause when you feel that your lower back is not maintaining close contact with the mat. Really press that lower back into the mat. When you feel like it's slightly rising off the mat as your legs are lowering, stop and change up the exercise. Either bend at the knees, or perform alternating legs, or simply take a few seconds rest, which is what I would normally do. And I think that's it. This is full of some of my favourite shoulder exercises. Are you ready? Let's go.