- Hi, everyone, and welcome. So today, we have a full body workout. All you'll need for today's work out is a pair of dumbbells and your mat. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are 17 1/2 KG, 17 1/2 KG However, I will also have one 9 KG handy, and that will be for my dumbbell burpees. And also, some of my rear-delt work. The timer is going to be on 45 seconds of work, 15-second rest. This workout will be a majority of compound movements. And each compound movement will be performed on one side for 45, the opposite, 45. And again and again. So that's two times each side. There's also going to be a staple in today's workout, and it is the Staggered Romanian Deadlift as you can see here. Really try to feel the stretch equal on both sides. Really exaggerate the chest. Keep the shoulders back and down. Push the hips back and up, and try to feel the stretch in the hamstring. The rear leg is just for stability just to keep you steady, but you're really trying to focus on that front hamstring. Obviously, perform the same number of reps if you can, one side to the other. Even if it means the time you come to the opposite side and you finish early, that's fine. You can take an extra rest. At the start, I'll probably take it that little bit slower. So I may do eight or 10 reps per side. But as we go through the workout, I may increase the reps to maybe 14 or 15 reps per side, just depending on how I feel. And of course by that point, I will be more loosened up. And the staple being the Staggered Romanian Deadlifts will be performed two round each side, every time it appears. So we handling our entire lower body, our back, chest and shoulders. But towards the end, we're doing full-body movements, such as our dumbbell burpees, our unilateral makers and our squat to press. Remember to make this your own workout. Depending on the width that you've got, you may, of course, do more reps than me. You may do less. And also, you can change the actual number of reps as you go along. For example, our lunges, where you're holding both dumbbells, the first set each side, you may decide to take it that little bit slower and really focus on the knee coming down. And that could be 10 or 12 reps. The second time you do that, you could do a few more extra reps. It's completely up to you. Please ensure you spend at least five minutes warming up. This is a full body workout. I think just really enjoy the in here poppin' up throughout. It's gonna get sweaty towards the end. Let's go.