- Hi everyone and welcome Day 12 in the Epic 3 Program. And today, it is upper body. It's complexes, three minutes per complex, 30 second rest. All you'll need for today's workout is a pair of dumbbells and your mat. The dumbbells I'm using for your reference are 15kg each. That is for the chest press and my rows. I will then drop to 6kg each for everything else. We're kicking it off with those rows, chest press, pushups and then we're moving into more of the isolation, so the triceps, biceps and the shoulders. We will be doing a lot of lateral sort of movements within the shoulders, some of your delts, and we have a fun little finisher. So I'll be starting with those heavier weights. Once I then reduce my weight to the lighter weights, which are the 6kgs, I will continue with the 6kgs for the rest of the duration of this workout. However, once I do drop to the 6kgs, I'm not expecting it to be any easier. In fact, it probably will be the harder portion of the workout. So yes, we're getting to drop the weight, but it is going to be a little bit more challenging. These three-minute complexes are not meant to be performed without stopping. Basically, you'll either be doing some exercises for 10, 12, 15, or 20 reps. It is up to you to just perform them at a pace that suits your experience and also the weight that you're using. Pace yourself. Pause, anytime you need to, when you feel like your form is just not going to be 100% on the next rep. Some of these complexes are definitely gonna be that little bit more challenging than others, but as long as you remain calm, breathe, pause for a moment and re-go, you'll love this workout. The finisher, 21s. So basically hammer curls. We're gonna do the bottom range, seven reps. Top half, seven. Full range, seven reps. And then, we go back to the beginning. Bottom, then top, then full range. You know I do love to incorporate the 21 sometimes, and yes, what better way to finish the 21s of hammer curls. This is slow, but as always, intense. Let's go.