 Welcome to the house of hypertrophy. Is there a best biceps exercise? A brand new study has added to the research comparing biceps exercises and it is the first study to make a specific comparison. Let's dive in. 15 untrained men were recruited. With one arm they trained Bayesian cable curls which have the shoulder extended. With their other arm they trained preacher curls which have the shoulder flex. flexed. Since both the long and short heads of the biceps cross the shoulder, placing the shoulder into extension lengthens the biceps while placing the shoulder into flexion shortens the biceps. This is the first study to compare shoulder extended versus shoulder flex curls where the resistance profiles were matched. What I mean is that the cables were set up so that both exercises were hardest at roughly 60 degrees of elbow flexion. Subjects train twice per week for 10 weeks, performing 3 to 5 sets of 8 to 12 reps to or very close the failure. Loads were adjusted across sets as well as training sessions to keep subjects training in the 8 to 12 rep range. Before and after the study, the thickness of the biceps was measured across these three regions, while the thickness of the brachialis was measured across these two regions. This was excellent, since some previous research just measures elbow flexor muscle thickness, which is a measurement that does not distinguish between the biceps and brachialis. So it's great these researchers separated out the biceps and brachialis. It was found that both exercises grew all regions, and there was no statistically significant differences in any region. This may lead some to conclude that the biceps do not benefit from being trained at longer lengths. But is this correct? I think there's a chance this is not. We can see the biceps, particularly at the 55% region, grew more with the baysian curls. Also, the lowest brachialis region slightly favors the preacher curls. You may be thinking, so what? It was not statistically significant. In simple terms, this tells us that the differences between conditions was not large enough to be confident in a genuine difference, and any difference could be due to error of some kind. This could be true, and it's a justifiable response. But here's the thing, type 2 errors do occur, where we say there's no difference when in fact there is a real difference. Small sample sizes can result in studies being underpowered to detect small to moderate real differences. Here's a quote from a paper titled, What Exercise and Sport Scientists Don't Understand. Not significant does not equal no difference. In many cases, it means not enough power. Now, if this was the only study we had to make inferences, I would agree we can't say much. But there's more data that makes me think bayesian curls could really grow the biceps a little more. The evidence that leads me to specly there could be genuine differences between cable bayesian curls and preacher curls comes from the literature comparing dumbbell incline curls to dumbbell preacher curls. Incline curls have our shoulder extended, while preacher curls, of course, have our shoulders flexed. Unlike what the researchers achieved with cables, the resistance profile of dumbbell incline and preacher curls are not identical. Incline curls tend to be most challenging at the mid to later point of the curl, while preacher curls tend to be most challenging at the start of the curl, so keep this in mind. There are four studies that have compared dumbbell incline to preacher curls. Two of them find no differences in growth between them. Actually, one of them has raw numbers that favors the preacher curls in all regions. However, the first paper, although conducted on trained individuals, lasted merely three weeks and employed blood flow restriction. The other which found results trending towards preacher curls at all regions had subjects trained unsupervised, and there was an unequal dropout between groups. It's also worth pointing out that both of these papers just measured elbow flexor growth, which does not distinguish between the biceps and brachialis. The other two paint a different picture. Specifically, this one is an abstract out of Japan. It had untrained men trained one arm with inclined curls and the other arm with preacher curls. What was awesome was they separated out the biceps, brachialis, and even looked at the brachioradialis, with all muscles examined across multiple regions. Overall biceps volume increases were greater with the incline curl, with the differences between the two exercises occurring specifically at 20-40% of the biceps length. Overall brachioradialis volume increases were fascinatingly greater with the preacher curl, with the differences between the exercises occurring at 60% of the brachioradialis length. Finally, overall brachialis volume increases were greater with the preacher curls, with the differences between the two exercises occurring at 70-80% of the brachialis length. This paper raises two interesting points. It observed the largest differences in biceps growth between the incline and preacher curls at 20-40% regions. We know the latest study did numerically see greater growth particularly at the most upper regions it assessed, which was just the 55% region of this distance. But it's possible even greater differences could have been observed if they examined even higher regions. The second point is this paper of course suggests preacher curls may better develop some areas of the brachialis and brachioradialis. The fourth and final paper had a fairly decent sample size of previously untrained women trained either incline or preacher curls. The researchers measured elbow flexor growth across three regions. Growth at the 50% region favored the incline curls. Although they did not distinguish between the biceps and brachialis, this region should contain predominantly if not all biceps. So presumably this reflects incline curls producing greater biceps growth. Growth at the 60% region was similar between both, while growth at the 70% region was interestingly greater with the preacher curls. This region does contain more brachialis, so although speculative, it's possible this reflects greater brachialis growth. Research on other muscles may serve as further evidence. In the same way that placing the shoulder into extension lengthens the biceps, placing the hips into extension lengthens the rectus femoris head of the quadriceps. So leaning back leg extensions lengthen the rectus femoris more than regular leg extensions, and we have evidence they grew the rectus femoris more than regular leg extensions, with larger differences around the more middle-ish to upper regions. A paper on competitive bodybuilders also observed greater rectus femoris activity during leaning back versus regular leg extensions, with larger differences at the middle and upper regions. Interestingly, the measure of activity used in this paper has been found to relate to muscle growth in a few papers. Note the other heads of the quads do not cross the hip so are trained at the same length between leaning back and regular leg extensions, and the aforementioned paper found similar vastus lateralis growth between them. Summarizing everything so far, the new study found differences, albeit non-statistically significant differences, and alone one study is not strong evidence. But when considering it along with the existing literature on incline versus preacher curls and other muscles, it seems that shoulder extended curls could be slightly better for the biceps than shoulder flex curls, particularly at the upper to middle-ish areas. Some may be wondering, both incline and basion curls are classed as shoulder extended curls. But are there any noteworthy differences between them? We know that dumbbell incline curls are hardest at the mid to later portions of the curl. But since basion curls are performed with a cable, you can adjust the setup to vary which point of the curl is hardest. Does this matter? Some may guess that setting up the cable to make the curl hardest at the start position could result in greater biceps growth, and who knows, may be even greater brachialis or brachioradialis growth. This is a possibility, although my interpretation of the existing evidence is there's not strong data to support this. For example, this paper compared free-weight preacher curls to cable preacher curls set up to be hardest at the mid to later portions of the curl. Biceps growth around the mid-region was similar between both, though we can't be certain how growth at other regions or muscles compared since they were not examined. Until we get more evidence, I generally think of these two as quite similar. So, should you throw out all other biceps isolation exercises and train entirely with shoulder extended curls for the biceps? Well, in the spirit of scientific accuracy, the evidence is not what I consider robust or extensive enough to say everyone should do that. I would like to see more data on trained individuals including comparisons with other exercises. But at the very least, I think it is a safe bet to include them somewhere in your program or have them in your rotation. If we want to be skeptical and assume future evidence fails to support shoulder extended curls having an advantage, presumably the worst-case scenario is you just build the same amount of muscle. And of course, the best-case scenario is the evidence strengthens, so you build muscle faster. We've also seen potential indications of preacher curls being slightly better for the brachialis and perhaps even brachioradialis, which may speak to the idea of combining different exercises for complete elbow flexor development. We do have two studies on exercise variety for the biceps that may interest you. The first recruiter detrained men to train three times per week for eight weeks. One group trained the same exercises across all three days, resulting in the standing barbell curl being their only isolation biceps exercise. Another group varied their exercises across the three days, resulting in them training incline curls, standing barbell curls, and cable preacher curls. Elbow flexor growth, specifically at the 50% region, tended to be better with the variation. The authors speculated the incline curls may have caused this, and based on the data we've seen, that seems very plausible. The second involved a small sample of well-trained individuals. One arm trained with six sets of Bayesian curls each session, while the other arm trained with three sets of Bayesian curls and three sets of preacher curls. There was no clear difference in elbow flexor growth between both conditions, although the cross-sectional area and some of the circumference measures lean towards the group that trained entirely with Bayesian cable curls. So depending on your perspective, it could qualify as evidence of shoulder extended curls benefiting trained folks. Before closing out the video, I do want to zoom out and put things into perspective. Although we've seen there may be genuine real differences in growth between exercises, the differences are probably not large. There are more important factors for growth. I could actually have a video ranking all the training variables and perhaps even non-training variables. It could be quite a long in-depth video so it may take a while to make. Let me know if you'd like to see that. But the reason I say this is if you don't like shoulder extended curls, that's okay. Provided you're training hard enough and sufficient enough, biceps growth will still occur with whichever curl variation you've selected. If you're searching for further guidance on programming to obtain your desired physique, it can be tricky and time-consuming. However, our high-quality partner, the Alpha Progression app, can help you generate an evidence-based training program that's 100% custom to your needs in less than 3 minutes. Simply specify the equipment you have, how often and how long you want to train for, and if you want to focus or neglect certain muscles. There are even advanced options to periodize your training and implement deloads. There are over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based, and with the touch of a few buttons, you can customize things further. Through analyzing your past performance, the app provides progressive overload recommendations during your workouts to help you continue making gains. The app automatically generates graphs that display your long-term progression, thereby saving you time from having to manually track your progression. The link in the comments and description gives you a 2-week free trial of all the premium features, and if you like it and decide to go beyond, the link gives you 20% off a subscription. I truly believe the app is awesome and the reviews speak to this. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the House of Hypertrophy.