 throws throws throws throws throws throws throws throws throws throws throws throws throws Let's dive in. Calf raises can be performed with your leg straight or with your leg bent. The calves consist of the gastrocnemius and soleus, with the gastrocnemius having a medial and lateral head. It's long been believed that straight leg calf raises maximize gastrocnemius hypertrophy, while bent leg calf raises maximize soleus hypertrophy. This is because the gastrocnemius crosses the knee, so it is shortened with the bent leg, which is believed to impair gastrocnemius involvement and enable the soleus to take over. However, it's becoming common to say that bent leg calf raises are unnecessary and that straight leg calf raises are all you need. This is based on evidence, but some things might have been overlooked. The first ever study to examine growth between straight and bent leg calf raises was done in 2023 in a group of untrained individuals who trained one leg with a straight leg variation and their other leg with a bent leg variation. Using these variables, both lateral and medial gastrocnemius growth was substantially greater with the straight leg, but soleus growth was fairly similar. This seems like a slam dunk for the straight leg. But we had a second study in trained individuals. They trained one leg with straight leg calf raises and the other leg with bent leg calf raises. Using these variables, medial gastrocnemius growth was clearly greater for the straight leg, while the statistical analysis indicated equivocal results for the lateral gastrocnemius and soleus. However, lateral gastrocnemius growth favored the straight leg variation, while soleus growth slightly favored the bent leg, although some may interpret this as similar gains. I've discussed these two studies in the past, and I've generally suggested, aligned with what some others have said, that straight leg calf raises might be all you really need. This still could be true, but upon uncovering some more research and thinking through things more, there are some additional things we need to know. Science is a cumulative process relying on multiple studies to draw strong conclusions. We're just dealing with two papers, and in both papers, we see the soleus growing ever so slightly more with the bent leg variation. Of course, this could be down to measurement error or other sources of error, but I actually came across an unofficially published paper presented at a conference in Brazil on 52 untrained women. One group trained straight leg calf raises while the other trained bent leg calf raises with these variables. Aligned with the other data, lateral and medial gastrocnemius growth was greater from the straight leg, but unlike the other two papers, soleus growth was clearly and meaningfully better with the bent leg. Furthermore, though this isn't unanimous in the literature and there are nuances with muscle activity papers, a few papers find greater soleus activity from bent leg calf raises. Finally, we have this paper which measured muscle swelling immediately after straight and bent leg calf raises on 17 detrained women. Think of this as the pump, lateral and medial gastrocnemius swelling was greater after the straight leg, while soleus swelling was notably greater after the bent leg. Now, the pump does not appear to be a strong driver of hypertrophy, but I think there are scenarios, and this could be one of them, where the pump indirectly reflects the tension experienced by a muscle. Considering all this, I think it's a real possibility that bent leg calf raises illicit greater soleus hypertrophy, but we just require more research to see if this is true or not. So what should you do? Don't forget the bigger picture. Straight leg calf raises are clearly needed. Due to the uncertainty surrounding the soleus, I think it is perfectly fine if you make the choice to train entirely with straight leg calf raises. After all, they will still contribute to soleus growth. Note that all the straight leg variations are fundamentally the same thing. So select whichever you prefer or train with any combination of them if you like. But depending on how you feel and your thoughts on the evidence I've laid out, I think it is fine if you decide to include some bent leg calf raises in your program. Before moving on to how foot position could influence calf hypertrophy, I'd like to share a finer detail. The first study we saw on untrained individuals found both the medial and lateral gastrocnemius grew substantially better with the straight leg. The second paper in trained individuals likewise found the medial gastrocnemius grew quite a bit more with the straight leg. But the lateral gastrocnemius, though still growing better with the straight leg, still saw decent gains from the bent leg. Interestingly, a range of papers imply that the contribution of the medial gastrocnemius is more impaired than the lateral gastrocnemius with a bent leg. Moreover, in both the unpublished and muscle swelling papers, the medial gastrocnemius saw minimal stimulation from the bent leg, whereas the lateral gastrocnemius still saw some stimulus. Thus, the majority of the available evidence suggests although straight leg calf raises maximize both medial and lateral gastrocnemius head hypertrophy, bent leg calf raises may still respectably grow the lateral gastrocnemius. This information doesn't have a ton of practical use. But at the House of Hypertrophy, we like to maximize our knowledge and understanding of training. So I thought it'd be worth sharing this finer detail. How to Fix We've just seen straight leg calf raises are necessary to maximize gastrocnemius hypertrophy. But does foot position matter? This paper had 22 detrained men perform three sets of straight leg calf raises with these training variables. One condition had the feet forward, another with the feet outwards, and the final condition with the feet inwards. Medial gastrocnemius growth tended to be best with the feet outwards. Although the difference was only statistically significant between the feet outwards and the feet inwards conditions. Still, the raw numbers favored the feet outwards compared to the feet forward condition. Lateral gastrocnemius growth tended to be best with the feet inwards. Again, the difference was only statistically significant between the feet inwards and feet outward conditions. But the raw numbers still favored the feet inwards compared to the feet forward condition. Soleus growth was unfortunately not measured. This is just one small study, but there are some muscle activity studies that support this conclusion. You may also be able to feel the difference. Now what you feel does not always correlate with muscle growth. As one example, this paper reported subjects felt their glutes more with hip thrust than squats. But the researchers ended up finding glute growth was similar between the two exercises. Yet, there are likely scenarios, and this could be one of them, where what you feel does relate to muscle growth. Thus, this information can be used if you wish to train one of the gastrocnemius heads more than the other. Also, a combination of feet out and feet inward calf raises could potentially produce greater growth of both gastrocnemius heads than just training with your feet forwards. But I would like to see a study directly examining this hypothesis, though it is a harmless thing to try out if you like. So we've dissected the effects of knee and foot position, but how much you move the ankle could also matter. This paper had previously untrained women train straight leg calf raises for three sets three times per week for eight weeks. One group trained with a full range of motion. A second group trained only the half of the range of motion where the calves are at a longer length. One group trained the other half of the range of motion where the calves are at a shorter length. All groups trained to failure in the 15-20 rep range. Soleus growth was unfortunately not measured, but both medial and lateral gastrocnemius growth tended to be best for the length and partials, followed by the full range of motion, and then the shortened partials. Could this apply to trained individuals? Some might say it won't since there was a paper last year finding the biceps and triceps grew similarly between a full range of motion and length and partial. This could be true, but I know there are some out there that believe the gastrocnemius will still benefit from a length and partial because there's evidence the gastrocnemius force-generating components may produce the greatest active tension at longer lengths. Full range of motion calf raises are hardest at the top position, so you end up being challenged at the point where the calves cannot produce as much tension. Thus, length and partials avoid this position and have you move through the lengths where the calves can generate greater tension. Until we have more evidence, I think it's worthwhile to train the calves with length and partials. There's ultimately no major drawback. Another option on the table are length and supersets. Training to failure with a full range of motion on calf raises would mean you fail at the top. Training supersets involve continuing beyond this point by squeezing out further partial repetitions that result in you challenging the muscle more at longer lengths. How effective is this? This paper had untrained men train standing calf raises on a Smith machine. With one leg, subjects trained to failure with a full range of motion, stopping when they failed at the top position. With their other leg, subjects also trained to failure with a full range of motion. But they continued beyond this point by performing as many partial reps as possible aiming to fail around the most lengthened position. The researchers just examined medial gastrocnemius growth which was greater with the lengthened supersets. If we go back to the previous study, it found medial gastrocnemius growth was 126.9% greater for the lengthened partials versus the full range of motion. While in this study, the lengthened supersets produced 43.3% greater medial gastrocnemius growth. Thus, perhaps lengthened partials are more effective than lengthened supersets. That said, I am aware that a study comparing lengthened partials to lengthened supersets on trained individuals will be coming out soon. We will be updating you with its findings at the House of Hypertrophy. If you are feeling experimental and willing to endure some pain, both lengthened partials and lengthened supersets can be used in the same set. What I mean is you train with the lengthened partial but you simply keep going, squeezing out even smaller partials until you can barely move out of the bottom position. Slow twitch fibers grow better from higher reps, while fast twitch fibers grow better from lower reps. At least, that's what's been proposed. The soleus is well established as a muscle with predominantly slow twitch fibers, while the gastrocnemius tends to contain a more even split of slow and fast twitch fibers. Interestingly, there's this 2010 paper that found in older women performing 100 reps of standing calf raises, the soleus grew more than the gastrocnemius. There are some key considerations, such as how subjects were not training close to failure, there was no other training with a different number of reps, and others may be interested in reps not as high as 100. Fortunately, we have another paper. Previously untrained men trained standing and seated calf raises with these variables. One leg was randomly assigned to train with 20-30 reps to failure on every set, while the other leg trained to failure in the 6-10 rep range. All three of the calf muscles grew similarly between the higher and lower reps, opposing the idea the soleus grows better with higher reps. These results align with the broader literature, in that it's further evidence that provided your training too or close to failure, reps between 6-35 produce similar overall muscle hypertrophy. It also aligns with other evidence indicating that lower and higher reps produce comparable slow and fast twitch fiber hypertrophy. Summoning the spirit of scientific accuracy, having more comparisons of high versus lower reps for the calves, particularly in trained individuals, and perhaps even exploring super-high repetitions can help refine our understanding. But based on the current evidence, it appears that provided you're training hard enough, you are free to train with either higher or lower repetitions. Moving on to training volume, anecdotally, the calves seem to be able to handle higher training volumes compared to other muscle groups. Indeed, there is evidence from this paper that after a full-body session, the calves tended to experience lower fatigue and soreness relative to many other muscle groups. Although, I've talked about the repeated bout effect previously at the house of hypertrophy, and how this can go some way to reducing fatigue differences between muscles. Still, it's possible that the calves are ultimately one of the muscles that can handle more training. But does that actually grow more from more training? We have one paper examining this. And yes, this is the same research group we've seen multiple times throughout this video. They seem to have a lot of papers on the calves. It had 61 previously untrained women train the straight leg calf race three times per week for six weeks. One group trained with two sets per session, totaling six weekly sets. A second group trained with three sets per session, totaling nine weekly sets. And the third group trained with four sets per session, totaling 12 weekly sets. All groups took every set to failure in the 15-20 rep range. Not all the differences were statistically significant, but the growth for all three muscles tended to be best for the 12 weekly set group, followed by the 9 weekly set group, and then the 6 weekly set group. It may be worthwhile pointing out there were diminishing returns. The increase in growth from 6 to 9 weekly sets was greater than the jump from 9 to 12 weekly sets. The high-level set number is not without limitations and considerations, but it points in the direction of the calves benefiting from higher set numbers. Even higher set numbers were not examined. But based on the overall literature on sets and hypertrophy, I do suspect the calves can grow even more with higher volumes. Feel free to check out this video for more details. Most research in humans found that low-intensity and short-duration static stretching generally does not produce increases in muscle size. However, in 2022 this paper was published, exploring the effects of having individuals holding an intense calf stretch for one hour a day for six weeks. The result? The lateral gastrocnemius increased in size by an impressive 15%. The same research group conducted another study to assess how this could compare to normal calf training. One group trained straight leg calf raises for five sets three times per week, while another group stretched their calves for one hour every single day. After six weeks, both groups grew the medial and lateral gastrocnemius, with no statistically significant differences in gains, though the numbers favor the lifting group for the lateral gastrocnemius. This is highly interesting, although probably not practical as most of you have no intention of spending an hour every day intensely stretching the calves. Although I will mention in our last video, we detailed a case study on a competitive natural bodybuilder with 18 years of experience who combined four sets of straight leg calf raises five times per week with one hour of intense calf stretching six days per week. Although there was measurement variability, there were signs of further hypertrophy in this highly trained person. The paper did not involve another condition that only lifted, so it's difficult to conclude if the extra stretching had a beneficial impact. Regardless, there might be a more practical way to reap the possible benefits of stretching the calves through stretching between sets. In 2016, this abstract was published online. It noted that compared to just passively resting between sets, a group who simply held a stretched position of straight leg calf raises after finishing each set for 30 seconds ended up seeing greater gastrocnemius growth. However, we had a published paper in 2022. The last one of the most recent men trained seated and standing calf raises with these variables. One leg immediately descended into a loaded stretch after each set, holding it for 20 seconds and then resting passively for 100 seconds before starting the next set. The other leg just rested passively for the full 120 seconds between sets. Medial gastrocnemius growth was similar between both conditions, while lateral gastrocnemius growth slightly favored the stretching between sets. Although some may interpret this as no difference, while soleus growth more convincingly favored stretching between sets. Thus, stretching between sets had some benefits. We know science necessitates a large body of evidence to derive strong conclusions, so I'm not prepared to conclude stretching the calves between sets is absolutely superior. Plus, there is some other research on other muscle groups that does not find a benefit to stretching between sets. Yet, since this does not take any more time, it's something convenient that you have to try out and no study to date has found stretching between sets to impair hypertrophy. The Calves We know that the calves carry out plantar flexion. Compound exercises that highly train the quads, including squats and leg presses, involve plantar flexion. Your heels aren't raised off the ground, but remember that plantar flexion is where your foot moves away from your shin, which happens during the lifting portion of all these exercises. So the calves are involved in these exercises, but how much? I came across a paper reporting that, using EMG, the soleus was more active than the gastrocnemius at deeper squat positions. This paper also used EMG and reported during the leg press, medial gastrocnemius activity was much lower than soleus activity, although lateral gastrocnemius activity wasn't as bad. Again, EMG studies come with potential problems and nuances, but I think this is one scenario where EMG data does correlate with muscle growth, since the notion that the soleus is trained better during these exercises than the gastrocnemius makes sense. Recall, we've seen evidence that the gastrocnemius stimulus is lower with our knees bent. Also, the gastrocnemius is involved in knee flexion. During the lifting part of these exercises, although plantar flexion occurs, knee extension also happens, which is the opposite of knee flexion. So if the gastrocnemius strongly contracted, it would partially fight against us lifting the load. It makes sense that it would not be highly activated. This idea extends to other muscles. For example, we have multiple studies that find the rectus femoris minimally grows from squats. Although the rectus femoris is involved in knee extension, it is also involved in hip flexion, which is the opposite of the hip extension which is needed during the lifting phase of a squat. So it makes sense it would not be highly activated. We've described this concept more in a previous video. Feel free to check that out. So the gastrocnemius will not experience meaningful hypertrophy from these exercises. But does the soleus meaningfully grow from them? There's no study directly measuring soleus growth. But considering the demands on the ankle joint are far less than the demands on the knee and hip joints, and that we have some data finding that soleus activity is far below its maximum potential during squats and leg presses, I suspect although you may see some soleus growth from these movements, it will be far less than what you can achieve with calf raises. For the sake of thoroughness, I should mention that this paper found after six weeks of Smith machine squatting that overall calves hardly grew. The reason I did not lead with this paper is that it also involved calf raises. So the fact they didn't find growth is odd. Although from what's described, it seems most sets were far from failure and the calf raises were essentially a short and partial. So these two things could easily explain the lack of growth. Funny enough, the researchers had another group who performed the squats and calf raises with whole body vibration applied. This group did see some calf growth. We know that the gastrocnemius crosses the knee and is involved in knee flexion. Therefore, the gastrocnemius will be involved with knee flexion exercises such as leg curls and Nordic curls. But how much? I only came across one paper examining this. It involved untrained subjects training seated leg curls with these variables. We can see that the lateral gastrocnemius experienced some small growth but not statistically significant. While the medial gastrocnemius saw virtually no growth, growth of the hamstring muscles was much larger. However, there is an important consideration when evaluating how effective knee flexion exercises may be for gastrocnemius hypertrophy. We've seen evidence that training the gastrocnemius at longer muscle lengths through ensuring the knee is straight and even using length and partials enhances its growth. This may also extend to knee flexion exercises. Placing the feet into a dorsiflexed position during knee flexion exercises will lengthen the gastrocnemius. We also have evidence that the gastrocnemius force output towards knee flexion is greatest when the ankle is dorsiflexed. Yet, there are some EMG papers finding similar gastrocnemius activity between dorsiflexed and plantar flexed knee flexion movements. But I think this is one scenario where EMG may not predict hypertrophy. As we have other examples of EMG failing to correlate to hypertrophy when we're comparing exercises that differ in the muscle length strains. In the paper just mentioned, ankle joint position in the leg curls was not mentioned. But I suspect it is likely most subjects were not dorsiflexed during the leg curls. If they did, perhaps better gastrocnemius growth would have been observed. Some of you may be wondering though, does maintaining the ankle in a dorsiflexed position throughout knee flexion movements compromise hamstring hypertrophy? I am aware of one paper that just measured biceps femoris long head hypertrophy and it found it grew similarly between leg curls with the feet dorsiflexed and plantar flexed. Thus, having the ankle dorsiflexed with knee flexion training may enhance gastrocnemius involvement while not impairing hamstring involvement. But I would like to see more papers exploring this and measuring the other hamstring heads. Another consideration is where the knee flexion exercise is hardest. The paper that explored the effects of knee flexion training on gastrocnemius growth used seated leg curls. It depends on the machine, but many leg curl machines are hardest when the knee is most bent. But the gastrocnemius are lengthened more when the knee is straighter. And we have evidence that the gastrocnemius' force output towards knee flexion is greatest when the knee is straight. Thus, knee flexion exercises that are hardest when the knee is straighter, such as specific leg curl machines or even Nordic curls, could enhance the gastrocnemius stimulus. With all that said, although these two things may lead to some better gastrocnemius hypertrophy from knee flexion training, the growth it sees likely still pales in comparison with what you can achieve with calf raises. Straight leg calf raises maximize gastrocnemius hypertrophy. Straight leg calf raises can still grow the soleus well, although it's currently unclear if they sufficiently maximize soleus hypertrophy. Some evidence indicates they may not. Evaluate your preferences and opinions on the evidence presented at this time point to determine if you want to include bent leg calf raises in your program. With straight leg calf raises, pointing your feet outwards increases the stimulus to the medial gastrocnemius, while pointing the feet inwards increases the stimulus to the lateral gastrocnemius. Training just the bottom half of straight leg calf raises has been found to cause significantly greater gastrocnemius hypertrophy than training with a full range of motion or a shortened partial. Based on the available evidence, it seems that provided you're training hard enough, reps between 6 to 35 produce similar gastrocnemius and soleus growth. In the one study that has explored this, the calves grew more from higher set numbers. A 2016 unpublished paper and a published paper from 2022 found that holding the calves in a stretched position between sets resulted in greater calf growth, most notably of the soleus in the 2022 paper. Most exercises that highly train the quads likely train the soleus to some degree, while knee flexion exercises like leg curls and Nordic curls train the gastrocnemius to some degree. Yet, both the soleus and gastrocnemius likely grow far better with calf raises. It can be tricky and very challenging to construct your own muscle building program. But the Alpha Progression app, which is essentially your personal clever muscle building assistant in the palm of your hand, can easily help you. With hundreds of thousands of downloads, thousands of reviews speak to its unmatched quality. Other apps truly generate garbage programs. But this app intelligently gets you closer to your dream physique through generating an evidence-based program 100% customizable to your needs. Simply let it know all about you, your experience level, the equipment you have, how often and how long you can train for, and if you want to focus or neglect certain muscles. This can all take less than a minute, and you can still make further edits if you like. The app has extra impressive features. During workouts, the app's algorithm carefully suggests how you may progressive overload to help push you to the next level. Aesthetic graphs automatically display your long-term progress, and there is a huge exercise database of all the best muscle building exercises. Try out every single one of the premium features to your heart's desire during a free 2-week trial through the link in the comments and description. If you like it and choose to go beyond, the link cuts the price of a subscription by 20%. I truly believe the app is exceptional, and I hope you'll enjoy it too. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the house of hypertrophy.