 ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama ama no studies directly comparing side-dell hypertrophy between different exercises, but there are multiple studies using what we may call indirect measurements that allow us to estimate the possible effect of various exercises. These indirect measurements are quite controversial. Throughout detailing this research and ranking the various exercises, we will be simplifying things and not entirely describing the nuances and limitations of the research used. This will make the spirit of scientific accuracy sad, but don't worry, near the end of the video I'll clear up the shortcomings of the data. Let's start with classic dumbbell lateral raises. There are many different ways they can be performed, but let's first dissect normal lateral raises, which involve us performing shoulder abduction straight out to our sides up to around 90 degrees with the shoulder neutrally rotated. The side-delt's main function is shoulder abduction. Here's a graph depicting its leverage throughout shoulder abduction. Let me explain what leverage is, as it's something that will be mentioned a few times in this video. Leverage, in this case, refers to a muscle's moment arm. To figure this out, we draw the line of action of a muscle and a parallel line through the center of the joint it moves. Then we calculate the perpendicular distance between the two. This is the muscle's moment arm. Simply put, muscles with larger moment arms have greater mechanical advantage and potential to generate joint torque. There's evidence that the muscles with the best leverage throughout a movement are highly recruited by the nervous system. Since the side-delt have great leverage for shoulder abduction, it's no surprise normal lateral raises are going to be great for growing them. But does this mean we should put them into S-tier? Possibly not. Dumbbell lateral raises are most challenging when the arm is parallel to the ground. There are many factors that theoretically contribute to what the hardest point in an exercise is. But we can generally say nearly all freeway exercises tend to be hardest when the external moment arm is the longest. This concept is pretty interesting and worth understanding more as it relates to some different dumbbell lateral raise variations we'll mention soon. To calculate the external moment arm, it's comparable to a muscle's moment arm. But in this case, we draw the line of weight and a parallel line through the joint center. Then we calculate the perpendicular distance between them. If we do this throughout the range of motion of these exercises, we can see where the hardest point will approximately be. A simple trick is to see where the moving segment is parallel to the ground, as that will be the point when the external moment arm is the longest. Is it bad that normal lateral raises are hardest with the arms parallel to the ground? I wouldn't say it's bad, but it may be unideal. At this position, the side-delts are at moderately short lengths. You might be aware that emerging research suggests challenging muscles at longer lengths may build overall more muscle. For this reason, these lateral raises may fall short of S-tier, so we'll drop it into A-tier. Some say instead of performing normal lateral raises straight out to your sides in what's known as the frontal plane, performing them slightly in front in what we call the scapular plane could be superior. However, I'm not convinced this is true. The relative differences in leverages between muscles for shoulder abduction in the frontal and scapular plane isn't all that different. If anything, there may be a bit more front delts in scapular plane abduction. There's also this study finding that side-delts activity was not that different between shoulder abduction in the frontal and scapular planes. The numbers slightly favor the frontal plane, but as the authors note, this small difference may not be meaningful. Plus, the study didn't involve typical lateral raises. For now, go with your preference. Another thing I'm unconvinced about is achieving greater stability. Some say that seated lateral raises or leaning against a bench leads to greater muscle fiber recruitment and tension thanks to improved stability. There is indeed research suggesting greater stability can enhance fiber recruitment and tension, but this research is not necessarily generalizable to what we care about. For example, this study varied stability levels on a leg extension by strapping down the legs and torso. When looking at research more relatable, greater stability isn't always better. For example, free weight exercises such as back squats are more unstable than hack squats, yet muscle growth seems to be similar. Additionally, there's this study comparing seated to standing overhead presses, and deltoid activity wasn't any better when seated. Of course, if you like extra stability, that's absolutely fine. Some find it easier to maintain their desired technique with more stability, but it is still absolutely possible to have excellent technique with standing exercises. Instead of lateral raising with the shoulder neutrally rotated, what if we lateral raise with the shoulders internally rotated as if we're emptying a can of soda, or even lateral raising with the shoulders externally rotated as if we're maintaining a full can of soda? This paper compared all these variations. It was found that both the neutral and internally rotated positions were fairly similar for side delto activity, while the externally rotated position was slightly worse. Interestingly, frontal activity was greater with external rotation, which makes sense as there's evidence externally rotating can increase the front delts leverage for shoulder abduction. Rear delt activity was greater with internal rotation, which might also make sense since internal rotation could increase the rear delts leverage for shoulder abduction. Upper trap activity was also slightly greater with internal rotation, which the authors suggest is due to internal rotation elevating the scapular more. These results are pretty intriguing, as they fundamentally suggest external rotation increases front delt recruitment while somewhat decreasing side delt involvement. Whereas, although internally rotating does increase rear delt activity and upper trap activity, it was still pretty similar to normal lateral raises for side delt activity. It's worth mentioning there is another study that just compared internally to externally rotated lateral raises in the scapular plane and it found side delt activity was actually much better with the internal rotation. So although the magnitudes differ, this study further supports the idea lateral raises with internal rotation may be better for the side delts than external rotation. Due to this data, I'm going to go ahead and place lateral raises with internal rotation at the same level as normal lateral raises, while externally rotated lateral raises go into B tier. Now, some of you might be thinking, aren't lateral raises with internal rotation a recipe for shoulder injury? I'll discuss this more later when we dissect the controversial upright row. Lateral raises can be performed with the elbows bent, and the paper we just mentioned that compared these three exercises also involved lateral raises with the elbows bent to 90 degrees. This variation produced much lower side delt activity, but fairly decent front delt, rear delt, and upper trap activity. Honestly, I am quite surprised by the much lower side delt activity and better front delt activity. The author suggested the placement of the forearm in front may be related to the greater front delt activity. Regardless, I would like to see more data on this and we also need to keep in mind these results are specific to 90 degrees of elbow flexion. I suspect a slight bend in the elbows probably has minimal to no detrimental effects. Anyhow, these results lead me to place 90 degree elbow flex lateral raises into C tier, but this is with some caution as more data is needed. All of the lateral raises discussed so far involved abducting up to 90 degrees, but you can go beyond to achieve what we may call a super range of motion lateral raise. Some refer to these as Lu raises, named after the Chinese weightlifter who contributed to popularizing this exercise. Although bodybuilders have historically performed this movement, here's old footage of Tom Platt sort of executing super range of motion lateral raises. There are at least three considerations with these lateral raises. Firstly, as implied earlier, the evidence suggests that training muscles at longer, not shorter lengths is beneficial for hypertrophy, so the extra shortened muscle positions in this movement may not stimulate extra growth. Secondly, many naturally have to externally rotate around the 50 to 80 degree abduction mark to move beyond their head. We've seen that external rotation during abduction may enhance front delt involvement while maybe reducing side delt involvement. Thirdly, front delt involvement may further be enhanced since there's evidence abducting the shoulder beyond 90 degrees results in the front deltoid matching and potentially surpassing the side delt in leverage and activity. Considering these factors, super range of motion lateral raises may not be any better than normal lateral raises. If anything, the external rotation and relatively greater contribution from the front delts may reduce the side delt stimulus. I will say I'm skeptical that the reduction in side delt stimulus is much. We after all still get neutrally rotated abduction at the initial portion just like normal lateral raises. I think super range of motion lateral raises may also be better than pure externally rotated lateral raises as well. So I'm going to break the rules and add an A- tier and place super range of motion lateral raises into them. You may be thinking, why not place externally rotated lateral raises into C-tier and super range motion lateral raises into B-tier? It's a subjective call on my part, as my hesitation is that saying externally rotated lateral raises are C-tier makes them sound pretty bad. But we've seen the difference between an externally rotated lateral raise and normal lateral raise isn't necessarily that big, so I'll keep the A- tier. We mentioned how dumbbell lateral raises are most challenging when the side delts are moderately shortened. But through changing our body position, we can challenge the muscle at longer lengths. If you lean against the wall, the external moment arm is longest below 90 degrees of abduction, where the muscle is less shortened. If you lean against the bench with a lower incline, the exercise is challenging at even earlier abduction angles. If we get horizontal on a flat bench, the exercise is challenging when our arms are right by our sides, at a longer side delts length. If we're assuming reaching and challenging the longest muscle length attainable is best, this variation might be the best. However, I know some of you might not find this as comfortable or feasible compared to the other options. Also, we strictly don't have evidence that reaching the longest possible lengths is always better. Rather, we just have data demonstrating shorter muscle lengths aren't as good as comparatively longer lengths for overall growth. So for now, I'm just going to generally consider these leaning and lying dumbbell lateral raises as belonging to S-tier. Cable lateral raises also belong in S-tier, but there are some key considerations. To figure out the external moment arm with cables, we draw a line through the direction of the cable, a parallel line through the joint center, and then we measure the perpendicular distance between the joint center and the line of the cable to know the external moment arm. You can see how it varies throughout the range of motion. A simple trick is to look for when the cable and the segment moving form a 90-degree angle, as that will be when the external moment arm is the longest. Higher setups than their hand height bring the hardest part to a more lengthened position. Into S-tier they go. What about machine lateral raises? Not all machines are identical, but there are machines that provide great challenge at longer side-delts lengths when the arms are near the sides. For instance, this Prime Fitness machine actually has a smart cam that you can adjust to change where the exercise is hardest. Unlike dumbbells and cables, machines do not enable you to move the arm across the body. But again, as it's unclear if reaching the longest lengths is always essential, I'll still place machine lateral raises into S-tier. Before moving on to ranking compound exercises such as overhead presses and upright rows, there is something worth clearing up. Some of you might be questioning the idea of training the side-dails at longer lengths. Why? You might have heard that during the initial angles of abduction, it's the supraspinatus, one of the rotator cuff muscles, that initiates and carries out the movement. Therefore, although the side-dails are at a longer length in these early angles, it's not activated and we're instead highly training the supraspinatus. This idea is stated in textbooks. However, as described in this study, this is misleading. The supraspinatus does not appear to be activated any earlier than the side-dails. Moreover, though it is true the supraspinatus has great leverage and displays great activity in early abduction, the side-dails are still far from having no leverage or activity in these stages. So it's very possible training the side-dails at longer lengths is still beneficial. I'm actually glad to say that there seems to be a future study that will compare standard dumbbell to cable lateral raises. Though my colleagues and I are working on the first ever study on the side-delts, comparing the dumbbell side-raise to the cable side-raise and measuring side-delts hyperdrive. We'll of course be updating you with its findings and any other data that may emerge. Let us enter the land of speculation and detail something you might find intriguing. As explored in our last video, training muscles at longer lengths can build more muscle overall, but the extra growth is not necessarily equal across all muscle regions. I'm wondering if this could apply to the side-delts too. Allow me to briefly explain. We've detailed how normal dumbbell lateral raises, since they're most challenging at moderately shorter lengths, might not be as good as lateral raises that challenge the side-delts better at longer lengths. However, when considering the research on training muscles at longer lengths, in this scenario, I think it's possible when comparing these two. Growth at the proximal region of the side-delts, closer to the muscle's origin, is only slightly better with challenging the side-delts at longer lengths or even maybe similar between both, whereas growth at the distal part of the side-delts, the region further away from the origin, is notably better with training the side-delts at longer lengths. Now, this is extremely and heavily speculative because we don't currently have any data on side-delts growth. Some people do report feeling the distal region of the side-delts notably more with lengthened-challenged lateral raises. If you felt this or if you intend to try out lengthened lateral raises, it will be interesting to hear your experience. Another intriguing thing is that although we consider there to be three deltoid heads, the front, side, and rear deltoids, we can actually consider there to be seven segments, something that seems to have been known as far back as 1734. Based on an intricate analysis from Australia, these are the general functions of each segment. For simplicity, we will just continue to refer to the front, side, and rear delts. Two compound exercises that will involve the side delts are overhead presses and upright rows. How effective are they? Starting with overhead presses, there are numerous ways to execute this exercise. I could actually have a full video dissecting and discussing the various overhead presses and their utility for hypertrophy. Let me know if you'd like to see that. But for our purposes here, we can think of two types of overhead presses, abduction-dominant and flexion-dominant overhead presses. Abduction-dominant overhead presses tell us that shoulder abduction is occurring at the shoulder. This happens when using a wider grip on a barbell or moving the dumbbells in this way. We know the side delts' main function is shoulder abduction. Does this mean the exercise belongs in A or S tier? Potentially not. The start position typically involves around 30 to 40 degrees of abduction, so we don't really attain long lengths. Overhead presses also involve external rotation. If you put your hands in an overhead press position and then straighten the elbow, you'll see that your thumbs and biceps are both pointing up. We've seen that external rotation has the potential to enhance front delts' activity and maybe reduce side delts' involvement. Overhead presses are highly challenging at and above 90 degrees of shoulder abduction. Recall that at these higher angles, the front delts' may match and surpass side delts' activity. Having described all of this, some of you might be aware there was this study that fascinatingly found abduction-dominant overhead presses elicited similar side delts' activity to normal dumbbell lateral raises. However, there was another study that failed to find this. And when considering the other data on external rotation and leverages above 90 degrees of abduction, I'm not convinced overhead presses are equal to normal lateral raises. I also don't think they're equal to super range of motion lateral raises either, since unlike overhead presses, super range of motion lateral raises can still involve a good chunk of abduction with a neutrally rotated shoulder. Thus, I'll place abduction-dominant overhead presses into B tier. Some might be questioning it being placed alongside externally rotated lateral raises. As you might be thinking, the extra triceps' involvement with overhead presses makes it worse. But we have a few studies demonstrating that compound exercises that involve more muscle mass aren't always worse than more isolated exercises for a muscle. For example, squats highly stimulate the quads and adductor magnus, but were found to be as good for growing the glute max to hip thrusts in one study. Leg extensions are an isolated quad exercise, but are not necessarily better than growing the vastest parts of the quads compared to squats or leg presses. Things could differ between exercises and muscles, but for now, I'm not sold on the idea that the extra triceps' involvement with overhead presses reduces the deltoid stimulus. As for flexion-dominant overhead presses, these involve shoulder flexion as the dominant motion. This happens when using a narrow grip or moving the dumbbells in this way. The side delts have leverage for shoulder flexion, but it is likely the front delts have much better leverage. And there's evidence side delt activity isn't as strong during shoulder flexion compared to shoulder abduction. Accordingly, I'm actually going to go ahead and place flexion-dominant overhead presses into D-tier. Finally, the controversial upright row. I'll address this controversy shortly, but when analyzing them, they actually have some great things going on. Besides the elbow flexion and scapular motion, these involve shoulder abduction with internal rotation. We've seen how shoulder abduction with internal rotation actually seems to be quite effective for the side delts. Being more effective than using external rotation and may be similarly effective to neutral rotation. Indeed, there is also this one study finding higher side delt activity with upright rows compared to abduction-dominant overhead presses. For these reasons, you might suggest upright rows should be in A-tier. However, there was this other study that found upright rows weren't quite as effective for side delt activity to normal dumbbell lateral raises, but the subjects were women with chronic neck pain. Perhaps something about upright rows reduces the side delt stimulus, such as the involvement of the biceps or traps. Of course, we did just detail how the involvement of extra muscle mass doesn't always reduce the stimulus to a muscle, but things could be different with the upright row. Grip width could also play a role as well, as this paper found wider grips to be more effective for side delt activity, but the methodology of this paper had a slight problem, so there's still some ambiguity. I would love to see more analysis on the upright row, but considering the uncertainty and that there's no other data, I'm going to make the call and place them into A-tier, which I know a lot of you may find surprising. As for its controversy, it's believed that upright rows, due to combining shoulder abduction with internal rotation causes shoulder impingement. However, I believe the fear surrounding upright rows is not justified. Let's summarize why. Here's the upper right of the body, with a humerus, acromion, and structures in between such as the supraspidatus tendon. Impingement typically refers to compression of tissues in this space. This is called the subacromial space. It's believed that abducting your shoulder with internal rotation narrows the subacromial space and compresses and damages the tissues there, but we have multiple areas of the literature that seriously questions this. I would like to give credit to E3 Rehab, who have two tremendous videos on the literature behind shoulder impingement. I'll link to the videos in the description, but here's the brief summary. We'd expect the upper supraspinatus to display more damage from compression by the acromion, but it does not. We'd expect people with a hook-shaped acromion to experience greater problems, but they don't. We'd expect in those with subacromial pain, smaller subacromial distances would link to pain, but it does not. We'd expect increasing the subacromial space through surgery that shaves down certain structures would help, but it does not outperform placebo surgeries. Some say given tests that are used to test for impingement involve arm elevation with internal rotation, then arm elevation with internal rotation must be dangerous. But these tests have poor specificity and may have little diagnostic value. Furthermore, there's evidence that internal rotation might actually increase or have no effect on acromial-humeral distances. It's sometimes suggested to perform upright rows to no higher than 90 degrees of abduction to make it safer. Yet we have some evidence suggesting the smallest acromial-humeral distances happen between 40 to 75 degrees, not always above 90 degrees. So if impingement was the enemy, all lateral raises would be dangerous, but they're not. There are pushes to move away from using the term impingement and instead just use generic terms such as subacromial pain. Of course, if you find upright rows or lateral raises with internal rotation uncomfortable and painful, you don't have to perform them. There are many other options on the table. You may be tempted to think that experiencing pain proves these exercises are dangerous, but the issue is pain is multifactorial. There are likely cases out there of people reporting pain from every single exercise in existence, but that doesn't mean they're all dangerous. As with most anecdotes, you can find the flipside with others reporting upright rows help their shoulders. So here's the final rankings. We put normal lateral raises into A tier, but there are two options that might elevate this exercise into or at least close to S tier status. Here's the first option. We know they're most challenging when your shoulders are abducted to 90 degrees. But once you can no longer raise your arms to this level, don't stop. Keep trying to abduct as much as you can. This will gradually result in your range of motion being shorter and shorter. But this will successfully mean you're highly challenging the side delt at relatively longer lengths. Research on the calves found this style of training resulted in better muscle growth. We've explored that in an earlier video. This technique can also be done with super range of motion lateral raises. The second option is instead of raising up to 90 degrees, you just perform partial reps at the bottom with a heavier weight. This will also result in you highly challenging the side delts at relatively longer lengths. These are called length and partials. We've explored the research on them in earlier videos. But the preliminary evidence on them suggests they could be very effective for muscle growth. Feel free to try out either method. We used a combination of research on other muscle groups, leverage, and activity to guide our rankings. This isn't flawless. Let's summon the spirit of scientific accuracy and make clear what's limited. We used the research on other muscle groups to suggest that challenging the side delts at longer lengths could be beneficial. We're going to need direct research on the side delts to be sure. We heavily relied on both the leverage and activity data to infer what muscles may experience the best hypertrophy from an exercise. Firstly, activity is a bit vague, but these studies use surface electromyography to record a muscle's electrical activity, which is simply the electrical events that happen at a muscle when it receives a signal. These electrical events are what precede and cause the muscle fiber to generate active forces. There are various lines of evidence showing a relationship between electrical activity and muscle hypertrophy. There are also examples where although there's no direct studies, I feel pretty confident in hypothesizing the electrical activity data will relate to muscle hypertrophy. But on the flip side, there are examples where the electrical activity data does not predict muscle growth. When considering this data, it seems that the electrical activity data may better relate to muscle growth when we're comparing exercises that are more similar and less reliable when we're comparing exercises that are quite different. So the research we saw comparing lateral raises with different rotations may be fairly good, whereas it's more questionable and remains to be determined if the electrical activity data we saw comparing overhead presses to upright rows or lateral raises is reliable. As for the leverage data, various lines of evidence find a relationship between leverage and electrical activity. And similarly, it might be that there are certain scenarios where it does relate to muscle hypertrophy and other scenarios where it does not. I actually do feel fairly confident that most of the hypotheses made in this video from the leverage data may truly relate to hypertrophy, but we'll see if future research can verify or falsify this. So, don't consider these rankings as definitely true, rather consider them as my best guess based on the available scientific literature. It's entirely possible something is wrong, and we'll of course update you if future research suggests so. If you're searching for further guidance about training, the high-quality Alpha Progression app has all the features any lifter needs in one place. It's flawlessly crafted to help you stay motivated and consistent with effective training to achieve your desired physique and strength levels. The app can remove confusion and generate a program 100% customized to your desires in one minute or less. Let us know the equipment you have and how much time you have available to commit to training. If you have certain muscles you like to focus on more or less, the app can accommodate for this too. There's more than a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan will be based on, and the training philosophy is inspired by the latest meta-analyses and reviews. With the touch of a few buttons, you can personalize things even further if you like. You can switch out exercises, change the rep numbers, or add or decrease sets depending on how you feel. The latest update provides you with unlockable achievements to reward your effort and help sustain motivation to help you reach your ambitions. Invaluable time is also saved as the app automatically generates graphs tracking your long-term progression. The link in the comments and description unlocks 2 weeks free of trying out all the premium features of the app. And if you like it and choose to go further, the link gives you 20% off a subscription. I genuinely believe the app is phenomenal, with the numerous reviews speaking to this. Thank you for making it to the end of the video. Thank you.