 Suureureure, bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel bowel say it's correct? Undeniably, the forearms receive a stimulus from multiple exercises already in most programs and will grow from this. But it's likely to truly maximize and accelerate your forearm gains. Direct forearm training is needed. Why? The literature indicates achieving high muscle fiber recruitment and tension is required to optimize growth. This is done by ensuring the forearms are the limiting factor and we're training the exercise hard enough to get to or close to failure. Direct forearm training achieves this. With other exercises, your forearms aren't typically the limiting factor. If they are, you're likely compromising the stimulus to the muscles these exercises typically aim to develop. So feel free to use straps if needed. So what are the best ways to train the forearms? We've ranked what may be the best forearm exercises by extrapolating from the current scientific literature. Before diving in, some might be questioning me disagreeing with Mensah. But remember, Mensah is just one person with elite genetics. And although he seemingly went without direct forearm training, as Arnold mentions in his book, other individuals with impressive forearms such as Dave Draper and Chuck Sipes did a lot of forearm training. Let's dive in. I very quickly need to mention that we have a previous video on the forearms. But this will be a shorter video that condenses the key details with rankings. I'll actually mention an exercise and some details that I didn't before. I've actually changed my mind on something. So, there are 20 muscles belonging to the forearm that can be divided into the anterior and posterior compartments of the forearm. The anterior compartment is larger, and wrist holes effectively train most of this compartment, making them likely an essential movement to maximize forearm size. There are many wrist hole variations. But starting with normal standing wrist holes, we can see the wrist moves from a neutral to flexed position while our fingers remain flexed on the bar. Is this good or bad? Well, a decent chunk of evidence suggests that compared to training muscles at shorter muscle lengths, training at longer muscle lengths builds more muscle. Some might be wondering, wasn't there a recent study funded by Jeff Nippard suggesting longer muscle lengths does not build more muscle in trained individuals? We've dissected this study recently, but the key is this study compared to half reps while the muscle is at a longer length to a full range motion. Both still reach the same maximum long muscle lengths, and when looking at other research, it's still possible that compared to exercises that predominantly move through short muscle lengths, moving through longer lengths still builds more muscle. We'll be sure to update you with future research, but for now, it seems worthwhile to factor into our analysis. Okay, all these flexor muscles are going to be at longer lengths when the wrist is in an extended position, a position which normal standing wrist holes do not reach. Additionally, two of the flexor muscles, the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus, can also flex the fingers. So for them, we must factor in both wrist and finger positions to know their length. They're going to be at longer lengths when the fingers are extended. So since the fingers remain flexed on the load, they're at fairly shorter lengths. Therefore, normal standing wrist holes train the flexor muscles at shorter lengths. I don't want to make it seem like this is terrible, because we still do see measurable hypertrophy with shorter length training. It's just possibly not optimal. We'll place them into C tier. We can modify this exercise to potentially make it better by using fat grip attachments. These increase the diameter of the bar and place our fingers into a relatively more extended position. This will result in the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus being at somewhat longer lengths. But since our wrist remains traveling from neutral to flexed, it likely won't affect the stimulus to the other flexor muscles. Anyhow, this partial improvement means I'll place them into B tier. Alternatively, instead of using fat grips, you could just allow your fingers to extend during the lowering portion as the load rolls down and then flex during the lifting of the weight. This similarly results in the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus reaching longer lengths, again with no real effect on the other flexor muscles. There are some differences between the fat grips and finger motion variations, such as how the finger motion variation attains greater finger extension. But using fat grips allows the fingers to stay at that relatively more extended position throughout the full movement. There are technical arguments for either side, but I currently believe it's unclear which could be superior based on the current literature, so I've chosen to place both in the same tier. Wriscos can be performed with the forearm horizontally across a surface. This variation successfully reaches an extended wrist position and thereby lengthens all the flexor muscles well. I'll place them into A tier. These can also be modified to possibly be even better. Using fat grips to place our fingers into a relatively more extended position will further lengthen the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus to near maximum. Alternatively, you can extend your fingers during the lowering portion, which likewise further lengthens the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus to near maximum. Again, there are differences between using fat grips and the finger motion variation. But since it's not clear what could be superior, I've chosen to place both into S tier. With these wrist curls that have your arm horizontal across a surface, it's possible to use a slightly inclined surface. How does this change things? Most dumbbell and barbell exercises are most challenging when the segment we're moving is parallel to the floor. When wrist curling on a flat surface, this happens when the wrist is approximately neutral. While when wrist curling on an inclined surface, this happens at a relatively more extended position, which some may hypothesize makes it better for hypertrophy. Yet, I am skeptical that the difference, if any exists, would be that large, and I would like to see future research on this. For now, I would just consider these two inclined variations as belonging into S tier. If you like, you could think of these as possibly high-tier and the others as possibly low-tier, but do so with caution. The posterior compartment of the forearm is smaller, but it's likely still worth training to truly maximize forearm size. Many of these muscles are highly involved during wrist extension. The extensor muscles are going to be at longer lengths when the wrist is flexed. Normal standing wrist extensions move from neutral to extended positions, so train the muscles at moderate to shorter lengths. Again, this isn't terrible. It will certainly build muscle, but it may just not be the best. I'll place it into A tier. Wrist extensions with the arm horizontally across a surface reach a flexed position, so we'll place these into S tier. An inclined surface can be used, which, similar to the discussion with wrist holes, places peak tension at a relatively more lengthened position. But as I would like to see more data, I'll place them alongside the other variation in S tier. With all these wrist extensions, in this case, the fingers being flexed around the bar is perfectly fine. Some of the extensor muscles are at longer lengths with finger flexion. If you apply fat grips, you would partially shorten them, which may not be favorable. The brachioradialis is fairly large for our muscle. It's part of the posterior compartment, but isn't involved in wrist extension. Rather, it's highly involved in elbow flexion. This happens in all horizontal pulls, vertical pulls, and curls. This section will focus on curls. It's widely thought instead of a supinated grip, using a neutral or pronated grip on curls results in greater brachioradialis activation. Quite surprisingly, however, multiple studies fail to find this, and instead find similar activation or even slightly better activation with a supinated grip. I would like to see a study directly assessing brachioradialis growth after training with different grips. But for now, I can't conclude that a certain grip position is better. As for whether a specific exercise could be superior, there's this fascinating abstract that was presented at a conference recently. It compared incline to preacher curls and notes that brachioradialis hypertrophy was better with a preacher curl. That's not to say incline curls were bad. The difference between the two exercises seems to have only been significantly different at the 60% region. So clearly, incline curls produced very measurable gains. It's not clear why the preacher curl was better. And once this study is officially published in full text, I'll likely have a video on it. But it's plausible it's because preacher curls are harder at earlier elbow flexion angles, where the brachioradialis is at a longer length. If true, cable curls set up to provide peak tension at earlier elbow flexion angles may also join preacher curls in S-tier, while other curling exercises that are harder at later elbow flexion angles like normal curls may join incline curls in A-tier for the brachioradialis. Some of you may be wondering about other exercises, such as wrist rollers and rice bucket training. I've decided not to detail them here. I've described why and my thoughts on them in the pinned comment. As for static holds, farmer walks, hangs, and grippers, these train finger flexion and will train the muscles that are involved in this. However, we know these muscles are already highly trained with wrist holds. Therefore, I don't consider them essential. But we have analyzed and ranked the different ways to train finger flexion in our more forearm guide video. Likewise, pronation supination training and radial ulnar deviation training are probably not essential since many muscles involved in these are highly trained with wrist holes or extensions. Again, a more detailed discussion can be found in our forearm guide video. Finally, in the spirit of scientific accuracy, it is essential to make it clear that these rankings are based on extrapolating the research on training other muscles at longer lengths. We don't have studies directly measuring forearm hypertrophy yet, so please don't consider these rankings as 100% definitely true. Rather, consider them as my best guess based on the current evidence. We'll update you at the House of Hypertrophy if research confirms or goes against anything said here. Before wrapping up, navigating all the fitness advice out there can be challenging. Bad information can make you confused and hold your results and enjoyment back. Beyond these videos at the House of Hypertrophy, if you're looking for effective muscle building training and a way to track your training effortlessly, our partner with over 1 million downloads, the Alpha Progression app is flawlessly crafted to maximize your gains. The app has an unrivaled plan generator that can create an evidence-based program completely custom to your needs. It has some cool options such as allowing you to focus on neglect some muscles. With well over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based, the app has you covered. The app's intuitive interface still allows you to swap out exercises through looking at similar options. And of course, you can change any other variable you desire. Progressive overload on autopilot. As the algorithm analyzes your performance to suggest how you may progress to optimize gains, the app automatically tracks your progress on virtually every metric you need. And unlockable achievements help keep things fun. With an exercise database of more than 600 exercises, simple video and text instructions give you confidence in knowing you're performing the exercises effectively. The reviews speak to its quality, but you don't have to take their word. Try out all these premium features free for 14 days with a link in the comments and description. If you continue, the link also gives you 20% off. I hope you enjoyed testing it out. Feel free to let me know about your experience and feedback. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the House of Hypertrophy.