 smtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtrtr The forearms consist of muscles on the anterior compartment and posterior compartment. Here's a list of all 20 muscles. The brachioradialis is one many of you may instantly recognize. It extends from part of the upper arm across the forearm. We'll discuss how you may maximize its growth later. The anconius is a muscle you may have never heard of. It's a small muscle that is actually involved in elbow extension, so we'll actually be trained in any triceps exercise. Both the pronator teres and pronator quadratus are involved in pronating the forearm, while the supinator is involved in supinating the forearm. With the anterior compartment, muscles that have flexor in their name tell us they are involved in flexing the joints they cross. With all the flexor muscles here, they all cross the wrist joint, so flex the wrist, which is where the angle between the palm and forearm decreases. It is worth noting the palmaris longus also flexes the wrist. As a fun fact, not everyone has the palmaris longus muscle. According to this text, it can be absent in up to 26% of people. Various tests involving flexing the fingers and or wrist aim to see if you have a visible palmaris longus tendon or not. For example, this test involves you bunching your fingers and then flexing at the wrist to see if the palmaris longus tendon becomes visible. It is also interesting to know some people may have the muscle in one of their forearms but not their opposite forearm. Anyhow, the names of many of these forearm muscles may sound complex and intimidating, but let us quickly break down the meaning of the terms so we can enhance our understanding of the forearms. It's not essential for you to memorize the names, since I'll remind you of the functions of the various muscles as we detail what exercises may optimize their hypertrophy. When a muscle has polysys in its name, it tells us it can move the thumb, so the flexor polysys longest, in addition to flexing the wrist, can flex the thumb. When a muscle has digitorum in its name, it tells us it can move the fingers, or toes if we're talking about the foot. So both the muscles with flexor digitorum in their name tell us besides flexing the wrist, they can flex the fingers. Superficialis is Latin for near the surface, while profundus is Latin for deep. So the flexor digitorum superficialis is on top of the flexor digitorum profundus. Finally, for the anterior compartment, what about radialis and ulnaris? The lower arm has two bones, the radius and ulnar. Radialis refers to the radius. The flexor carpi radialis, besides wrist flexion, can perform radial deviation, which is movement of the hand towards the radial side. When you're standing like this, radial deviation looks like this. Ulnaris refers to the ulnar. The flexor carpi ulnaris, besides wrist flexion, can perform ulnar deviation, which is movement of the hand towards the ulnar side. When you're standing like this, ulnar deviation will look like this. Note, carpi just refers to the wrist. With the posterior compartment, muscles that have extensor in their name can extend the wrist, which is where the angle between the palm and the forearm increases. And you can probably guess the functions of many of these muscles based on what we've already described. Remember we're talking about extension with the posterior compartment. So, for example, the extensor digitorum can also extend the four fingers. There are only four things that we'll very quickly expand on. Digiti minimi translates to little finger. Indices translates to index finger. So, the extensor indices, besides extending the wrist, also specifically extends the index finger. Longus is Latin for long, and brevis is Latin for short. So, the muscles with longus are longer than their counterparts with brevis in the name, such as the extensor pollicis longus being longer than the extensor pollicis brevis. Now, some of you may be thinking, I see the abductor pollicis longus, but where's the abductor pollicis brevis? The abductor pollicis brevis belongs to the hand, so it's not a forearm muscle and thus isn't on the list. Anyhow, speaking of the abductor pollicis longus, this is our fourth and final point as it's a little confusing and worth clarifying. Abductor pollicis tells us it can abduct the thumb, but it actually can also extend the thumb and contribute to radial deviation. Here's a table that some may find useful that details the functions of all the forearm muscles. Once again, you don't need to memorize this, but feel free to replay this section if you do wish to memorize any of these details. Nearly all of the exercises most people perform in their training program, since they involve gripping onto the load, already involve some forearm stimulation. Vertical pulls, horizontal pulls, and deadlift variations involve a fair degree of static finger flexion strength to not lose grip. And remember, of all the forearm muscles, it's the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus that flex the fingers. So these two muscles are stimulated with the static finger flexion involved in these exercises. In fact, it's not super uncommon for people to get sufficiently strong on these movements to the point where these forearm muscles become the limiting factor. In this scenario, assuming your goal is to most effectively stimulate the muscles these movements typically intend to, using something like straps can eliminate grip as the limiting factor. During many curling exercises with our base knuckles face down, if you were to shut down the forearm muscles, the weight would pull us into wrist extension. So your forearm muscles, specifically the muscles that perform wrist flexion, are working to combat this from happening. Depending on your goals, training experience, and genetics, you might actually be happy with the forearm gains you see from your regular training. However, we can be pretty certain if your goal is to accelerate and maximize forearm development, direct forearm training is required. you might actually be happy with the forearm gains you see from your regular training. However, we can be pretty certain if your goal is to accelerate and maximize forearm development, direct forearm training is required. The reason for this is pretty straightforward. Based on the current scientific literature, we know to maximize growth of a muscle, we want to attain high muscle fiber recruitment levels and tension. This is simply achieved by training to or close to failure. During most exercises, your forearms are typically not the limiting factor, so are far from theoretical failure. But during direct forearm work, they are always the limiting factor. The anterior compartment of the forearms is generally larger than the posterior compartment. When dissecting the anterior compartment, except for the pronator teres and quadratus, which are not super large, we know the rest of the muscles all contribute to wrist flexion. Some of them have additional functions. But the fact is all of them have been established to have great leverage for pure wrist flexion. For those unaware, leverage, in this case, refers to a muscle's moment arm. The biceps can simply illustrate this. To know a muscle's moment arm, we need to know its line of force and the center of the joint it moves. Then, we simply draw a perpendicular line between these two things to get the muscle's moment arm. Here, we see the biceps has a fairly long moment arm, which tells us it has great leverage and potential to perform its function of elbow flexion. And generally, the longer the moment arm, the better leverage and potential a muscle has to perform movement. Since all these muscles have great leverage for wrist flexion, wrist curling exercises, which involves wrist flexion, will be very effective for training all these muscles. If you could only perform one forearm exercise, some wrist curl would be it, simply because this trains the greatest amount of forearm muscle tissue. Currently, there's no research directly comparing different wrist curl variations for muscle hypertrophy. Despite this, we can hypothesize what the best wrist curl variation might be based on the available literature on other muscle groups. Growing evidence suggests training muscles at relatively longer lengths produces greater hypertrophy than shorter lengths. What on earth does this mean? When we move, our muscles change lengths. For example, the biceps is at a longer length when the elbow is straight, but at a shorter length when the elbow is bent. Two areas of the scientific literature demonstrate the benefits of training muscles at longer lengths. The exercise comparison research and the range of motion research with the first. One example is this 2021 paper from Japan comparing seated to lying leg curls for hamstrings hypertrophy. The hamstrings consist of four muscle heads. All of them cross the knee joint, so are involved in bending the knee, called knee flexion. However, three of them also cross the hip joint. This design means these three hamstring muscles are going to be stretched more and thus at a longer length of the hip. When we bend the hip, which is done on seated leg curls, lying leg curls involve no bend at the hip. It was found seated leg curls grew these three hamstring muscles more than lying leg curls, while growth of the biceps femora's short head, which is the one that just crosses the knee and thus is trained at the same muscle length between both exercises, was similar between the two exercises. In past House of Hypertrophy videos, we've seen selecting exercises that train the quads and triceps at long lengths can build more muscle. As for the range of motion research, this refers to the joint angles you move through. So with a normal biceps curl, moving the elbow from 0 to around 130 degrees is a full range of motion, but we can divide this into two parts. Moving from around 0 to 65 degrees is what we may call a partial at long muscle lengths, while moving from 65 to 130 degrees is what we may call a partial at short muscle lengths. This 2022 study compared calf raises with a partial at longer muscle lengths, partial at shorter muscle lengths, and a full range of motion that moved across all angles. Gastrocnemius hypertrophy was greatest with the partial at long lengths being even better than the full range of motion. In the spirit of scientific accuracy, we need to recognize this literature on long muscle length training is emerging and developing, and more studies are needed to answer specific questions. For example, is a partial at long lengths always better than a full range of motion? Is there a threshold to the long length needed to maximize muscle growth, beyond which further lengthening provides no further benefit? Finally, all of the research on long muscle lengths for hypertrophy has been done on untrained individuals. Across the web, some suggest there are mechanisms that mean trained individuals would not see greater benefits from training at long muscle lengths. But as I've thoroughly described in this article, I think there are problems with this argument, and we simply need studies on trained individuals. Luckily, there's at least two studies in the works exploring if trained individuals benefit from longer muscle lengths. When they're published, I intend to update you with the results at the house of hypertrophy. Nevertheless, allow us to use this available data to at least speculate on what may be the best forearm exercises. Focusing on the forearm flexor muscles, we know they flex the wrist so are going to be shortened when the wrist is flexed, but at a more lengthened position when the wrist is extended. Withstanding wrist curl variations, we don't get into an extended wrist position, rather we're largely moving the wrist from neutral to a flexed position. Conversely, with wrist curls that have our forearm resting across a surface with the base knuckles down, our wrist successfully reaches an extended position. Therefore, we may hypothesize this variation may be better for hypertrophy thanks to it attaining longer lengths. This movement can also be performed with your lower arm across a bench or on your thigh. But that's not all, we might be able to make this exercise even better. Recall that the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus, besides flexing the wrist, also flex the fingers. As a result, these two muscles are going to be at a relatively shorter length when the fingers are flexed, but at a longer length when the fingers are extended. Consequently, if we allow the fingers to extend during the wrist curl, we will be able to lengthen the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus even more. Here, we're predominantly extending our fingers at something called the metocarpophalangeal joint while the load rolls down our fingers. We still have some bend in the distal and proximal interphalangeal joint so the load does not fall out. Then, we flex the fingers while simultaneously flexing the wrist to lift the load. We'll call this a finger flexion wrist curl. Here's an example of what this exercise looks like in real life. Some of you might be thinking, what if I just performed wrist curls with fat grips? For those unaware, fat grips are attachments that increase the diameter of the bar you need to grip. Thus, compared to using a normal grip, using fat grips automatically places your fingers into a more extended position. Therefore, when compared to normal wrist holes without fat grips, using fat grips will train the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus at comparatively longer lengths. But when comparing them to finger flexion wrist holes, they generally don't attain as much finger extension. So finger flexion wrist holes generally still achieves longer lengths for the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus. Making the speculative assumption this extra lengthening is beneficial for growing them more, this could be quite an important thing, because the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus are actually the two largest forearm muscles, so play a large role in your overall forearm size. You may be wondering, by introducing this finger flexion into our wrist curl, although this may enhance the stimulus to the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus through placing them at longer muscle lengths, does this not compromise the stimulus to the other forearm flexor muscles? My best guess is probably not. Although this is not an identical comparison, recall we saw this study comparing seated to lying leg holes. Seated leg holes lengthened three hamstring muscles more and grew them more, but it was no less effective for growing the biceps femora's short head, which is trained at the same length between the two exercises. In the same way, perhaps finger flexion wrist holes effectively grow the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus more, while not being any less effective for growing the other forearm flexor muscles. Now, you're not going to be lifting as heavy as you can compared to other wrist curl exercises, but this likely does not matter. We don't want to make the mistake of thinking that heavier weights means a greater stimulus. A great example of this comes from this 2022 paper from Japan that compared overhead extensions to pushdowns. Due to the precise anatomy of the long triceps head, it is actually trained at a longer length with overhead extensions, and it indeed grew better with this movement even though subjects lifted heavier loads on the pushdowns throughout the study. So this is how I'd rank the different wrist curl variations. Remember, this ranking is based on inferences from the scientific literature on other muscles, so it would be wrong for me to say this is 100% correct. Also, if you dislike or cannot train with any of the best ranked movements throughout this video, and you find it more enjoyable or practical to train with lower ranked movements, that is absolutely okay. Provided you train these movements to or close to failure, you are absolutely still going to experience hypertrophy. The data still shows meaningful hypertrophy in exercises training muscles at shorter positions. I'll also note with standing wrist curls, you can also introduce finger flexion which places the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus at relatively longer lengths. Of course, since the wrist remains neutral during this, it doesn't reach as long of a length as this variation. A time-efficient way to implement any form of wrist curls into your training is to superset them. Supersets involve you performing two exercises back-to-back and then rest before performing this for however many more sets you desire. Based on the current literature, we at least have evidence implying supersetting exercises that train different muscles is perfectly fine for muscle growth. Generally, supersetting wrist curls with an exercise that doesn't involve a grip component is probably a sound idea, such as supersetting leg extensions with them or any of these other options. INTRO Recall the anterior compartment is larger in size, so training them is the main priority. But the posterior compartment isn't terribly small and likely still worth training to truly maximize forearm size. Much of the extensor muscles of the forearm have great leverage for wrist extension, so it's no surprise wrist extension training is an excellent way to train them. The extensor muscles of the forearm are at a shorter length when the wrist is extended and at a longer length when the wrist is flexed. Standing wrist extensions don't attain a flexed position, rather we're moving the wrist from neutral to extended. Conversely, wrist curls with the forearm across a surface and the knuckles facing up successfully reaches the flexed position. So we may hypothesize this variation may be better for hypertrophy. The fingers are already flexed thanks to gripping the load, and in this scenario this is perfectly fine. Some of the extensor muscles have attachments on various fingers and are at a longer length when the fingers are flexed. A convenient way to add wrist extensions into your program is simply to superset them with another exercise or even a wrist curl variation. Another popular way to train the forearms is through isometric grip training. Isometric refers to our muscles working but not moving. I'll straight away mention that grip training is probably not essential for forearm hypertrophy, simply because grip training trains finger flexion and thus just trains the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus. Various intrinsic hand muscles are involved too, but they are not our focus today. If your thumb is in contact holding the load, then we will also additionally recruit the flexor pollicis longus. But all these forearm muscles are already going to be trained extremely well with the wrist cold variations we've dissected. But since grip training is popular, and since some of you may enjoy training variety, let us dissect it. In general, there are two common categories of grip training. The first is normal grip training, which involves you holding onto a standard dumbbell, barbell, or pull-up bar to or near failure. Far more walks involve simultaneously walking. All normal grip training trains the muscles at moderately short lengths. Why? Remember the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus are placed at the longest length when both the wrist and fingers are extended. The flexor pollicis longus will also be at its longest length when the wrist and thumb are extended. But during normal grip training, our wrist is virtually neutral and our fingers and thumb are flexed. This isn't a disaster. Research conducted on other muscle groups demonstrates that isometric training at short muscle lengths still evokes hypertrophy. But unsurprisingly, growth is better with isometric training at relatively longer muscle lengths. The second category of grip training, grip training with the fingers extended, gets us to comparatively longer lengths. These involve grip training with fat grips added to dumbbells, barbells, or a pull-up bar, and pinch training with plates or a dumbbell. There are subtle differences between these, but the main thing is all of them place our fingers and thumb into a more extended position, thereby training the muscles at a longer length relative to normal grip training. So this is the speculative ranking for isometric grip training. Some of you may be wondering, how does isometric training compare to normal dynamic training for hypertrophy? There only seems to be two studies comparing them. The first one was published all the way back in 1957, including the comparison of this biceps isometric exercise to dumbbell curling. Upper arm circumference gains ended up being better with the dumbbell curling. Yet, upper arm circumference is far from a precise measure of muscle growth, and we don't know if the results would have been different if isometric training at longer lengths would have been used. The second study comes from 1986, and this paper compared isometric to concentric-only and eccentric-only leg extensions. From the references, my best guess is that isometric training was performed roughly around the long muscle length positions achievable with a leg extension. Quad hypertrophy was not significantly different between all three, suggesting isometric training may be able to produce similar gains. Although I would have liked to have seen a normal group performing both the concentric and eccentric motions. Also, this is just one study, so future studies are necessary to truly determine how effective isometric training is. Right now, my best guess is isometric training, particularly at longer lengths, might be able to produce similar hypertrophy to normal dynamic training. Although, if future research finds isometric training isn't quite as good as dynamic training for hypertrophy, I don't anticipate the differences would be that large. Anyhow, as we at least know you can grow muscle from isometric training, it's absolutely fine to include isometric grip training in your training program if you desire. But let's say you wanted a dynamic alternative to isometric grip training. In this scenario, as isometric grip training involves static finger flexion, we would be looking for a dynamic finger flexion exercise. When dissecting wrist curls, we introduced finger flexion wrist curls which already involve finger flexion combined with wrist curling. In fact, one option on the table is to perform finger flexion wrist curls until you get to the point where you're struggling to curl the wrist up and then you squeeze out a couple of pure finger flexion repetitions with the wrist maintained in an extended position. But if you're not a fan of this, you can just perform pure finger flexion repetitions as a stand-alone exercise. This is likely an excellent exercise. Since our wrist and fingers attain extended positions, we're training the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus at long lengths. Besides this, hand grippers and standing finger curls also train finger flexion. I anticipate these can be quite effective for growth. But since the wrist is in neutral, it's possible they are not quite as great as finger flexion with the wrist extended. Note, these dynamic finger flexion exercises tend to involve the thumb not in contact with the weight. So the flexor pollicis longus isn't going to be trained. So this is how we may rank dynamic finger flexion training. Again, it's not crystal clear how isometric compares to dynamic training. But I will say as finger flexion with the wrist extended reaches the longest length of all these, it's possible this could be the best. Having said this, if you prefer to train with any of the lower ranked exercises, rest assured they're not going to decrease your muscle size. As alluded to at the start of this section, dedicated finger flexion training is likely not essential since the muscles involved are already going to be trained effectively in wrist curl variations. But since some of you may enjoy training variety, this certainly can be part of an overall highly effective muscle building program if you wish. Moreover, the flexor digitorum superficialis and profundus are after all two of the largest for our muscles. So extra finger flexion training is not what I'd call a waste of time. Finally, there are some convenient ways finger flexion training could fit into a training program. Besides just performing pure finger flexion reps after failing to perform wrist flexion, let's say you're training pull-ups. On your final set, you could just hang on the bar for a while. If you're training dumbbell or barbell standing curls on the final set, assuming the load isn't too heavy, you could perform a couple of pure finger curl repetitions. With hand grippers, these can be performed at any place and time, so it can be a highly convenient and simple way to train your forearms more. Performing exercises that involve radial or ulnar deviation will effectively train these forearm muscles that have leverage for this movement. But, five of these seven muscles are already highly trained with wrist curls and extensions. The two exceptions are the abductor pollicis longus and extensor pollicis brevis, which are probably better trained with radial deviation. These two muscles are pretty small, so maximizing their growth is probably not high on anyone's priority list, and growing them will probably have a trivial impact on your physique. So I don't consider radial or ulnar deviation essential, but I understand that not everyone thinks the same or has identical goals. So if you do wish to train radial or ulnar deviation, here's some solid options. Direct pronation and supination training isn't involved in most programs. Some of your exercises may be performed with a supinated or pronated grip, but these are not resisted pronation or supination training. Direct pronation training will effectively train the pronator teres and quadratus, while direct supination training will effectively train the supinator and even biceps since they function as a supinator too. These three forearm muscles aren't going to be trained with wrist curls or extensions. The pronator teres has some leverage to perform elbow flexion, so we'll somewhat be involved in exercises that involve elbow flexion. Yet, it likely experiences a better stimulus with direct pronation training. So if we wanted to maximize the growth of these muscles, direct pronation and supination training would be required. But considering that these muscles are a small fraction of the forearm muscle mass, they are far from the most important thing for overall forearm size. And for the vast majority of people that simply care about building an overall developed physique, direct pronation or supination training is not what I deem essential. But again, not everyone thinks the same or has identical goals, so perhaps you do want to train them. Some of you might know that pronation training is common in the arm wrestling world, and it's quite interesting to see that Devin Larratt, one of the best arm wrestlers in the world, has a highly developed pronator teres. Anyhow, with your forearm across a bench or on your thigh, and using an uneven dumbbell, moving the hand in this way trains pronation, while moving your hand in this way trains supination. You can also perform both in one smooth motion. As mentioned near the introduction, many of you are probably familiar with the brachioradialis. Some data indicates when the forearm is pronated, the brachioradialis helps return to neutral, while when the forearm is supinated, the brachioradialis again helps return to neutral. Yet, as implied by this paper, the primary function of the muscle may be elbow flexion. As a result, the brachioradialis is going to be trained well in any exercise that involves elbow flexion, including horizontal pulling exercises, vertical pulling exercises, and of course, curling exercises. It is widely thought using a neutral or pronated handgrip during any elbow flexion is superior for growing the brachioradialis. This belief partly stems from the idea that the biceps seem to have their best leverage to perform elbow flexion when the forearm is supinated. And indeed, a fair few electromyographic studies find the biceps display higher activity when elbow flexion is performed with the forearm in supination. Surely this then means the brachioradialis has a smaller contribution to elbow flexion with a supinated grip, but a larger contribution with a neutral or pronated grip. Quite fascinatingly, the overall electromyographic literature fails to support this. Although I did come across two studies finding the brachioradialis displayed higher activity when elbow flexing with the forearm pronated, three found no difference between different forearm positions, and four actually found better brachioradialis activity with the forearm in a supinated position. For example, the most recent paper had 10 competitive bodybuilders perform cable curls with a supinated, pronated, or neutral grip, and both biceps and brachioradialis activity tended to be higher with the supinated grip. As discussed many times at the house of hypertrophy before, electromyographic data has limitations, so it's possible this explains the surprising results. However, my current belief is that electromyographic data may potentially be more accurate when we're comparing exercises that only have slight variations, such as curling with different grips. My reasoning for this comes from research on other muscles. Some electromyographic research on the calves finds that calf raises with slight variations between them successfully predicted muscle growth outcomes, while other electromyographic research that compares very different exercises doesn't always translate into muscle growth outcomes. Thus, I think it is worth considering the surprising idea that a supinated grip trains both the biceps and brachioradialis extremely well. In fact, we at least have one study demonstrating that supinated curl training can be superb for brachioradialis hypertrophy. The study recruited previously untrained individuals to train dumbbell and machine preacher curls with these variables. Both of these exercises are typically performed with a supinated grip. This training was not compared to anything else, as the aim of the study was simply to explore the relationship between muscle hypertrophy and strength gains. It was ultimately found that the biceps, brachialis, and brachioradialis all significantly grew. As this study didn't directly compare supinated to neutral or pronated grip training, it doesn't prove a supinated grip is sufficient for maximizing brachioradialis hypertrophy, but it at least demonstrates how significant growth of all these muscles can occur with a supinated grip. For those interested, the study did find somewhat of a relationship between muscle hypertrophy and strength gains, but the relationship was far from super strong. We might have future videos at the House of Hypertrophy that explore the overall literature on the relationship between hypertrophy and strength. Anyhow, if we assume for a second that a supinated grip is sufficient for the brachioradialis, I think it's possible that some people who report feeling their brachioradialis more with pronated curls are getting confused with the wrist extensor muscles. During pronated curls, the weight is trying to flex your wrist, so your wrist extensors are working to prevent this from happening. Some of the muscles involved in this are around the brachioradialis, so you may be deceived into thinking it's working more than usual when you're actually feeling these extensor muscles. Now, this is a controversial take. I'm completely open to being utterly wrong here if future research finds brachioradialis hypertrophy is better after training with pronated or neutral grips. But right now, my current interpretation of the available evidence is that neutral or pronated grips may not be essential to maximize brachioradialis hypertrophy. Thus, if your current program includes some form of vertical and or horizontal pulls, plus at least one curling exercise, I expect this will absolutely contribute to substantial brachioradialis development and might indeed be enough. But let's say you have been doing this, but you are not happy with its development. Well, assuming other aspects of your training and lifestyle cannot explain your lack of brachioradialis growth, then you could try to increase the volume of your curls or, even though the present evidence doesn't support it, you could experiment with neutral or pronated curls as you don't have much to lose. Before we wrap up, some have suggested, regardless of forearm position, certain curling exercises could be better for the brachioradialis. There are two different lines of thoughts. The first one is that some analyses find the difference in elbow flexion leverage between the brachioradialis and the other elbow flexors tends to be largest as the elbow becomes increasingly flexed, which is at the top portions of a curl. Due to this, some say curling exercises that are harder at higher elbow flexion angles may elicit superior brachioradialis growth. Many regular free weight curls are already quite challenging at the middle to top parts of the curl, and adding a resistance band on top will make the top part of the curl even harder. Thus, perhaps this effectively increases the stimulus to the brachioradialis. The second line of thought opposes this. It suggests since the brachioradialis' leverage isn't that bad in lower elbow flexion angles. And since we've seen that training muscles at longer lengths seems to be better for building muscle, exercises that are harder in the bottom part of the curl when the muscles are at longer lengths could be best. Cable curl variations and free weight preacher curls do this, that is, they are relatively more challenging in the bottom part of the curl compared to regular free weight and resistance banded curls. I will note from the biceps perspective, since it has attachments on the shoulder and can be lengthened during shoulder extension, it will be at relatively longer lengths with the cable curl compared to preacher curls. Whereas since the brachioradialis doesn't have attachments at the shoulder, its length is similar between both exercises. So which of these two lines of thought is correct? There is currently no published research that can help answer this, but fortunately, I'm aware of at least one study that's in the works that may help answer this. Once it's published, we will update you at the house of hypertrophy. Until then, I wouldn't overthink this too much, and I would just select the curling exercise or exercises you prefer. If you're searching for further guidance on programming to obtain your desired physique, it can be tricky and time-consuming. However, our high-quality partner, the Alpha Progression app, can help you generate an evidence-based training program that's 100% custom to your needs in less than 3 minutes. Simply specify the equipment you have, how often and how long you want to train for, and if you want to focus or neglect certain muscles. There are even advanced options to periodize your training and implement deloads. There are over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based, and with the touch of a few buttons you can customize things further. Through analyzing your past performance, the app provides progressive overload recommendations during your workouts to help you continue making gains. The app automatically generates graphs that display your long-term progression, thereby saving you time from having to manually track your progression. The link in the comments and description gives you a 2-week free trial of all the premium features, and if you like it and decide to go beyond, the link gives you 20% off a subscription. I truly believe the app is awesome and the reviews speak to this. Before concluding, remember that although science is absolutely a powerful way to understand the world, our knowledge is provisional. That is, we are open to changing what we think might be true in light of new and stronger evidence. As mentioned in this video, there are some studies currently being conducted that may help us better understand how we may more effectively build muscle. And if further new evidence emerges that may support or challenge anything detailed in this video or anything else at the house of hypertrophy, I plan to update you all. To conclude, we've covered a lot of information. Feel free to replay the video or use the timestamps in the description and pinned comment to jump to specific sections. But based on everything detailed, we can see there are probably a quadrillion ways you could go about training your forearms. As some examples, if you only wanted to train with one forearm exercise, some form of wrist curl variation will help you train the most amount of forearm mass. We specifically saw how finger flexion wrist curls, due to them training all the flexor forearm muscles at longer lengths, might be best for hypertrophy. If you're happy to perform more than one exercise, adding in a wrist extension exercise likely helps you enhance growth of many muscles belonging to the posterior compartment of the forearm. If you're someone who prefers even more variation, besides these two exercises, you could add in some form of grip training, dynamic finger flexion training, or other specific exercises that generally target the smaller muscles of the forearm. Finally, we know the brachioradialis is part of the forearm too, and this muscle is highly involved in elbow flexion, a motion that occurs in exercises that are already present in many training programs such as vertical pulls, horizontal pulls, and any curling exercises. Thank you for making it to the end of the video, feel free to check out the Alpha Progression app, or our recent dive into growing the triceps and chest. A few levels where the plastic discs are also lacking from plastic discs where plastic discs are lacking from plastic discs plastic discs plastic discs plastic discs plastic discs