 N-acin,אשes.com.com. Welcome to the house of hypertrophy. Can you build more muscle by implementing lengthened supersets with some of your exercises. A new study is the first ever to explore this. Firstly, What even is a lengthened superset? During exercises, your muscles move from longer to relatively shorter muscle lengths. And some exercises are most challenging at relatively shorter muscle lengths. Calf raises tend to be hardest in the plantar flex position where you feel a squeeze of the calves at short. shorter lengths. Rows, pull-downs, and pull-ups tend to be hardest when your arms are more bent and your hands are closer to your body, which is where the back and biceps are at relatively shorter lengths. Dumbbell lateral and bent-over raises are hardest when the arms are out to the sides, where the shoulder muscles are at relatively shorter lengths. And as a final example, leccos also tend to be challenging when the knees are relatively more flexed and the hamstrings are at a shorter position. If you train to failure on these exercises, you tend to fail around that shorter muscle length position. But at this point, you can still squeeze out some more partial repetitions that have the muscles at relatively longer lengths. This is what we'll call a lengthen superset, where after you get too or close to failure with your normal range of motion on exercises that are hardest at shorter muscle lengths, you then straightaway perform as many partial reps at the lengthen position as you can. Now that we know this, let's dive into the new study. 23 untrained men were recruited. They trained calf raises on a smith machine with a foot on a step. Subjects moved from their most dorsiflexed position to their most plantar flexed position to complete a normal full range of motion repetition. With one leg, all subjects trained to momentary failure with their normal full range of motion. Momentary failure is defined as reaching the point where despite your maximal attempt to do so, you can't perform the full range of motion. As we know, calf raises are most challenging at the most plantar flexed position. So this leg would have failed in this position where the calves are at a relatively shorter muscle length. With their other leg, subjects also trained to momentary failure with the normal range of motion. But once they hit this point, they did not stop. They straightaway performed as many partial repetitions as they could, with the aim of failing in the more dorsiflexed position where the calves are at a relatively longer muscle length. The researchers planned for all subjects to get to the exact point where despite 100% maximal effort, subjects could not even raise themselves up from the most dorsiflexed position. However, some subjects were unable to do this. So the researchers had to settle with these subjects reaching what we may call volitional failure around the more dorsiflexed position. I think this is not a bad thing, as it makes the study more ecologically valid. For anyone that's ever done lengthened supersets on calf raises, you'll know it can get pretty excruciating. Here were the training variables used for both conditions. When subjects were able to perform more than 20 full range of motion repetitions on the first set in either condition, the barbell load was increased. Before and after the study, medial gastrocnemius growth was measured. The lengthened supersets ended up growing the muscle more than the normal training. In raw units, the growth was 0.62 mm more, while in relative terms, the growth was 43.3% greater. Some of you may be thinking, 0.62 mm more? That doesn't sound like much. But bear in mind that both groups saw under a 2 mm average increase in thickness of the medial gastrocnemius. Multiple studies looking at calf growth also tend to find between a 1-2 mm increase in gastrocnemius thickness after 6-10 weeks of training. And this isn't too surprising. Muscle growth can be a slow process, so we're not going to see astonishing increases in size in a few months. Considering this, an extra 0.62 mm increase in this timeframe, which again was 43.3% more growth for the subjects, is probably not meaningless. But it may depend on your point of view. Fascinatingly, the authors reported that around half of the subjects in the study felt this extra growth was worth the discomfort of lengthened supersets. Before describing how this paper fits into the rest of the literature and what the potential takeaways could be, in the spirit of scientific accuracy, we need to keep some things in mind. Firstly, the subjects were previously untrained. It's difficult to certainly know if this applies to trained individuals. Secondly, just calf raises were trained. So it's also difficult to certainly know if this extends to other exercises. Thirdly, volume load, the product of sets times reps times load, was much greater with the lengthened supersets, which is of course due to them performing extra partial reps. Volume load doesn't always have a strong relationship to hypertrophy, but it is difficult to tease apart the contribution of volume or lengthened supersets to the results. Lastly, some of you may be tempted to conclude this study proves that training to failure and beyond is better for building muscle in all scenarios. I don't think this is the best conclusion. We've seen previously at the house of hypertrophy that stopping 1-2 reps from failure can produce similar hypertrophy to training to failure, and that other techniques that go beyond failure, such as drop sets, tend to produce similar hypertrophy to normal sets. Considering this, I would merely interpret this study as telling us, with a specific exercise, calf raises which are most challenging at shorter muscle lengths, going beyond failure with a specific technique, lengthened supersets, has the potential to cause greater growth. This is the first ever study to explore lengthened supersets, and its results were promising. In a unique way, I say it adds to the growing evidence we've previously seen at the house fiberachy demonstrating that training muscles at longer lengths is great for growth. When we consider this overall research, I think it first and foremost suggests selecting exercises that already place and or challenge our muscles at longer lengths is a good idea. Last video we saw that leaning back leg extensions, which lengthened the rectus moris more than normal leg extensions, grew this muscle better. We've also previously seen that seated leg curls, which lengthened the hamstrings more than long leg curls, produced greater hypertrophy. Triceps overhead extensions, which lengthened the long head more than triceps pushdowns, grew this muscle more. We've also speculated that cable lateral raises and cable reverse flies, due to them challenging the muscles well at longer muscle lengths, may be up there as the best exercises for the side and rear delts respectively. But, as we might not enjoy or even have access to exercises that adequately challenge all of our muscles at relatively longer lengths, lengthened supersets may effectively help us build more muscle with exercises that are typically most challenging at shorter muscle lengths. Once again, just calf raises were used in the newest study, so we need to be cautious in extending the results to other exercises. But lowering our scientific shield, we may hypothesize lengthened supersets may be effective with rows, pulldowns, pull-ups, leg curls, dumbbell lateral raises, dumbbell bent-over raises, and any other exercises you may have that are most challenging in shortened muscle positions. So feel free to experiment with this strategy in your own training if you desire. There is another potential option on the table, which is just to purely perform partial repetitions at long lengths instead of any full range of motion reps. How effective could purely lengthen partial training be? This paper from 2022 recruited untrained women to train a calf exercise. One group used a full range of motion, a second group used purely a partial at long muscle lengths, and a third group used purely partials at short muscle lengths. Medial and lateral gastrocnemius growth was best with the partials at long lengths. In fact, medial gastrocnemius growth was 126.9% greater for the lengthened partials compared to the full range of motion. Recall in the newest study, medial gastrocnemius growth was 43.3% greater with lengthened supersets. Considering this, just lengthened partials may be more effective than lengthened supersets. But as the two studies had differences, direct comparisons between purely lengthened partial training and lengthened supersets is needed in future studies. When considering other research specifically on lengthened partials, two other studies on leg extensions and a hip extension machine further find a partial range of motion at long muscle lengths build more muscle than a full range of motion. But we do need other data on other demographics and exercises. Fortunately, I know there is at least one study coming soon comparing full range of motion to lengthened partials in trained individuals. We'll update you with the results when it's published. For now, feel free to try out the option you prefer. Before wrapping up, let us put our scientific shields back up and recognize with the research on long muscle length training. We are currently not talking about hundreds of studies with multiple replications across all training levels. Rather, we're talking about an emerging and developing body of literature that has been conducted on previously untrained individuals with upcoming research in trained individuals. So don't consider these things as 100% verified by science for being superior all the time. Rather consider them as being promising training tips that you may wish to experiment with in your own training. If you have any hesitancy, you could explore them on just some of your sets. For example, if you're performing three sets on a row in a session, the first two sets may be with a normal full range of motion, while the final set may involve a lengthened superset or just purely lengthened partial steps. Integrated partials is yet another option. This involves you alternating back and forth between a normal full range of motion and a partial rep at long muscle lengths. Finally, if you don't want to experiment with any of these training strategies, that's absolutely okay. You still grow with exercises that challenge short muscle lengths. Also, methods that have us training at longer muscle lengths can be more fatiguing, and depending on your individual circumstances, some people may struggle to recover from training at longer muscle lengths. Yet, the subjects in the current literature evidently were able to handle and thrive from training at longer muscle lengths. And we've discussed previously at the House Vipertifery how your body can adapt and reduce the fatigue you experience. So my current belief is in many cases, we shouldn't worry about the fatigue from training at longer muscle lengths. Anyhow, as you gain training experience, you will hopefully gain a greater understanding of your recovery capabilities. It can be tricky and very challenging to construct your own muscle building program. But the Alpha Progression app, which is essentially your personal clever muscle building assistant in the palm of your hand, can easily help you. With hundreds of thousands of downloads, thousands of reviews speak to its unmatched quality. Other apps truly generate garbage programs. But this app intelligently gets you closer to your dream physique. Through generating an evidence-based program 100% customizable to your needs. Simply let it know all about you, your experience level, the equipment you have, how often and how long you can train for, and if you want to focus or neglect certain muscles. This can all take less than a minute, and you can still make further edits if you like. The app has extra impressive features. During workouts, the app's algorithm carefully suggests how you may progressive overload to help push you to the next level. Aesthetic graphs automatically display your long-term progress, and there is a huge exercise database of all the best muscle building exercises. Try out every single one of the premium features to your heart's desire during a free 2-week trial through the link in the comments and description. If you like it and choose to go beyond, the link cuts the price of a subscription by 20%. I truly believe the app is exceptional, and I hope you'll enjoy it too. Thank you for making it to the end of the video. Here's the summary points. Feel free to check out the Alpha Progression app or our recent deep dive into building the triceps. Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra Bra