 Welcome to the house of hypertrophy. Welcome to the house of hypertrophy. How many reps are needed to maximise muscle hypertrophy? A brand new study on trained individuals has been released, and I thought it was worth sharing as it leads to an interesting discussion about what the minimum number of reps might be needed per set to optimise hypertrophy. Let's dive into the paper… Okay I need to work on that dive… individuals with at least two years of training experience were recruited to train the unilateral leg press and leg extension. With one leg, subjects performed three to five reps to volitional failure with a heavy load. With their other leg, subjects performed 20 to 25 repetitions to volitional failure with a light load. Both conditions performed three sets per session with two minutes of rest between sets. Loads were adjusted when needed to ensure subjects stayed in this rep range across sets and training sessions. They trained twice per week for nine weeks, although there was a deload midway where just one session was performed with one set. Muscle thickness of the vastus lateralis was measured at two regions, and biopsies from the vastus lateralis were also taken to measure muscle fiber cross-sectional area. Muscle thickness increases were not significantly different between both conditions, with average increases of 7.4% at region 1 and 8.5% at region 2. Fascinatingly, despite the fact whole muscle thickness increased for both conditions, neither conditions or increases in muscle fiber cross-sectional area. The author suggests the limitations with biopsies could explain things. Biopsies obviously only extract a relatively small portion of muscle. In this paper, just over 150 fibers were contained per biopsy. But this may fail to represent changes at the whole muscle as the whole muscle contains a ton of fibers. For example, this paper estimated the biceps to contain anywhere between 170,000 to 419,000 fibers. Regardless, as the authors note, the findings largely suggest similar growth between the two different rep ranges. Now, if you're new to the lifting research, the fact that 20 to 25 reps manage to produce growth may surprise you. However, as we'll expand on momentarily, it does appear that provided you're getting too or near to failure, higher reps can be similarly effective for muscle growth. In the spirit of scientific accuracy, there are some key things to keep in mind with this study prior to describing how these findings connect with the rest of the research. 14 subjects is a small sample. Volitional failure was the term used, which can be a little ambiguous. But the researchers did note that strong verbal encouragement was given to the subjects. So I do suspect subjects were training very hard, but we don't know if it differed between conditions. Finally, it can be tricky to say anything about a specific rep number when a rep range is given. We know one condition trained with 3 to 5 reps, but it's reasonable to think there's a difference between all sets of 3 versus all sets of 5. We'll talk more about this soon. It's never been crystal clear what the minimum number of reps might be needed to maximize the growth you can get from a set. So this is why this new paper involving 3 to 5 reps intrigued me. If you've been following the research, you may be thinking, Haven't we known for a while that provided your training too or close to failure, a wide range of reps produced similar gains? For example, this network meta-analysis by Lopez involved 24 studies and found similar hypertrophy across high, moderate, and low loads. This is true. However, if we want to talk about the minimum number of reps needed to maximize the stimulus of a set, it's worth knowing the details of the studies. I have gone through every study. Feel free to pause and skim through if you'd like, but you don't have to as I'll give you the key details. When looking at the studies, what number we decide to be the minimum number of reps needed to maximize hypertrophy per set is not as clear or obvious as you might think. Some studies, like the new one, report a range of reps performed per group. This is understandable. Researchers may intend subjects to perform exactly 4 reps, but despite max effort, they may sometimes only hit 3 reps or other times may be able to hit 5 reps. So it's simpler to give a range. Still, using a range doesn't lend itself well to making claims about an exact rep number. Other studies don't even directly report rep numbers. Instead, they have compared subjects training to failure with a different percentage of their 1 rep max. The thing is, the number of reps completed for a given percentage can differ between exercises. This meta-analysis demonstrated that with an 80% 1 rep max load, subjects could perform 13 reps on the leg press, but around 9 reps on the bench press. Individual differences also exist. You may be able to perform 10 reps with an 80% 1 rep max load on the bench press, while your friends may only perform 8 repetitions despite both of you giving max effort. Additionally, your rep numbers will decrease when training to failure across sets when keeping the same load due to fatigue. Thus, it can be challenging to say things about an exact rep number based on the research. But, we can still make approximations as to what the minimum and maximum number of reps could be based on the overall literature. Some say it's 5 to 30 reps, others 3 to 40 reps, but I've previously said the 6 to 35 range better represents the data we have. I'm not going to bore you with the full details of why I selected these numbers. But, if you are interested, you can find my explanation in the pinned comment. But, has the new study, suggesting similar growth between 3 to 5 reps and 20 to 25 reps, changed my mind? Before answering that, let's quickly describe what all the other research on 5 or fewer repetitions suggests. There are these 6 studies that suggest 5 or fewer reps may produce similar growth to moderate and higher reps. One of them actually found more growth with 3 to 5 reps but just with one of their measures. But, a key consideration is these studies had the 5 or fewer rep groups perform more sets and or rest longer between sets. These are potential confounders, as both these things, more sets and in some cases longer rests, can cause more growth. So, what about studies using 5 or fewer reps where sets, rest time and all other variables are controlled? Well, besides the latest study, we only have 2 other papers. The first paper found with all groups performing 4 sets on the back squat per session and resting 6 minutes between sets, training with 3 to 5 reps to failure did produce similar quad gains to 2 other groups training with higher reps. These findings are fairly similar to the new paper. The other paper involved a range of compound exercises with everyone performing 3 sets per exercise a session and resting 2 minutes between sets. Training to failure in the 2 to 4 rep range did not produce as much overall growth as training to failure in the 8 to 12 rep range. Of course, 2 to 4 reps is not the same as 3 to 5 reps and this mere difference could explain the discrepancy but difficult to say. So, the new paper now means we have 2 studies suggesting 3 to 5 reps produce similar growth to higher reps with sets and rest time equated. Is that enough to bring down the recommended minimum number of reps needed to maximize hypertrophy? I wouldn't do this yet as 2 studies is not much and when we look at the other papers with unequal sets and or rest time, you could make the argument that if 3 to 5 reps really was as effective per set, then we should more clearly see 3 to 5 reps producing more growth as they were performing more sets and or resting longer which we know can cause more growth. As it's a crucial point, it's worth reiterating that since the studies largely used the range of 3 to 5 reps, with some including 2 reps at the lower end, it's tough to say anything about an exact rep number. It's quite reasonable to believe that 5 reps produces more growth than 2 and 3 reps, but no study has compared them exactly. Hopefully future research can shed further light onto this. Finally, we're not overall dealing with a lot of strong data on 5 or fewer reps anyway, so the variance demon is always lurking in the shadows. Credit to the guys over at Data Driven Strength who, as far as I know, coined this term. Simply put, the variance demon represents the idea that behind studies, especially studies with small sample sizes, our results can fail to accurately describe reality due to things like measurement error, sampling variance, or other sources of error. For example, we might unknowingly have one group of subjects with better muscle-building genetics than another group, which can obscure things. The variance demon can often explain why we have seemingly conflicting and confusing data. I do have a video where I go into more detail on sampling variance if you're interested. This is why having studies with large sample sizes or simply combining enough small sample size studies into a meta-analysis enables us to better separate out the signal from statistical noise. So, to be completely clear, I am not saying that 3-5 reps per set does not maximize growth. Rather, I'm saying that the evidence is not strong enough and somewhat confusing to be completely sure. I personally hope that somewhere between 3-5 reps can maximize hypertrophy per set as that just gives us more options. But for now, I have more confidence that 6 and above does likely maximize growth. I'm fully aware this answer may be somewhat disappointing or frustrating, so I apologize. But it's the only honest answer I think there is. Our conversation today has been focused on a very minor detail. Fortunately, the practical recommendations are straightforward. If your goal is to maximize muscle hypertrophy, I think it's a safer bet to train with 6 or more reps per set. That said, if you've been predominantly training with 5 or fewer reps and seeing great progress, I wouldn't change a single thing. Also, we have been talking about things in isolation. But in reality, your training program can include a variety of rep ranges. And if you do have a few sets under 6 reps, that's not a major problem. At minimum, we do know growth can still occur with sets of 3-5 reps so they won't be doing nothing. In fact, there is one paper demonstrating that having a few low rep sets might be fine. These researchers had 19 trained men perform a range of exercises, each for 3 sets 3 times a week for 8 weeks. One group trained with 8-12 reps to failure every session, while another group trained with 2-4 reps on day 1 of the week, 8-12 reps to failure on day 2, and 20-30 reps to failure on day 3. Growth was not significantly different between both groups. Some of the numbers favor the varied group, but as one of the authors described in an article, this was probably largely driven by outliers and sampling variants. This is just one study with a small sample. We do have a few other studies comparing direct measures of muscle growth between training with 1 rep range to training with a variety of reps, finding similar hypertrophy. All groups in these papers largely trained with 6 or more reps. So, unsurprisingly, training with a variety of rep ranges in your program can absolutely be done. If you're searching for further guidance on programming to obtain your goal physique, our high-quality partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate personalized programs that are truly comprehensive and well-rounded. Input key details, such as what equipment you have, how often and how long you're able to train, and if you want to emphasize certain muscles. This generally takes less than a minute. The training philosophy is based on the latest scientific literature, and further customizations can easily be done, like changing any training variable or implementing things like supersets. During workouts, there's a built-in warm-up set calculator and rest interval timer. The app also provides progressive overload recommendations to assist you. Of course, the app can automatically log your progression across time. If you're unsure about exercise technique, there are straightforward video and text instructions on nearly 800 exercises. The reviews from tens of thousands is a testament to its exceptional quality, but we would love to know what you think. The link in the comments and description gives you a free two-week trial of all its features, plus 20% off a subscription if you decide to continue. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the House of Hypertrophy. δ