Welcome to the house of hypertrophy. How many reps are needed to maximize muscle hypertrophy? A brand new study on trained individuals has been released and I thought it was worth sharing as it leads to an interesting discussion about what the minimum number of reps might be needed per set to optimize hypertrophy. Let's dive into the paper. Okay, I need to work on that dive. 14 individuals with at least two years of training experience were recruited to train the unilateral leg press and leg extension. With one leg, subjects performed 3 to five reps to valitional failure with a heavy load. With their other leg, subjects performed 20 to 25 repetitions to valitional failure with a light load. Both conditions performed three sets per session with 2 minutes of rest between sets. Loads were adjusted when needed to ensure subjects stayed in this rep range across sets and training sessions. They trained twice per week for 9 weeks, although there was a D lo midway where just one session was performed with one set. Muscle thickness of the vasis lateralis was measured at two regions and biopsies from the vasis lateralis were also taken to measure muscle fiber cross-sectional area. Muscle thickness increases were not significantly different between both conditions with average increases of 7.4% at region 1 and 8.5% at region 2. Fascinatingly, despite the fact whole muscle thickness increased for both conditions, neither condition saw increases in muscle fiber cross-sectional area, the author suggest the limitations with biopsies could explain things. Biopsies obviously only extract a relatively small portion of muscle. In this paper, just over 150 fibers were contained per biopsy, but this may fail to represent changes at the whole muscle as the whole muscle contains a ton of fibers. For example, this paper estimated the biceps to contain anywhere between 170,000 to 419,000 fibers. Regardless, as the authors note, the findings largely suggest similar growth between the two different rep ranges. Now, if you're new to the lifting research, the fact that 20 to 25 reps manage to produce growth may surprise you. However, as we'll expand on momentarily, it does appear that provided you're getting to or near to failure, higher reps can be similarly effective for muscle growth. In the spirit of scientific accuracy, there are some key things to keep in mind with this study prior to describing how these findings connect with the rest of the research. 14 subjects is a small sample. Valitional failure was the term used, which can be a little ambiguous, but the researchers did note that strong verbal encouragement was given to the subjects. So, I do suspect subjects were training very hard, but we don't know if it differed between conditions. Finally, it can be tricky to say anything about a specific rep number when a rep range is given. We know one condition trained with three to five reps, but it's reasonable to think there's a difference between all sets of three versus all sets of five. We'll talk more about this soon. It's never been crystal clear what the minimum number of reps might be needed to maximize the growth you can get from a set. So, this is why this new paper involving three to five reps intrigues me. If you've been following the research, you may be thinking, "Haven't we known for a while that provided your training to or close to failure, a wide range of reps produce similar gains. For example, this network meta analysis by Lopez involved 24 studies and found similar hypertrophy across high, moderate, and low loads. This is true. However, if we want to talk about the minimum number of reps needed to maximize the stimulus of a set, it's worth knowing the details of the studies. I have gone through every study. Feel free to pause and skim through if you'd like, but you don't have to, as I'll give you the key details. When looking at the studies, what number we decide to be the minimum number of reps needed to maximize hypertrophy per set is not as clear or obvious as you might think. Some studies, like the new one, report a range of reps performed per group. This is understandable. Researchers may intend subjects to perform exactly four reps, but despite max effort, they may sometimes only hit three reps, or other times may be able to hit five reps. So, it's simpler to give a range. Still, using a range doesn't lend itself well to making claims about an exact rep number. Other studies don't even directly report rep numbers. Instead, they have compared subjects training to failure with a different percentage of their one rep max. The thing is, the number of reps completed for a given percentage can differ between exercises. This meta analysis demonstrated that with an 80% one rep max load, subjects could perform 13 reps on the leg press, but around nine reps on the bench press. Individual differences also exist. You may be able to perform 10 reps with an 80% one rep max load on the bench press, while your friends may only perform eight repetitions despite both of you giving max effort. Additionally, your rep numbers will decrease when training to failure across sets when keeping the same load due to fatigue. Thus, it can be challenging to say things about an exact rep number based on the research. But we can still make approximations as to what the minimum and maximum number of reps could be based on the overall literature. Some say it's 5 to 30 reps, others 3 to 40 reps, but I've previously said the 6 to 35 range better represents the data we have. I'm not going to bore you with the full details of why I selected these numbers, but if you are interested, you can find my explanation in a pinned comment, but has the new study suggesting similar growth between 3 to 5 reps and 20 to 25 reps changed my mind? Before answering that, let's quickly describe what all the other research on five or fewer repetitions suggests. There are these six studies that suggest five or fewer reps may produce similar growth to moderate and higher reps. One of them actually found more growth with three to five reps, but just with one of their measures. But a key consideration is these studies had the five or fewer rep groups perform more sets and or rest longer between sets. These are potential confounders as both these things, more sets and in some cases longer rests can cause more growth. So what about studies using five or fewer reps where sets, rest time, and all other variables are controlled? Well, besides the latest study, we only have two other papers. The first paper found with that all groups performing four sets on the back squat per session and resting 6 minutes between sets training with three to five reps to failure did produce similar quad gains to two other groups training with higher reps. These findings are fairly similar to the new paper. The other paper involved a range of compound exercises with everyone performing three sets per exercise a session and resting 2 minutes between sets. Training to failure in the 2 to four rep range did not produce as much overall growth as training to failure in the 8 to 12 rep range. Of course, two to four reps is not the same as 3 to 5 reps. And this mere difference could explain the discrepancy, but difficult to say. So, the new paper now means we have two studies suggesting 3 to five reps produce similar growth to higher reps with sets and rest time equated. Is that enough to bring down the recommended minimum number of reps needed to maximize hypertrophy? I wouldn't do this yet as two studies is not much. And when we look at the other papers with unequal sets and or rest time, you could make the argument that if three to five reps really was as effective per set, then we should more clearly see three to five reps producing more growth as they were performing more sets and/or resting longer, which we know can cause more growth. As it's a crucial point, it's worth reiterating that since the studies largely use the range of three to five reps with some including two reps at the lower end. It's tough to say anything about an exact rep number. It's quite reasonable to believe that five reps produces more growth than two and three reps, but no study has compared them exactly. Hopefully, future research can shed further light onto this. Finally, we're not overall dealing with a lot of strong data on five or fewer reps anyway. So, the variance demon is always lurking in the shadows. Credit to the guys over at Datadriven Strength who, as far as I know, coined this term. Simply put, the variance demon represents the idea that behind studies, especially studies with small sample sizes, our results can fail to accurately describe reality due to things like measurement error, sampling variance, or other sources of error. For example, we might unknowingly have one group of subjects with better muscle building genetics than another group, which can obscure things. The variance demon can often explain why we have seemingly conflicting and confusing data. I do have a video where I go into more detail on sampling variance. if you're interested. This is why having studies with large sample sizes or simply combining enough small sample size studies into a meta analysis enables us to better separate out the signal from statistical noise. So to be completely clear, I am not saying that 3 to five reps per set does not maximize growth. Rather, I'm saying that the evidence is not strong enough and somewhat confusing to be completely sure. I personally hope that somewhere between 3 to five reps can maximize hypertrophy per set as that just gives us more options, but for now I have more confidence that six and above does likely maximize growth. I'm fully aware this answer may be somewhat disappointing or frustrating, so I apologize, but it's the only honest answer I think there is. Our conversation today has been focused on a very minor detail. Fortunately, the practical recommendations are straightforward. If your goal is to maximize muscle hypertrophy, I think it's a safer bet to train with six or more reps per set. That said, if you've been predominantly training with five or fewer reps and seeing great progress, I wouldn't change a single thing. Also, we have been talking about things in isolation, but in reality, your training program can include a variety of rep ranges, and if you do have a few sets under six reps, that's not a major problem. At minimum, we do know growth can still occur with sets of three to five reps, so they won't be doing nothing. In fact, there is one paper demonstrating that having a few low rep sets might be fine. These researchers had 19 trained men perform a range of exercises each for three sets three times a week for 8 weeks. One group trained with 8 to 12 reps to failure every session, while another group trained with two to four reps on day one of the week, 8 to 12 reps to failure on day two, and 20 to 30 reps to failure on day three. growth was not significantly different between both groups. Some of the numbers favor the varied group, but as one of the authors described in an article, this was probably largely driven by outliers and sampling variance. This is just one study with a small sample. We do have a few other studies comparing direct measures of muscle growth between training with one rep range to training with a variety of reps, finding similar hypertrophy. All groups in these papers largely trained with six or more reps. So, unsurprisingly, training with a variety of rep ranges in your program can absolutely be done. If you're searching for further guidance on programming to obtain your goal physique, our highquality partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate personalized programs that are truly comprehensive and well-rounded. Input key details such as what equipment you have, how often and how long you're able to train, and if you want to emphasize certain muscles. This generally takes less than a minute. The training philosophy is based on the latest scientific literature and further customizations can easily be done like changing any training variable or implementing things like supersets during workouts. There's a built-in warm-up set calculator and rest interval timer. The app also provides progressive overload recommendations to assist you. Of course, the app can automatically log your progression across time. If you're unsure about exercise technique, there are straightforward video and text instructions on nearly 800 exercises. The reviews from tens of thousands is a testament to its exceptional quality. But we would love to know what you think. The link in the comments and description gives you a free 2e trial of all its features, plus 20% off a subscription if you decide to continue. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the house of hypertrophy.