 prolaphataphataphat, prolifataphat, prolifataphat, prolifataphat, prolifataphat, Welcome to the house of hypertrophy. How many sets should you perform for your muscles? What types of exercises should you train with? And how can you build muscle with quicker training sessions? Three new studies add to our knowledge of these areas. We'll briefly review these new studies, understand how they fit into the overall scientific literature, and then explain what this may mean for your training to maximize muscle hypertrophy. Let's dive in. Much research on set numbers has been done on the quads, triceps, and biceps. This new study is exciting as it's explored another muscle group, the calves, a muscle many report struggling to grow. As with all studies, it's not flawless, but its findings nonetheless nudges along the path to fully understanding the relationship between sets and muscle hypertrophy. 61 untrained women trained this straight leg calf raise exercise three times per week for six weeks. One group performed two sets per session, thereby totalling six sets for the calves in a week. A second group performed three sets per session, thereby totalling nine weekly sets for the calves. A third group performed four sets per session, thereby totalling 12 weekly sets for the calves. All groups trained with 15 to 20 reps to momentary failure each set, with two minutes of rest between sets. Weights were increased as subjects got stronger to stay in the 15 to 20 rep range. Medial gastrocnemius, lateral gastrocnemius, soleus, and the sum of all these was measured before and after the study. For all measurements, growth tended to be best for the 12 weekly set group, followed by the 9 weekly set group, and then the 6 weekly set group. With the sum of all measures, the 12 weekly set group saw 73.9% greater growth than the 6 weekly set group, and 17.6% greater growth than the 9 weekly set group. Some differences weren't statistically significant, but I've previously discussed how statistical significance is not everything. Now, it's still worth pointing out the 6 weekly set group saw respectable gains. Plus, the jump in muscle growth was larger from 6 to 9 weekly sets compared to 9 to 12 weekly sets, suggesting diminishing returns. So how does this fit into the rest of the research? This meta-analysis combined the results of multiple other studies examining sets and gains. It indeed found performing 9 or more weekly sets for a muscle produced greater growth and fewer than 9 weekly sets. So the new study perfectly aligns with these results. Just in case you're confused, don't forget we're talking about the total number of sets you perform for each muscle per week. For example, 9 weekly sets for a muscle group, such as the quads, may include you performing 3 sets on each the squat, leg press, and leg extension in a week. Returning to the meta-analysis, it's still worth pointing out that, again, fewer than 9 weekly sets still build muscle. So lower set numbers are not useless, it's just that you do tend to see better gains with more sets. Summoning the spirit of scientific accuracy, we must not forget this new study was done on previously untrained women and did not exceed 12 weekly sets. In fact, much of the data behind the meta-analysis was likewise conducted on untrained individuals and did not exceed more than 12 weekly sets per muscle group. So what about data in trained individuals and more than 12 weekly sets? We've dissected this data in a previous video, feel free to check that out. But the gist is this, trained individuals can likely still grow from fewer than 9 weekly sets. But muscle growth does seem to be known to be better and potentially even optimized with 12 to 20 weekly sets per muscle group. It's not clear if going beyond 20 weekly sets produces even more growth. Some studies do not find this. But as seen in another one of our videos, some research finds in certain cases, it can provide additional gains. So in general, a solid recommendation is to perform at least 9 to 12 weekly sets for each muscle group. It is perfectly fine to train with fewer than this if you're not looking to maximize the growth of the muscle or muscles in question. Also, if you're happy to train more in the hope of maximizing your gains, pushing nearer to 20 weekly sets or perhaps even beyond for at least some of your muscle groups could be a worthwhile experiment to see how you respond. There are endless options of exercises you could select to be in your training program. But one factor, the length at which a muscle is trained appears to be quite important. Let us review this new study and then we'll explain this further. 42 previously untrained men were recruited. To understand the design of this study, I need to explain a fact about muscles and a certain training style. Your muscles are a lot stronger when lowering a weight, approximately 40% stronger in general. You have probably felt this. In any curl, the lifting is much harder than the lowering part. This fact relates to a certain training style. Lowering Overload Training Here, we'll define lowering overload training as lowering a weight that would be too heavy or difficult for you to lift. How on earth can you do this? Well, in this new study, one group trained Nordic curls. This is a bodyweight hamstring exercise. Many people aren't strong enough to lift themselves up, so the subjects in the study just performed controlled lowering-only repetitions. Subjects progressed through a weighted vest. A second group performed this bending over seated leg curl. How was lowering overload training done with this? Firstly, just remember that the lifting phase of a seated leg curl is where we bend our knees, and the lowering is when we're straightening our knees. To make this lowering overload training, subjects performed the lifting of the weight with two legs and then switched to one leg on the lowering phase to achieve overloaded lowering for that leg. Once they finished the reps with this one leg, they switched over to training the other leg. Sets and reps were equal between both groups. It was found that overall hamstring's hypertrophy was 63.6% greater for the seated leg curls. Muscle length is perhaps the strongest explanation for these findings. Let me briefly explain. The hamstrings consist of four muscles, all cross over the knee joint, so bend the knee, but three of them also cross the hip joint, and this design means they can be stretched more, that is, at a longer length, when the hip is flexed. Seated leg curls involve our hips flexed, while Nordic curls involve virtually no hip flexion. Accordingly, these three hamstring muscles are trained at longer muscle lengths with seated leg curls, and all three of the heads grew better with this exercise. As for the muscle, the biceps femoral short head, which is trained at a similar muscle length between both exercises, it fascinatingly grew better with a Nordic curl. The researchers suggest since Nordic curls may not stimulate the other three hamstring muscles as much, the biceps femoral short head increases its involvement. Alternatively, it's still possible muscle length plays a role. More precisely, as the biceps femoral short head just crosses the knee, it's at a longer length when the knee is straight, but at a shorter length when the knee is bent. Seated leg curls are more challenging when the knee is bent, while Nordic curls are most challenging when the knee is straighter, the point where the biceps femoral short head is at a longer length. Finally, the sartorius and gracilis muscles also grew better with the Nordic curl. You may be unfamiliar with these muscles, but they assist the hamstrings in knee bend. But due to their precise anatomy, they are actually trained at a longer length with the Nordic curl, so this is a strong explanation for the results. So what does this study tell us? Before addressing what I feel to be the key takeaway, some might be curious. Is lowering overload training any better than normal training? The popular Mike Mensah once suggested it could be, but as I've thoroughly examined in a previous video, they largely seem to be similar for overall growth. With that out of the way, the key is this study is yet another suggesting training muscles at longer lengths builds more muscle. If you've been following the house of hypertrophy for a while, you'll know there's growing research suggesting this. We're gradually creating three ultimate guides to developing each muscle group, where we describe the current scientific literature on each muscle and hypothesize what might be the best exercises for them. Summoning the spirit of scientific accuracy, this research is still emerging and developing, so it's not definitive proof training muscles at longer lengths produces more growth in all circumstances. Rather, just consider training muscles at longer lengths as a potentially promising strategy that you may wish to try out in your training. Also, all of the studies have currently been done on untrained individuals. Fortunately, though, there's upcoming research on trained individuals, and we will be updating you with the findings. How can you shorten your training session duration while not hurting muscle growth? Supersets are one proposed way. They involve performing two exercises with minimal rest and then resting before performing however many more sets you desire. Antagonist supersets are quite popular. These involve supersetting two exercises that train opposing muscle groups, such as a biceps and triceps exercise. Previous research suggests antagonist supersets do not hurt your training performance. That is, you can perform approximately a similar number of total repetitions on your exercises to normal sets, even though the work is in a smaller amount of time. We also have two studies suggesting antagonist supersets produced similar hypertrophy to normal sets. However, these two studies just involved two exercises, and the subjects were untrained. Luckily, this brand new study examined antagonist supersets with multiple exercises in trained subjects. 43 trained individuals were recruited to train these exercises twice per week for eight weeks. Four sets of 8 to 12 reps to momentary failure were performed for each exercise every session. A normal group performed all sets on one exercise before moving on to the next exercise. They rested two minutes between sets. A superset group supersetted the lat pull-down with the smith machine bench press, the leg curl with the leg extension, and the biceps curl with the push-down. It took them around 20 seconds to transition between the supersetted exercises, and they rested two minutes between sets. This resulted in the training session being approximately 36% shorter. Training performance was not meaningfully different between both sessions, although subjects rated the superset as being harder. Thus, the supersets did not reduce the number of reps they could complete to failure even though it felt harder overall for the subjects. It was ultimately found muscle growth was similar between both groups. Strength and endurance gains were also similar between both groups. It's worth mentioning the superset group did report more nausea than the normal group, but this did reduce over time. As a result, the researchers suggest slowly introducing supersets into your routine. For example, you may train further from failure on your supersetted exercises or perform fewer total sets, and then you progress over time. Thus, if it interests you, feel free to experiment with antagonist supersets in your program where you feel it can be suitable. Lastly, although there is currently no direct research on this, I would guess non-related supersets should also be fine. This is where you superset exercises that train non-related muscle groups, such as a biceps exercise with a calf exercise. Considering the conflicting information across the web, things can get pretty confusing about how you may want to train. I hope the videos at the house of hypertrophy go some way to clearing up this confusion, but our high-quality partner, the Alpha Progression app, may also assist you. An extremely well-designed plan generator can help you generate an evidence-based muscle-building program 100% tailored to your needs. This can take you less than the time you take to brush your teeth. There are over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based, and you can still personalize things. During workouts, the app analyzes your performance and suggests how you may progress to sustain muscle gains. Graphs display your long-term progress, and there's a huge exercise database of some of the best muscle building movements, with simple video and text instructions. Try out all the premium features free for two weeks with a link in the description and comments, and if you like it and choose to go beyond, the link gives you 20% off a subscription. Thank you for making it to the end of the video. Here's the key summary points. Feel free to check out the Alpha Progression app, or another one of the videos at the House of Hypertrophy.!