 Welcome to the House of Hypertrophy, a brand new review has been released exploring how much muscle can be gained as well as what drives muscle hypertrophy. Let's dive straight in. How much muscle might you expect to gain across your training career? The researchers first examined data on the typical gain seen in studies lasting a few months, and then combined this with other data to infer long-term growth potential. Starting with the former, this meta-analysis reported the effects of resistance training on proxies of muscle hypertrophy in healthy adult males. We'll soon return to how things may change for females. Fat-free mass was the most commonly reported metric. It was found that the average response to training was a gain of 1.5 kilograms in around 10 weeks. Keep in mind that fat-free mass is not synonymous with skeletal muscle mass. There are many non-skeletal muscle mass components included in fat-free mass, but the assumption here is that skeletal muscle mass is what primarily drives changes in fat-free mass, especially over the long term. When the meta divided the studies by training status, trained individuals unsurprisingly saw numerically lower increases. Although interestingly, the differences were not statistically significant. Nevertheless, trained is a broad category. Needless to say, we'd expect someone with 10 years of training experience to see much lower increases in fat-free mass than someone with 2 years of training experience. Using the range of values reported from the studies, the researchers also considered responsiveness. In 10-12 weeks, a higher responder might see a 3 kilogram increase while a lower responder might see a 0.4 kilogram increase. Considering the entirety of a lifting career, the researchers decided to make inferences from examining the range of fat-free mass index values in natural bodybuilders. For those unaware, fat-free mass index is calculated by dividing fat-free mass by the square of an individual's height in meters. Let's say you're 85 kilograms with 15% body fat at a height of 1.8 meters. Doing the math and we get 22.3. The researchers referenced data from natural bodybuilders reporting ranges of fat-free mass index between 22.7 to 25. Using these fat-free mass index values, along with typical heights and baseline fat-free mass levels, we can estimate the amount of fat-free mass change in the long term, which amounts to 12.5 to 20.2 kg in total, or 2.5 to 4 kg on average over a 5-year period. Putting all this together, the researchers provide this schematic illustration. A high responder may wind up with a 21 kg increase in fat-free mass, an average responder with a 12 kilogram increase, and a low responder with a 5 kilogram increase. For females, it may come as a surprise to some, but there's good evidence that they gain muscle at a similar relative rate to males. That is, their percentage increase is very similar. However, they do tend to see lower absolute increases since they tend to start out with less muscle. The details on screen should make the distinction between absolute and relative increases clear. Using these precise numbers, the researchers provide the rough estimate that absolute fat-free mass gains in females may be 70% of those observed in males, thus arriving at this figure. All in all, I do think this is a generally decent estimate of how things may look over the long term. But remember this is not a fact, since this is arrived at by merging different areas of the literature each with their own limitations. Further, there are debatable assumptions. For example, the x-axis stops at 5 years, and many debate the degree to which muscle size can be increased after numerous years of training. There is also a lot more nuance behind responsiveness, and I would be very careful with labelling someone a true low responder. It's possible that they may respond better with different training variables and or ensuring they're optimizing non-training factors. I'll also mention that reality isn't necessarily going to be as clean as this trajectory suggests. Many may have time periods where they grow more or less than expected for a range of different reasons. I plan to have a more in-depth video on how much muscle might be gained over an entire training career, where I'll detail more research and explore questions such as if there's really a natural fat-free mass index limit, and how steroids could change things. The biological effects of testosterone have been known since antiquity, but it was first isolated around the 1930s. Nowadays, we're well aware that supraphysologic doses of testosterone can notably increase muscle size. Just take a look at this classic paper, which found that injecting 600 milligrams of testosterone in anthe per week, with no training, led to larger increases in some proxies of hyperchefee versus a group lifting weights naturally. Given these effects of testosterone, it's unsurprising that people pay close attention to it, even outside of exogenous administration. One such example relates to temporary increases in natural testosterone that can occur from lifting weights. In fact, various people are also interested in the temporary increases in other systemic anabolic hormones, like growth hormone and IGF-1 that come about from lifting. Some go so far as to construct their training program in an attempt to maximize the post-training spike in anabolic hormones. Doing this typically requires using exercises that train large amounts of muscle mass, performing a large number of sets with moderate loads and short rest intervals. But, do acute changes in systemic anabolic hormones strongly influence muscle hypertrophy? Let's take a look at the evidence outlined in the review. Wilkinson and colleagues had subjects train unilateral leg extensions and leg presses thrice weekly for eight weeks. In the 90 minutes after the workout, there were no changes in systemic anabolic hormone concentrations, yet increases in fiber cross-sectional area were observed. Thus, acute hormonal elevations do not appear to be required to stimulate hypertrophy. However, since there were no comparisons to other training styles, one could still suggest that training styles that do produce greater acute hormonal changes are superior. Is this true? This study by West had a low hormone condition perform a unilateral arm isolation exercise with these variables. A high hormone condition also performed the unilateral arm isolation curl exercise, but followed this up with a high volume of lower body training. As alluded to earlier, exercises that involve large amounts of muscle mass produce greater temporary elevations in anabolic hormones. So, by performing these leg exercises, larger acute anabolic hormone elevations occurred with this condition. Despite this, hypertrophy ended up being similar. Indeed, there are other studies failing to find that training protocols that produce larger temporary anabolic hormone elevations produce superior hypertrophy, as well as papers failing to find correlations between acute anabolic hormone elevations and muscle growth. This led the researchers to conclude, acute increases in testosterone, growth hormone or IGF-1 after exercise do not influence muscle protein synthesis or hypertrophic outcomes in men or women. Perhaps this isn't as surprising as it may first seem when we consider the fact that the changes in endogenous anabolic hormones that occur with lifting are usually well within the daily variations of the hormone and are orders of magnitude less than what we see with exogenous administration. Furthermore, the temporary changes in hormone levels typically last no longer than 90 minutes after exercise. Mechanical Tension refers to the force generated by muscle fibers. This can be active tension, the force generated by a muscle's contractile elements, or passive tension, the force generated by various components when stretched. These forces are sensed by mechanosensors, which transduce the force into signals that can culminate in hypertrophy. As the authors note, mechanical tension is the primary and essential driver of resistance training induced muscle hypertrophy. In a general sense, proximity to failure is closely tied to mechanical tension. As you get closer to failure, muscle fiber activation progressively increases, ultimately exposing more muscle fibers to greater tension. This doesn't necessarily mean you have to always train to failure as stopping one to two reps from failure could be sufficient in certain scenarios. Now, I do think some people go too far with mechanical tension, and unjustifiably base their whole training program on what they think maximizes mechanical tension. For example, they may hypothesize that a certain training style optimizes mechanical tension and subsequently hypertrophy, even though the actual research measuring muscle growth fails to support that training variable being superior. The key consideration here is that there's still a lot we do not know. So, while knowing about mechanical tension is generally interesting, I would still focus on the research we have measuring muscle growth to inform training rather than possible faulty speculations about optimizing mechanical tension. Moving forward, the authors know that the accumulation of metabolites like lactate, inorganic phosphate, and hydrogen ions have been proposed to contribute to hypertrophy. This notion may lead some to construct their training program with the goal of maximizing the buildup of metabolites. But is this really necessary? There are three pieces of evidence noted in the review that I'll address here. Firstly, the authors note that many bodybuilding routines typically involve training with 8-12 reps per set and tend to elicit greater levels of metabolic stress versus heavier low training. Yet, 3-5 reps can still produce similar gains. This is especially true in studies where the 3-5 reps performs more sets to equate total volume load. If you're interested, we have a video on low reps for hypertrophy examining this literature more. Secondly, blood flow restriction training can create a relatively hypoxic environment that increases metabolic stress. Blood flow restriction training has been shown to be highly effective for hypertrophy even with very light loads. Some hypothesized blood flow restriction causes hypertrophy by way of metabolic stress. However, as the researchers mentioned, blood flow restriction results in premature fatigue that leads to earlier recruitment of more muscle fibers. And it might just be the mechanical loading of these fibers explaining the growth and not metabolite accumulation per se. On top of this, one might expect that if metabolic stress is additive to hypertrophy, adding blood flow restriction to regular training with moderate to heavier loads should stimulate more growth. Yet, we have a few studies exploring this in different ways, either implementing the blood flow restriction during this set, within the rest interval or after the training session, but all fail to find more growth with the added blood flow restriction. Thirdly, there are exercise modalities that produce similar or greater metabolite accumulation to lifting, such as high intensity interval training or sprinting. Yet, these likely produce lower overall hypertrophy to lifting. Considering all this, it is clear that metabolic stress isn't the primary driver of hypertrophy. And the current literature questions whether it's additive. The researchers of the review do not mention this, but I want to add that I don't think we can definitively say metabolic stress has zero role in muscle growth. It's an immense challenge to separate out metabolic stress and other stimuli like tension in humans. Furthermore, there are over 4,200 metabolites in human serum, needless to say, not to all of them have been extensively explored. We also can't rule out that some small amount of metabolic stress contributes to growth and virtually all training styles pass this threshold. Or, maybe more extreme levels of metabolic stress not yet explored in the human data benefits growth. Finally, perhaps there are other avenues by which metabolic stress or at least training styles that involve high metabolic stress could benefit hypertrophy. For instance, there is some evidence that capillarization could be beneficial for muscle growth. Thus, although we can draw some reasonable conclusions about metabolic stress from the current literature, there still remains questions. The researchers note another popular proposed mechanism of hypertrophy is cell swelling, which is linked to metabolic stress. The pump has its origins in post-exercise hyperemia and opening of muscular vascular and capillary beds, which, with increased flow, lead to an increase in muscle size. The authors ultimately conclude that there's a lack of evidence supporting a direct hypertrophy benefit of cell swelling. Indeed, we've covered the pump recently in this video, where we note the research demonstrating that training styles that lead to a greater pump do not necessarily cause more hypertrophy. I will say this doesn't necessarily mean the pump is useless. For one, some enjoy the sensations of a pump, and that can be important when it comes to staying consistent with your training. Furthermore, one speculation is that when you're comparing two exercises performed with the same training variables, the exercise that leads to a greater pump at a certain muscle region means that region is seeing more tension and is thus a good indicator of growth. This is a possibility. But as we saw in our recent video, the evidence on this is interestingly a little mixed. The researchers did not touch on muscle damage, which many have proposed is a crucial driver of muscle hypertrophy. However, like metabolic stress, the evidence linking damage to muscle growth isn't promising. We've covered this topic more in prior videos if you want to dig deeper into it. To acquire your goal physique, there's no question that effective training is necessary. If you'd like assistance with this all while supporting what I do at the House of Hypertrophy, our highly rated partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate a comprehensive program 100% custom to your needs. Choose your goals, specify if there's muscles you want to focus on more, and let it know how often and how long you want to train for. This process can take less than a minute. There are well over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based on. Furthermore, the training philosophy is based on scientific literature. During workouts, the algorithm analyzes your past performance to derive progressive overload recommendations, thereby fostering long-term progress. Improve your understanding of your response with progression charts on a range of key metrics. The exercise database continues to grow, with just under 800 exercises. Each exercise has simplified instructions and further basic information. Try out all this free for two weeks with a link in the comments and description. And if you like it and continue, the link provides 20% off a subscription. Feel free to let me know what you think about the app anytime. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the House of Hypertrophy.