 v-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring-pring- overall scientific literature say on this topic. In this video, I'll summarize the entire literature on rep ranges for building muscle. We'll answer as many questions as possible. I've had previous videos on this topic, but I wanted to have a video that summarizes and combines everything so you're aware of all aspects of the rep range research. Let's dive in. In the last few years, five meta-analyses have compared high vs low-low training for muscle hypertrophy. In case you're unaware, meta-analyses combine the results of numerous studies and are generally some of the strongest form of evidence. These meta-analyses fundamentally find the same thing, similar growth across a wide range of loads. For example, this meta-analysis by Lopez compared high, moderate, and low loads with similar hypertrophy across the comparisons. This holds even when looking at different types of muscle growth measurements, as this meta-analysis finds that higher and low loads produced similar increases in lean mass, whole muscle size, and muscle fiber size. I must point out that the studies have subjects get to or at least very close to failure with a given load. For a higher load, this will result in fewer reps, while for a lighter load, this will result in a higher number of reps. The exact rep numbers vary from study to study and even from set to set in a couple of papers. But after going through each paper, I'd say most are in the 6-35 rep range. Others do say 5-30, but I think 6-35 might represent the underlying data a little better. Shortly, we'll examine what happens if you creep below 5 or 6 reps, as well as if you go above 35. I must also point out that most studies use a pretty normal speed on each rep, around a 1-2 second lifting and 1-2 second lowering duration. Rep speeds will naturally slow down as you near failure, but the key is this 6-35 rep zone will likely not be applicable if you are using deliberately very slow speeds on every rep. For example, this study fascinatingly found that 6-10 reps were inferior for building muscle when each rep involved a seriously slow 10-second lifting and 4-second lowering duration. So we've seen that 5 meta-analyses, including multiple different types of muscle growth measurements, suggest similar growth across a wide number of reps when training too or very close to failure. That seems like pretty strong evidence, but some might point out that a chunk of this data was done on untrained individuals only training a few exercises. They suggest the results could be different in trained individuals performing a full program. Is this true? Well, we luckily have two studies which were done on trained individuals performing a full program. Both studies involved 3 sets per exercise, with one group training 8-12 reps to failure per set and another group training 20-35 reps to failure per set. Measures of growth increased similarly between both, meaning we have reason to believe hypertrophy is similar across a wide number of reps even in this context. At this point, some might be thinking, sure, 6-35 reps produce similar growth, but the type of growth they produce is not the same, namely, higher reps better grow slow-twitch fibers while lower reps better grow fast-twitch fibers. Is this true? Some earlier studies out of Russia suggested this could be true, but these papers crucially have a range of limitations. Fortunately, one of the meta-analyses shown earlier aimed to explore this more with better design studies. Ultimately, fast-twitch fiber growth was similar between higher and lower loads, and slow-twitch fiber growth was also similar between higher and lower loads. Thus, it seems that growth of both slow and fast-twitch fibers is similar across a wide range of reps. Another paper not included in this analysis had an interesting design. It explored how growth of the soleus, a muscle composed of predominantly slow-twitch fibers, compared between training calf raises with either 20-30 reps to failure or 6-10 reps to failure. It was found the soleus grew similarly between both, thereby again failing to support the idea higher reps are better for slow-twitch fibers. These results might make sense, as this excellent paper on trained individuals found that when performing four sets on the leg extension with either higher or lower loads to failure, activation of fast and slow-twitch fibers was similar between both. Indeed, higher loads can readily recruit both fast and slow-twitch fibers. With low loads, initially only slow-twitch fibers might be recruited. But as you perform more reps and get closer to failure, recruitment of those faster-twitch fibers can occur. Can you still build muscle effectively with fewer than 5 or 6 reps? An interesting place to start is to see if 1 rep, that is your 1 rep max, can build muscle. I am aware of four studies that had one condition trained with 3-4 sets of 8-12 reps, while another condition had at most 5 attempts to reach their 1 rep max each session. All four of the papers find greater growth with the 8-12 reps, and they all fascinatingly find the 1 rep max produce very little to no growth whatsoever. So, 1 rep doesn't seem to do much for building muscle. But what about 2-4 reps? This paper on trained individuals helps us out. Subjects trained these exercises for 3 sets each with these other variables. A heavy group adjusted loads each set to hit 2-4 reps to failure, while a moderate group adjusted loads each set to hit 8-12 reps to failure. Overall, growth tended to be better with the 8-12 reps. However, another paper on untrained individuals had slightly different findings. Subjects trained the back squat for 4 sets with either 3-5 reps, 13-15 reps, or 23-25 reps. Growth was ultimately not significantly different between all 3 rep ranges. There are differences between these two studies, but it just doesn't seem crystal clear if very low reps produce optimal gains. Now, there are 5 other papers actually finding 2-4 reps to be similarly effective to higher reps for building muscle. But my big concern is these papers had the 2-4 rep conditions perform more sets per exercise and or rest longer between sets. I view this as a potential problem since we have data suggesting more sets can build more muscle and resting longer between sets, in certain cases, could build more muscle. Therefore, if these 5 studies equated set numbers and rest between sets, perhaps they would find 2-4 reps to not be as effective. There is also some other indirect data. This paper compared leg extensions with reps to failure with either a 30% or 90% 1 rep max load. On average, 5 reps were performed with a 90% load, but muscle protein synthesis was overall greater with a 30% load. One limitation though is that muscle damage can cloud our interpretation of muscle protein synthesis data. And as we'll soon see, higher reps and lower reps do not cause the same amount of damage. There is also this paper which found that gains in lean mass somewhat stalled when subjects transitioned to performing 3 sets of 3 reps on their core exercises. This stall did not occur for other groups training with slightly higher rep numbers. One limitation is that lean mass isn't the most precise measure of growth. Overall though, it's apparent that the weight of muscle muscle muscle is not the same as the muscle muscle muscle. However, since its effectiveness on a per-set basis is questionable, I would generally recommend not training entirely with reps below 5 or 6 for building muscle. However, if some of your sets involve very low reps, that might actually be fine and nothing major to worry about. For example, this study had subjects trained dumbbell curls with either a low 30% 1 rep max load or a high 80% 1 rep max load. Looking at the rep numbers across sets, you can see the 80% condition involved 3 reps on the final set on average, but growth was still ultimately similar between both conditions. As another example, this study by Schoenfeld yet again had trained subjects train these exercises for 3 sets, 3 times per week. A varied group trained 2-4 reps to failure on Monday, 8-12 reps to failure on Wednesday, and 20-30 reps to failure on Friday. A constant group trained with 8-12 reps to failure in all training sessions. Muscle growth was ultimately similar between both. Some of the percentages favored the variation, but this was partly driven by outliers. So, having some sets with very low rep numbers might not ruin your gains. You could argue if this study instead had 5-6 reps on Monday, this would have certainly resulted in varying rep ranges producing better results. However, this is currently challenging to suggest with confidence as we have two other studies that explored the effectiveness of training with a variety of reps, where none of the sets went below 6 reps. Both found similar growth between training with these different rep ranges and another group that largely trained with 8 reps to failure every session. So, training with a variety of different rep ranges does not enhance growth, but it's not any worse either, so it's something you could certainly try out if you desire. And of course, it is also possible to train with higher reps on some exercises but lower reps on other exercises. Having said all that, most of the studies last 12 weeks or less. In a much older video, I presented this study, finding that after 9 months of training, comparing a group training only with the 8-10 rep range, training across a variety of rep ranges produced greater increases in fat-free mass. But, I do not put a ton of stock into this as it's just one study and fat-free mass measured by skinfold calipers is not an ideal measure for muscle growth. I would like to see more long-term data in this area though. How high can you go? What if you go above 35 reps? This is more of a theoretical question as I'm sure most people have no desire to train with very high repetitions. But let's briefly examine what the literature suggests. This study involved comparing dumbbell curls performed for 3 sets with either a 30% or 80% 1 rep max load. Fascinatingly, we can see the 30% condition involved an astonishing average of 100 reps on the first set, yet they still ultimately experienced similar hypertrophy to the 80% condition. Part of the reason the rep numbers are so high is they did not adjust the training load until the middle of the study. So subjects were essentially progressively overloading by performing more and more reps till failure, thereby increasing the average number of reps performed. A number of other studies using light loads have subjects adjust the load every session such that they stay roughly around the 25-35 rep range. Anyhow, what does other research say about super high reps? The best design paper is probably this one. Untrained subjects trained the dumbbell curl and leg press with roughly 3-5 sets. Subjects either used a 20%, 40%, 60%, or 80% 1 rep max load to failure each set. These were the average reps. Overall, the 40-80% load produced similar hypertrophy which is expected as these conditions were within the 60-35 rep range. Whereas the 20% condition, which performed an average of more than 60 reps, still produced growth but just not as much as the other conditions. There are two other studies which compare training to volitional failure with either a 15% or 70% 1 rep max load. One of them finds similar growth while the other suggests a very light load was inferior. However, two considerations are these studies had the 15% condition used shorter rest time between sets, and they actually stopped any set with a 15% condition when any subject hit 90 reps even if that wasn't volitional failure. So, in total, it's clear that 35 reps is not a hard cutoff. It's possible more than 35 reps can still produce similar hypertrophy. But based on the varying data, I currently would not recommend training with super high repetitions. But again, I'm sure not many would be willing to train with super high repetitions even if it was as effective. Just out of curiosity, I think it would be interesting to see future studies on trained individuals exploring more than 35 reps. I'm sure the subjects would have a fun time. How to Recover This might surprise some, but there's evidence that higher repetitions cause more damage and take longer to recover from versus lower repetitions. For example, this study had subjects trained one of their legs with either a lighter 40% or heavier 80% load on the leg extensions. Separated by a week, reps were taken to failure. Recovery was slower after training with a 40% load. Fascinatingly, a decrease in strength of the opposite leg was seen immediately and up to 24 hours after training with a 40% load, suggesting CNS fatigue since CNS fatigue may reduce the force of muscles not directly trained. Evidently, the fatigue from higher reps does not seem to be severe enough to render it inferior in the literature. We've seen that higher reps can still be effective in the context of an overall program. And there are also three studies demonstrating higher reps were still as effective as lower reps when training with 18 or more weekly sets for a muscle group. Your body can also reduce damage and fatigue over time. A prime example is this paper that initially found untrained subjects took more than five days to recover from five sets of 15 maximal eccentric reps. Maximal eccentric training is no joke and much more damaging than normal training. Yet, after eight weeks of training, subjects were recovering a day or two after the sessions. Yet, I wouldn't be surprised if a handful of people just simply cannot adequately handle training entirely with higher reps, especially when they're performing higher volumes. And overall, if you're trying to create as little fatigue as possible, reps on the lower side of the spectrum may more effectively help you do that. This notion has led some to suggest that although hypertrophy is similar across a wide number of reps, the 6-12 rep range still remains a more practical hypertrophy training zone. That is certainly not a bad take. However, I still think it's fine for you to explore and experiment around with higher reps if you like, even if that's just on some of your sets. Again, recall training with a variety of rep ranges is not inferior, and perhaps some of you may prefer higher reps on certain exercises. We've seen in previous videos that leaving a few reps in a reserve may produce similar hypertrophy to training to failure. But, some have suggested this only applies to reps on the lower side of the spectrum. With higher reps, we must reach failure to maximize hypertrophy. Is this true? A meta regression last year indeed suggested the effect of getting closer to failure was less pronounced with heavier loads. However, this isn't definitive proof as there isn't a number of strong direct comparisons behind the dataset. When directly looking at the comparisons, I am not so sure. We have some studies that unsurprisingly find with lighter loads, training very far from failure fails to produce as much growth as training to failure. Anyhow, we have some indications that stopping just a few reps short of failure with lighter loads can be as effective as failure. This paper involved subjects training the leg extension with a 30% 1 rep max load. One condition involved getting to true momentary failure while another non-failure condition stopped at voluntary discomfort. The numbers provided would suggest a non-failure condition was stopping a few reps short of failure, but hypertrophy was similar between both. We also have blood flow restriction studies which involve higher repetitions finding similar hypertrophy between training to failure and stopping a few reps short of failure. We also have this paper conducted on trained individuals comparing high load lower body training with around 1-3 reps in reserve to high rep blood flow restriction training with around 1-4 reps in reserve. Both ultimately produced similar hypertrophy including hypertrophy of slow and fast twitch fibers. You could say as these studies involved blood flow restriction, their findings cannot be applied to normal high rep training. That might be true, but the mechanisms behind blood flow restriction training could be similar to normal training. I might expand on this in a future video. Finally, in sum, not all, of the studies that compare different rep ranges, they instruct subjects to reach volitional failure which might not always be true momentary failure. Given it's easier to train to failure with reps on the lower side of the spectrum, I wouldn't be surprised if the higher rep groups were stopping slightly further from failure compared to the lower reps. Yet hypertrophy still ends up being similar between both, which may further suggest reaching momentary failure is not essential to optimize hypertrophy from higher reps. This isn't case closed, but my current thinking is that stopping shy of failure may still be highly effective with higher reps. However, some practical considerations are in order. The data indicates it's more likely to underestimate how close to failure you are with lighter loads, probably because higher reps are more painful which may mask your true progress. proximity to failure. For this reason, if you're training with higher reps, it may be reasonable to just train to failure to ensure you're not under training or at least have some sets which are to failure to remind you of that failure feeling with higher reps, which may improve your accuracy if you choose to stop a few reps short of failure on other sets. Before wrapping up, I must touch on individual differences. As we've described in some videos last year, two papers suggest that some people grow better with lower reps while other people grow better with higher reps. But in the last year, there has been an excellent paper explaining why these studies are technically not designed sufficiently to truly identify individual differences. I'll leave a link to this in the description if you're interested in learning more about this. Nevertheless, it is still possible that some grow better with one rep range over another. But since we don't have sufficient enough data to know to what extent this is true, and if there are any simple ways you could determine if you respond better to one rep range over another, I would recommend just considering the overall results of the literature, which was done in this video. Although, you could say if you're struggling to make progress with your current training, and all other factors are dialed in, then you could try training with a different rep range to see if that could help. Considering the conflicting information across the web, things can get pretty confusing about how you may want to train. I hope the videos at the House of Hypertrophy go some way to clearing up this confusion. But our high-quality partner, the Alpha Progression app, may also assist you. An extremely well-designed plan generator can help you generate an evidence-based muscle building program 100% tailored to your needs. This can take you less than the time you take to brush your teeth. There are over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based, and you can still personalize things. During workouts, the app analyzes your performance and suggests how you may progress to sustain muscle gains. Graphs display your long-term progress, and there's a huge exercise database of some of the best exercises you can do. You can also use the best muscle building movements with simple video and text instructions. Try out all the premium features free for two weeks with a link in the description and comments, and if you like it and choose to go beyond, the link gives you 20% off a subscription. Thank you for making it to the end of the video. Here's the key summary points. Feel free to check out the Alpha Progression app or another one of the videos at the House of Hypertrophy. Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below... Find some questions below...