 Welcome to the House of Hypertrophy. How many sets are necessary to maximize muscle hypertrophy? This is arguably one of the most debated questions in the world of fitness, but we have a brand new study that I consider to be quite important for understanding the current research in this area. In this video, we'll first provide some background on the contentious literature on sets and hypertrophy, then we'll examine the new study and discuss its implications. This will lead us to a clear outline of what I believe the research truly suggests about the relationship between sets and hypertrophy. Finally, we'll wrap up with some training recommendations. Let's dive in. We need to go back to October 2023, when one of the most controversial papers on muscle growth was published. The researchers recruited 31 well-trained individuals to train the back squats at leg press and leg extension twice a week. In the first training week, every subject performed 22 sets, so that 11 sets per session split between the three movements. A fixed group continued to perform 22 sets every week for the remainder of the study. A 4-set group added 4 sets every two weeks, resulting in them performing 42 sets in the final week. Again, that was split between two training sessions in a week which looked like this. A 6-set group added 6 sets every two weeks, resulting in them performing a whooping 52 sets in the final week, again split between the two training sessions in a week which looked like this. All sets were aimed to be performed two reps away from failure in the 6-12 rep range, except the final set on each exercise which was taken to what the researchers termed volitional concentric failure. It was found that muscle growth, examined by measuring the cross-sectional area and thickness of the Vastus lateralis, tended to be better with the highest volumes. We'll return to a discussion of strength later, but for those curious, increases in back squats one rep max strength followed a similar pattern. These were some fascinating findings. Even today, the 52 sets reached by the 6-set group remains the highest weekly set volume reported in the scientific literature. Thinking about the training protocols, keep in mind that not only did the 4 and 6-set groups ultimately train with higher average set numbers than the fixed group, they also progressively added sets across the weeks. So, strictly speaking, it is unknown which of these factors contributed to the extra growth. Was it the higher average sets, the act of adding sets, or perhaps both? The idea of progressively adding sets is certainly an interesting one. To make this clear, imagine we have one group that trains with 20 weekly sets per muscle group for a total of 11 weeks. They, of course, average 20 weekly sets per muscle group. But imagine another group started with 10 weekly sets, and progressively added set every week to get them to perform 30 weekly sets per muscle group by the end of the 11 weeks. They also averaged 20 weekly sets per muscle group, but would there be a difference in muscle growth between the two groups? Sadly, the current evidence we have is insufficient to provide anything close to a clear answer, but I do intend to discuss what limited evidence we do have in a future video at the House of Iperturphy. Regardless, it is very much reasonable to conclude that these findings support the idea of higher sets delivering greater gains. But, unsurprisingly, this paper was met with mixed reactions across social media. Some thought this paper pointed to a new upper threshold for volume, but others had their doubts. Some of these doubts have contended that the greater growth seen by the highest volumes might not be real hypertrophy, but muscle swelling. Note, when I say real hypertrophy, we're talking about an increase in muscle size due to the addition of contractile units. The idea that swelling could be involved was certainly not an absurd suggestion. We know that after a sufficiently intense workout, muscles can experience transient increases in size due to factors likely relating to muscle damage. In some papers, such muscle swelling has been documented to be detectable in the multiple days after a workout. We might expect higher sets to cause greater muscle swelling. This all begs the question, in the extreme volume study, were the muscle size measurements after training taken at a time point when swelling might be present? Well, muscle size was measured 72 hours after the final training session, and skeptics were unconvinced this was long enough for swelling to have fully subsided. Talk about swelling would be reignited just over a year later when this meta-aggression was released. Based on combining the data of 35 studies, this relationship between sets and hypertrophy was found. Simply put, more sets produced greater hypertrophy with no sign of a plateau or an inverted U relationship, a finding that surprised many. To this day, I believe this remains our strongest insight into what the research suggests about the relationship between sets and hypertrophy. To ensure we all know what we're looking at, the white axis denotes increases in muscle size, while the X axis shows the number of fractional sets performed per muscle group per week. Feel free to pause and read the description and examples if you're unfamiliar with what this means. Of course, we're not talking about warm-up sets, rather working sets where you're training hard. Here are the visuals summarizing the variables used in the various studies. On average, there were 10 reps per set and most sets were taken to failure. But once again, given much of these studies measured muscle size 48 to 72 hours after the final training session, skeptics proposed that swelling was creating the appearance of more sets producing more growth. In reality, lower set volumes were enough to maximize real hypertrophy. Now, just to be clear, the idea of swelling contributing to the research on sets does date back much further, at least to 2018. But in the last few years, the arguments around swelling predominantly relate to these two papers. The problem is we never had a study actually comparing muscle swelling responses from different sets. So, we never had a great insight into how big swelling differences might be between lower and higher sets, as well as how long it takes swelling from varying set numbers to subside. This is where the new study comes into play. It is the first study to have explored this. Let's see what it found. The researchers recruited 13 trained individuals with an average of 5.1 years of experience to train the back squats, leg press, and leg extension in three workouts separated by a week. The only difference between the three workouts was the number of sets completed. One involved seven total sets, another 14 total sets, and the other 21 sets. These workouts were counterbalanced in a randomized order. Subjects began each exercise with 90% of their 10 rep max and aimed to perform all sets with 8-10 reps. Loads were adjusted when needed to maintain the target rep range. Two minutes of rest was provided between sets and three minutes between exercises. The authors note that subjects were motivated to ensure they exerted maximal effort during each exercise. This was applied uniformly to minimize variability in exertion levels. Muscle thickness and echo intensity of the anterior thigh, which contained both the rectus femoris and vastus intermedius, was measured at two sites before the workout, immediately after the workout, and 24, 48, and 72 hours after the workout. Just to be completely clear, this was not a study designed to compare muscle growth between the different sets. The study just had trained individuals trained with different sets, and muscle swelling was measured in the following hours and days after the workouts. It's also worth pointing out that these levels of set numbers, when executed two to three times per week, which is the most common training frequency in studies exploring sets, would correspond to these weekly set numbers. Thus, the 21 set condition in this study would be representative of a very high set number group. So, what did the researchers find? Fascinatingly, there were actually no significant differences in responses between the different set numbers, and swelling had more or less fully subsided 24 hours after the workout for all set numbers. As the authors describe, our results suggest the residual muscle swelling and or edema is unlikely to be a major confounding factor in hypertrophy assessments, at least when post-training measurements are conducted 24 hours or later after the final training session. In the spirit of scientific accuracy, this is just one study, so it's certainly not definitive proof. I know that some might be tempted to completely discard this paper since it just involved 13 trained individuals. However, remember that this was a crossover design, that is, each subject performed all three conditions, so there is no between-subject variability between conditions. Thus, at any given sample size, a crossover design gives us much greater power. So, a crossover design with 13 subjects is typically better than having 40 subjects split between the conditions. Again, this is not to say the study is conclusive proof. It's just that I believe it should be taken seriously. It is worth knowing there are at least five other studies conducted on trained individuals exploring muscle swelling in the days after a workout. Two of them reported that measurement had returned to baseline 24 hours after the workout, suggesting swelling had subsided by this point. However, the other three suggest some levels of swelling still present 48 to 72 hours after the workout. At first, this might be confusing. How come we have some data finding detectable levels of swelling 48 to 72 hours afterwards? But the new paper as well as these two other papers fail to find this. Ultimately, these studies are not identical and so there are multiple potential explanations for the divergent findings. But remember that none of these five other studies compare different set numbers, rather their focus was on other areas. So, they don't allow us to strongly say that higher set numbers produce meaningfully more prolonged swelling. This is why the new study was important since it was the first study to provide insight into this. All this brings me to my next point. Even though the new paper was important and interesting, it's critical to understand that even if it did find greater swelling from the higher sets and that swelling was still detectable 48 to 72 hours after, it actually would not follow that swelling is influencing the observed relationship between sets and hypertrophy in the literature. Why? Remember that all these studies, including the new one, examined muscle swelling after just one workout. This is an important consideration because in the studies behind the meta regression, subjects obviously trained for multiple weeks on end with muscle size assessed after the end of the whole training program. The question is, how confident are we that swelling observed in studies measuring it after just one workout are representative of the swelling that seen after training for weeks on end? The answer is that we should not be confident about this whatsoever because we have evidence that as you continue training with a program for weeks on end, your body produces a range of adaptations that reduce the muscle damage fatigue and muscle swelling response you experience from training. These adaptations are often referred to as the repeated bout effect. Some of you might object and say all these studies that measured swelling after one workout were conducted on trained individuals, so they already have these adaptations. While it is generally true that trained individuals experience lower damage, fatigue and swelling compared to untrained individuals, this objection fails to recognize that how much you are accustomed to a workout still absolutely matters. The trained individuals in these studies are still unaccustomed to the one workout they execute. Many trained individuals can attest to the fact that if they perform a new exercise or train with a different set of variables, they get more sore than usual. But as the weeks go by and they accustom themselves to this new program, soreness diminishes and recovery improves. There are a number of studies relating to the repeated bout effect, but allow us to overview two particular studies that have great relevance. The first paper had untrained individuals perform 10 sets of 6 maximum eccentric curls. As described in a tremendous in-depth article by Greg Knuckles, which is where I first learned about this particular paper, maximal eccentrics on a dynamometer are no joke. You can produce more force eccentrically than concentrically and a dynamometer ensures that every rep is maximally challenging. So every rep is performed with your moment in time eccentric one rep max. Think about that, performing 10 sets of 6 reps with every rep essentially being an eccentric one rep max. Given the brutality of this, it's unsurprising that substantial signs of damage and swelling persisted for multiple days, with some measures not even returning to baseline 7 days after the workout. Four weeks later, they repeated the session. Markers of muscle damage, including swelling, were substantially reduced. There was no swelling present at 48 to 72 hours after the training. Now, across social media, I've seen suggestions that these adaptations are limited, stating there's not much more that occurs beyond the second workout. But the second paper fails to support this, since it demonstrates how these adaptations continue to occur as the sessions go by. This was actually a paper I described back in 2023. It involved untrained subjects performing 5 sets of 15 maximal eccentric late extension reps, once a week for 10 weeks. So imagine performing 15 eccentric one rep max consecutively and doing that for 5 sets. The first session produced considerable signs of damage and fatigue for multiple days after the workout, with many measures not even recovered 5 days after. However, as the weeks went by and they continued training, there were progressive reductions in all signs of damage and faster recovery of performance. Unfortunately, swelling was not examined. But given that all the indicators of damage and fatigue diminished, I believe we can virtually be certain swelling would have followed the same fate. Circling back to the new study, as it didn't even find differences between the different set numbers, or that swelling was present 48 to 72 hours after the workout, we don't even need to consider the repeated bout effect. But I do believe it was worthwhile reviewing some of the repeated bout effect literature. For one, it's interesting in its own right. But you now also know the issues with people using swelling data after a single workout to make claims about swelling after a program. Also, if we get a future study that finds greater swelling from higher sets after a single workout, it doesn't necessarily mean that swelling is confounding the relationship between sets and hypertrophy. So, considering everything we've overviewed, I think it's very unlikely that swelling is meaningfully contributing to the observed relationship between sets and hypertrophy in the literature. That is, in general, higher sets likely do genuinely produce more hypertrophy. Now, I am being careful with my words. I said it's very unlikely that swelling is meaningfully contributing. This does not necessarily mean there's zero swelling. I mean, swelling could very well have zero involvement. It's just that I recognize the current evidence is not strong enough to assert this particular claim with a high level of confidence. Returning to the meta-aggression, they also explored the relationship between sets and strength adaptations. In sharp contrast to the hypertrophy findings, strength fascinatingly appeared to be maximized at merely five sets per muscle group a week. Across social media, these findings were used to fuel speculation that swelling was confounding the hypertrophy results. The thinking goes that if higher sets genuinely produced greater hypertrophy, the addition of contractile units that comes about with the growth should mean greater strength gains too. But since strength appears to be maximized with around five sets, hypertrophy must also be maximized at five sets. All the extra growth from doing more sets is nothing more than swelling or just sarcoplasmic hypertrophy. I've already mentioned this phenomenal article from Greg Knuckles at Stronger by Science. It does an exceptional job at diving into this area. Here, I'll present some of the key points according to my interpretation. The strength analysis contained nearly double the studies. While there were overlapping studies contributing to both analyses, there were many non-overlapping studies. Much of the non-overlapping studies involved in the strength data involved untrained subjects and found large strength gains with low sets. This is not necessarily surprising as untrained individuals can experience significant strength gains due to learning effects and neural adaptations. If we're interested in precisely exploring whether the extra growth from higher sets is associated with greater strength gains, there might be a better way to analyze the data. What we might want to do is focus on studies that involved trained individuals and took related strength and size measurements. Measuring quad growth in Backspot One Rep Max is an example of this. When analyzing the studies that meet this criteria, it indeed seems that higher sets generally cause both greater size and strength increases. Once again, I can't recommend the article enough for those interested. So it seems higher sets generally cause greater muscle hypertrophy. However, it is imperative for me to state that just because I believe the literature suggests higher sets tend to be better for hypertrophy, it absolutely does not follow that I am telling you to train with very high sets or that you can't experience great gains without higher sets. Unfortunately, many make this erroneous assumption. They think that by presenting this data that I'm literally instructing everyone to train with 40 weekly sets per muscle group, but that is not the case. The reason for this is straightforward. We need to consider other details with the data and you're always going to have to consider your individual situation. Let's get into some of these points. Notice how there are diminishing returns. This tells us that it is certainly possible to see some respectable gains with volumes on the lower side, which is great news for those who aren't interested in maximizing everything. We can see that the credible intervals get wider, especially after 25 weekly sets per muscle group. These wider intervals simply mean there's greater uncertainty with very high sets, owing to the fewer studies. So, while we can be pretty much certain that moderate to highest set volumes are superior to lower set volumes, it is certainly possible that as we get more data, the difference between very high volumes and highish to moderate volumes shrinks. The average duration of the studies was around 10 weeks. That said, the authors of the meta-aggression did have some moderator analyses, and we actually see an even stronger relationship between sets and hypertrophy with longer duration papers. Note, these findings may further oppose the swelling arguments. As we know, thanks to the adaptations your body accrues, swelling responses will diminish as the weeks go by. So, the fact we observe this type of relationship between sets and hypertrophy over longer duration studies may be further evidence against swelling. Nevertheless, there are open questions as to how things may look over many years. One possibility is that over this time frame, moderate volumes can eventually get you to the same place. Upon reviewing the papers behind the regression, a fair few use incomplete training programs where they just train one or a few muscle groups. That said, I will note in some of the studies examining high sets, they do train a larger proportion of the body. So, I'm not necessarily saying it's impossible to train virtually your full body with very high sets. Finally, remember that these results are the average. It is possible that individual differences exist. Some people may genuinely grow more or at least the same with volumes on the lower side. Having described all these points, what do I recommend? I've said this before in prior videos, but if you're currently making great progress with your training program, regardless of how it may look or compare to the research, you don't have to change a thing, continue reaping those gains. But as a general recommendation, if your aim is to maximize muscle hypertrophy, unless you're convinced you respond better to volumes on the lower end, I would recommend training as much as you feel you can handle, while still ensuring you're exerting a high level of effort to each set. As time goes by, you can adjust things accordingly. If you feel like you want to see if you can still maintain great progress with little less volume, give it a shot. Alternatively, as the repeated bow defect develops, you might find that you're recovering very well and so might wish to try out even more sets. At the end of the day, you have no obligation to only train in one single way for the rest of your training career. You are always free to experiment and explore with your own training. Very few, if any, individuals spend their whole training career training in one exact way. I'll also note that things can differ between muscle groups. It is very common for people to feel that they can tolerate more volume with some muscle groups over others. Finally, I will add that if you're someone who hasn't tried very high volumes before, but it interests you and you are willing to experiment with it, I do lean towards the idea that it may be more practical, at least at first, to do this with a select few muscle groups. In other words, muscle group specialization. Here, you just train one or two muscle groups that you would like to accelerate the growth of with very high volumes. When doing this, I think it might be smart to gradually ease yourself into performing very high volumes through progressively adding sets across the weeks, all while closely monitoring your experience. This approach is somewhat like the paper by NS and colleagues detailed at the start of the video. To acquire your goal physique, there's no question that effective training is necessary. If you'd like assistance with this all while supporting what I do at the House of Hypotrophy, our highly rated partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate a comprehensive program 100% custom to your needs. Choose your goal, specify if there's muscles you want to focus on more, and let it know how often and how long you want to train for. This process can take less than a minute. There are well over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based on. Furthermore, the training philosophy is based on scientific literature. During workouts, the algorithm analyzes your past performance to derive progressive overload recommendations, thereby fostering long-term progress. Improve your understanding of your response with progression charts on a range of key metrics. The exercise database continues to grow, with just under 800 exercises. Each exercise has simplified instructions and further basic information. Try out all this free for two weeks with a link in the comments and description. And if you like it and continue, the link provides 20% off a subscription. Feel free to let me know what you think about the app anytime. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the House of Hypotrophy.