úngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúngúng studies comparing them. In this video, we'll overview the latest study just released and we'll then describe how it fits in with the other studies to draw potential takeaways. We'll also briefly touch on other biceps exercises near the end. Let's dive in. 63 previously untrained women were recruited. Subjects were randomly assigned to train the incline dumbbell curl or preacher dumbbell curl twice per week for 8 weeks. Both were trained with the hands supinated and moved the elbows from 0 to 120 degrees of flexion. Every session, three sets of 8 to 12 reps to momentary failure were performed, with progressive overload applied to stay in this rep range. Thickness of the elbow flexors was measured at 50%, 60%, and 70% of this distance. I say elbow flexors because the measurements included both the biceps and brachialis. It was found that growth at the 50% region was greater with the incline curls. Growth at the 60% region was similar between both, while growth at the 70% region was greater with the preacher curls. These are some fascinating findings. The example image provided in the study shows the 50% region contained nothing but the biceps, so I think it's reasonable to speculate the incline curls grew this area of the biceps more. As we move to the 70% region, the biceps is obviously still there, but we can see the brachialis becomes more apparent. So it's tough to know if the greater growth at this region from the preacher curls was from the biceps brachialis or both. Having said that, the second study may give us the answer. This study isn't officially published yet. It was presented at a conference and is only available as an abstract online. The authors of this paper have been involved in multiple well-designed published studies, so I consider this study worthy of mentioning. The abstract detail is that 21 previously untrained adults trained one arm with inclined curls and the other arm with preacher curls, two times per week for 12 weeks with these variables. As described multiple times previously at the house hypertrophy, this design of having each subject train both conditions is great. It's like having 42 subjects assigned to train either exercise. In fact, it's even better since having the same subjects train both exercises reduces the likelihood that differences in genetics, nutrition, and outside lifestyle factors will confound the findings. What was awesome is that they separated out the biceps and brachialis and even examined the brachioradialis. Overall biceps volume increases were greater with the incline curl, with the differences between the two exercises occurring specifically at 20-40% of the biceps length. Overall brachioradialis volume increases were fascinatingly greater with the preacher curl, with the differences between the exercises occurring at 60% of the brachioradialis length. Finally, overall brachialis volume increases were greater with the preacher curl, with the differences between the two exercises occurring at 70-80% of the brachialis length. Thus, returning to the aforementioned study, it's possible the greater growth at the 70% region from the preacher curls is down to greater brachialis growth. Although, there is a nuance I need to mention. We just mentioned the abstract notes brachialis growth at 70-80% of its length was greater for the preacher curls. However, this would not be the same brachialis region that's captured at 70% of the acromion to lateral epicondyle distance measured in the new study. Perhaps this paper found the other regions of the brachialis also grew slightly more with preacher curls, which fits with the notion of greater 70% region growth in this paper. But the lower biceps regions aren't mentioned in the abstract, presumably because there were no statistically significant differences in growth between the two exercises. Still, given we don't have the full text of the paper, I can't rule out the possibility that preacher curls result in somewhat greater lower biceps growth that still contributed to the greater 70% region growth in this paper. Until we get more data, I am running with the idea that the greater 70% region growth in the new study may largely be due to the brachialis, but just be mindful that I am not completely certain. So combining these two studies, inclined curls may produce greater biceps growth particularly around the mid to upper regions, while preacher curls may produce overall greater brachialis and brachioradialis growth. But what about the other data? As mentioned in the intro, the first paper in 2023 paints a different picture. Remember, its data suggests preacher curls were overall better than the incline curl. This study was conducted on 31 women with some training experience. They were assigned to train the incline or preacher curl. Like the latest study, the researchers did not differentiate between the biceps and brachialis and measured elbow flexor growth at the 50, 60, and 70% regions. Numerically, growth in all regions favored the preacher curl, with the largest difference at the 70% region. Of course, this greater 70% region growth aligns with the latest study and possibly is due to the brachialis. This data does, however, conflict with respect to the 50% region, since it did not increase more with the incline curls. As I mentioned back in 2023, this study did have important limitations. None of the differences between the two exercises were statistically significant. The increases seen by the incline curl group were also not statistically significant. The reason for this is simply because the study was severely underpowered. The two other studies involved a greater number of data points, so may be viewed as stronger evidence. There is one more study that was released a couple of months ago that we need to briefly overview. 21 men with an average of two years of experience were recruited. One arm trained incline curls and the other preacher curls. Both were trained with blood flow restriction and used light loads with these training variables. Elbow flexor cross-sectional area was measured at 45, 65, and 85% regions, and it was found there were no significant differences in growth between the two exercises at any region. The kicker is this study just lasted three weeks, so perhaps this could explain the minimal differences. Considering this short time frame, I was also a little surprised to see as much as 8% growth in one region. Something I was also pondering, but I'm still unsure about, is whether the pressure of the blood flow restriction bands on the muscle tissue could somehow affect regional growth. For these reasons, although this study was done on fairly trained subjects, I wouldn't say it's truly any better or more reliable than the others. So in total, we have four studies. We know that one of them analyzed the brachioradialis, suggesting greater growth from preacher curls. As for the brachialis, three of them point towards greater growth from the preacher curls. For the biceps, two indicate greater growth from incline curls, while two failed to find evidence of greater biceps growth from incline curls. Someone could look at this and say the two studies that find no evidence of greater biceps growth from incline curls were conducted on trained individuals. So that explains the discrepancy. But as I've alluded to throughout the analysis, I'm more inclined, pun intended, to consider the strengths and weaknesses of the studies. I do generally think the two studies suggesting greater biceps growth from the incline curl, although conducted on untrained individuals, are a little stronger. So until more research emerges, I think it's reasonable to speculate incline curls are better for growing the biceps more than preacher curls, particularly the mid to upper regions. Across the web, there are hypotheses as to why this could be, as well as why the brachialis and brachioradialis grew more from preacher curls. I'm actually going to refrain from analyzing them since it's currently quite speculative and it may bore a number of you. However, for those interested, you'll find a detailed explanation of what I think could be the mechanisms behind these results in the pinned comment, as well as a discussion on the long and short heads of the biceps. It's important to emphasize we're not talking about enormous differences. Preacher curls clearly still grow the biceps well, and incline curls will absolutely still produce respectable brachialis and brachioradialis development. In all the papers, subjects were training too or close to failure. So this again reminds us that provided you're training hard enough, you can grow very well with numerous exercises. Before wrapping up, there are two other studies worth mentioning. The first recruiter detrained men to train three times per week for eight weeks. One group trained the same exercises across all three days, resulting in the standing barbell curl being their only isolation biceps exercise. Another group varied their exercises across the three days, resulting in them training incline curls, standing barbell curls, and cable preacher curls. Elbow flexor growth, specifically at the 50% region, tended to be better with the variation. The author speculated the incline curls may have caused this, and based on the data we've seen, that seems likely. Thus, this study indirectly further supports the effectiveness of incline curls, in this case being better than standing barbell curls. The second paper hasn't been officially published yet, but it compared cable curls with the shoulder extended to with the shoulders neutral. Biceps growth at the middle and lower regions were similar between both. This study may question incline curls being better than barbell curls, but this study did involve cables which were set up in both exercises to be hardest at the start of the curl, so it's not quite identical. Many questions about other comparisons remain, such as how incline and shoulder extended cable curls compare, as well as how effective other variations such as this lying curl or neutral and pronated hand grip variations could be. As time goes by, we'll eventually see more research comparing various exercises. Right now, I do think it's generally a safe bet to have a shoulder extended curl for your biceps, but if you cannot train them or dislike them, rest assured your biceps will still grow with other movements. There is another interesting study on the biceps that was released last month. We will be dissecting this in our next video. If you're searching for further guidance on programming to obtain your desired physique, it can be tricky and time-consuming. However, our high-quality partner, the Alpha Progression app, can help you generate an evidence-based training program that's 100% custom to your needs in less than 3 minutes. Simply specify the equipment you have, how often and how long you want to train for, and if you want to focus or neglect certain muscles. There are even advanced options to periodize your training and implement deloads. There are over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based, and with the touch of a few buttons, you can customize things further. Through analyzing your past performance, the app provides progressive overload recommendations during your workouts to help you continue making gains. The app automatically generates graphs that display your long-term progression, thereby saving you time from having to manually track your progression. The link in the comments and description gives you a 2-week free trial of all the premium features, and if you like it and decide to go beyond, the link gives you 20% off a subscription. I truly believe the app is awesome, and the reviews speak to this. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the House of Hypertrophy.