 kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar kar Note that the calf consists of the gastrocnemius and soleus. The gastrocnemius has a lateral and medial head. In support of the notion that the calves are relatively difficult to hypertrophy, I've seen some reference to this 2004 paper, which found after 9 sets of calf raises, soleus muscle protein synthesis increases were substantially lower than what's commonly reported with the quads. The authors provide two possible explanations. Firstly, the calves are involved in standing and walking, meaning we could consider them to be chronically trained, even in people who don't train, thus giving it lower growth potential. Secondly, the calves, notably the soleus, contain a high proportion of slow-twitch fibers. We have plenty examples of slow-twitch fibers not growing as much as fast-twitch fibers. However, this data is simply not strong evidence. Low-protein synthesis data does not always predict muscle growth. I'd also like to point out that we shouldn't mistakenly think slow-twitch fibers hardly grow. They still can grow quite well. There are multiple instances of slow-twitch fibers growing more than 10% in a matter of 6 to 12 weeks, with an example of this even in trained individuals. Additionally, although the soleus is predominantly slow-twitch, the gastrocnemius contains a more even split of slow-twitch fibers. Therefore, it should come as no surprise that dissecting the scientific literature measuring calf growth after training will give us a better insight of its growth potential. We can assess growth in absolute or relative terms. Absolute changes are the raw changes in muscle size. If we measure muscle thickness, the absolute change would be the increase in centimeters or millimeters. Relative changes are the percentage increase. It is possible to have the same relative change but different absolute changes due to differences in the starting measurement. There are quite a few studies on calf hypertrophy, but to keep things simple, I'll share the findings from 5 different research groups worldwide that provide insight into how much the calves may grow. The first research group from Japan found that the calves tended to increase in size from 2 to 6%. The researchers noted that this growth was lower than what they'd previously found for the triceps and hamstrings. However, if we separately analyze each region of the calves, we see that it was the soleus that didn't grow as much. If we compare lateral and medial gastrocnemius head growth to the growth seen by the hamstring head, we see examples of not too far off or similar absolute and relative changes. The second research group from the USA had trained individuals training the quads and calves in the same study. We can see that the absolute changes in size for the calves, particularly the gastrocnemius heads, were not that far off the quad gains. The relative changes show the same thing. A Brazilian research group found that the calves grew with these values. And here we see the soleus actually grew pretty well. These values are quite similar to what they observed with the biceps and brachialis in another study with similar subjects and training details. A Norwegian research group found that the medial gastrocnemius grew with these values, which are similar to what they observed with the quadriceps in another study with the exact same subjects and similar training details. Fifth, and finally, a German research group found that the medial and lateral gastrocnemius grew with these values, which are similar to what they observed with the pectoralis major in another study with similar subjects and training details. In the spirit of scientific accuracy, science requires a substantial body of evidence to form confident conclusions. So a larger number of studies directly comparing the rate of calf growth to other muscle groups will unquestionably refine our understanding. But based on what we do have, it's evident that although there are cases where calf growth is somewhat lower, we're not talking about enormous differences, and we crucially have cases where calf growth is similar to other muscles. As a more general statement, if we factor in studies we haven't mentioned here, we frequently see the calves growing in the range of 6-20%, which is pretty much identical to what we see with other muscles in the overall literature. I fascinatingly came across two case studies on highly trained individuals. The first involved an individual with over 10 years of experience and accustomed to calf training. He performed three sets of straight leg calf raises thrice per week for six weeks. One leg trained with a full range of motion, while the other alternated between a lengthened partial and shortened partial every session. Interestingly, the leg alternating between the two different range of motions didn't really grow, but the leg training with a full range of motion experienced a 4.14% increase in medial gastrocnemius cross-sectional area, which considering the short time frame and training experience is notable. Although, the researchers did not report typical measurement error, so it's difficult to know if the increase in size is confounded by this. The second case study involved a competitive bodybuilder with 18 years of training experience and accustomed to calf training. He performed four sets of straight leg calf raises five times per week in addition to one hour of intense calf stretching six times per week for a total of 12 weeks. Increases in thickness across a range of calf regions ranged from 7% all the way up to 23%, although there was some variability and fluctuations in the measures. But I'd still say there were signs of genuine increases in size. Since these case studies are merely conducted on one person, they may not necessarily be generalizable to the broader population. Still, my interpretation of the overall evidence is that it appears the calves can respond robustly to training, so I think are certainly worthwhile training. In our next video, we will describe how you may go about training to maximize calf hypertrophy, with the help of the latest scientific research. Before wrapping up, there is one final question worth addressing. Does the soleus grow less than the gastrocnemius? Recall that two studies overviewed earlier point towards lower soleus growth compared to gastrocnemius growth, and there is another study supporting this conclusion. Yet, we did see one paper finding the soleus numerically grew more in absolute terms but fairly similar in relative terms to the gastrocnemius. There are four other studies also finding similar or better growth in the soleus. So the available evidence is mixed. If you're looking for an exceedingly effective customized muscle building program, our exceptionally rated partner, the Alpha Progression app, can help you. No other app gets close to creating personalized programs as comprehensive and well-rounded. Input key details, such as what equipment you have, if you want to emphasize some muscles more than others, and how often and how long you're able to train for. This generally takes less than a minute. The training philosophy is based on the latest scientific literature, but further customizations can easily be done, reorder, swap out, remove, or add exercises. Change any training variable or add things such as supersets. During workouts, there's a built-in warm-up set calculator and rest interval timer. Track each set with the app, and the app also provides progressive overload recommendations to assist you, and there's a nice workout summary at the end. Of course, the app automatically logs and displays your progression across time. If you're unsure about exercise technique, there are straightforward video and text instructions on over 600 exercises. The reviews from tens of thousands is a testament to its exceptional quality, but we would love to know what you think. The link in the comments and description gives you a free 2-week trial plus 20% off a subscription if you do continue. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the house of hypertrophy.