Welcome to the house of hypertrophy. How much do you need to train to overtrain? And are you close to overtraining? Today, we'll be overviewing the scientific literature to answer these questions. Let's dive in. We can think about our response to a lifting program on a continuum. Undertraining, maintaining, effective training, functional overreaching, non-functional overreaching, and overtraining. The first three are familiar to most. Undertraining is where the training isn't even sufficient to maintain your size and strength. Maintaining is enough to keep your current strength and size. And effective training is enough to increase your size and strength. As for the next three, people have varying definitions, but I'll use the definitions provided in the scientific literature. Functional overreaching is a performance decrease lasting no more than days to a few weeks followed by performance improvements. Non-functional overreaching is where performance is decreased for weeks and when you recover there are no improvements. Overtraining is a decrease in performance with or without symptoms that requires months to recover and again no improvements occur once eventually recovered. What kind of training program needs to be performed to overtrain or even non-functionally overreach? This review paper is our best insight into this. It identified 22 studies that aim to induce overreaching or overtraining. Fascinatingly, 10 failed to even induce any sustained performance decrease. This immediately tells us that it doesn't seem easy to overtrain. Here's one striking example. 18 trained individuals were recruited to initially train normally for 4 weeks with these variables. Thereafter, they engaged in an intense training program for 2 weeks. They continued performing this exact upper body routine and the leg holds. But for their quads, they performed hack squats and leg presses for six days and front squats and back squats on the seventh day, each for three sets of six maximum reps. Thus, they were performing over 40 sets in a week for their quads. There were signs of fatigue during this and testosterone levels dipped down a little. One subject also experienced patella tendon pain during this. Yet neither overtraining or non-functional overreaching occurred since leg press strength actually improved four days after the final session with non-significant increases on the leg curl and bench press. Testosterone levels also return to normal in the short time frame. So what gets us overtrained? This paper from the '90s seems to have successfully induced it just about. They had 11 trained men perform 10 sets of one rep maxes 6 days a week on a squat machine for 2 weeks. In other words, they did 60 one rep max attempts in a week. This resulted in strength decreases with follow-up surveys revealing it took subjects 2 to 8 weeks to be able to get back to lifting their normal loads. So, just about what we may consider overtraining. The authors also note two subjects were medically diagnosed with overuse syndrome of the knees by the end of the protocol. Despite this, it is interesting to know that the max number of reps they could perform with 70% one rep max on the squat machine was not reduced and testosterone levels were unchanged. This point is worth expanding on. There are many potential markers that could relate to overtraining, but they just seem to be inconsistent. This seems to be why the literature tends to focus on the time frame of performance recovery to define overtraining and not other symptoms or markers. As another potential example of borderline overtraining, this paper recruited trained individuals to train with four three-week blocks with these exercises. The most intense block involved performing six sets per exercise 6 days a week, thereby totaling 36 sets per exercise a week. The other blocks involved training much less. Strength on the power clean was decreased after this intense training block, and it still failed to recover following 3 weeks of reduced training as well as 3 weeks of complete rest. Yet I am skeptical that this is even overtraining as some degree of dtraining may have occurred in the 3 weeks of rest. Additionally, another study using the exact same protocol reported that squat strength returned virtually back to baseline levels after the 3 weeks of reduced training. All the other papers in the review that found performance decreases found that recovery occurred in a week. So aren't overtraining. Thus, it is exceptionally difficult to overtrain. The protocols that get you overtrained are far from what most people would ever do. For some, joint or tendon issues could arise before reaching overtrained states. It is also important to recognize the potential difference between suddenly performing a ton of training versus gradually progressing to high amounts of training. It is possible that some cases of overtraining or extreme levels of fatigue are due to doing too much too soon and are not inherently an issue with the training protocol. There are some notable examples of this in the literature. This paper had six untrained men perform five sets of 10 eccentric only biceps curls with a 110% one rep max load. Of course, you're able to handle heavier loads during the eccentric. So this is why subjects were able to train with multiple reps and sets with a load that they could not actually perform a concentric with. Also, eccentric only training with this intensity is highly damaging when you're unaccustomed to it. So although five sets of 10 may not sound like much, it is certainly something when all those reps are heavy eccentric only reps. The data demonstrates this as there were substantial signs of damage, soreness, and swelling lasting around a week. What was highly intriguing was that elbow flexor muscle size decreased below baseline and remained at this smaller size for numerous weeks thereafter potentially due to partial or total destruction of some fibers. I also came across this paper reporting a series of case reports which notes that after two sets of 25 maximal eccentric curls, a small number of subjects experienced prolonged strength loss lasting longer than 43 to 47 days with extreme swelling of the arm lasting weeks. One subject was clinically diagnosed with rabdtomyolysis. In a way, this is non-functional overreaching or even borderline overtraining reached through a single training session. It's important to mention that this is rare. The paper observing muscle loss was conducted on merely six subjects. The case report paper reported a 3% incident rate in the past year. And there are many examples in the literature of untrained subjects training with a similar or even more intense eccentric only protocol and not experiencing muscle loss or excessively prolonged fatigue. Even so, this is an example of how it's possible for some to do too much too soon. It is likely that if these subjects started out with less or used lighter loads and then gradually progressed across the weeks, no signs of muscle loss or excessive prolonged fatigue would occur. This is thanks to the repeated bowel effect, which refers to a range of adaptations that your body produces to reduce damage and fatigue. We've seen in prior videos that over the long term, it can be quite powerful. This is why if you're going to increase the amount you train, it is probably your safest bet to do so gradually and not all at once. We have evidence in the form of two papers of people doing quite well when they gradually progress training to quite high levels. The two papers had many similarities though the first paper was conducted on trained men while the second on trained women. Both papers after an acclimating phase had subjects train the back squat, leg press and leg extension twice per week for 12 weeks. In the study on men, in the first week, all subjects performed 22 weekly sets for the quads divided approximately equally across the exercises. A control group maintained this level of volume until the end of the study. A four set group added four sets every 2 weeks, totaling 42 sets by the final week and an average of 32 sets. A six set group added six sets every 2 weeks, totaling 52 sets by the final week and an average of 37 sets. In the study on trained women, a control group performed 22 sets every week. A two set group started with 16 sets and added two sets every two weeks, totaling 26 sets by the final week in an average of 21 sets. A four set group started with 18 sets and added four sets every 2 weeks, totaling 38 sets by the final week in an average of 28 sets. In both studies, they aimed to keep two reps in reserve on all sets, except the final sets on each exercise per session, which was taken to valitional failure. Increases in strength was best for the groups that worked up to the greatest number of sets. Size gains also tended to be greater for the groups working up to the most sets. There were no dropouts related to injuries or reports of joint problems. Although the subjects in the men's paper performing the highest number of sets did report excessive perceived fatigue in the final weeks. Given they just train the quads, this is not proof that super high volumes are universally superior for growing. If you're interested in how many sets I generally recommend, feel free to check out this recent video afterwards. I should note though that both papers did have all groups perform a constant eight sets per week for the hamstrings and subjects were free to train other muscles as they wished, but how much they performed for other muscles isn't presented. So these papers could speak to the potential of muscle group specialization phases where you slightly reduce or maintain normal training for other muscles while increasing the amount you train one or two muscle groups. There are differences in recovery capabilities between people. For example, some older individuals may not always recover as quickly as younger individuals. And there's interesting evidence from the endurance training literature that those with a greater proportion of fast twitch fibers may be more likely to overtrain versus those with more slow twitch fibers. Yet, there are also likely differences in how well you may recover at different times in your life. We've seen that your recovery generally improves as you become accustomed to a program. Some other factors may also matter. Regarding food, some say there's no such thing as overtraining, only undereating. There is some degree of truth to this as evidence from the endurance training research suggests some cases of overtraining might be confounded by insufficient energy intake. But that doesn't mean overtraining doesn't exist. The papers we overviewed earlier demonstrating borderline overtraining or non-functional overreaching involved sufficient energy and protein intakes. As for stress, some evidence finds those with greater psychological stress may experience slower recovery. On the flip side, a positive mindset could help. We've previously analyzed some fascinating research that trick subjects into thinking they're taking anabolics when they actually just received placebo pills. Along with reporting greater increases in strength, subjects also reported increased vigor, speaking to the idea of how mindset potentially influences your perceived energy levels. Feel free to check out this video for more details on this research. It is possible to train too much. The point where you tip over from effective training to non-functional overreaching and then overtraining will differ between people and can shift throughout your life due to different factors. But as a general statement, although overtraining is possible, it is improbable for most. Ultimately, the body can tolerate quite a lot, especially if you gradually progress yourself across time. Once you've got some training experience under your belt, the only way you'll truly overtrain is likely if you actively push yourself to extreme levels. Remember, we're talking about overtraining in the sense that it takes months to recover. We're not talking about shorter durations of fatigue. This can be more common, but this should be resolved by just taking a few days of rest or having a couple of easier training sessions. If you're searching for further guidance on programming to obtain your desired physique, it can be tricky and timeconuming. However, our highquality partner, the Alpha Progression app, can help you generate an evidence-based training program that's 100% custom to your needs in less than 3 minutes. Simply specify the equipment you have, how often, and how long you want to train for, and if you want to focus or neglect certain muscles. There are even advanced options to perodize your training and implement D losses. There are over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based. And with a touch of a few buttons, you can customize things further through analyzing your past performance. The app provides progressive overload recommendations during your workouts to help you continue making gains. The app automatically generates graphs that display your long-term progression, thereby saving you time from having to manually track your progression. The link in the comments and description gives you a two-eek free trial of all the premium features. And if you like it and decide to go beyond, the link gives you 20% off a subscription. I truly believe the app is awesome and the reviews speak to this. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the house of hypertrophy.