

=== FILE: Defending Science-Based Lifting [88bT1no39pM].txt ===

 Welcome to the House of Hypertrophy! In the last few months, science-based lifting has received quite the backlash. There's no doubt that some of the criticisms are quite reasonable and fair, but some of the backlash I've seen has extended to what is an unjustifiable extent. So in this video, I wanted to give my two cents on the matter. We'll be exploring questions such as, is hypertrophy and strength research even valuable? And does science just flip-flop? We'll also be touching on errors in research and whether all this science is just overthinking it. Let's dive in! I want to make it clear that I'll be defending science to the extent that it can be defended, not science-based content creators. In fact, whether people consciously recognize it or not, quite a lot of the criticisms I've seen raised are actually against content creators, not research itself. There's a difference between research and the communication of research. People can say something is supported by science without this being even remotely close to the truth. Some may reference research but interpret it incorrectly or inappropriately extrapolate its findings. For example, across social media, you often see so-called science-based content creators suggesting that maximizing stability is needed to maximize hypertrophy. To the extent they do everything to maximize stability. To some extent, stability is probably important. For example, it's challenging to argue that benching on a swiss ball is a good idea for hypertrophy. But as far as most typical exercises, machines are generally more stable than free weights. Yet, we have meta-analytic evidence suggesting similar hypertrophy between machines and free weights, and this includes research on trained individuals. Related to this, I've seen some believe the bench press is suboptimal, but we just have four studies comparing the barbell bench press to other exercises while measuring muscle growth. Insofar as chest growth, the papers find fairly similar hypertrophy. As for the triceps, it's unsurprising that overall triceps growth was better with skull crushers. But quite fascinatingly, regional differences may exist as this paper found the lateral head of the triceps grew more with the bench press than with skull crushers. Proponents of statements like these frequently base their claims on so-called mechanistic data, and some of them say mechanistic data is superior to outcome data, which I think is very much misguided to say the least. A tacit assumption here is that we know all there is to know about hypertrophy mechanisms, but take a look at this monster review paper and the conclusion it comes to. Investigations in upcoming years will continue to confirm or refute which of the discussed mechanisms are obligatory for, rather than coinciding with, load induced skeletal muscle hypertrophy. This is in stark contrast to the extreme confidence some profess online. Now, some may say the reason the current data actually measuring hypertrophy fails to support their predictions is due to some reason X. That could be true, but the great thing is these are often testable hypotheses, and until it's tested it would be disingenuous to act as though you know what's true. Moving forward, people can make sciencey claims without any references. It's not a guarantee they're wrong, but you should have some healthy suspicion. For example, some people have implied the research demonstrates that isometrics are inferior without any references. So, many were misled into thinking that science says isometrics are inferior, but that simply isn't true. The majority of evidence we have does not find worse hypertrophy with isometrics. An extreme position I've encountered a few times is that research examining hypertrophy and strength is ultimately worthless and hasn't provided anything of value. I think there is a tendency for people to forget about the value that research has already provided. Many people take creatine with the belief that it can increase muscle size and strength, and that it's a safe supplement, but why do they believe this? Many correctly pointed the fact that it's been extensively studied. Although I wouldn't call BCAAsand leucine supplementation useless in all circumstances, many people correctly recognize that they are not essential for maximizing hypertrophy. Again, thanks to the evidence on this topic. Regarding protein consumption, many people aren't as concerned about consuming a protein shake immediately post-workout, since it is clear that protein timing is simply not as important as total daily protein intake. As far as training goes, there are many things that could be said on this front, but as one example, there are many people well aware that resting for short durations between sets is not essential for maximizing hypertrophy. Longer resturations can work and might actually be better in certain scenarios. I think we shouldn't underestimate the potential of research too. There are certain questions that can only reasonably be answered through research. For example, what are the stimuli and sensors that initiate hypertrophy? What exact role does mechanical tension build up of metabolites or muscle damage play? Currently, tension stands out as the most potent stimuli, but as mentioned earlier, there's still a lot to uncover. What is the nature of muscle growth? We all know muscle fibers can get bigger, but there are different ways this could occur. Do different training styles diverge in the way they increase fiber size and might humans truly experience muscle hyperplasia? Continued exploration of this is happening. One certainly reasonable point about much research is that it typically provides the average results, but research has the potential to identify individual differences and perhaps even ultimately explain them in its entirety. For example, there's this review paper examining potential physiological differences between people who may grow more than others. Now, the research in this is very much in its early stages. In my view, some of the best work on individual differences has come in the last year and a half or so, including a paper exploring individual differences with volume. I may cover this in more detail if people are interested enough. A critique I occasionally come across is that science flip-flops. Some say that people who follow research constantly change their training according to the latest study. Other times in my videos I get the comment, just wait until the next study comes out suggesting the opposite. These comments are understandable. It is true that we can get studies that appear to conflict with each other, but as I've argued before, there are often sound explanations for this. Firstly, not all evidence is equal in quality. If there's a study on rats that suggest isometric contractions produce less growth and dynamic contractions, but the human evidence finds similar growth, unless you're a rat, it's clear you should care more about the human data. Secondly, two studies may arrive at seemingly divergent conclusions but can be explained by differences in methods or the populations examined. Thirdly, with hyper-tube strength research, it should actually be unsurprising for studies even with identical designs to arrive at different conclusions. Why? A lot of research on hyper-tube strength training involves small sample sizes. With small samples, we can get results that fail to reflect the true effects due to chance and low power. If you're interested in learning more about this, check out this video where we go into more depth and detail a simulation that drives this point home. Nevertheless, what this means is that we shouldn't place too much emphasis on individual studies. You certainly should not change anything about your training based on them. Fortunately, we can leverage small sample size studies through combining their results with a meta-analysis. In fact, we have meta-analysis on virtually every key training variable, volume, proximity to failure, frequency, rest intervals, and rep tempo. These involve greater statistical power and when done well, provide a much more solid basis to draw conclusions. Now, none of this is to say that what's supported the most by the research never changes. The essence of science is to have no allegiance to a particular outcome, and if the weight of the evidence shifts to support a different conclusion, that should not be viewed as a weakness whatsoever. Of course, such a transition is not something that typically happens overnight. Questionable research practices, statistical errors, and poor methodology aren't hard to find, but researchers are kind of everywhere. Some can reveal problems with the work of others while providing solutions. For example, excellent work by these researchers led to the startling conclusion. 85% of the 20 most highly cited meta-analyses in strengthened conditioning research contained at least one statistical error. They provide advice and recommendations which, when taken on board, should help reduce the incidence of such mistakes. Note that not all these errors are of equal severity. Some may have virtually no influence on the conclusions while others may be more problematic and it could depend on the context. Furthermore, all of the meta-analyses analyzed were published before 2019 with one back as far as 2004, and most were not focused on hypertrophy outcomes. Of course, this is not to say that errors do not occur in more recent meta-analyses focused on hypertrophy. In fact, earlier this year I was re-reading a meta-analysis on protein intake for lean mass changes published in 2022, but I noticed they used DZFX sizes. If you're not familiar with FX sizes, what I'm about to say is going to sound like a foreign language, so just bear with me for a second. What they did is subtract the mean difference in changes in lean mass between a protein and control group, and then divide this by the pool change score standard deviation. Some people don't necessarily mind this, but it was considered an error in the aforementioned paper. When it comes to determining the magnitude of an effect which is what we typically care about, dividing by the pooled pre-standard deviation is more appropriate. I reached out to some very smart people and one of the researchers I contacted, James Steele, has decided to redo this analysis using some highly interesting methods, so we can look forward to a new meta-analysis on protein intake, and I'm excited to cover it when it's out. With all that said, I do believe the quality of meta-analyses is generally improving, and a fair number of the meta-analyses in the hypertrophy space that I was alluding to earlier have been released in the last few years. All of these have been done to what I think is an exceptional standard. I'll likely have some more videos on these in the future where I dive deeper into them, and respond to some criticisms I've seen raised against some of them. Furthermore, the quality of individual studies is also generally improving. For example, we had this excellent paper comparing training to failure versus stopping one to two reps from failure on highly trained individuals. I thought they did an excellent job with the design and methods, and they also provided some training footage. They found similar growth between the two conditions, and you can learn more about this paper in this video. Circling back to the work of James Steele and his colleagues, he was involved in the study comparing different ranges of motions in just under 300 subjects, a sample size far larger than what we typically see. Moreover, they're working on a study that will compare lower to higher set numbers, targeting a sample size of 120. Some say that all this science on lifting weights is just over-complicating it. They say to just train hard and stick to the basics, science is nothing more than a way to avoid working hard. However, training hard and valuing the basics is not mutually exclusive to acquiring a deeper understanding of the available research we have. And there's nothing in the research that says the basics or training hard does not work. Of course, if lifting science makes you feel overwhelmed or makes you overthink to what you feel is an unhealthy degree, you have no obligation to continue watching or reading up about the literature. At the end of the day, people are different. Some people are like me. We enjoy delving into the details in an attempt to understand things as much as humanly possible, whereas others do not care for this. No perspective is superior to the other. To acquire your goal physique, there's no question that effective training is necessary. If you'd like assistance with this all while supporting what I do at the House of Hypertrophy, our highly rated partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate a comprehensive program 100% custom to your needs. Choose your goal, specify if there's muscles you want to focus on more, and let it know how often and how long you want to train for. This process can take less than a minute. There are well over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based on. Furthermore, the training philosophy is based on scientific literature. During workouts, the algorithm analyzes your past performance to derive progressive overload recommendations, thereby fostering long-term progress. Improve your understanding of your response with progression charts on a range of key metrics. The exercise database continues to grow, with just under 800 exercises. Each exercise has simplified instructions and further basic information. Try out all this free for two weeks with a link in the comments and description. And if you like it and continue, the link provides 20% off a subscription. Feel free to let me know what you think about the app anytime. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the House of Hypertrophy.

=== FILE: Faster Muscle Growth： This New Study Is Epic [wT3SGXW-_B4].txt ===

 Welcome to the House of Hypertrophy. Is there an optimal range of motion to maximize muscle hypertrophy? We yet again have a brand new study on trained individuals exploring this question, and quite importantly, it assessed growth at two different muscle regions, enabling us to see if some regions might grow more with one range of motion or another. To ensure we're all on the same page and to familiarize new viewers, a full range of motion moves the joints in an exercise through their full potential. A length and partial moves through a part of the range of motion where the muscle is at along the length. This is usually the first half of the lifting part of the movement. A short and partial moves through a part of the range of motion where the muscle is at a shorter length. This is usually the final half of the lifting part of a movement. Let us assess the new paper, and then understand how it fits into the rest of the scientific literature exploring range of motion for muscle hypertrophy. Let's dive in. 13 trained individuals with an average of approximately 6 years of experience were recruited. The subjects trained unilateral machine preacher curls, twice per week for 8 weeks. With one arm, subjects trained with a full range of motion, moving the elbow joint from 0 to 140 degrees of flexion. With their other arm, subjects trained with a length and partial, moving the elbow joint from 0 to 70 degrees of flexion. Both arms performed 5 sets of 10 to 15 reps to momentary failure, with 2 minutes of rest between sets. Loads were adjusted over time so subjects continued reaching failure in this rep range. Muscle thickness of the elbow flexors, which contained both the biceps and brachialis, was measured at 50% and 70% of this distance. It was found that growth at the 50% region was virtually similar between both ranges of motion, while growth at the 70% region tended to be greater for the length and partials. For those familiar with Bayesian statistics, the Bayes factor quantifying evidence for greater growth from the length and partials at the distal region was 4.87, which is interpreted as providing moderate evidence for greater growth from the length and partials. So, we're not necessarily talking about a crystal clear and large effect, but, aligned with the authors, I am interpreting this as slightly greater hypertrophy at the 70% region from length and partials. Some may be wondering if the greater growth at the distal region could ultimately end up making your muscles look weird. I'm not convinced this is the case. You can find my full analysis of this in the pinned comment. Nevertheless, do these results mean length and partials are superior for overall growth? This is just one study with a small sample size, so alone it's not robust evidence. So, let's briefly review the rest of the range of motion literature. For a while, it was thought that a four range of motion is superior for building muscle largely based on comparisons to short and partials, but in the last few years, studies comparing length and partials to a four range of motion have challenged this idea. This new study means that our total of six studies comparing full range of motion to length and partials, with three studies on untrained individuals and the other three on trained individuals. All three studies on untrained individuals find overall more muscle hypertrophy with a length and partial. Interestingly, one of them by Pedroza and colleagues examined growth across multiple regions, and it tended to show that for the vastest lateralis, there was a greater numerical difference between the full range of motion and length and partial at the distal region. Supporting the idea length and partials might be quite good for the distal regions of a muscle. As for the three studies on trained individuals, we already know the findings of the new one, but the other two, including one with quite a large sample size, tend to find similar growth between a full range of motion and length and partial. Perhaps importantly, these two studies only examined growth around the mid regions of a muscle, so we're left wondering how distal growth may have looked. Another way to describe this overall research is that length and partial seem to be at least as good as a full range of motion, with the possibility of length and partials building a bit more muscle in some cases. Of course, we're still not talking about hundreds or even tens of studies here, so you may still have some reservations about length and partials. Overall, the range of motion research has been developing quite nicely in the last few years, but there's still a lot to learn. For example, would the results of the new study be the same if they instead used a three-week preacher curl or another biceps exercise? And how effective my length and partials be with compound exercises that involve training a range of muscles? I think having a reserved viewpoint is perfectly fine, so it's absolutely justifiable for you to continue training with a full range of motion if that's your preference. Clearly, you'll still grow, but if you're someone who likes the idea of length and partials and wishes to experiment with them in some way, I say go for it and see how you get along. Of course, it's not an either or. You could include both in your training program and there's a ton of flexibility in how you could do this. Maybe you find length and partials more enjoyable on some exercises, but a full range of motion more enjoyable on other exercises. Maybe you perform length and partials on the final set of some exercises, or maybe you have some sets we alternate between a full range of motion and a length and partial. There are also certain exercises where once you reach failure with a full range of motion, you're able to squeeze out some extra reps with length and partials. We've explored research on this way of implementing length and partials in a recent video. I thought it would be informative to have a quick discussion on short and partials, as I want to make it clear that short and partials aren't tragic. We have 10 total studies involving a comparison between short and partials and a full range of motion or a length and partial. In general, overall muscle growth is a bit worse with short and partials, but it still produces growth and has sometimes been documented to produce similar growth around the mid regions to length and partials or a full range of motion. For example, this paper compared short and to length and partials on a dumbbell preacher curl. Growth of the biceps at the 70% region was greater for the length and partials, but growth at the 50% region was similar. Additionally, if we extend short and partials a bit more, they might become a bit better. Let me explain what I mean. This paper compared squatting to 60 degrees to squatting with 120 degrees of knee flexion. Growth across multiple regions was greater with 120 degrees. However, what if we extend the partial bit by going down to 90 or 100 degrees of knee flexion? Well, this study compared squatting to 90 degrees versus 140 degrees of knee flexion, and fascinatingly found similar quadriceps hypertrophy. A second paper compared leg pressing with 100 degrees of knee flexion to an average of 154 degrees of knee flexion, and found both produced similar overall regional quad growth. So, extending a typical short and partial might make it a little better. That said, if we return to this particular study comparing 90 to 140 degree knee flexion squats, though quad growth was similar, they also measured glute max and adductor hypertrophy, which was better with 140 degrees. So, we don't want to make the mistake of thinking short and partials do nothing, they can still deliver results. But given that most evidence suggests slightly worse overall hypertrophy, I would largely stick to training with a full range of motion or length and partial. If you're searching for further guidance on programming to obtain your goal physique, our high quality partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate personalized programs that are truly comprehensive and well rounded. Input key details, such as what equipment you have, how often and how long you're able to train, and if you want to emphasize certain muscles. This generally takes less than a minute. The training philosophy is based on the latest scientific literature, and further customizations can easily be done, like changing any training variable or implementing things like supersets. During workouts, there's a built-in warm-up set calculator and rest interval timer. The app also provides progressive overload recommendations to assist you. Of course, the app can automatically log your progression across time. If you're unsure about exercise technique, there are straightforward video and text instructions on nearly 800 exercises. The review from Tens of Thousands is a testament to its exceptional quality, but we would love to know what you think. The link in the comments and description gives you a free two-week trial of all its features, plus 20% off a subscription if you decide to continue. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the House of Hypertrophy.

=== FILE: How Many Sets for Muscle Growth？ (New Study) [21m6wO96KEM].txt ===

 Welcome to the House of Hypertrophy. How many sets are necessary to maximize muscle hypertrophy? This is arguably one of the most debated questions in the world of fitness, but we have a brand new study that I consider to be quite important for understanding the current research in this area. In this video, we'll first provide some background on the contentious literature on sets and hypertrophy, then we'll examine the new study and discuss its implications. This will lead us to a clear outline of what I believe the research truly suggests about the relationship between sets and hypertrophy. Finally, we'll wrap up with some training recommendations. Let's dive in. We need to go back to October 2023, when one of the most controversial papers on muscle growth was published. The researchers recruited 31 well-trained individuals to train the back squats at leg press and leg extension twice a week. In the first training week, every subject performed 22 sets, so that 11 sets per session split between the three movements. A fixed group continued to perform 22 sets every week for the remainder of the study. A 4-set group added 4 sets every two weeks, resulting in them performing 42 sets in the final week. Again, that was split between two training sessions in a week which looked like this. A 6-set group added 6 sets every two weeks, resulting in them performing a whooping 52 sets in the final week, again split between the two training sessions in a week which looked like this. All sets were aimed to be performed two reps away from failure in the 6-12 rep range, except the final set on each exercise which was taken to what the researchers termed volitional concentric failure. It was found that muscle growth, examined by measuring the cross-sectional area and thickness of the Vastus lateralis, tended to be better with the highest volumes. We'll return to a discussion of strength later, but for those curious, increases in back squats one rep max strength followed a similar pattern. These were some fascinating findings. Even today, the 52 sets reached by the 6-set group remains the highest weekly set volume reported in the scientific literature. Thinking about the training protocols, keep in mind that not only did the 4 and 6-set groups ultimately train with higher average set numbers than the fixed group, they also progressively added sets across the weeks. So, strictly speaking, it is unknown which of these factors contributed to the extra growth. Was it the higher average sets, the act of adding sets, or perhaps both? The idea of progressively adding sets is certainly an interesting one. To make this clear, imagine we have one group that trains with 20 weekly sets per muscle group for a total of 11 weeks. They, of course, average 20 weekly sets per muscle group. But imagine another group started with 10 weekly sets, and progressively added set every week to get them to perform 30 weekly sets per muscle group by the end of the 11 weeks. They also averaged 20 weekly sets per muscle group, but would there be a difference in muscle growth between the two groups? Sadly, the current evidence we have is insufficient to provide anything close to a clear answer, but I do intend to discuss what limited evidence we do have in a future video at the House of Iperturphy. Regardless, it is very much reasonable to conclude that these findings support the idea of higher sets delivering greater gains. But, unsurprisingly, this paper was met with mixed reactions across social media. Some thought this paper pointed to a new upper threshold for volume, but others had their doubts. Some of these doubts have contended that the greater growth seen by the highest volumes might not be real hypertrophy, but muscle swelling. Note, when I say real hypertrophy, we're talking about an increase in muscle size due to the addition of contractile units. The idea that swelling could be involved was certainly not an absurd suggestion. We know that after a sufficiently intense workout, muscles can experience transient increases in size due to factors likely relating to muscle damage. In some papers, such muscle swelling has been documented to be detectable in the multiple days after a workout. We might expect higher sets to cause greater muscle swelling. This all begs the question, in the extreme volume study, were the muscle size measurements after training taken at a time point when swelling might be present? Well, muscle size was measured 72 hours after the final training session, and skeptics were unconvinced this was long enough for swelling to have fully subsided. Talk about swelling would be reignited just over a year later when this meta-aggression was released. Based on combining the data of 35 studies, this relationship between sets and hypertrophy was found. Simply put, more sets produced greater hypertrophy with no sign of a plateau or an inverted U relationship, a finding that surprised many. To this day, I believe this remains our strongest insight into what the research suggests about the relationship between sets and hypertrophy. To ensure we all know what we're looking at, the white axis denotes increases in muscle size, while the X axis shows the number of fractional sets performed per muscle group per week. Feel free to pause and read the description and examples if you're unfamiliar with what this means. Of course, we're not talking about warm-up sets, rather working sets where you're training hard. Here are the visuals summarizing the variables used in the various studies. On average, there were 10 reps per set and most sets were taken to failure. But once again, given much of these studies measured muscle size 48 to 72 hours after the final training session, skeptics proposed that swelling was creating the appearance of more sets producing more growth. In reality, lower set volumes were enough to maximize real hypertrophy. Now, just to be clear, the idea of swelling contributing to the research on sets does date back much further, at least to 2018. But in the last few years, the arguments around swelling predominantly relate to these two papers. The problem is we never had a study actually comparing muscle swelling responses from different sets. So, we never had a great insight into how big swelling differences might be between lower and higher sets, as well as how long it takes swelling from varying set numbers to subside. This is where the new study comes into play. It is the first study to have explored this. Let's see what it found. The researchers recruited 13 trained individuals with an average of 5.1 years of experience to train the back squats, leg press, and leg extension in three workouts separated by a week. The only difference between the three workouts was the number of sets completed. One involved seven total sets, another 14 total sets, and the other 21 sets. These workouts were counterbalanced in a randomized order. Subjects began each exercise with 90% of their 10 rep max and aimed to perform all sets with 8-10 reps. Loads were adjusted when needed to maintain the target rep range. Two minutes of rest was provided between sets and three minutes between exercises. The authors note that subjects were motivated to ensure they exerted maximal effort during each exercise. This was applied uniformly to minimize variability in exertion levels. Muscle thickness and echo intensity of the anterior thigh, which contained both the rectus femoris and vastus intermedius, was measured at two sites before the workout, immediately after the workout, and 24, 48, and 72 hours after the workout. Just to be completely clear, this was not a study designed to compare muscle growth between the different sets. The study just had trained individuals trained with different sets, and muscle swelling was measured in the following hours and days after the workouts. It's also worth pointing out that these levels of set numbers, when executed two to three times per week, which is the most common training frequency in studies exploring sets, would correspond to these weekly set numbers. Thus, the 21 set condition in this study would be representative of a very high set number group. So, what did the researchers find? Fascinatingly, there were actually no significant differences in responses between the different set numbers, and swelling had more or less fully subsided 24 hours after the workout for all set numbers. As the authors describe, our results suggest the residual muscle swelling and or edema is unlikely to be a major confounding factor in hypertrophy assessments, at least when post-training measurements are conducted 24 hours or later after the final training session. In the spirit of scientific accuracy, this is just one study, so it's certainly not definitive proof. I know that some might be tempted to completely discard this paper since it just involved 13 trained individuals. However, remember that this was a crossover design, that is, each subject performed all three conditions, so there is no between-subject variability between conditions. Thus, at any given sample size, a crossover design gives us much greater power. So, a crossover design with 13 subjects is typically better than having 40 subjects split between the conditions. Again, this is not to say the study is conclusive proof. It's just that I believe it should be taken seriously. It is worth knowing there are at least five other studies conducted on trained individuals exploring muscle swelling in the days after a workout. Two of them reported that measurement had returned to baseline 24 hours after the workout, suggesting swelling had subsided by this point. However, the other three suggest some levels of swelling still present 48 to 72 hours after the workout. At first, this might be confusing. How come we have some data finding detectable levels of swelling 48 to 72 hours afterwards? But the new paper as well as these two other papers fail to find this. Ultimately, these studies are not identical and so there are multiple potential explanations for the divergent findings. But remember that none of these five other studies compare different set numbers, rather their focus was on other areas. So, they don't allow us to strongly say that higher set numbers produce meaningfully more prolonged swelling. This is why the new study was important since it was the first study to provide insight into this. All this brings me to my next point. Even though the new paper was important and interesting, it's critical to understand that even if it did find greater swelling from the higher sets and that swelling was still detectable 48 to 72 hours after, it actually would not follow that swelling is influencing the observed relationship between sets and hypertrophy in the literature. Why? Remember that all these studies, including the new one, examined muscle swelling after just one workout. This is an important consideration because in the studies behind the meta regression, subjects obviously trained for multiple weeks on end with muscle size assessed after the end of the whole training program. The question is, how confident are we that swelling observed in studies measuring it after just one workout are representative of the swelling that seen after training for weeks on end? The answer is that we should not be confident about this whatsoever because we have evidence that as you continue training with a program for weeks on end, your body produces a range of adaptations that reduce the muscle damage fatigue and muscle swelling response you experience from training. These adaptations are often referred to as the repeated bout effect. Some of you might object and say all these studies that measured swelling after one workout were conducted on trained individuals, so they already have these adaptations. While it is generally true that trained individuals experience lower damage, fatigue and swelling compared to untrained individuals, this objection fails to recognize that how much you are accustomed to a workout still absolutely matters. The trained individuals in these studies are still unaccustomed to the one workout they execute. Many trained individuals can attest to the fact that if they perform a new exercise or train with a different set of variables, they get more sore than usual. But as the weeks go by and they accustom themselves to this new program, soreness diminishes and recovery improves. There are a number of studies relating to the repeated bout effect, but allow us to overview two particular studies that have great relevance. The first paper had untrained individuals perform 10 sets of 6 maximum eccentric curls. As described in a tremendous in-depth article by Greg Knuckles, which is where I first learned about this particular paper, maximal eccentrics on a dynamometer are no joke. You can produce more force eccentrically than concentrically and a dynamometer ensures that every rep is maximally challenging. So every rep is performed with your moment in time eccentric one rep max. Think about that, performing 10 sets of 6 reps with every rep essentially being an eccentric one rep max. Given the brutality of this, it's unsurprising that substantial signs of damage and swelling persisted for multiple days, with some measures not even returning to baseline 7 days after the workout. Four weeks later, they repeated the session. Markers of muscle damage, including swelling, were substantially reduced. There was no swelling present at 48 to 72 hours after the training. Now, across social media, I've seen suggestions that these adaptations are limited, stating there's not much more that occurs beyond the second workout. But the second paper fails to support this, since it demonstrates how these adaptations continue to occur as the sessions go by. This was actually a paper I described back in 2023. It involved untrained subjects performing 5 sets of 15 maximal eccentric late extension reps, once a week for 10 weeks. So imagine performing 15 eccentric one rep max consecutively and doing that for 5 sets. The first session produced considerable signs of damage and fatigue for multiple days after the workout, with many measures not even recovered 5 days after. However, as the weeks went by and they continued training, there were progressive reductions in all signs of damage and faster recovery of performance. Unfortunately, swelling was not examined. But given that all the indicators of damage and fatigue diminished, I believe we can virtually be certain swelling would have followed the same fate. Circling back to the new study, as it didn't even find differences between the different set numbers, or that swelling was present 48 to 72 hours after the workout, we don't even need to consider the repeated bout effect. But I do believe it was worthwhile reviewing some of the repeated bout effect literature. For one, it's interesting in its own right. But you now also know the issues with people using swelling data after a single workout to make claims about swelling after a program. Also, if we get a future study that finds greater swelling from higher sets after a single workout, it doesn't necessarily mean that swelling is confounding the relationship between sets and hypertrophy. So, considering everything we've overviewed, I think it's very unlikely that swelling is meaningfully contributing to the observed relationship between sets and hypertrophy in the literature. That is, in general, higher sets likely do genuinely produce more hypertrophy. Now, I am being careful with my words. I said it's very unlikely that swelling is meaningfully contributing. This does not necessarily mean there's zero swelling. I mean, swelling could very well have zero involvement. It's just that I recognize the current evidence is not strong enough to assert this particular claim with a high level of confidence. Returning to the meta-aggression, they also explored the relationship between sets and strength adaptations. In sharp contrast to the hypertrophy findings, strength fascinatingly appeared to be maximized at merely five sets per muscle group a week. Across social media, these findings were used to fuel speculation that swelling was confounding the hypertrophy results. The thinking goes that if higher sets genuinely produced greater hypertrophy, the addition of contractile units that comes about with the growth should mean greater strength gains too. But since strength appears to be maximized with around five sets, hypertrophy must also be maximized at five sets. All the extra growth from doing more sets is nothing more than swelling or just sarcoplasmic hypertrophy. I've already mentioned this phenomenal article from Greg Knuckles at Stronger by Science. It does an exceptional job at diving into this area. Here, I'll present some of the key points according to my interpretation. The strength analysis contained nearly double the studies. While there were overlapping studies contributing to both analyses, there were many non-overlapping studies. Much of the non-overlapping studies involved in the strength data involved untrained subjects and found large strength gains with low sets. This is not necessarily surprising as untrained individuals can experience significant strength gains due to learning effects and neural adaptations. If we're interested in precisely exploring whether the extra growth from higher sets is associated with greater strength gains, there might be a better way to analyze the data. What we might want to do is focus on studies that involved trained individuals and took related strength and size measurements. Measuring quad growth in Backspot One Rep Max is an example of this. When analyzing the studies that meet this criteria, it indeed seems that higher sets generally cause both greater size and strength increases. Once again, I can't recommend the article enough for those interested. So it seems higher sets generally cause greater muscle hypertrophy. However, it is imperative for me to state that just because I believe the literature suggests higher sets tend to be better for hypertrophy, it absolutely does not follow that I am telling you to train with very high sets or that you can't experience great gains without higher sets. Unfortunately, many make this erroneous assumption. They think that by presenting this data that I'm literally instructing everyone to train with 40 weekly sets per muscle group, but that is not the case. The reason for this is straightforward. We need to consider other details with the data and you're always going to have to consider your individual situation. Let's get into some of these points. Notice how there are diminishing returns. This tells us that it is certainly possible to see some respectable gains with volumes on the lower side, which is great news for those who aren't interested in maximizing everything. We can see that the credible intervals get wider, especially after 25 weekly sets per muscle group. These wider intervals simply mean there's greater uncertainty with very high sets, owing to the fewer studies. So, while we can be pretty much certain that moderate to highest set volumes are superior to lower set volumes, it is certainly possible that as we get more data, the difference between very high volumes and highish to moderate volumes shrinks. The average duration of the studies was around 10 weeks. That said, the authors of the meta-aggression did have some moderator analyses, and we actually see an even stronger relationship between sets and hypertrophy with longer duration papers. Note, these findings may further oppose the swelling arguments. As we know, thanks to the adaptations your body accrues, swelling responses will diminish as the weeks go by. So, the fact we observe this type of relationship between sets and hypertrophy over longer duration studies may be further evidence against swelling. Nevertheless, there are open questions as to how things may look over many years. One possibility is that over this time frame, moderate volumes can eventually get you to the same place. Upon reviewing the papers behind the regression, a fair few use incomplete training programs where they just train one or a few muscle groups. That said, I will note in some of the studies examining high sets, they do train a larger proportion of the body. So, I'm not necessarily saying it's impossible to train virtually your full body with very high sets. Finally, remember that these results are the average. It is possible that individual differences exist. Some people may genuinely grow more or at least the same with volumes on the lower side. Having described all these points, what do I recommend? I've said this before in prior videos, but if you're currently making great progress with your training program, regardless of how it may look or compare to the research, you don't have to change a thing, continue reaping those gains. But as a general recommendation, if your aim is to maximize muscle hypertrophy, unless you're convinced you respond better to volumes on the lower end, I would recommend training as much as you feel you can handle, while still ensuring you're exerting a high level of effort to each set. As time goes by, you can adjust things accordingly. If you feel like you want to see if you can still maintain great progress with little less volume, give it a shot. Alternatively, as the repeated bow defect develops, you might find that you're recovering very well and so might wish to try out even more sets. At the end of the day, you have no obligation to only train in one single way for the rest of your training career. You are always free to experiment and explore with your own training. Very few, if any, individuals spend their whole training career training in one exact way. I'll also note that things can differ between muscle groups. It is very common for people to feel that they can tolerate more volume with some muscle groups over others. Finally, I will add that if you're someone who hasn't tried very high volumes before, but it interests you and you are willing to experiment with it, I do lean towards the idea that it may be more practical, at least at first, to do this with a select few muscle groups. In other words, muscle group specialization. Here, you just train one or two muscle groups that you would like to accelerate the growth of with very high volumes. When doing this, I think it might be smart to gradually ease yourself into performing very high volumes through progressively adding sets across the weeks, all while closely monitoring your experience. This approach is somewhat like the paper by NS and colleagues detailed at the start of the video. To acquire your goal physique, there's no question that effective training is necessary. If you'd like assistance with this all while supporting what I do at the House of Hypotrophy, our highly rated partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate a comprehensive program 100% custom to your needs. Choose your goal, specify if there's muscles you want to focus on more, and let it know how often and how long you want to train for. This process can take less than a minute. There are well over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based on. Furthermore, the training philosophy is based on scientific literature. During workouts, the algorithm analyzes your past performance to derive progressive overload recommendations, thereby fostering long-term progress. Improve your understanding of your response with progression charts on a range of key metrics. The exercise database continues to grow, with just under 800 exercises. Each exercise has simplified instructions and further basic information. Try out all this free for two weeks with a link in the comments and description. And if you like it and continue, the link provides 20% off a subscription. Feel free to let me know what you think about the app anytime. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the House of Hypotrophy.

=== FILE: How Much Muscle Can You Gain？ (& What Causes Growth？) [ZWYf_7jAWEM].txt ===

 Welcome to the House of Hypertrophy, a brand new review has been released exploring how much muscle can be gained as well as what drives muscle hypertrophy. Let's dive straight in. How much muscle might you expect to gain across your training career? The researchers first examined data on the typical gain seen in studies lasting a few months, and then combined this with other data to infer long-term growth potential. Starting with the former, this meta-analysis reported the effects of resistance training on proxies of muscle hypertrophy in healthy adult males. We'll soon return to how things may change for females. Fat-free mass was the most commonly reported metric. It was found that the average response to training was a gain of 1.5 kilograms in around 10 weeks. Keep in mind that fat-free mass is not synonymous with skeletal muscle mass. There are many non-skeletal muscle mass components included in fat-free mass, but the assumption here is that skeletal muscle mass is what primarily drives changes in fat-free mass, especially over the long term. When the meta divided the studies by training status, trained individuals unsurprisingly saw numerically lower increases. Although interestingly, the differences were not statistically significant. Nevertheless, trained is a broad category. Needless to say, we'd expect someone with 10 years of training experience to see much lower increases in fat-free mass than someone with 2 years of training experience. Using the range of values reported from the studies, the researchers also considered responsiveness. In 10-12 weeks, a higher responder might see a 3 kilogram increase while a lower responder might see a 0.4 kilogram increase. Considering the entirety of a lifting career, the researchers decided to make inferences from examining the range of fat-free mass index values in natural bodybuilders. For those unaware, fat-free mass index is calculated by dividing fat-free mass by the square of an individual's height in meters. Let's say you're 85 kilograms with 15% body fat at a height of 1.8 meters. Doing the math and we get 22.3. The researchers referenced data from natural bodybuilders reporting ranges of fat-free mass index between 22.7 to 25. Using these fat-free mass index values, along with typical heights and baseline fat-free mass levels, we can estimate the amount of fat-free mass change in the long term, which amounts to 12.5 to 20.2 kg in total, or 2.5 to 4 kg on average over a 5-year period. Putting all this together, the researchers provide this schematic illustration. A high responder may wind up with a 21 kg increase in fat-free mass, an average responder with a 12 kilogram increase, and a low responder with a 5 kilogram increase. For females, it may come as a surprise to some, but there's good evidence that they gain muscle at a similar relative rate to males. That is, their percentage increase is very similar. However, they do tend to see lower absolute increases since they tend to start out with less muscle. The details on screen should make the distinction between absolute and relative increases clear. Using these precise numbers, the researchers provide the rough estimate that absolute fat-free mass gains in females may be 70% of those observed in males, thus arriving at this figure. All in all, I do think this is a generally decent estimate of how things may look over the long term. But remember this is not a fact, since this is arrived at by merging different areas of the literature each with their own limitations. Further, there are debatable assumptions. For example, the x-axis stops at 5 years, and many debate the degree to which muscle size can be increased after numerous years of training. There is also a lot more nuance behind responsiveness, and I would be very careful with labelling someone a true low responder. It's possible that they may respond better with different training variables and or ensuring they're optimizing non-training factors. I'll also mention that reality isn't necessarily going to be as clean as this trajectory suggests. Many may have time periods where they grow more or less than expected for a range of different reasons. I plan to have a more in-depth video on how much muscle might be gained over an entire training career, where I'll detail more research and explore questions such as if there's really a natural fat-free mass index limit, and how steroids could change things. The biological effects of testosterone have been known since antiquity, but it was first isolated around the 1930s. Nowadays, we're well aware that supraphysologic doses of testosterone can notably increase muscle size. Just take a look at this classic paper, which found that injecting 600 milligrams of testosterone in anthe per week, with no training, led to larger increases in some proxies of hyperchefee versus a group lifting weights naturally. Given these effects of testosterone, it's unsurprising that people pay close attention to it, even outside of exogenous administration. One such example relates to temporary increases in natural testosterone that can occur from lifting weights. In fact, various people are also interested in the temporary increases in other systemic anabolic hormones, like growth hormone and IGF-1 that come about from lifting. Some go so far as to construct their training program in an attempt to maximize the post-training spike in anabolic hormones. Doing this typically requires using exercises that train large amounts of muscle mass, performing a large number of sets with moderate loads and short rest intervals. But, do acute changes in systemic anabolic hormones strongly influence muscle hypertrophy? Let's take a look at the evidence outlined in the review. Wilkinson and colleagues had subjects train unilateral leg extensions and leg presses thrice weekly for eight weeks. In the 90 minutes after the workout, there were no changes in systemic anabolic hormone concentrations, yet increases in fiber cross-sectional area were observed. Thus, acute hormonal elevations do not appear to be required to stimulate hypertrophy. However, since there were no comparisons to other training styles, one could still suggest that training styles that do produce greater acute hormonal changes are superior. Is this true? This study by West had a low hormone condition perform a unilateral arm isolation exercise with these variables. A high hormone condition also performed the unilateral arm isolation curl exercise, but followed this up with a high volume of lower body training. As alluded to earlier, exercises that involve large amounts of muscle mass produce greater temporary elevations in anabolic hormones. So, by performing these leg exercises, larger acute anabolic hormone elevations occurred with this condition. Despite this, hypertrophy ended up being similar. Indeed, there are other studies failing to find that training protocols that produce larger temporary anabolic hormone elevations produce superior hypertrophy, as well as papers failing to find correlations between acute anabolic hormone elevations and muscle growth. This led the researchers to conclude, acute increases in testosterone, growth hormone or IGF-1 after exercise do not influence muscle protein synthesis or hypertrophic outcomes in men or women. Perhaps this isn't as surprising as it may first seem when we consider the fact that the changes in endogenous anabolic hormones that occur with lifting are usually well within the daily variations of the hormone and are orders of magnitude less than what we see with exogenous administration. Furthermore, the temporary changes in hormone levels typically last no longer than 90 minutes after exercise. Mechanical Tension refers to the force generated by muscle fibers. This can be active tension, the force generated by a muscle's contractile elements, or passive tension, the force generated by various components when stretched. These forces are sensed by mechanosensors, which transduce the force into signals that can culminate in hypertrophy. As the authors note, mechanical tension is the primary and essential driver of resistance training induced muscle hypertrophy. In a general sense, proximity to failure is closely tied to mechanical tension. As you get closer to failure, muscle fiber activation progressively increases, ultimately exposing more muscle fibers to greater tension. This doesn't necessarily mean you have to always train to failure as stopping one to two reps from failure could be sufficient in certain scenarios. Now, I do think some people go too far with mechanical tension, and unjustifiably base their whole training program on what they think maximizes mechanical tension. For example, they may hypothesize that a certain training style optimizes mechanical tension and subsequently hypertrophy, even though the actual research measuring muscle growth fails to support that training variable being superior. The key consideration here is that there's still a lot we do not know. So, while knowing about mechanical tension is generally interesting, I would still focus on the research we have measuring muscle growth to inform training rather than possible faulty speculations about optimizing mechanical tension. Moving forward, the authors know that the accumulation of metabolites like lactate, inorganic phosphate, and hydrogen ions have been proposed to contribute to hypertrophy. This notion may lead some to construct their training program with the goal of maximizing the buildup of metabolites. But is this really necessary? There are three pieces of evidence noted in the review that I'll address here. Firstly, the authors note that many bodybuilding routines typically involve training with 8-12 reps per set and tend to elicit greater levels of metabolic stress versus heavier low training. Yet, 3-5 reps can still produce similar gains. This is especially true in studies where the 3-5 reps performs more sets to equate total volume load. If you're interested, we have a video on low reps for hypertrophy examining this literature more. Secondly, blood flow restriction training can create a relatively hypoxic environment that increases metabolic stress. Blood flow restriction training has been shown to be highly effective for hypertrophy even with very light loads. Some hypothesized blood flow restriction causes hypertrophy by way of metabolic stress. However, as the researchers mentioned, blood flow restriction results in premature fatigue that leads to earlier recruitment of more muscle fibers. And it might just be the mechanical loading of these fibers explaining the growth and not metabolite accumulation per se. On top of this, one might expect that if metabolic stress is additive to hypertrophy, adding blood flow restriction to regular training with moderate to heavier loads should stimulate more growth. Yet, we have a few studies exploring this in different ways, either implementing the blood flow restriction during this set, within the rest interval or after the training session, but all fail to find more growth with the added blood flow restriction. Thirdly, there are exercise modalities that produce similar or greater metabolite accumulation to lifting, such as high intensity interval training or sprinting. Yet, these likely produce lower overall hypertrophy to lifting. Considering all this, it is clear that metabolic stress isn't the primary driver of hypertrophy. And the current literature questions whether it's additive. The researchers of the review do not mention this, but I want to add that I don't think we can definitively say metabolic stress has zero role in muscle growth. It's an immense challenge to separate out metabolic stress and other stimuli like tension in humans. Furthermore, there are over 4,200 metabolites in human serum, needless to say, not to all of them have been extensively explored. We also can't rule out that some small amount of metabolic stress contributes to growth and virtually all training styles pass this threshold. Or, maybe more extreme levels of metabolic stress not yet explored in the human data benefits growth. Finally, perhaps there are other avenues by which metabolic stress or at least training styles that involve high metabolic stress could benefit hypertrophy. For instance, there is some evidence that capillarization could be beneficial for muscle growth. Thus, although we can draw some reasonable conclusions about metabolic stress from the current literature, there still remains questions. The researchers note another popular proposed mechanism of hypertrophy is cell swelling, which is linked to metabolic stress. The pump has its origins in post-exercise hyperemia and opening of muscular vascular and capillary beds, which, with increased flow, lead to an increase in muscle size. The authors ultimately conclude that there's a lack of evidence supporting a direct hypertrophy benefit of cell swelling. Indeed, we've covered the pump recently in this video, where we note the research demonstrating that training styles that lead to a greater pump do not necessarily cause more hypertrophy. I will say this doesn't necessarily mean the pump is useless. For one, some enjoy the sensations of a pump, and that can be important when it comes to staying consistent with your training. Furthermore, one speculation is that when you're comparing two exercises performed with the same training variables, the exercise that leads to a greater pump at a certain muscle region means that region is seeing more tension and is thus a good indicator of growth. This is a possibility. But as we saw in our recent video, the evidence on this is interestingly a little mixed. The researchers did not touch on muscle damage, which many have proposed is a crucial driver of muscle hypertrophy. However, like metabolic stress, the evidence linking damage to muscle growth isn't promising. We've covered this topic more in prior videos if you want to dig deeper into it. To acquire your goal physique, there's no question that effective training is necessary. If you'd like assistance with this all while supporting what I do at the House of Hypertrophy, our highly rated partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate a comprehensive program 100% custom to your needs. Choose your goals, specify if there's muscles you want to focus on more, and let it know how often and how long you want to train for. This process can take less than a minute. There are well over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based on. Furthermore, the training philosophy is based on scientific literature. During workouts, the algorithm analyzes your past performance to derive progressive overload recommendations, thereby fostering long-term progress. Improve your understanding of your response with progression charts on a range of key metrics. The exercise database continues to grow, with just under 800 exercises. Each exercise has simplified instructions and further basic information. Try out all this free for two weeks with a link in the comments and description. And if you like it and continue, the link provides 20% off a subscription. Feel free to let me know what you think about the app anytime. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the House of Hypertrophy.

=== FILE: The BEST Rep Speed For Size (New Study) [2sys7keMuy4].txt ===

 Welcome to the House of Hypertrophy. Is there an optimal tempo to maximise muscle hypertrophy? I'm glad to say we have a new meta-analysis exploring this. Let's dive straight in. The researchers aim to identify all the studies that compared faster and slower tempos on either the concentric and eccentric phase and met these criteria. So, to be clear, studies that had one group train with both a slower concentric and eccentric to another group that trained with both a faster concentric and eccentric tempo were not included because the new analysis just included studies that independently manipulated eccentric and concentric tempo. The meta-analysis ended up including 14 studies with a total of 278 subjects. These were the average and range of tempos for the fast and slow eccentric and concentric. Let's start with the eccentric data which answers the question. When using a given concentric tempo, is a fast or slower eccentric tempo superior for hypertrophy? Here's the results. I thought it'd be worth ensuring we all know what we're looking at here. This is what's known as a forest plot. It's a graphical representation of the individual results of each study included in the meta-analysis together with the combined meta-analytic results. As a fun fact, forest plots go back at least to the 1970s. The name refers to the forest of lines produced. For each individual study, we see the effect estimate shown with a dot and the value of it on the right. A positive value in this case means the gains are greater for faster tempos. We also see a 95% credible interval with the upper and lower bounds of the interval noted on the right. Credible intervals quantify the uncertainty in our estimate. To make this clear, remember that each study is trying to estimate the true possible difference between faster and slower tempos, but our estimate is not necessarily perfect. For example, if we wanted to measure the average arm size of adults in England, it would be quite impractical to measure every single person, so we take a sample instead. But the average we get from our sample isn't guaranteed to be equivalent to the true population average, so we have uncertainty with our results. Of course, the larger the sample, the less uncertainty there will be. The way we interpret 95% credible intervals is simple. We say that we believe it is 95% probable that the true effect falls within this interval. Of course, wide credible intervals indicate a lot of uncertainty, whereas narrow credible intervals suggest our estimate is quite precise. We also see a posterior distribution. All you need to know for our purposes is that the areas with greater height are considered to be more plausible than areas with lower heights. The overall meta-analytic effect is the main result, but it is also still an estimate and thus has its own 95% credible interval. For this particular analysis, we see that the effect favors faster tempos with the standardized mean difference of 0.06, which is fairly hard to make sense of if you're not a researcher. Fortunately though, thanks to Greg Knuckles' excellent work over at Stronger by Science, there's a rough but good enough way to convert this number into something more interpretable. A 0.06 effect size roughly translates into a 0.9% difference. Note, this is an additive percentage difference. So if slower tempos produced an increase in muscle size of 5%, faster tempos produced an increase in muscle size of 5.9%. In terms of a multiplicative percentage difference, this roughly equates to 18%. So we're not really talking about a large effect. Moreover, notice the uncertainty we see with the credible interval, with the difference of 0 comfortably being in the interval. Given this, despite the estimate slightly favoring faster tempos, I do think the best description is no clear advantage for either tempo. That said, there is a subgroup analysis worth discussing. With this eccentric data, the researchers split the data into those that had subjects trained to failure and those that did not train to failure. With the failure data, the estimate was in favor of slower tempos, while with a non-failure data, the estimate was in favor of faster tempos. The reason I thought this is perhaps notable is because three of the five studies in the non-failure data had subjects trained with isokinetic dynamometers, which matches the subject's effort and maintains a set velocity, which is not identical to normal training. Whereas with this failure data, six of six studies had subjects trained with regular freeway or machine exercises which most people train with. Thus, there's a case to be made that this analysis is the most generalizable to normal training. So, slower eccentric tempos could have a possibly small advantage, but once again, we have to grapple with the fact this estimate is far from precise, so I don't think it's unjustifiable to once again just say this data shows no clear advantage for either tempo. Let's move on to the concentric data, which answers the question. When using a given eccentric tempo, is a faster or slower concentric tempo superior for hypertrophy? Here, we see that the estimate favors faster tempos, but there's a great degree of uncertainty. Given the limited data here, no further analyses were done with this concentric data. So, what conclusions can we take away from this meta-analysis? The somewhat boring point is that the uncertainty we see in the data demonstrates that additional studies will help us obtain more precise estimates, plus we currently do not have much research on trained individuals, so it would be premature for me to definitively rule out a possibility of genuine effects. On the bright side, the research is developing quite nicely, so I'm hopeful we'll get more precise estimates. Of course, we can't wait, we have to train now. So, when looking at this data, I think the most sensible interpretation is that there's no strong evidence for a clear advantage for either tempo. I'll also add that the researchers did an extra analysis, exploring the gains achieved by faster tempos and slower tempos, with the effect sizes being in the range of 0.34 to 0.43, which roughly equates to 5-6%. But what is the typical magnitude of muscle growth? Fascinatingly, this 5-6% increase is right in line with the typical muscle size increase seen in the literature. Specifically, this excellent meta-analysis included 111 studies and observed muscle size to increase by approximately 5%. I'll add this was quite a precise estimate. Thus, we can have no doubt that you can grow well with either faster and slower tempos. It is clear that rep tempo is far from the most important training variable for muscle hypertrophy. From this, we can probably infer that if there is a difference between slower and faster tempos, the difference is likely not going to be large. So, for now, I would select your preference and this of course can vary between exercises if you wish. There is also further evidence against the notion that tempo has a meaningful impact on hypertrophy. Recall that only studies that independently manipulated concentric and eccentric tempo were included. But there are studies comparing faster concentrics and faster eccentric to slower concentrics and slower eccentrics. These papers tend to find no significant differences in hypertrophy. Indeed, we've had an older meta-analysis and some more recent reviews emphasizing some of this literature and ultimately concluding that provided you're training 2 or close to failure, repetition tempos across a wide range of durations are probably similarly effective for building muscle. That said, it is possible that super slow training might not be ideal for hypertrophy. This paper had untrained women train the back squats, leg press, and leg extension with these variables. A normal group took each set to failure with a 1-2 second concentric and eccentric tempo, with an 80-85% one rep max load. While a super slow group aimed to take each set to failure with a 10-second concentric and full-second eccentric tempo, with a 40-60% one rep max load, increases in slow and fast-switch fibrocyzes from the vastest lateralis favored the normal group. The super slow group did use lighter loads, but it's tough to argue this is what's to blame, since we've seen plenty of times at the house of hyperchve that loads as light as 30% one rep max can be similarly effective for building muscle. But now, this is one study, so it's anything but proof. But in the absence of other data, I think it's best to err on the side of caution and avoid super slow tempos if the aim is to maximize hypertrophy. If you're searching for further guidance on programming to obtain your goal physique, our high-quality partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate personalized programs that are truly comprehensive and well-rounded. Input key details, such as what equipment you have, how often and how long you're able to train, and if you want to emphasize certain muscles. This generally takes less than a minute. The training philosophy is based on the latest scientific literature, and further customizations can easily be done, like changing any train variable or implementing things like supersets. During workouts, there's a built-in warm-up set calculator and rest interval timer. The app also provides progressive overload recommendations to assist you. Of course, the app can automatically log your progression across time. If you're unsure about exercise technique, there are straightforward video and text instructions on nearly 800 exercises. The review from Tens of Thousands is a testament to its exceptional quality, but we would love to know what you think. The link in the comments and description gives you a free two-week trial of all its features, plus 20% off a subscription if you decide to continue. Thank you for making it to the end. Here are the summary points. Feel free to check out another video at the House of Hypertrophy.

=== FILE: They Said This Is the WORST Way to Build Muscle [MuUvOhaUkbI].txt ===

 Welcome to the House of Hypertrophy. Are there types of exercises that are truly bad for muscle hypertrophy and that you should definitely avoid? We have a brand new study, the first one on trained individuals exploring a style of training that many claim is suboptimal for building muscle. As we'll see, the results are truly fascinating and may surprise many. But first, what style of training am I talking about? It's static training, also known as isometric training. There are endless ways to train with isometrics. Common examples include planks, wall sits and static holds. But you can also just hold the weight at a chosen position with many normal exercises. Let's analyze the new paper and then we'll discuss what implications it has for training to maximize muscle hypertrophy. Let's dive in. 23 trained individuals were recruited with an average of around 4.2 years of experience. But there were subjects with as much as 9 to 10 years of experience. This is actually one of the subjects here. With one leg, subjects performed a max effort in the extension isometric contraction for 30 seconds per set. As this was max effort, the RPE values for each set was 10. And it's also worth remembering that fatigue inevitably kicked in and their force output did gradually decline throughout the 30 second set despite continued max effort. The researchers aimed to have subjects perform the isometric with their knees bent as much as possible, which ended up being around 125 degrees on average. So we can call this a long muscle length isometric. Fascinatingly, there is research demonstrating that long muscle length isometrics tend to build more muscle than short muscle length isometrics. With their other leg, subjects trained dynamic knee extensions, moving from around 125 degrees of knee flexion to 10 degrees of knee flexion. Each set also lasted 30 seconds and the loads were continually adjusted so that each set subjects were training to or very close to momentary failure. Average RPE per set was close to 9. Note that having the same subjects perform both conditions reduces the likelihood of differences in genetics, nutrition and outside lifestyle factors confounding the results. Subjects trained both exercises with 3 to 5 sets per session with 90 seconds of rest between sets, twice per week for 6 weeks. Muscle thickness of the anterior thigh and lateral thigh were each measured across 3 regions. Overall, changes in size were broadly similar between both conditions. Although, fascinatingly, some measures lean towards the isometric condition, particularly the upper anterior thigh region with the majority of the distribution exceeding the region of practical equivalence. That said, there's still uncertainty. From a cautious perspective, you could justifiably interpret this as no clear difference. On the other hand, given this was only a 6-week study on trained individuals, the fact some measures lean towards the isometrics may hint at a small advantage. Either way, these results do not support the idea that isometric muscle actions are terrible for building muscle. Let us entertain the idea that isometrics had a small advantage. I think there are two plausible explanations. Firstly, the duration of the sets were equated between both conditions, but since the isometrics were performed with a maximum effort for the entire duration, total time under high tension would have been higher. If the normal dynamic training condition performed additional sets to equate total time spent at high tension levels, perhaps gains would have been similar. Secondly, the isometrics spent more time at the most lengthened position, which may have some advantages for stimulating growth. I'll also add that in our last video. We overviewed the literature comparing different ranges of motions, and we saw that lengthened partials appear to be at least as good as a full range of motion, if not better in some cases. That shouldn't be confused with me saying a full range of motion is bad. It certainly is very effective for building muscle and may be considered an excellent default option for most, but it is nevertheless the case that this new study further adds to the accumulating literature suggesting a full range of motion might not be essential. Before moving on, just remember that this is still just one small study. There is statistical uncertainty and that the findings are specific to the design employed. Let's move forward and see what other research we have comparing isometrics to regular training or other muscle actions. One paper from 1957, yet you heard that right, 1957, compared isometric curves and overhead presses to dynamic dumbbell curves and overhead presses. Upper arm circumference gains were worse with the isometrics, but circumference is far from a precise measure of hypertrophy. We have five other studies. Four find that isometrics managed to produce similar increases in measures of muscle size, while one of them fascinatingly suggests regional differences in growth between eccentric only and isometric only hip extension training. We know the new paper used max effort isometrics, but it's worth pointing out that some of these papers had subjects hold sub max isometrics for a duration, suggesting that gains can still be achieved without sustained all out max effort isometrics against an immovable object. Now, this certainly is still not a ton of strong data, but there is other somewhat indirect data from a 2007 review paper. It included an exploration of the average rate of muscle growth from a range of variables. It found that dynamic training tended to increase quad cross-sectional area by 0.11% per day, while isometric training tended to increase quad cross-sectional area by 0.11% per day, so the rate of gains were identical. As for the upper flexors, dynamic training tended to produce an increase of 0.2% per day, while isometric training tended to produce an increase of 0.14% per day, which isn't super far off. There are far fewer data points contributing to the isometric percentages, and we're comparing the rate of growth between varying studies, so the research directly putting isometrics up against dynamic training is stronger evidence. Summarizing things so far, further research will only help our insight, but I'd say what we currently have undeniably demonstrates that isometric training builds muscle quite well. They do not deserve to be called terrible or even meaningfully inferior since in the head-to-head comparisons we have, isometrics tend to hold their own. We know that most of the research assessing isometrics has, for the most part, explored max efforts against an immovable object or submax holds on specialized machines, which aren't identical to popular isometrics like planks or wall-sits. For this reason, I cannot definitively say these common isometrics are definitely going to be as good as normal training, but my best guess is they might be very similar, and if there is a difference, I don't anticipate it being that big. Part of the reason I suspect this is due to research on high rep training. We know that higher reps, provided they are taken to or very close to failure, can be similarly effective for hypertrophy to lower reps. I think one strong explanation behind the effectiveness of higher reps is that although they initially involve low muscle fiber recruitment and tension, as you continue performing reps and get closer and closer to failure, fiber recruitment and tension increases, resulting in a robust stimulus for hypertrophy. In a similar way, holding isometrics may initially involve low fiber recruitment and tension, but as you continue holding it and push through the pain, fiber recruitment and tension increases. So, should you train with isometrics? Well, the choice is yours. The totality of the evidence does not indicate they are essential for maximizing hypertrophy, but they are not terrible or meaningfully inferior, so I'd consider them another tool in your toolbox. Some may enjoy the variation provided by isometrics, while I know others may find them boring. For those of you interested in giving them a shot, the following details might be helpful. As the authors of the latest study describe, it is very much possible to perform overcoming isometrics without expensive equipment. All you need to do is just push or pull against an immovable object. As done in the new study, you can do multiple sets of 30 second holds, or as other studies have done, you can hold shorter duration contractions, rest for a short duration and then repeat as many times as you desire. As for non-maximum holding isometrics, I think the best way to approach these is simply to hold them until you get to or very close to failure and that counts as one set. Another aspect worthy of discussion is muscle length. As mentioned earlier, we do have some studies suggesting that isometrics at longer lengths tend to build more muscle than isometrics at shorter lengths. That said, I'm not necessarily convinced that you have to go out your way to perform isometrics at the maximum stretch you possibly can. The latest study did use isometrics at 125 degrees of deflection, but there was no comparison to other degrees, making it difficult to know how other angles would compare. But in a few studies comparing long to short isometrics, the long muscle length training involved an isometric leg extension at around 90 to 100 degrees of deflection, which is still a bit away from a maximum stretch. Similarly, a few studies we saw comparing isometrics to dynamic training also involved the isometrics performed around 90 to 100 degrees of deflection. Given great results in all these cases, you can rest assured isometrics that don't achieve a maximum stretch can still deliver great gains. Furthermore, it is still worth recognizing that short length isometrics can produce detectable growth, so I wouldn't call them utterly useless. So exercises like the plank are probably still capable of being quite effective. The final point worth touching on is that for some, especially if you're well-trained, isometrics like planks or wall sets may be far too easy for you such that it takes way too long to get close to failure. Fortunately, there are ways to increase the challenge such as using additional weights or a harder bodyweight variation. If you're searching for further guidance on programming to obtain your goal physique, our high-quality partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate personalized programs that are truly comprehensive and well-rounded. Input key details such as what equipment you have, how often and how long you're able to train, and if you want to emphasize certain muscles. This generally takes less than a minute. The training philosophy is based on the latest scientific literature and further customizations can easily be done, like changing any training variable or implementing things like supersets. During workouts, there's a built-in warm-up set calculator and rest interval timer. The app also provides progressive overload recommendations to assist you. Of course, the app can automatically log your progression across time. If you're unsure about exercise technique, there are straightforward video and text instructions on nearly 800 exercises. The reviews from Tens of Thousands is a testament to its exceptional quality, but we would love to know what you think. The link in the comments and description gives you a free two-week trial of all its features, plus 20% off a subscription if you decide to continue. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the House of Hypertrophy.

=== FILE: They Trained One Side DROP SETS  vs NORMAL Sets [6DB7DDt_Suo].txt ===

 Welcome to the House of Hypertrophy. How can you reduce your training time while still maximizing hypertrophy? There are many techniques proposed to do this. One of them is drop sets. But what does the scientific literature say about them? I'm glad to say we have a brand new study exploring drop sets in trained individuals. We'll overview this study, describe how it fits into the rest of the scientific literature, and then provide some training recommendations. Let's dive in. 29 trained individuals with an average of 7.6 years of experience had one arm randomly assigned to train with drop sets, and the other arm normal sets. They trained preacher curls and kneeling lap pull downs 2-3 times per week for 10 weeks. Interestingly, all the training was done on an electromagnetic cable machine. But don't worry, we'll bring the conversation back to drop sets with more conventional equipment soon. The normal set arm performed 4 sets of 8-12 reps to momentary failure on the preacher curl, and 2 sets of 8-12 reps to momentary failure on the pull downs. Loads were adjusted across the set and training sessions in an attempt to keep subjects reaching failure in the 8-12 rep range. Note that every repetition was performed with a maximal intended velocity on the concentric with a controlled eccentric. The drop set arm performed 2 drop series on the preacher curl, and 1 drop series on the pull downs. Each drop series had subjects begin performing repetitions with an 8-12 rep max load, and the device automatically reduced the load at various points in the set and subjects continued until momentary failure was reached. Quite interestingly, the researchers wanted to design the drop set protocol so that it involved a greater proportion of repetitions closer to failure than the normal set condition. To do this, after the first load drop, they wanted all repetitions to be 2 or fewer reps away from failure. It was determined through pilot testing that the device configuration that best achieved this was dropping the load by 8% once the subjects concentric velocity had dropped by 20% relative to the fastest repetition. If this all sounds confusing to you, don't worry, let's take an example to make this crystal clear. A subject starts performing reps with an 8-12 rep max load, and we can see that this was their fastest rep. They continued performing reps until their concentric velocity dropped below 20% of this. Once they got to this point, the device reduced the load by 8%, and with this new load we can see this was their fastest rep, and thus they continued performing reps until they dropped below 20% of this, at which point the device reduced the load by 8%. The fastest rep was now this, and again they continued repping out this load until their concentric velocity dropped below 20% of this. This whole process continued until they failed to complete a repetition. Looking at this, we can see the load dropped 4 times, and there were roughly per reduced load. Now, this is just an example, but the authors do mention that the participants generally performed 1-3 reps between load reductions. Furthermore, the total number of reps per drop series was around 16-24. Loads were adjusted across sessions in an attempt to keep performing 16-24 total reps per drop series. Plus, given that two drop series were done on the preacher coals, starting load was dropped by 15% for the second set. Subjects alternated which limb was trained first every session. Elbow flexor muscle thickness, which contained both the biceps and brachialis, was examined around the mid-region. It was found that the normal set saw a greater increase versus the drop sets. However, the difference was small, and the authors did not consider it to be meaningful, and instead concluded that the results were practically equivalent. This was because the difference was within what they deemed the smallest effect size of interest, which was informed by measurement error. The drop set session lasted 10 fewer minutes, or 60% less. When expressing the results as hypertrophy per training minute, it is clear to see that the drop sets were superior. Overall, these results indicate that drop sets can be an excellent time-efficient method for muscle hypertrophy. Before moving forward to analyzing the rest of the research and drop set training, in the spirit of scientific accuracy, there are a few other things to keep in mind with this new study. The training was only semi-supervised. Now, the authors had subjects keep training logs and frequently contacted the subjects. But, subjects unsurprisingly reported discomfort during the drop sets, and combined with not always being supervised, we can't rule out that some were giving sub-maximal effort to which might relate to the numerical difference in growth between the two conditions. Finally, the study was funded by Tonal Systems, the company behind the device used in the study. All the subjects were provided with the device to keep. I don't believe this has any impact on the results, but I did just want to mention it. Ultimately, the design and statistics of the paper are sound. The authors of this paper have been involved in multiple other fantastic research papers, including a few meta-analyses on volume, frequency, and proximity to failure. In fact, two of them create a data-driven strength, which some of you might know. Their channel is excellent and contains in-depth podcasts that even cover much of their own research. When examining the rest of the research, we actually have two meta-analyses comparing drop sets to normal sets for hypertrophy. Both combine the results of five studies and found fairly similar hypertrophy. So, the new study, at least when framed as the growth being practically equivalent, aligns with the rest of the evidence. Unlike the new study, all five of these studies involved training with normal equipment, so the findings of these papers are probably more relevant to most people. One of the analyses reported that drop sets generally decreased training time by 30-70%. That said, the papers didn't use identical drop set protocols, and some of them save time better than others. The most time-efficient method is where you just perform one drop set with multiple load reductions. This was done in both of these papers. The paper by Fink and colleagues recruited 16 previously untrained men to train triceps push-downs. A normal group trained with three sets to failure with a 12 rep max load. A drop set group trained to failure with a 12 rep max load. Immediately dropped the load by 20% and performed further reps to failure, and then did this once more. Increases in triceps cross-sectional area were not significantly different between both groups, but did intriguingly favor the drop sets. Training time was much shorter with the drop sets. The other paper by Ocasie and colleagues recruited nine previously untrained individuals to train dumbbell curls, and had their arms randomly assigned to either train with high load, low load, or drop sets. The high load condition involved three sets of repetitions to failure with an 80% one rep max load, with three minutes of rest between sets. The low load condition involved three sets of repetitions to failure with a 30% one rep max load, with 90 seconds of rest between sets. The drop set condition involved training to failure with an 80% one rep max load, and then immediately reduced the load by 15% to perform more reps to failure. They did this three more times. Increases in elbow flexor cross-sectional area were pretty similar across all three conditions. Training time was much shorter with the drop sets. As an example of a study which used a drop set protocol that is less time efficient, take this one by NS and colleagues. They recruited trained individuals to train these three lower body exercises. A normal group performed each exercise for four sets of 12 reps with a 70% one rep max load. A drop set group performed three sets of 10 reps with a 75% one rep max load, and within each set, they dropped the load to 55% one rep max and performed six more reps. So, they technically performed multiple sets, but had a single load reduction per set. Changes in lateral thigh thickness were not significantly different between both groups. So, you do have different styles of drop sets used in the literature, and you certainly can experiment around with different variations if it appeals to you. But the most time efficient style is the one employed in the studies by Fink and Ocazi. Before moving on, I thought it'd be worthwhile to touch on strength and endurance adaptations. Note that the new paper did not examine strength or endurance. Regarding strength, one of the meta-analyses analyzed this and fascinatingly found that strength increases were not significantly different between drop sets and normal sets. However, we need to pay attention to the details. When it comes to maximizing one rep max strength, training with heavier loads is advantageous. In two of the papers, the normal set conditions trained with slightly lower peak loads. If they trained with heavier loads, it's quite possible they would have seen greater one rep max strength gains. Furthermore, a few of the papers had a within subject design, which is a study design where subjects train one side of their body with drop sets and the other side with normal sets. The thing is, there can be a transfer in strength across limbs. This is called the cross-education or contralateral effect. As a result, this might confound some of the findings. Note, there is no transfer in muscle growth between limbs, so this study design is appropriate for examining hypertrophy. For these reasons, while drop sets can clearly be effective for increasing strength, I do think normal sets often have the potential to be better. Regarding muscular endurance, which is often examined by the number of reps that can be completed with a given percentage of your one rep max, we don't have any meta-analytic data on this. But analyzing the two studies that measured endurance, we unsurprisingly see that drop sets often produce larger increases. Although, in the only paper to compare normal sets with lighter loads to drop sets, which was actually the paper by Okazi, the normal sets with lighter loads actually produced larger endurance increases. But this is merely one small study. All of the papers we have exploring drop sets only involve training one or a few exercises. The feasibility of performing drop sets for every exercise in a program is debatable due to how intense they are. And I do generally think it might be more practical just to implement drop sets on a select few movements in your program. Also, remember that you don't necessarily have to choose between using drop sets or normal sets on a given exercise. It is possible to train with both. Perhaps you just train with the normal sets, but when life gets in the way and limits the time you can spend in the gym, then you may switch to implementing drop sets. You could also perform a few normal sets on a given exercise and then on the final set have some load reductions. This can be a solid method to squeeze out some extra volume. In so far as exercise selection, there is a case to be made that drop sets are more suitable for isolation and or machine exercises. Although, if you do wish to experiment around, I wouldn't necessarily stop you from implementing drop sets on even more exercises. As shown in previous videos at the House hypertrophy, we have evidence that resting for longer than 60 seconds between sets tends to produce more muscle hypertrophy than resting for less. But to drop sets, particularly the style where you perform just one set but have multiple load reductions, might be thought of as having virtually no rest between sets. Given the evidence we have finds drop sets to be fairly similar to normal sets, it would appear to conflict with the idea that resting for longer between sets could be better. I will note that we're not dealing with a large quantity of data in either case, but I do think there are some possible explanations. Firstly, much of the evidence that finds resting longer between sets to be better for muscle growth used exercise is that train large amounts of muscle mass. It's possible that with exercises that involve smaller amounts of muscle mass, shorter rest between sets are fine. And we know that some of the evidence we have on drop sets, such as the papers by Fink and Ocazi, just used arm isolation movements. But then again, we don't have conclusive evidence that drop sets are ineffective with larger muscle mass movements. Another potential explanation is that in some of the drop set data, the drop set group ends up performing a greater number of hard reps. Perhaps this compensates for having virtually no rest. For instance, in the new paper, we know that the researchers designed it such that the drop set condition involved a greater proportion of reps closer to failure. Similarly, in the paper by Ocazi, we might technically consider the drop set group to have performed five sets, and thus they would have been performing a greater number of hard reps than the normal groups that were performing three sets. But then again, the paper by Fink had both the drop set and normal set groups performing three sets. Overall, as we get more research, we'll get greater insight into what might be going on. For now, it's not something I would worry about too much. If you wanted to err on the side of caution when implementing drop sets, I would go for the style of drop sets used by Ocazi, where you essentially perform more sets than you otherwise would with normal sets. If you're searching for further guidance on programming to obtain your goal for Zieg, our high quality partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate personalized programs that are truly comprehensive and well-rounded. Input key details such as what equipment you have, how often and how long you're able to train, and if you want to emphasize certain muscles. This generally takes less than a minute. The training philosophy is based on the latest scientific literature, and further customizations can easily be done, like changing any training variable or implementing things like supersets. During workouts, there's a built-in warm-up set calculator and rest interval timer. The app also provides progressive overload recommendations to assist you. Of course, the app can automatically log your progression across time. If you're unsure about exercise technique, there are straightforward video and text instructions on nearly 800 exercises. The reviews from Tens of Thousands is a testament to its exceptional quality, but we would love to know what you think. The link in the comments and description gives you a free two-week trial of all its features, plus 20% off a subscription if you decide to continue. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the House of Hypertrophy.

=== FILE: Unilateral vs Bilateral Training for Muscle Growth [6lsCo8B-mPI].txt ===

 Welcome to the House of Hypertrophy. Is training one limb at a time the secret to maximizing muscle growth? How many reps do you need to maximize hypertrophy? And how can you maximize quad hypertrophy? Three new studies add to our knowledge in these areas. Let's dive straight in. The first paper explored whether small muscle mass exercises couldn't enhance hypertrophy by comparing unilateral and bilateral training. Some may be wondering, why would we expect there to be a difference in hypertrophy? After all, if we're comparing a unilateral to a bilateral dumbbell curl, we're ultimately performing the same movement pattern. However, some have suggested that exercises that train a smaller amount of muscle mass, like unilateral exercises, could be superior for muscle hypertrophy for a variety of reasons. For example, as the authors described in the introduction, there is some evidence that the force produced when both limbs contract simultaneously is lower than the summed force from each limb contracting one at a time, a phenomenon known as the bilateral force deficit. One hypothesis behind this is that with exercises that involve smaller amounts of muscle mass, greater neural drive to the muscle and thus potentially higher muscle fiber recruitment can occur. Furthermore, exercises with smaller amounts of muscle mass tend to involve lower cardiovascular demand, which can permit greater local muscle fatigue. On the basis of these reasons, the authors hypothesized that unilateral training would be superior for muscle growth. Let's see if they ended up being right. The researchers recruited 54 untrained women to train three times per week for eight weeks. A bilateral group performed bilateral dumbbell curls, while a unilateral group trained unilateral dumbbell curls. That is, they trained one arm first and then moved on to training the other arm. Both groups trained their exercise for two sets of 8-12 reps to what the authors termed concentric task failure. Loads were adjusted when necessary to ensure subjects kept reaching failure in the 8-12 rep range. The unilateral group alternated which arm was trained first every session. Strength was measured by assessing bilateral dumbbell curl one rep max strength as well as unilateral dumbbell curl one rep max strength on both arms. Muscle growth was assessed through changes in thickness at 60 and 70% regions of the elbow flexors, which contained both the biceps and brachialis. Starting with strength, increases in bilateral dumbbell curl one rep max strength were not significantly different between both groups. Increases in unilateral right arm dumbbell curl one rep max strength was significantly greater for the unilateral group, while unilateral left arm strength was not significantly different, but did favor the unilateral group. This might be explained by the unilateral group ultimately lifting a heavier load per arm. Specifically, during the first session, the dumbbell load used by the bilateral group was a little more than the dumbbell loads used by the unilateral group. In other words, there was no apparent bilateral deficit between groups. But in the last session, the unilateral group trained with slightly heavier loads. As for muscle growth, changes in muscle thickness at both regions were not significantly different between both groups. Therefore, the findings do not support the notion that unilateral training is superior for muscle growth. In the spirit of scientific accuracy, this is merely just one study on untrained women utilizing the dumbbell curl. So, I would be cautious in over extrapolating these findings. In the discussion, the authors mentioned that while unilateral curls involve half the muscle mass compared to bilateral curls, the absolute difference is quite small given that the elbow flexors are not particularly large. So, they leave open the possibility that differences could exist between exercises that involve a larger difference in muscle mass. However, when looking at other areas of the literature, I am skeptical that exercises that involve small amounts of muscle mass are superior for muscle growth. We do have other studies that tend to find similar hypertrophy between unilateral and bilateral training. What's more, as described previously at the House Fypertrophy, we have a paper comparing glute max hypertrophy between back squats and hip thrusts. Back squats train a larger amount of muscle mass versus hip thrusts. Yet, the paper ultimately observes similar glute max hypertrophy between both exercises. Furthermore, we'll see how some of the data we're about to examine next also relates to this area. Nevertheless, with all this in mind, I currently think that whether an exercise is bilateral or unilateral isn't a critical consideration for hypertrophy. I would select things considering your preferences and goals. For instance, unilateral training requires you to train each limb independently, which, with all else equal, takes longer. But unilateral training could have potential benefits when it comes to reducing size imbalances. We have another study comparing heavier to lighter loads for muscle hypertrophy, and its design provides insight into some other questions. For example, it's not uncommon for some to suggest that they can grow certain muscles easier than others. This new study provides insight into the question. Do people who grow their arms well also tend to grow their legs well? Twenty previously untrained men were recruited to train three times per week for 10 weeks. Subjects had one arm and leg randomly assigned to train with heavier loads, while the contralateral arm and leg trained with lighter loads. They trained the unilateral leg extension and unilateral dumbbell preacher curl each for three sets per session. The side of the body training with heavier loads performed 8-12 reps, while the side of the body training with lighter loads performed 20-25 reps. Reps were performed to what the researchers termed volitional failure, and loads were adjusted when necessary across sets to continue reaching failure in the prescribed rep ranges. Strength was assessed both through one rep max on the unilateral leg extension and dumbbell preacher curl, as well as isometric knee extension and elbow flexion strength. Muscle growth was assessed through a range of measures. Thickness and cross-sectional area of the biceps and vascular lateralis were measured, fat and bone-free lean mass and muscle fibro cross-sectional area with fibres just from the vascular lateralis were also examined. Starting with strength, the increases across all measures were not significantly different between the heavier and lighter load conditions. When looking at the rest of the research, it is clear that lighter loads can still increase strength, but we do tend to see that heavier loads produce greater increases. I think the reason this study did not observe this is since it had within-subject design. The thing is, there can be a transfer of strength gains across limbs which can confound the results. Note, there is no transfer in muscle growth between limbs, so this study design is appropriate when the aim is to examine muscle growth. Speaking of muscle growth, changes in all the measures of growth were not significantly different between the heavier and lighter load conditions. If you are a regular viewer at the house viperchiphy, you will know these results align with the rest of the research, even research conducted on trained individuals. That is, provided your training to or close to failure, a wide range of loads, thus repetition numbers, produce similar muscle hypertrophy. For more details on how low you can go rep number wise, check out this fairly recent video. It is notable to mention that both slow and fast twitch fiber size increases were not significantly different between conditions. I bring this up since it has long been speculated that lighter loads and higher reps may build slow twitch fibers better, while heavier loads with fewer reps may build fast twitch fibers better. But this study, along with a couple others we have exploring this, fail to support this notion. Aggregating the arm measures, as well as the leg measures, the researchers ranked individuals on how much they grew both the arms and the legs. There was a correlation between the two. That is, high responders for the legs generally tended to be high responders with the arms. Technically, there was around 50% variant still unexplained. Moreover, do remember that this is just one study with a small sample size of 20, and the measures were largely just from the biceps and vastus lateralis. I do like that the researchers explored this, and hopefully future research continues providing insight about whether it's possible for certain individuals to be high responders with only certain muscle groups. Finally, we know that on average, growth was similar between higher and lighter loads. But could some people grow more with one over the other? Well, aggregating the hypertrophy measures, the researchers ranked responsiveness with the different loads. We generally see that those that grew well with the high loads also tended to grow well with the lighter loads. However, we do see some data points that would seem to suggest certain individuals may experience better growth with lighter loads and others higher loads. Although, as hinted at in recent videos, there are nuances when it comes to determining individual differences, I intend to have a future video diving deeper into this. In conclusion, this is yet another study suggesting that there's no superior rep range for muscle hypertrophy. Provided your pushing reps to or close to failure, a wide range of loads and thus repetition numbers can be highly effective. So, feel free to train according to your preference, and that can certainly include training with a variety of rep ranges. Over the last few years, we've seen an increase in the number of studies comparing different exercises for muscle hypertrophy. A few months ago, we had another study adding to this, comparing back squats to leg extensions. 63 untrained women were recruited to train twice per week for 8 weeks. One group trained Smith machine back squats, while another group trained machine leg extensions. Both groups trained their exercise for three sets of 8-12 reps to momentary muscular failure, with loads adjusted when necessary to stay in this rep range. Strength was assessed via three rep max on both the back squats and leg extension, while muscle growth was assessed by measuring thickness of the rectus femoris and vastus lateralis across three regions. Starting with strength, unsurprisingly, increases in back squat strength were greater for the back squat group, while interestingly, there was no statistically significant difference in leg extension strength between both groups. This suggests that the carryover from back squats to leg extensions may be better than the carryover from leg extensions to back squats. Regarding hypertrophy, rectus femoris growth across all three regions were greater for the leg extensions. Vastus lateralis growth at the proximal and middle regions were not significantly different, but growth at the distal region was greater for the back squat group. If you're a frequent viewer, you'll likely be aware that these findings generally align with the other research we have on the quadriceps. That is, compound exercises that involve simultaneous knee and hip extension, such as squats and leg presses, seem to be highly effective for growing the vastus heads of the quads, but fail to optimize development of the rectus femoris. This is likely explained by the fact that the rectus femoris crosses over two joints. It crosses over the knee and hip joints in a way that means it's involved in knee extension and hip flexion. During exercises like the squats, knee extension but also hip extension occur, so if the rectus femoris strongly contracted, it would partly fight against hip extension, so it makes sense that the nervous system would try to minimize the overall involvement of the rectus femoris. Conversely, isolated knee extension exercises, like leg extensions, better engage the rectus femoris and have been documented to effectively grow it. Note that reverse Nordics and city squats also involve isolated knee extension. While we have minimal data on these movements, I do think it's likely they grow the rectus femoris well. Now, this new paper was conducted on untrained women, but we do have evidence of this idea in trained individuals. Specifically, this paper on trained individuals compared leg presses to leg extensions. Again, rectus femoris growth was greater for the leg extensions, while vastus lateralis growth, interestingly across all three regions, favored the leg press. Circling back to the idea proposed by some that small muscle mass exercises could be superior via hypertrophy, the fact that squats and leg presses may grow the vastus lateralis little more than leg extensions is further evidence against this notion. That is, squats and leg presses train a larger amount of muscle mass than leg extensions, but are not in theory of foregrowing the vastus heads of the quads. To acquire your goal physique, there's no question that effective training is necessary. If you'd like assistance with this all while supporting what I do at the House of Hypotrophy, our highly rated partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate a comprehensive program 100% custom to your needs. Choose your goal, specify if there's muscles you want to focus on more, and let it know how often and how long you want to train for. This process can take less than a minute. There are well over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based on. Furthermore, the training philosophy is based on scientific literature. During workouts, the algorithm analyzes your past performance to derive progressive overload recommendations, thereby fostering long-term progress. Improve your understanding of your response with progression charts on a range of key metrics. The exercise database continues to grow, with just under 800 exercises. Each exercise has simplified instructions and further basic information. Try out all this free for two weeks with a link in the comments and description. And if you like it and continue, the link provides 20% off a subscription. Feel free to let me know what you think about the app anytime. Thank you for making it to the end. Here are the summary points. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the House of Hypotrophy.

=== FILE: We Need to Talk About Jeremy Ethier’s New Study [KHB7rXLlhjU].txt ===

 Welcome to the House of Hypertrophy, a brand new study on challenging muscles that longer versus shorter lengths for muscle growth has been released. The popular YouTuber Jeremy Etier was involved in the paper and made a video sharing the details and his thoughts. The study caused quite the controversy online. I believe a lot of this is fueled by various people missing key details of the overall literature or failing to think critically about certain variables. In this video, we'll break down the new study and then importantly explain how it fits within the rest of the scientific literature. I plan to touch on nearly every point related to this new study that I've seen circulating online, so if you're someone who already have certain thoughts on this paper, there's a good chance I'll address them. Let's dive in. 20 Previously Untrained Individuals were recruited to train twice per week for 10 weeks. The subject trains chest flies, reverse flies, hip extensions, and lateral raises. Prime fitness machines were used that had the option to vary the resistance challenge. With one side of their body, they set the machine on all exercises to have a lengthened bias resistance challenge. This means that the exercises provided peak torque at the start of the movement and became easier in the later part of the movement. Since muscles are at the longest length at the start of the concentric, the muscles were challenged more at longer lengths. With the other side of their body, they set the machine on all exercises to have a shortened bias resistance challenge. This means that the exercises were relatively easier at the start of the lift, but provided peak torque near the end of the rip. Since muscles are at a shorter length at the end of the concentric, the muscles were challenged more at shorter lengths. So just to be clear, both sides of the body trained with the same total range of motion, but differed in what part of the range of motion experienced peak difficulty. The researchers did a good job at standardizing tempo to avoid momentum distorting where peak difficulty occurred. Both conditions train the chest fly and hip extension exercises with 5 sets per session, while the reverse flies and lateral raises were trained with 4 sets per session. Each set involved 8-12 repetitions to momentary muscular failure, with 2 minutes of rest between sets. Loads were adjusted across sets and sessions to stay in the 8-12 rep range. Overall, this was quite a well designed paper. I've said this in many prior videos, but by having each subject train both conditions, we reduced the likelihood of differences in genetics, nutrition and outside lifestyle factors between subjects confounding the results. Now, I have seen some people criticize this, stating that training one side of the body can influence the adaptation seen by the opposite side. This is known as the Contralateral Effect or Cross-Education Effect. However, the evidence we have, including this paper on over 100 subjects, fails to find that training one limb meaningfully influences the muscle growth seen by the opposite limb. Rather, the Cross-Education Effect appears to largely apply to strength outcomes. I likely described this paper on more than 100 subjects in a future video, but as they concluded, within subject designs are potentially problematic when assessing strength, though not muscle growth. Back to the study. Muscle cross-sectional area of the side delts, rear delts and pectoralis major were measured across 3 regions, while muscle volume of the gluteus maximus was measured. Ultimately, there were no significant differences in growth between both conditions at any of the measurements. Fascinatingly, I have no idea where the measurement error is in play, but we can see some instances of folks increasing their muscle size upwards of 100%. In response to these findings of non-significant differences in growth, I've seen many suggest that this study conflicts with past research or even debunks all the other research exploring long muscle length training. The problem here is that many people simply batch all the studies that examine long muscle length training in some way without paying attention to the finer details. As I've argued in a video I released on lateral raises published at the start of this year, I think we should divide the literature on muscle lengths into three different categories. Resistance challenge, range of motion and exercise selection with biarticle muscles. The resistance change category is where we're comparing two exercises that are identical in body positions and move through the same total joint range of motion, but differ at which point of the range of motion provides peak difficulty. So just to be crystal clear, something like an incline versus preacher curl, although they indeed differ in peak difficulty across the joint range of motion, also differ in body positions. Thus as per the definition I outlined, this comparison isn't included in this category, but we'll talk about this a bit more later. The new study belongs to this category as both conditions involve training with identical body positions and moving through the same joint range of motion, but differ in where peak difficulty occurred. There are two other studies belonging to this category. The first was from 2020 which compared cable preacher curls to barbell preacher curls in previously untrained individuals. With cables and freeweights, there are technically finer details that can affect peak difficulty throughout the range of motion, but we can keep things easy here and focus on a simplified analysis on peak torque. Peak torque occurs when the line of force from the load is perpendicular to the body part that's moving. If that sounds confusing, let's explain it with the barbell preacher curl. Here the line of force is perpendicular to the body part that's moving, which is the forearm in this case, near the start of the curl, where the biceps are at a longer length. With the cables, they were set up so that the line of force from the cables was perpendicular with the forearm at a later point in the curl, where the biceps are at a relatively shorter length. Biceps growth measured at one region was similar between both. The second study was from earlier this year, comparing cable and dumbbell lateral raises in well-trained individuals. The cables were set up so that its line of force was perpendicular to the arm at the start, where the side delts are at a relatively longer length. Dumbbell lateral raises tend to be hardest when the arms are straight out, which is where the line of force is perpendicular to the arm, a position where the side delts are at a relatively shorter length. Side delts grow that a proximal and distal region were similar. Viewed in this light, the new study actually does not conflict with the evidence we have. All three studies find similar hypertrophy between different resistance challenges. The range of motion category is where we compare a given exercise performed with a different range of motion. This includes a full range of motion, a shortened partial, where you move through the part of the range of motion where the muscles are at a shorter length, which for instance would be the top part of a curl, and a lengthened partial, where you move through the part of the range of motion where the muscles are at a longer length, which would be the bottom part of a curl. Needless to say, the new study does not belong to this category since both conditions trained with the same range of motion. Here's a table summarizing all the papers we have comparing shortened partials to a full range of motion and or lengthened partial. Feel free to pause and skim through them. But the key point is demonstrated nicely by this meta analysis. Across three muscle regions, we tend to see that compared to using a shortened partial, using a full range of motion or lengthened partial produces a bit more hypertrophy, with an increasing effect as we go from proximal to more distal muscle regions. Specifically, at the distal region, we see that on the whole, a full range of motion or lengthened partial produces around 4.76% more growth than a shortened partial. Note that's an additive percentage. So if shortened partials grew the distal region by 4%, a full range of motion or lengthened partial would grow the distal region by 8.76%. As for how a full range of motion compares to a lengthened partial, we have six studies. Fascinatingly, the three studies done on previously untrained individuals all find overall more muscle hypertrophy from a lengthened partial. As for the studies on trained individuals, two find largely similar growth, while the third found fairly similar growth around mid-region, but a bit more growth with lengthened partial to add the distal region of the elbow flexors. So as of right now, lengthened partial appear to be at least as good as a full range of motion. Finally, the exercise selection with biarticular muscles category. Biarticular muscles cross over two joints, and here are the main biarticular muscles most of us care about. Different exercises can involve different joint positions, such that some exercises are going to train biarticular muscles at a longer muscle length than others. Take a seated leg curl and a lying leg curl. Both of these exercises have us flex our knees. However, the seated leg curl has our hip joint flexed at approximately 90 degrees, while the lying leg curl involves virtually no hip flexion. Three of the four hamstring heads are biarticular and are consequently lengthened more with hip flexion. Thus, seated leg curls train the biarticular hamstring muscles at a longer muscle length, and we have one paper finding greater growth of these biarticular hamstring heads from the seated leg curl. The head of the hamstrings that is not biarticular, the biceps femoris short head, grew similarly. As for the other biarticular muscles, the same pattern appears to apply to the biarticular head of the quadriceps, called the rectus femoris. Specifically, leaning back leg extensions lengthens this muscle more and grew it more than normal leg extensions in one paper. This paper also looked at growth of the vastus lateralis, which isn't biarticular. It grew similarly between both. This idea also applies to the biarticular gastrocnemius heads of the calves. Standing calf raises lengthen them more and grew them more compared to seated calf raises in three studies. As for the soleus, which isn't biarticular, it tended to grow fairly similar between both exercises, though one of the papers has numbers slightly favouring the seated calf raise. As for the biarticular head of the triceps, called the longhead, we have two studies comparing overhead extensions to pushdowns. The triceps longhead will be placed at a longer length with the arm overhead. The two papers have seemingly conflicting results. But, I'd argue that the stronger study design demonstrates greater longhead hyperchefee from overhead extensions, and even in the weaker studies some of the growth measures favour the overhead extensions. As for the other triceps heads, which aren't biarticular, only the stronger designed paper explored them by taking a combined measurement of the medial and lateral heads, which fascinatingly also increased more with the overhead extensions for reasons that aren't really known. As for the biceps, we have five studies comparing curling with the shoulder extended to curling with the shoulder flexed. The biceps are placed at a longer length with the shoulder extended. Four of them made this comparison by comparing inclined curls to preacher curls, while one of them compared cable-beijing curls to cable-preacher curls. The findings are mixed, but once again. I'd argue that the stronger study designs demonstrate greater biceps hyperchefee from shoulder extended curls, and I'll also add that one of the non-significant studies has numbers favouring the longer lengths. So overall, it's the range of motion and biarticular muscle categories where we see evidence that longer muscle lengths could be beneficial. Although I do believe this is the best way to think about the current literature we have on longer versus shorter muscle lengths, I should make it clear that the categories are not always completely independent of one another. In fact, I suspect some confusion stems from this, so let me address this. Take this paper by Petrosa and colleagues, which belongs to the range of motion category. It involves a comparison between a full range of motion and length and partial on the leg extension in previously untrained individuals, finding overall more growth with the length and partials. Leg extensions tend to be hardest at the top, so the full range of motion likely experienced peak difficulty at this shortened muscle length, whereas the length and partials likely experienced peak difficulty at their end point, which was still at a longer muscle length. Thus, both range of motion and location of peak difficulty were different between conditions, and this study may lead some to believe that having peak difficulty at longer muscle lengths is more favourable. And to be clear, there is a possible explanation for the results. However, the problem is that we can't rule out the possibility that there's some property of a length and partial besides the greater peak difficulty at a longer length that explains the greater growth. Ultimately, despite what some content creators may state across social media, there's still a lot we do not know about hypertrophy mechanisms. Just to demonstrate this point, take a look at this monster review and the conclusion they come to. Consequently, to truly isolate the variable of resistance challenge, we need to control total range of motion, which would make such a study belong to the resistance challenge category. As another example, take some of the biceps research in the biarticulate muscle category, which involves comparing incline to preacher curls. Incline curls place the shoulder into an extended position, which lengthens the biceps, but provide peak difficulty at the mid to later parts of the curl. Preacher curls place the shoulder into a flexed position, which shortens the biceps a bit, but provides peak difficulty near the start of the curl. One of the papers examined total muscle volume increases of the biceps, brachialis, and brachioradialis from these two exercises. Biceps volume increases were greater with the incline curls, in accordance with the notion that positioning biarticular muscles at longer lengths may be favorable for hypertrophy. But as for the brachialis and brachioradialis, growth was a bit better with the preacher curls. Since neither the brachialis nor brachioradialis are impacted by shoulder joint position, they are trained at the same muscle lengths during both exercises. But given the preacher curl provides greater peak difficulty at the start of the curl, where the brachialis and brachioradialis are at a longer length, this might lead you to believe that having peak difficulty at longer muscle lengths is what explains the preacher curls growing these two muscles more. But once again, although this is a possible explanation for the results, the issue is we can't completely rule out the possibility that there's some property of incline curls unrelated to the resistance challenge that explains the slightly reduced brachialis and brachioradialis growth. To truly isolate the variable of resistance challenge, what would be needed is to use the same curl variation, which recalls what this study by Nunes and colleagues in the resistance challenge category did. But unfortunately, this paper only assessed bicep growth. As a final point for this section, I haven't touched on the isometric literature comparing isometric contractions performed at short to longer muscle lengths. Although not a unanimous finding, we do have evidence that isometrics at a longer muscle length produce overall more muscle hypertrophy than isometrics at shorter muscle lengths. Again, this might lead some to believe that peak difficulty at longer muscle lengths is superior for muscle growth. But the fact is that comparing isometrics at short to longer lengths is not physiologically identical to comparing two exercises with the same total range of motion but differing in where they provide peak difficulty. For this reason, I think it is currently best to consider the isometric data as an entirely separate category. In the spirit of complete scientific accuracy, there are some other things we must not forget. Currently, we can't rule out that things differ between muscle groups. Much of the range of motion research involves the quads, but there's not a single quad study in the resistance challenge category. Inversely, two of the three studies in the resistance challenge category examine the side delts, but not a single range of motion study has examined the side delts. Some of you might know that across social media and even in some review papers, it's been suggested that some muscles will benefit more from being trained at a longer length than others. This is said because not all muscles have identical working sarcomere lengths. It's beyond the scope of this video to fully explore this. But if you're interested, I'll leave a link to an article I wrote explaining what this means and why I don't think we can draw definitive conclusions solely based on this idea. Finally, and quite importantly, much of the research we have involves varying levels of training experience as well as small sample sizes. The new study was conducted on previously untrained individuals and a number of other studies across the categories were also conducted on previously untrained individuals. Thus, it's impossible to be confident about whether certain things are more beneficial for untrained or trained individuals. Again, across social media, some have suggested that it is primarily untrained individuals that benefit from training at longer muscle lengths. They suggest that the extra growth seen from training at longer muscle lengths is a particular type of growth that plateaus very quickly and so will not be observed in trained lifters. I'll leave a link to an article I wrote exploring this idea more and why the evidence behind this isn't as clear as some think. Regarding small sample sizes, this is something that is often overlooked. This is unfortunate because the fact of the matter is that it's an extremely important point. One that we've discussed a number of times previously at the House of Hypertrophy, particularly this year. It is very much possible and often even more probable for a small sample size study to be insufficiently powered to detect real differences. For a clear demonstration of how we can get results from small sample sized studies that fail to reflect reality, see this video. In my eyes, the limitation of small sample sizes is likely most applicable to the Resistance Challenge category since we just have a total of three studies in this category. Now, the new paper and the paper by Larsson did use a within-subject design which we know has its advantages, but it is still nevertheless the case that even larger sample sizes are just simply having more similarly designed studies that can ultimately be combined into a meta-analysis will provide us with greater insights. Fortunately, the research is developing quite nicely. Quite a lot of the research across these three categories have come in the last few years, so I'm hopeful we'll be getting more data. With the two other categories, we do luckily have a larger number of studies. With the range of motion category particularly, as I showed you, we do have meta-analyses so we can have some more faith in these findings. So, there's no denying that the current research on long versus short muscle lengths isn't flawless. We've overviewed a number of considerations, but make no mistake, this does not mean the current research is useless. I believe that when we think about the literature in terms of these three categories, or four categories if you want to consider the isometric data, we can draw some reasonable inferences. When doing this, these are the takeaways. Regarding resistance challenge, it seems that you do not need to worry about where peak difficulty in the range of motion is. As for range of motion, I'd say a full range of motion is an excellent default option, but you can experiment around with length and partial since they perform reasonably well in the literature. As for exercise selection with biarticle muscles, these exercises have performed well in the literature, so including them in some way in your program may be a worthwhile bet. Again, I'm probably sounding like a broken record, but I want to make myself abundantly clear. These conclusions are not cast in stone, they are derived from the current evidence we have, not all the highest quality evidence we could ever wish to have. Finally, I will add that it is crystal clear that the muscle length you train at is certainly not the most important factor for growth. Training hard enough, performing sufficient volume and just plain old consistency are more important, so there's no need to excessively worry about exercise selection thinking that it will be the make or break factor for your gains, because it's not. To acquire your golphosique, there's no question that effective training is necessary. If you'd like assistance with this all while supporting what I do at the House Vipertrophy, our highly rated partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate a comprehensive program 100% custom to your needs. Choose your golph, specify if there's muscles you want to focus on more, and let it know how often and how long you want to train for. This process can take less than a minute. There are well over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based on. Furthermore, the training philosophy is based on scientific literature. During workouts, the algorithm analyzes your past performance to derive progressive overload recommendations, thereby fostering long-term progress. Improve your understanding of your response with progression charts on a range of key metrics. The exercise database continues to grow, with just under 800 exercises. Each exercise has simplified instructions and further basic information. Try out all this free for two weeks with a link in the comments and description. And if you like it and continue, the link provides 20% off a subscription. Feel free to let me know what you think about the app anytime.

=== FILE: “Compound Exercises Are Enough for the Biceps” (New Study) [botlghxtVtg].txt ===

 Welcome to the House of Hypertrophy. How effective might compound exercises be for biceps and brachialis hypertrophy? A new study has been released addressing this question, and it's particularly interesting because it examined growth across two different muscle regions, providing insight into whether a compound and isolation exercise can produce different regional hypertrophy. The study also provides insight into other interesting questions, such as whether the pump can be a valid proxy for long-term growth. Let's dive in. The study had two different experiments. Experiment 1 examined acute muscle swelling, which we can think of as the pump, straight after a row and dumbbell curl, while Experiment 2 examined actual muscle growth after weeks of training with either exercise. Let's begin with Experiment 1. The researchers recruited 16 trained men to train one arm with a dumbbell row, and their other arm with a dumbbell curl. Both exercises were performed with four sets of 8-12 reps of failure. Most people performed dumbbell rows with a neutral grip, but the researchers had them use a supinated grip. The curls, of course, were also performed with a supinated grip. Muscle thickness of the elbow flexors, which consisted of both the biceps and brachialis, was assessed straight after performing both exercises at 25% and 75% of this distance. Because this measure was taken straight after the exercise, this is a measure of muscle swelling. It was found at both regions. Swelling was greater for the dumbbell curls, although the difference was only statistically significant at the 25% region. This is not all too surprising. Many would expect a much greater biceps and brachialis pump from curls, but the findings of Experiment 2 are where things get interesting. In Experiment 2, nine previously untrained men were recruited. Some may be thinking, why did they select untrained individuals for Experiment 2 instead of using the same trained individuals from Experiment 1? It is generally more challenging to get trained individuals to give up their normal training program and commit to a long-term study, but the researchers also say that trained individuals were selected for Experiment 1 to ensure proper exercise execution, while untrained subjects were used for Experiment 2 to avoid prior adaptation bias, ceiling effects, and diminishing returns. These are fairly reasonable points, but I still believe examining growth in trained individuals is useful. Nevertheless, like Experiment 1, the untrained subjects trained one arm with dumbbell rows and their other arm with dumbbell curls. This was done twice per week for eight weeks. They trained with four to six sets of 8 to 12 reps to failure for both. Loads were adjusted across training sessions to ensure they stayed in the 8 to 12 rep range. Growth of the 25% and 75% regions of the elbow flexors was assessed. Growth at the 75% region was greater with the dumbbell curls, but fascinatingly, growth at the 25% region ended up being similar between both exercises. Another worthwhile point is that we can see for the dumbbell curl. Unlike the swelling which was virtually similar between the 25 and 75% regions, the actual growth was not uniform. The 75% region grew more than the 25% region. So a back exercise like the row may be able to grow a region of the elbow flexors similarly to curls, while other areas grow more with curls. Before moving on to other research comparing lat pull downs to curls, as well as studies relating to swelling's relationship to growth, in the spirit of scientific accuracy, there are some things we must not forget. Firstly, you could speculate that the only reason the 25% region managed to grow similarly was because the subjects were previously untrained. Perhaps this would not be found in trained individuals. I think this is a possibility, but it's tough to say anything with certainty since we don't have any other data supporting or opposing this. Secondly, the biceps and brachialis were not separated. So how they each contributed to the results is unknown. However, there is not much if any brachialis at the 25% region, but it becomes more apparent at the 75% region. Lastly, this is just one study with a small sample size, and its results are specific to the comparison of dumbbell supinated rows versus dumbbell supinated curls. If a different back or biceps exercise were used, the findings could be different. For example, if the dumbbell rows were performed with a neutral grip, perhaps the 25% region would not have grown as much as the curls. Moreover, we've seen in prior videos that different curling exercises themselves can produce different regional hyperchvy across the elbow flexors. Feel free to check out these videos after. I should mention a 2019 study by the same research team used an identical design to experiment two of the new paper and found the elbow flexors grew more with dumbbell curls than with dumbbell rows. However, this earlier paper reported only total muscle growth, not regional changes. I contacted the authors and they confirmed that some of the same participants were included in both papers. It's just that the new paper is the first to present the regional hyperchvy data. We have one other study from 2015 exploring the effects of back movements on elbow flexor hyperchvy. 29 untrained men are either trained with lat pull downs or barbell curls, twice per week for 10 weeks. Each session, subjects train their respective exercise for three sets of 8-12 reps of failure, with loads adjusted across time to stay in this rep range. The lat pull downs were performed with a pronated wide grip. While the barbell curls were performed with a shoulder-width supinated grip, thickness of the elbow flexors was measured at this region. And it was found there was no significant differences in growth between the two exercises. This is quite fascinating, as I wouldn't have anticipated pronated wide grip pull downs to produce virtually identical growth to barbell curls. Now, the measure again included the biceps and brachialis, and I sort of do wonder if a greater proportion of the growth for the pull downs was from the brachialis, but it's difficult to be sure. We also know that just one region was assessed, and as the new study suggests, it is possible that other regions of the elbow flexors grew more with the curls. All in all, the current literature demonstrates that back movements can effectively grow the elbow flexors and may produce similar growth at certain regions. But unsurprisingly, isolation exercises are likely needed to maximize overall elbow flexor hypertrophy. Curls are also an ideal way to accumulate greater volume for the elbow flexors without involving the back, and we do know that higher volumes can generally be beneficial for growing more. Before exploring the pump's potential relationship with hypertrophy, I thought it would be fun to explore some data on this question. How long does it take for you to get as big as your pump? Of course, your pump will always be bigger than your current resting muscle size, so you will technically never be as big as your most recent pump. But what I mean is, if you train today and measure your temporary increase in muscle size, how many weeks or months of training would it take for you to genuinely achieve that size? In experiment one of the new study, we saw the dumbbell curls produce swelling in the range of 16-19%. In experiment two, we ended up seeing that after 8 weeks, the elbow flexors grew in the range of 5-11%. In other words, the subjects did not quite manage to get as big as the pump's seen in experiment one. Keep in mind again that experiments one and two were done on a different set of subjects. But there is this other study worth sharing. It was found that after a group of untrained subjects trained the bench press with these variables, the pecs experienced a temporary increase in muscle size of 8.6%. After training the bench press twice a week for 8 weeks with these variables, the pecs grew by 14.2%. So these subjects far surpassed the size of their initial pump in 8 weeks. So although it's not always a given, it may be possible for untrained individuals to get as big or bigger than their pump in around 2 months. Obviously the size of your pump in a training session will depend on how you trained and the genuine muscle growth you achieve will depend on an array of factors. So it's impossible for you to know truly how long it would take to get as big as one of your pumps. But I nonetheless thought it was interesting to share these aspects of the two studies. The findings of the new study partly question the validity of muscle as a proxy for muscle hypertrophy. At the 75% region, both swelling and subsequent muscle growth were greater for the dumbbell curls versus the dumbbell rows. But at the 25% region, although swelling was greater for the curls, growth ended up being similar between both exercises. What does other research suggest about the pump and muscle hypertrophy? It is clear that achieving a greater pump does not necessarily lead to more growth. Things like high reps, drop sets and using constant tension can cause a greater pump, but do not cause more hypertrophy. This does not necessarily mean the pump plays no role in hypertrophy, since maybe a small amount of it contributes to growth and many training styles pass that threshold. I also want to be clear that many of the things that lead to a greater pump are generally not inferior for hypertrophy, so training that achieves a great pump can often be similarly effective, which is great news if you enjoy the pump. So certain training styles that list a greater pump may not necessarily build more muscle, but when comparing two exercises performed with the same sets, reps and efforts, does the exercise that leads to a greater pump at a certain muscle region mean it will result in better growth? Of course, the latest study does not completely support this, but it is after all just one paper. Fortunately, there are two other studies providing further insights. This study found the flat bench press produced greater swelling of the mid-pecs compared to the inclined bench press, whereas upper-pec swelling was similar between both. In my ultimate guide to chest hypertrophy, I described how the flat barbell bench press may indeed grow the mid-pecs more than the inclined bench press, so the swelling data aligns with this, but as for the upper-pecs, I described how the upper-pecs likely grow more from the inclined bench press. So as the swelling data does not align with this, we might interpret this as further evidence of our swelling may not always be a valid proxy for hypertrophy. The second study compared straight-leg calf raises to bent-leg calf raises and found that swelling of both the lateral and medial gastrocnemius was greater for the straight-leg calf raises, while swelling of the soleus was greater for the bent-leg calf raises. In my ultimate guide to calf hypertrophy, I described how the straight-leg calf raise indeed grows the medial and lateral gastrocnemius more, and although it's somewhat debatable, I detailed why the soleus may indeed grow a bit better from bent-leg calf raises. Thus, this is a scenario where I think the swelling data better aligns with muscle growth. With all this considered, it currently seems like swelling may be hit or miss. It may sometimes be fairly useful, but other times not. More research is required. Given this uncertainty, I can't currently recommend using acute muscle swelling as an undeniable valid proxy for hypertrophy. I should also mention that outside of the lab, people aren't measuring their temporary increase in muscle size with ultrasound or MRI when discussing the pump. Rather, they're basing it off their own perception, which may not always be an accurate indicator of actual temporary changes in direct muscle size measurements. Again, none of this is to say that no one should take note of their pump. Enjoyment of training is an important factor, and you may simply select some exercises that give you a better pump for no other reason than you enjoy the pump. If you're searching for further guidance on programming to obtain your goal for Zieg, our high-quality partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate personalized programs that are truly comprehensive and well-rounded. Input key details, such as what equipment you have, how often and how long you're able to train, and if you want to emphasize certain muscles. This generally takes less than a minute. The training philosophy is based on the latest scientific literature, and further customizations can easily be done, like changing any training variable or implementing things like supersets. During workouts, there's a built-in warm-up set calculator and rest interval timer. The app also provides progressive overload recommendations to assist you. Of course, the app can automatically log your progression across time. If you're unsure about exercise technique, there are straightforward video and text instructions on nearly 800 exercises. The reviews from tens of thousands is a testament to its exceptional quality, but we would love to know what you think. The link in the comments and description gives you a free two-week trial of all its features, plus 20% off a subscription if you decide to continue. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the House of Hypertrophy.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.400629Z ===
