 drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought drought need to know about the exercises required to optimize muscle hypertrophy. Yet another great study has been released that helps us out. It has put the leg press up against the leg extension and the straight leg calf raise against the bent leg calf raise. We'll also reveal how the findings of this study potentially relate to other muscles like the triceps and biceps. Let's dive in. 28 trained individuals were recruited. One leg was assigned to train the leg press while the other trained the leg extension. One leg also trained straight leg calf raises and the other bent leg calf raises. This study design is powerful as all 28 subjects trained all four exercises. As the same subjects were in all conditions, differences in genetics, nutrition, and outside lifestyle factors were controlled. After all, your left leg hopefully doesn't sleep more or eat more protein than your right leg. In each session, these were the variables used. Weights were adjusted within and across sessions to keep subjects reaching failure in the 8-12 rep range. The researchers measured the growth of two of the quadriceps' heads. The rectus femoris and vastus lateralis summed across three regions. It was found the rectus femoris grew better with the leg extension, while the vastus lateralis grew better with the leg press. As for the calves, growth of the lateral gastrocnemius, medial gastrocnemius, and soleus was measured each at one region. Medial gastrocnemius growth was clearly greater for the straight leg raise. Lateral gastrocnemius growth also favored the straight leg, although not quite as clearly. Contrastingly, the fatigued growth favored the bent leg, but the benefit was not super compelling, and some may just regard this as similar hypertrophy. There are two key principles that help us to understand the findings of this study, and these principles likely apply to other muscles muscles such as the hamstrings, triceps, and potentially even biceps. The first principle is that biarticular muscles experience suboptimal hypertrophy when one of their functions opposes what happens in a compound exercise. The second principle actually tells us how we might be able to maximize the growth of biarticular muscles. It suggests positioning one of the two joints it crosses to place it at a longer length seems to produce more hypertrophy. Your head may be spinning in complete confusion, but it's simpler than it sounds. Let's break it down. Principle 1 likely explains why the rectus femoris suboptimally grew from the leg press and required the leg extension. Forget about the details of principle 1 for now, and understand that all four quadriceps heads cross over the knee in a way that means they all contribute to knee extension. However, the rectus femoris also crosses over the hip in a way that means it contributes to hip flexion. Since the rectus femoris crosses two joints, we say it's biarticular. The other three quadriceps heads can be described as monoarticular since they only cross the knee joint. Now, during any compound exercise that trains the quads well, such as a leg press and squat, we need to extend our knees and extend our hips to lift the weight. But although the rectus femoris is involved in knee extension, we just saw it's also involved in hip flexion, the opposite of hip extension. So a strong contraction of it would partly pull us down, making it logical that the nervous system would minimize rectus femoris involvement. Thus, all of these compound exercises likely suboptimally grow the rectus femoris. This is principle 1. A biarticulate muscle, such as the rectus femoris, experiences suboptimal hypertrophy when one of its functions opposes what happens in a compound exercise, such as the hip flexion from the rectus femoris opposing the hip extension from these compound exercises. As a result, isolated knee extension training is more effective for rectus femoris growth. Principle 1 likely extends to the other main key biarticular muscles in the human body. I'll briefly detail how this applies to the triceps and biceps, but feel free to check out the pinned comment for details on the hamstrings and gastrocnemius. The triceps consist of three heads, all cross over the elbow joint in a way that means they extend the elbow. But the long triceps head is biarticular because it also crosses the shoulder joint in a way that means it's involved in shoulder extension and shoulder adduction. During any compound pushing exercise, such as the bench press and overhead press, we extend the elbow. But these movements also involve shoulder flexion and or shoulder abduction, which are the opposing shoulder motions the long head contributes to. If you're struggling to see how shoulder flexion or abduction happens in these movements, just focus on the upper arm. Anyhow, a strong long head contraction would partly fight against us lifting the weight, so it makes sense it's not highly involved. Indeed, we have direct data demonstrating that pushing exercises such as the bench press sub-optimally grows the long head of the triceps, but does a better job at growing the lateral and medial heads. Isolated elbow extension exercises have been documented to be very effective for growing the long head, although certain compound exercises such as this pullover extension hybrid likely trains the long head effectively since this involves combined elbow extension and shoulder extension, which both are long head functions. But right now, we don't have direct data on how effective these are, and I'm skeptical they are superior to isolation elbow extension. As for the biceps, this one is quite controversial, and you'll see why. The biceps consist of the long and short head. Both cross the elbow joint and everyone knows they are involved in elbow flexion, but both also cross the shoulder joint in a way that means they can contract during shoulder flexion and shoulder abduction. The biceps can also perform what we call supination at the forearm, and there's also evidence that biceps activity is higher when we're elbow flexing with a supinated grip. Anyhow, during any compound pulling exercise, such as rows, pull-ups, and chin-ups, elbow flexion occurs. But shoulder extension and or shoulder adduction also occur, which are the opposite movements the biceps have at the shoulder. Once again, if you can't see how shoulder extension or adduction happens in these movements, focus on the upper arm. Indeed, we have direct evidence dumbbell rows even with a supinated grip produced much lower elbow flex hypertrophy than dumbbell curls. The reason I said this is controversial is that many people suggest chin-ups are one of the best biceps exercises. The popular Mike Mensah even suggested this. How could this be possible? Well, those who believe the biceps are trained effectively with compound pulling exercises would say what we've detailed is wrong for at least three reasons. Firstly, they may say although the biceps do cross the shoulder joint, there's research suggesting their involvement in shoulder motion is minimal, meaning your nervous system can effectively activate the biceps during these exercises. Secondly, they might also reference this study that fascinatingly found pronated grip lat pulldowns produced similar elbow flexor growth to barbell curls. Finally, some electromyographic research also defines high biceps activity during pull-ups and chin-ups, and so many people feel their biceps are highly involved. I actually believe these three arguments are pretty good, but there are some solid counterpoints. Firstly, although the biceps involvement in shoulder motion is indeed little, it's still partially shortening in these movements, which may mean it nonetheless fails to optimally contribute to pulling exercises. Secondly, as for the study finding similar growth between pulldowns and curls, this was elbow flexor growth, which in this case consists of both the biceps and brachialis. The brachialis is a muscle under the biceps. It's just a monoarticular muscle involved in elbow flexion. Due to this muscle being in the measurement, we can't be certain biceps growth was truly similar between both exercises. Moreover, to be completely transparent, the author of this particular study has been involved in multiple studies with statistical anomalies, so some might question the study's validity. Finally, the electromyographic data is interesting, but as detailed at the house of hypertrophy previously, there are cases where electromyographic data can probably be useful and other cases where it's not. Here, it might not be useful. For example, we've seen the triceps long head minimally grows from compound-pushing exercises, but some electromyographic research finds high triceps long head activity during the bench press, so this is misleading in this circumstance. As for people reporting they feel their biceps highly with some pulling compound exercises, someone might say you're actually feeling the brachialis, not the biceps. So who's right? It would be interesting to hear what you think on this matter, so feel free to drop a comment below. To truly get an answer, I would love to see a study directly comparing chin-ups to a normal biceps curl. Until then, I'm on the fence as to whether principle 1 applies to the biceps. I know, I know, it's frustrating that I remain on the fence, but if it's any consolation, my hypothesis would be that all compound-pulling exercises are not optimal for biceps hypertrophy. If it's not for principle 1, I think it would be because the back musculature is typically the limiting factor in pulling exercises, so your biceps may fail to reach maximal activation and tension. So I think it comes as no surprise that to maximize biceps hypertrophy, direct isolation biceps training is recommended. Let us now move forward to principle 2, which tells us how we could maximize the growth of biarticular muscles. Principle 2 suggests positioning one of the two joints a biarticular muscle crosses to places that a longer length appears to produce greater muscle hypertrophy. We'll understand what this exactly means soon, but this principle likely explains why the gastrocnemius grew better with straight leg calf raises versus bent leg calf raises. Actually, we have another study published in December 2023 which had untrained individuals train bent leg calf raises with one leg and standing straight leg calf raises with their other leg, using these variables. Both lateral and medial gastrocnemius volume increases were better with the straight leg calf raises, while soleus growth was fairly similar between both exercises. So, comparable to the new study, it generally shows better gastrocnemius growth with straight leg raises, and uncompelling evidence the soleus grows much better with bent leg raises. Okay, all three calf muscles, lateral gastrocnemius, medial gastrocnemius, and soleus cross over the ankle in a way that means they perform calf raising. However, the lateral and medial heads are biarticular as they also cross the knee joint. This means they can shorten and contribute to knee flexion. As the knees are flexed in a bent leg calf raise, both gastrocnemius heads are already shortened which likely compromises their force generation. This connects to the idea of active insufficiency, which refers to when a biarticular muscle is shortened at both of the joints it crosses, which limits force. Strictly speaking, some monoarticular muscles could experience meaningfully impaired force at short lengths, but this is a discussion for another day, and we'll stick to this notion of active insufficiency today. With the bent leg calf raise, all the calf muscles are shortened at the top of the calf raise. But since we started with the knees already bent, the gastrocnemius are excessively shortened. Extending our knees will lengthen the gastrocnemius, so straight leg calf raises train the gastrocnemius at longer lengths, which avoids active insufficiency. This is principle 2. Positioning one of the two joints a biarticular muscle crosses to place it at a longer length, such as how positioning the knee in a straight position lengthens the gastrocnemius seems to result in more muscle hypertrophy. If you've been following the house of hypertrophy for a while, you'll know growing evidence suggests training muscles at longer lengths builds more muscle. We've seen it with research suggesting that shortened range of motions fail to grow as much muscle at some regions to a range of motion that reaches longer lengths. And we're also seeing it with selecting exercises that have biarticular muscles at longer lengths, which is what we're focusing on here. Across the web, opinions conflict about the mechanisms behind training muscles at longer lengths. But, in my view, avoiding active insufficiency is one potential mechanism behind why training muscles at longer lengths can be beneficial in some cases. But other mechanisms are almost certainly in play too. Regardless of the mechanisms, we've seen principle 2 with the hamstrings. In the same way that straightening the knee can lengthen the gastrocnemius, the hamstrings can be lengthened by hip flexion. Seated leg curls involve the hips flexed, while lying leg curls do not. Indeed, overall hamstrings hypertrophy was found to be superior with seated leg curls in another paper. So I would certainly recommend seated leg curls over lying leg curls. We've seen it with the rectus femoris. The new study analyzed in this video used normal leg extensions. But leaning back on the leg extension will lengthen the rectus femoris more. And we saw in a recent video this produced greater rectus femoris hypertrophy than normal leg extensions. Feel free to check out that video for the full details of the study and possible alternatives to leaning back leg extensions. We've seen it with the triceps. The triceps long head can be lengthened with shoulder flexion. Overhead extensions involve the shoulders flexed, while pushdowns do not. Long head hypertrophy has been documented to be superior with overhead extensions in another paper. Interestingly, combined medial and lateral head hypertrophy was also greater with the overhead extensions. An unexpected finding. Now, many people do like pushdowns, so I wouldn't completely ditch it if you don't want to. But I would at least recommend a triceps exercise with the shoulders at a more flexed position to cover your bases. As for the biceps, I know there are a few studies currently in the works on them. I'm excited to see what they end up finding, and we'll of course update you whenever they're released. We've seen that Principle 1 likely explains why the rectus femoris grow sub-optimally from the leg press. And Principle 2 likely explains why the gastroponemius heads tend to grow better with the straight leg calf raises. But why was vastus lateralis growth better with the leg press? And why was soleus growth not drastically different between straight and bent leg raises? With the soleus, some mice speculate as gastrocnemius involvement is reduced with bent leg raises. The soleus should increase its involvement and thus grow more. This certainly sounds logical, but according to the results we've seen, it just doesn't seem to happen, at least not significantly. Therefore, straight leg calf raises might be all you need. Although, bent leg raises could be useful for isolating the soleus if you'd like to do that. As for the vastus lateralis, you might speculate, since the rectus femoris is sub-optimally involved in all compound exercises, the other quad heads like the vastus lateralis must increase their involvement and thus grow more. But this is similar to the soleus argument we just proposed which doesn't appear to significantly occur. Though, of course, things could differ between muscle groups. Although, another possible explanation is most compound exercises like leg presses tend to involve more knee flexion than normal leg extensions. This will effectively train and stimulate the vastus muscles at longer lengths, which could explain the greater growth. Nevertheless, to maximize overall quadriceps hypertrophy, it seems a solid recommendation is to have both an isolated knee extension exercise for optimal rectus femoris growth and a quad-focused compound exercise for optimal vastus growth. I intend to have future videos with more research on the quads, so stay tuned for that. If you're searching for further guidance about training, the high-quality alpha progression app has all the features any lifter needs in one place. It's flawlessly crafted to help you stay motivated and consistent with effective training to achieve your desired physique and strength levels. The app can remove confusion and generate a program 100% customized to your desires in one minute or less. Let her know the equipment you have and how much time you have available to commit to training. If you have certain muscles you like to focus on more or less, the app can accommodate for this too. There's more than a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan will be based on, and the training philosophy is inspired by the latest meta-analyses and reviews. With the touch of a few buttons, you can personalize things even further if you like. You can switch out exercises, change the rep numbers, or add or decrease sets depending on how you feel. The latest update provides you with unlockable achievements to reward your effort and help sustain motivation to help you reach your ambitions. Invaluble time is also saved as the app automatically generates graphs tracking your long-term progression. The link in the comments and description unlocks 2 weeks free of trying out all the premium features of the app, and if you like it and choose to go further, the link gives you 20% off a subscription. I genuinely believe the app is phenomenal, with the numerous reviews speaking to this. Thank you for making it to the end of the video. Here's the key summary points. Feel free to check out the Alpha Progression app or another one of the videos at the House of Hypertrophy.