 P5wikiiki, rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit rit activity at higher shoulder elevation angles. In this event, the usage of isometric contractions likely enhances its reliability. These findings do make sense. As you elevate your arm and get closer to the overhead position, the lats are going to have progressively lower leverage. Here's the important point. Freeweight pullovers are most challenging with the arms overhead, the point where the lats have their lowest activity. As a result, it's been speculated freeweight pullovers are an ineffective lat exercise. In fact, at these higher shoulder elevation angles, the middle and lower pec regions likely have decent leverage. Indeed, a few SEMG studies report the pectoralis major middle and lower regions experience relatively greater activity compared to the lats during freeweight pullovers. So does this research conclusively mean freeweight pullovers aren't a great lat exercise? According to some on the internet, their answer is a resounding yes. But I am less certain because there are other aspects of the scientific literature we shouldn't ignore. The lats are stretched well in the overhead position. The rebuttal to this is so what if the lats are stretched? The fact it's not going to be activated much renders this meaningless. However, it's worth understanding its leverage and activity are not going to be zero, it's just limited. But limited activity plus stretch might still produce a good stimulus for lat hypertrophy. Research on the back squat and glute max depicts this. Back squats are of course most challenging at the lower portion, and at these deeper angles of hip flexion, the gluteus maximus is stretched well, but it has much lower leverage, ability to produce force, and displays lower activity as measured through SEMG. Despite this, a paper out of Japan established deeper squats grew the gluteus maximus more effectively than 90-degree knee flexion squats. Another recent paper found back squats, mostly to parallel, produce similar upper, middle, and lower glute max hypertrophy to hip thrusts. Thus, stretch plus limited leverage and activity may still be a fine stimulus for hypertrophy. Maybe suggesting three-weight pullovers may still be effective for the lats at the end of the day. If it's an exercise that interests you, feel free to try it out. From a regional perspective, the lower lats are probably going to have a bit more leverage versus the other regions at the overhead position, so pullovers might slightly bias this region. Cable pullovers involve a great stretch of the lats since they attain an overhead position comparable to three-weight pullovers. Yet, compared to three-weight pullovers, cables involve a greater active range of motion. The arms will go through lower elevation angles, which we know is where the lats have greater activity. Thus, actual electrical activity from the lats will likely be greater in the cable variation. Indeed, there was this 2022 SEMG analysis from Spain comparing barbell pullovers to cable pulldowns. Lat activity was greater with the cable movement. The cable pulldown isn't identical to a cable pullover, but the shoulder motion and resistance profile are similar enough. From a regional perspective, since cable pullovers involve getting the arms near the side, the upper region will certainly be involved well. But since the movement is most challenging at that mid position, the middle to lower lat regions might be potentially biased. For all these reasons, we may speculate cable pullovers to be a bit better than three-weight pullovers. But understand this is hypothetical. You could say since three-weight pullovers are most challenging at that very lengthened position, while cable pullovers are most challenging in the mid position, three-weight pullovers have their edge. Yet, I'm unsure if this factor is enough to make it undeniably better than cable pullovers. Machine pullovers Assuming the machine sufficiently provides high resistance throughout the range of motion are probably more favorable compared to three-weight or cable pullovers. The high tension throughout the range of motion means that the lengthened position is challenging and we have a potential slight lower lat region bias at this position, like three-weight pullovers. But the fact we also have high tension at lower angles where the lats display greater electrical activity and the portions where the upper region possesses greater leverage means we get these benefits too. So if you wish to have a pullover in your program to best train the lats, go with the machine pullovers. Of course, this isn't an absolute recommendation. Your gym may not have this machine, if yours does, but the machine feels off, then go with either the free weight or cable variant. What you just watched was a clip from our ultimate guide to building the lats. Check out the full video here. Finally, if you're searching for further guidance on programming to obtain your desired physique, it can be tricky and time-consuming. However, our high-quality partner, the Alpha Progression app, can help you generate an evidence-based training program that's 100% custom to your needs in less than 3 minutes. Simply specify the equipment you have, how often and how long you want to train for, and if you want to focus or neglect certain muscles. There are even advanced options to periodize your training and implement deloads. There are over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based, and with the touch of a few buttons, you can customize things further. Through analyzing your past performance, the app provides progressive overload recommendations during your workouts to help you continue making gains. The app automatically generates graphs that display your long-term progression, thereby saving you time from having to manually track your progression. The link in the comments and description gives you a 2-week free trial of all the premium features, and if you like it and decide to go beyond, the link gives you 20% off a subscription. I truly believe the app is awesome and the reviews speak to this.