For those of you who have been following this channel for a while, you might know that approximately 13 months ago, I created a video on whether stretching in between sets could enhance muscle hypertrophy. In the video, we explored a study by Evangelista et al. that essentially found in previously untrained men, performing 30 seconds of pain-free static stretching between sets for the main muscle in an exercise resulted in greater increases in muscle thickness measurements. At the time that video was published, that was the only single published study examining stretching in between sets. Since then, 2 new studies have come out adding to the literature on stretching in between sets and hypertrophy. One study by Nakamura et al. examined the outcomes of static stretching between sets in previously untrained men, while the second study by Wadhi et al. assessed the outcomes of weighted stretching between sets in trained men. Let us first overview the study by Nakamura et al. 16 untrained men had one leg assigned to a stretching condition and their other leg to a traditional condition. They trained the bilateral squat with an inertial flywheel for 3 sets of 10 repetitions, using 3 minutes of rest between sets, twice per week for 5 weeks. For those unaware, an inertial flywheel actually overloads the lowering (termed eccentric) phase of the movement. With the leg assigned to the stretching condition, during the 3-minute rest interval between sets, they stretched the quadriceps for 30 seconds, rested for 30 seconds, stretched the quadriceps for a further 30 seconds, and then rested for the remaining 90 seconds before commencing the next set. With the leg assigned to the traditional condition, it performed no stretching and rested for the 3-minute rest intervals between sets. Before and after the study, muscle thickness of the vastus lateralis, vastus medialis, rectus femoris, lateral region of the vastus intermedius, and medial region of the vastus intermedius were each measured at an upper and lower region. Furthermore, thickness of the hamstrings and gluteus maximus was each measured at a single region. The researchers found that for all regions and muscles measured, changes in thickness were statistically similar between the stretching and traditional condition, indicating that stretching in between sets may not enhance muscle hypertrophy. As a result, this study does not agree with the original findings by Evangelista et al. Let us progress to overviewing the second study by Wadhi et al. 26 men with an average of 3 years of training experience were allocated into a stretching or traditional group. Both groups trained twice per week for 8 weeks. Each session, the flat bench press and incline bench press were trained. Throughout the 8 weeks of training, they progressed from performing 3 sets per exercise to performing 5 sets. On training day one of each week, they aimed to perform 4-6 repetitions that were approximately 2 repetitions away from failure each set. Although the final set on the incline bench press was executed to failure. On training day two of each week, they aimed to perform 8-10 repetitions approximately Although, again, the final set on the incline bench press was executed to failure. When necessary, the load was adjusted on each set and over sessions to ensure subjects continued to train within the prescribed repetition ranges, and at the same proximity from failure. The traditional group rested passively for 2 minutes between their sets in a session. The stretching group similarly rested for 2 minutes between sets in a session. However, for the first 30 seconds of this rest interval, they performed a loaded chest stretch on a cable machine, using approximately 15% of the load they just used on the prior set. Also, subjects were instructed not to produce any active tension from the chest, rather let the chest be maximally be stretched by the load. Before and after the study, thickness of the pectoralis major at the belly, and at a lateral portion, was measured. What the researchers found was that increases at both regions of the pectoralis major were statistically similar between the stretching and traditional groups, suggesting weighted stretching between sets may not enhance muscle hypertrophy. So, combining these two new studies with the Evangelista study, and it now seems the ever so slight majority of the evidence indicates that stretching in between sets might not help you build more muscle. Having said this, there still are some important considerations. These three studies, although generally looking at the effectiveness of stretching in between sets, are quite different from one another. The Wadhi study examined weighted stretching in between sets in trained men, whereas the other two papers by Nakamura and Evangelista examined unload static stretching between sets in previously untrained men. Furthermore, if we more directly compared the Nakamura and Evangelista studies, which have conflicting results, there are some potentially noteworthy differences. Firstly, the Nakamura study used an inertial flywheel squat exercise, which as we've noted applies eccentric overload, whereas the Evangelista study used typical free weight and machine exercises, like the leg extension. Could these different exercise modalities somehow explain the conflicting results? Secondly, in the Evangelista study, in which stretching was found to benefit muscle hypertrophy, they had subjects stretch for 30 seconds during the rest intervals. Contrastingly, the Nakamura study had subjects stretch for 2 bouts of 30 seconds during each rest interval, totaling 60 seconds of static stretching in between sets. The reason this could matter is that longer duration static stretching appears to reduce muscle force production, and this could negatively influence the hypertrophic stimulus. For example, Siatras et al. found that stretching the quadriceps for 60 seconds resulted in greater decreases in quadriceps force output versus stretching for 30 seconds. As a result, perhaps the reason the Nakamura study failed to find a benefit to static stretching in between sets was that subjects stretched for a total of 60 seconds between sets. Perhaps a 30-second stretch instead, as used in the Evangelista study, is the ideal duration to induce enhancements in muscle growth. However, it's worth remembering that the Wadhi study, in which weighted stretching was employed, did use a 30-second stretching duration between sets, yet found no benefits for hypertrophy. All in all, it's clear to see that future research will still be of great benefit for trying to tease out the details on if and how stretching in between sets could enhance muscle growth. Now, it's potentially worth discussing the fact that all the current three studies that have examined stretching in between sets have measured muscle growth via muscle thickness. Muscle thickness only measures one dimension of the whole muscle. How would the results of these studies look if they used an alternative muscle growth measurement? What if researchers measured cross-sectional area, (which measured two dimensions), volume (which measures three dimensions), or even something like fascicle length. I think the fascicle length measurement is an interesting one. As we've described in a previous video, an increase in fascicle length likely reflects an increase in the length of muscle fibers, as muscle fibers are within fascicles. As we saw in that video, it appears stretching stimuli can induce increases in muscle fiber length. Furthermore, although not a unanimous finding in the research, some human evidence indicates intense static stretching protocols produce increases in fascicle length (which presumably reflects an increase in muscle fiber length). This brings up the interesting question, could stretching in between sets be a tool to help increase muscle fiber length? Hopefully, future research can examine this. - As a final section for this video, viewers may be interested in how stretching in between sets impacts strength adaptations. Many people would think, and justifiably so, that given static stretching can decrease the force output of a muscle, stretching in between sets would reduce the strength adaptations you experience. However, the long-term research does not appear to strongly support this. In the Evangelista study, they found similar increases in bench press and leg extension one-rep max between the group that stretched pain-free for 30 seconds between sets and the group that rested passively. In the Nakamura study, they decided to look at one-rep max on the leg press, peak concentric, eccentric, and isometric torque on a leg extension dynamometer. Except for isometric torque, increases in these strength measures were statistically similar between the stretching and traditional conditions. Intriguingly, the isometric torque increases were greater for the stretching condition. Finally, in the Wadhi study, increases in bench press one-rep max were similar between the group that weighted stretched between sets and the group that rested passively. Therefore, the majority of the current data indicate stretching in between sets might not deleteriously influence strength adaptations, at least within the confines of the protocols used in the respective studies. To conclude the video, since the publication of the study by Evangelista, suggesting stretching in between sets could enhance muscle growth, two new studies now indicate stretching in between sets may not help build more muscle. However, these three studies are fairly heterogeneous, meaning that future research will be of great value for teasing out if and how stretching in between sets could actually enhance muscle hypertrophy. I am aware of at least one study currently being conducted examining the outcomes weighted stretching in between sets. According to the author, it should be published by the end of 2021. So, hopefully, I'll be creating an updated version of this video in the future. Thank you for watching. As always, I hope you found the video helpful or informative in some way.