 Welcome to the House of Hypertrophy. Is there an optimal tempo to maximise muscle hypertrophy? I'm glad to say we have a new meta-analysis exploring this. Let's dive straight in. The researchers aim to identify all the studies that compared faster and slower tempos on either the concentric and eccentric phase and met these criteria. So, to be clear, studies that had one group train with both a slower concentric and eccentric to another group that trained with both a faster concentric and eccentric tempo were not included because the new analysis just included studies that independently manipulated eccentric and concentric tempo. The meta-analysis ended up including 14 studies with a total of 278 subjects. These were the average and range of tempos for the fast and slow eccentric and concentric. Let's start with the eccentric data which answers the question. When using a given concentric tempo, is a fast or slower eccentric tempo superior for hypertrophy? Here's the results. I thought it'd be worth ensuring we all know what we're looking at here. This is what's known as a forest plot. It's a graphical representation of the individual results of each study included in the meta-analysis together with the combined meta-analytic results. As a fun fact, forest plots go back at least to the 1970s. The name refers to the forest of lines produced. For each individual study, we see the effect estimate shown with a dot and the value of it on the right. A positive value in this case means the gains are greater for faster tempos. We also see a 95% credible interval with the upper and lower bounds of the interval noted on the right. Credible intervals quantify the uncertainty in our estimate. To make this clear, remember that each study is trying to estimate the true possible difference between faster and slower tempos, but our estimate is not necessarily perfect. For example, if we wanted to measure the average arm size of adults in England, it would be quite impractical to measure every single person, so we take a sample instead. But the average we get from our sample isn't guaranteed to be equivalent to the true population average, so we have uncertainty with our results. Of course, the larger the sample, the less uncertainty there will be. The way we interpret 95% credible intervals is simple. We say that we believe it is 95% probable that the true effect falls within this interval. Of course, wide credible intervals indicate a lot of uncertainty, whereas narrow credible intervals suggest our estimate is quite precise. We also see a posterior distribution. All you need to know for our purposes is that the areas with greater height are considered to be more plausible than areas with lower heights. The overall meta-analytic effect is the main result, but it is also still an estimate and thus has its own 95% credible interval. For this particular analysis, we see that the effect favors faster tempos with the standardized mean difference of 0.06, which is fairly hard to make sense of if you're not a researcher. Fortunately though, thanks to Greg Knuckles' excellent work over at Stronger by Science, there's a rough but good enough way to convert this number into something more interpretable. A 0.06 effect size roughly translates into a 0.9% difference. Note, this is an additive percentage difference. So if slower tempos produced an increase in muscle size of 5%, faster tempos produced an increase in muscle size of 5.9%. In terms of a multiplicative percentage difference, this roughly equates to 18%. So we're not really talking about a large effect. Moreover, notice the uncertainty we see with the credible interval, with the difference of 0 comfortably being in the interval. Given this, despite the estimate slightly favoring faster tempos, I do think the best description is no clear advantage for either tempo. That said, there is a subgroup analysis worth discussing. With this eccentric data, the researchers split the data into those that had subjects trained to failure and those that did not train to failure. With the failure data, the estimate was in favor of slower tempos, while with a non-failure data, the estimate was in favor of faster tempos. The reason I thought this is perhaps notable is because three of the five studies in the non-failure data had subjects trained with isokinetic dynamometers, which matches the subject's effort and maintains a set velocity, which is not identical to normal training. Whereas with this failure data, six of six studies had subjects trained with regular freeway or machine exercises which most people train with. Thus, there's a case to be made that this analysis is the most generalizable to normal training. So, slower eccentric tempos could have a possibly small advantage, but once again, we have to grapple with the fact this estimate is far from precise, so I don't think it's unjustifiable to once again just say this data shows no clear advantage for either tempo. Let's move on to the concentric data, which answers the question. When using a given eccentric tempo, is a faster or slower concentric tempo superior for hypertrophy? Here, we see that the estimate favors faster tempos, but there's a great degree of uncertainty. Given the limited data here, no further analyses were done with this concentric data. So, what conclusions can we take away from this meta-analysis? The somewhat boring point is that the uncertainty we see in the data demonstrates that additional studies will help us obtain more precise estimates, plus we currently do not have much research on trained individuals, so it would be premature for me to definitively rule out a possibility of genuine effects. On the bright side, the research is developing quite nicely, so I'm hopeful we'll get more precise estimates. Of course, we can't wait, we have to train now. So, when looking at this data, I think the most sensible interpretation is that there's no strong evidence for a clear advantage for either tempo. I'll also add that the researchers did an extra analysis, exploring the gains achieved by faster tempos and slower tempos, with the effect sizes being in the range of 0.34 to 0.43, which roughly equates to 5-6%. But what is the typical magnitude of muscle growth? Fascinatingly, this 5-6% increase is right in line with the typical muscle size increase seen in the literature. Specifically, this excellent meta-analysis included 111 studies and observed muscle size to increase by approximately 5%. I'll add this was quite a precise estimate. Thus, we can have no doubt that you can grow well with either faster and slower tempos. It is clear that rep tempo is far from the most important training variable for muscle hypertrophy. From this, we can probably infer that if there is a difference between slower and faster tempos, the difference is likely not going to be large. So, for now, I would select your preference and this of course can vary between exercises if you wish. There is also further evidence against the notion that tempo has a meaningful impact on hypertrophy. Recall that only studies that independently manipulated concentric and eccentric tempo were included. But there are studies comparing faster concentrics and faster eccentric to slower concentrics and slower eccentrics. These papers tend to find no significant differences in hypertrophy. Indeed, we've had an older meta-analysis and some more recent reviews emphasizing some of this literature and ultimately concluding that provided you're training 2 or close to failure, repetition tempos across a wide range of durations are probably similarly effective for building muscle. That said, it is possible that super slow training might not be ideal for hypertrophy. This paper had untrained women train the back squats, leg press, and leg extension with these variables. A normal group took each set to failure with a 1-2 second concentric and eccentric tempo, with an 80-85% one rep max load. While a super slow group aimed to take each set to failure with a 10-second concentric and full-second eccentric tempo, with a 40-60% one rep max load, increases in slow and fast-switch fibrocyzes from the vastest lateralis favored the normal group. The super slow group did use lighter loads, but it's tough to argue this is what's to blame, since we've seen plenty of times at the house of hyperchve that loads as light as 30% one rep max can be similarly effective for building muscle. But now, this is one study, so it's anything but proof. But in the absence of other data, I think it's best to err on the side of caution and avoid super slow tempos if the aim is to maximize hypertrophy. If you're searching for further guidance on programming to obtain your goal physique, our high-quality partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate personalized programs that are truly comprehensive and well-rounded. Input key details, such as what equipment you have, how often and how long you're able to train, and if you want to emphasize certain muscles. This generally takes less than a minute. The training philosophy is based on the latest scientific literature, and further customizations can easily be done, like changing any train variable or implementing things like supersets. During workouts, there's a built-in warm-up set calculator and rest interval timer. The app also provides progressive overload recommendations to assist you. Of course, the app can automatically log your progression across time. If you're unsure about exercise technique, there are straightforward video and text instructions on nearly 800 exercises. The review from Tens of Thousands is a testament to its exceptional quality, but we would love to know what you think. The link in the comments and description gives you a free two-week trial of all its features, plus 20% off a subscription if you decide to continue. Thank you for making it to the end. Here are the summary points. Feel free to check out another video at the House of Hypertrophy.