 aff affidcincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincincin In the scientific world, meta-analyses are generally considered some of the best evidence as they combine the results of numerous individual studies on the same topic in the last six years. There have been three meta-analyses examining how daily protein intake relates to muscle growth. Here are the relationships established in each. Firstly, it is unsurprising that all show a relationship between protein and gains. Secondly, they all allude to more and more protein not necessarily being required. The 2018 one found a plateau at 1.6 grams per kilogram of total body weight a day. The 2020 one found a plateau with this model at around 1.5 grams per kilogram of total body weight a day. The 2022 one, owing to their different approach to modeling the data may lead you to believe that more and more protein does lead to more growth, but the confidence intervals get wider with higher protein intakes, which suggests there's more uncertainty about these higher intakes. A few studies that have used methods such as nitrogen balance or the indicator amino acid oxidation technique demonstrate this too, with the predicted benefits of daily protein intake on muscle growth stopping at around 1.5 to 2 grams per kilogram of total body weight a day. So how much protein should you consume? Well, before providing an answer, I think it is worth revealing something that is quite underappreciated. Credit goes to Eric Trexler, formerly of the Stronger by Science podcast who made a few of the following observations. It is worthwhile to visually see the data points that go behind these lines, and the 2018 paper is excellent for this. We know this analysis found a plateau at 1.6 grams, but if we more clearly see the data points that contributed to this line, but remove the actual line, what do you see? I see there appears to be an association between protein intake and growth, but it's truly difficult to say you're absolutely better off with a certain intake. Of course, there's a reason statistics are used to derive the line of best fit, but the point is it's quite clear 1.6 grams isn't an ultra-precise cut-off point as some may believe. On top of this, if we only look at protein intakes at or above 1.25 grams per kilogram of total body weight per day, things are even more open to debate. In fact, the R-squared value is 0.011, which means that in this range, protein intake only explains 1% of the variance in the gains in fat-free mass. The same applies to the 2022 analysis. We can visually see that above a certain protein intake, it's hard to say for certain you're better off with higher intakes. So back to our question, how much protein should you consume? I believe providing definitive and absolute statements isn't warranted based on the current scientific literature. Rather, I believe presenting a spectrum is more sensible. 1.2 to 1.59 grams per kilogram of total body weight a day is possibly enough for maximizing gains based on some of the data we've seen. 1.6 to 2 grams per kilogram of total body weight a day is almost certainly enough for maximizing gains. And more than 2 grams per kilogram of total body weight a day is very likely more than enough. And although it's compatible with maximizing gains, it's likely simply not essential for many. At the end of the day, it depends on how you think. You could aim for the higher end if you absolutely want to leave nothing on the table, as some scientific researchers have suggested, but others may be perfectly fine with consuming at least 1.6 grams. But if for a variety of reasons you can't hit this amount, rest assured this is not the end of the world and you may indeed be leaving very little to nothing on the table with somewhat lower intakes. Other factors like protein quality and your age could factor in. In some cases, diets that contain a higher proportion of lower protein quality and or if you're older, protein intakes nearer to the higher end may be a good idea. However, there is still nuance here that we'll likely describe in future videos at the House of Hypertrophy. Besides these, there are three other factors that many say impact protein intake, but do they actually? Some hypothesize the harder you train and the more experienced you are, the more protein you need. What does the research say? This classic paper had novice bodybuilders train intensely for 1.5 hours, 6 days a week for 4 weeks. Strength and muscle gains were similar between consuming 1.35 and 2.62 grams per kilogram of total body weight per day. Their nitrogen balance data suggested 1.6 to 1.7 grams per kilogram of total body weight a day may be ideal. This paper recruited eight bodybuilders considered to be near their maximum muscular potential. Using the indicator amino acid oxidation technique, protein intake requirements were estimated to be 1.7 grams per kilogram of total body weight per day. This third classic paper also recruited elite bodybuilders, and estimated protein intakes were only 1.2 grams per kilogram of total body weight a day. Finally, as for recovery of the muscle tissue, this intriguing paper had subjects perform this training session, and measurements of muscle recovery were similar between consuming 1.8 to 2.9 grams per kilogram of total body weight a day. Thus, the available data does not consistently suggest harder training or more experience increases protein intake requirements. Again, it depends on your thought process. Some may prefer higher intakes to have a comfortable safety margin. In much of the data comprising the associations between protein intake and muscle growth, the subjects were consuming the same or more calories than needed to maintain body weight. But what about if you are trying to reduce your weight by consuming fewer calories than normal? In this scenario, some say to protect your muscle mass, more protein is needed. There are three areas of the scientific literature that might support this. This first paper found in trained men that reduced their calories by 40% while still training for two weeks, fat loss and lean mass increases were greater when consuming 2.4 versus 1.2 grams per kilogram of total body weight a day. The third area is a review in 2014 that, based on the data they collected, suggested that higher protein intake may better protect against muscle mass loss in trained people. Having detailed this data, there are some key considerations. Two of the papers involved a 40% reduction in calories and the lowest protein intake were 1 to 1.2 grams. But what if the reduction in calories was less severe and or if the lowest protein intake were instead around the 1.6 gram area? Plus, we have some evidence, also with some limitations, that indeed find higher protein intakes aren't always better during calorie restriction. Overall, better quality research is needed, for now. Although this is definitely hypothetical, the lower your body fat percentage and or the more aggressive reduction in calories, the higher the protein intake you may wish to consume to stay on the safe side. What if you're trying to gain weight through consuming more calories than normal? We already mentioned how in much of the data, subjects consume the same or more calories than needed to maintain weight. Yet, in the literature, some data has led various people to suggest higher protein intakes on a bulk can minimize the fat gain we see. However, there are some key limitations to this research that I'll uncover in a future video on bulking at the house of hypertrophy. For now, just know I don't think higher than recommended protein intakes are needed on a bulk. How to frame protein intake in the bigger picture? I think it's worthwhile to frame protein intake in the bigger picture. As established and described in the 2018 meta-analysis, resistance training is the much more potent stimulus accounting, at least according to this meta-analysis, for a substantially greater portion of the variance in muscle and strength. Furthermore, this 2021 analysis found that during three days of immobilizing one of their legs, higher protein intakes failed to do a better job at maintaining strength and muscle than lower protein intakes. This is not to say protein intake is unimportant, of course. We've seen sufficient protein intake allows us to realize the best gains we can see from our training. But at the end of the day, you can't force your way to muscle growth by just eating tons of protein. Well-designed and hard training provides the foundational stimulus. Speaking about well-designed training, amidst all the noise online, it can definitely be frustrating and time-consuming to craft an effective program that gets you closer to your desired physique. But our high-quality partner, the Alpha Progression app, which is fundamentally your personal muscle building assistant in the palm of your hand, can help you. Other apps truly craft garbage programs, but this app intelligently formulates a program effective for complete muscular development, with the training variables fine-tuned and inspired by the scientific literature. Best of all, it is 100% tailored to what you want. Let it know the equipment you have, how much you can train, and if you want to preferentially target or neglect certain muscles, this can all take you less than a minute. During workouts, the app's algorithm carefully suggests how you may progress to push you to the next level. Aesthetic graphs automatically display your long-term progress, and there is a huge exercise database of some of the best muscle-building exercises, with simple video and text instructions behind each. Try out every single one of the premium features to your heart's desire during a free 2-week trial through the link in the comments and description. If you like it and choose to go beyond, the link cuts the price of a subscription by 20%. I truly believe the app is exceptional, with the thousands of reviews speaking to this. Before summarizing things, there are two final things worth dissecting. Firstly, we know the literature we mentioned considered protein intake in relation to your total body weight. But if you have significantly more body fat, this tends to overestimate your protein needs. Considering protein intake in relation to your fat-free mass can be more accurate here, although most don't know their precise fat-free mass, so you may just estimate what you'd approximately weigh at lower body fat levels and then use these numbers. Secondly, some have health concerns about higher protein intakes, but as described in this position stand, this stems from data on renal failure patients and educational dogma that hasn't been rewritten despite contrary evidence. In otherwise healthy individuals, there is no indication of harm even in investigations involving well above 2.2 grams per kilogram of total body weight a day. In summary, optimizing your protein intake can help you realize your maximum growth potential. But just don't forget that well-constructed and executed training is the foundational stimulus. I don't believe providing a definitive value for protein intake is currently sensible. Rather, we presented this spectrum on the likelihood of maximizing gains across different protein intakes. Ultimately, it's your choice. Some may aim for the higher end to have no doubts while others may be perfectly comfortable on the lower side knowing that at the very worst, they're getting the lion's share of their gains.