 Welcome to the House of Hypertrophy. How can you reduce your training time while still maximizing hypertrophy? There are many techniques proposed to do this. One of them is drop sets. But what does the scientific literature say about them? I'm glad to say we have a brand new study exploring drop sets in trained individuals. We'll overview this study, describe how it fits into the rest of the scientific literature, and then provide some training recommendations. Let's dive in. 29 trained individuals with an average of 7.6 years of experience had one arm randomly assigned to train with drop sets, and the other arm normal sets. They trained preacher curls and kneeling lap pull downs 2-3 times per week for 10 weeks. Interestingly, all the training was done on an electromagnetic cable machine. But don't worry, we'll bring the conversation back to drop sets with more conventional equipment soon. The normal set arm performed 4 sets of 8-12 reps to momentary failure on the preacher curl, and 2 sets of 8-12 reps to momentary failure on the pull downs. Loads were adjusted across the set and training sessions in an attempt to keep subjects reaching failure in the 8-12 rep range. Note that every repetition was performed with a maximal intended velocity on the concentric with a controlled eccentric. The drop set arm performed 2 drop series on the preacher curl, and 1 drop series on the pull downs. Each drop series had subjects begin performing repetitions with an 8-12 rep max load, and the device automatically reduced the load at various points in the set and subjects continued until momentary failure was reached. Quite interestingly, the researchers wanted to design the drop set protocol so that it involved a greater proportion of repetitions closer to failure than the normal set condition. To do this, after the first load drop, they wanted all repetitions to be 2 or fewer reps away from failure. It was determined through pilot testing that the device configuration that best achieved this was dropping the load by 8% once the subjects concentric velocity had dropped by 20% relative to the fastest repetition. If this all sounds confusing to you, don't worry, let's take an example to make this crystal clear. A subject starts performing reps with an 8-12 rep max load, and we can see that this was their fastest rep. They continued performing reps until their concentric velocity dropped below 20% of this. Once they got to this point, the device reduced the load by 8%, and with this new load we can see this was their fastest rep, and thus they continued performing reps until they dropped below 20% of this, at which point the device reduced the load by 8%. The fastest rep was now this, and again they continued repping out this load until their concentric velocity dropped below 20% of this. This whole process continued until they failed to complete a repetition. Looking at this, we can see the load dropped 4 times, and there were roughly per reduced load. Now, this is just an example, but the authors do mention that the participants generally performed 1-3 reps between load reductions. Furthermore, the total number of reps per drop series was around 16-24. Loads were adjusted across sessions in an attempt to keep performing 16-24 total reps per drop series. Plus, given that two drop series were done on the preacher coals, starting load was dropped by 15% for the second set. Subjects alternated which limb was trained first every session. Elbow flexor muscle thickness, which contained both the biceps and brachialis, was examined around the mid-region. It was found that the normal set saw a greater increase versus the drop sets. However, the difference was small, and the authors did not consider it to be meaningful, and instead concluded that the results were practically equivalent. This was because the difference was within what they deemed the smallest effect size of interest, which was informed by measurement error. The drop set session lasted 10 fewer minutes, or 60% less. When expressing the results as hypertrophy per training minute, it is clear to see that the drop sets were superior. Overall, these results indicate that drop sets can be an excellent time-efficient method for muscle hypertrophy. Before moving forward to analyzing the rest of the research and drop set training, in the spirit of scientific accuracy, there are a few other things to keep in mind with this new study. The training was only semi-supervised. Now, the authors had subjects keep training logs and frequently contacted the subjects. But, subjects unsurprisingly reported discomfort during the drop sets, and combined with not always being supervised, we can't rule out that some were giving sub-maximal effort to which might relate to the numerical difference in growth between the two conditions. Finally, the study was funded by Tonal Systems, the company behind the device used in the study. All the subjects were provided with the device to keep. I don't believe this has any impact on the results, but I did just want to mention it. Ultimately, the design and statistics of the paper are sound. The authors of this paper have been involved in multiple other fantastic research papers, including a few meta-analyses on volume, frequency, and proximity to failure. In fact, two of them create a data-driven strength, which some of you might know. Their channel is excellent and contains in-depth podcasts that even cover much of their own research. When examining the rest of the research, we actually have two meta-analyses comparing drop sets to normal sets for hypertrophy. Both combine the results of five studies and found fairly similar hypertrophy. So, the new study, at least when framed as the growth being practically equivalent, aligns with the rest of the evidence. Unlike the new study, all five of these studies involved training with normal equipment, so the findings of these papers are probably more relevant to most people. One of the analyses reported that drop sets generally decreased training time by 30-70%. That said, the papers didn't use identical drop set protocols, and some of them save time better than others. The most time-efficient method is where you just perform one drop set with multiple load reductions. This was done in both of these papers. The paper by Fink and colleagues recruited 16 previously untrained men to train triceps push-downs. A normal group trained with three sets to failure with a 12 rep max load. A drop set group trained to failure with a 12 rep max load. Immediately dropped the load by 20% and performed further reps to failure, and then did this once more. Increases in triceps cross-sectional area were not significantly different between both groups, but did intriguingly favor the drop sets. Training time was much shorter with the drop sets. The other paper by Ocasie and colleagues recruited nine previously untrained individuals to train dumbbell curls, and had their arms randomly assigned to either train with high load, low load, or drop sets. The high load condition involved three sets of repetitions to failure with an 80% one rep max load, with three minutes of rest between sets. The low load condition involved three sets of repetitions to failure with a 30% one rep max load, with 90 seconds of rest between sets. The drop set condition involved training to failure with an 80% one rep max load, and then immediately reduced the load by 15% to perform more reps to failure. They did this three more times. Increases in elbow flexor cross-sectional area were pretty similar across all three conditions. Training time was much shorter with the drop sets. As an example of a study which used a drop set protocol that is less time efficient, take this one by NS and colleagues. They recruited trained individuals to train these three lower body exercises. A normal group performed each exercise for four sets of 12 reps with a 70% one rep max load. A drop set group performed three sets of 10 reps with a 75% one rep max load, and within each set, they dropped the load to 55% one rep max and performed six more reps. So, they technically performed multiple sets, but had a single load reduction per set. Changes in lateral thigh thickness were not significantly different between both groups. So, you do have different styles of drop sets used in the literature, and you certainly can experiment around with different variations if it appeals to you. But the most time efficient style is the one employed in the studies by Fink and Ocazi. Before moving on, I thought it'd be worthwhile to touch on strength and endurance adaptations. Note that the new paper did not examine strength or endurance. Regarding strength, one of the meta-analyses analyzed this and fascinatingly found that strength increases were not significantly different between drop sets and normal sets. However, we need to pay attention to the details. When it comes to maximizing one rep max strength, training with heavier loads is advantageous. In two of the papers, the normal set conditions trained with slightly lower peak loads. If they trained with heavier loads, it's quite possible they would have seen greater one rep max strength gains. Furthermore, a few of the papers had a within subject design, which is a study design where subjects train one side of their body with drop sets and the other side with normal sets. The thing is, there can be a transfer in strength across limbs. This is called the cross-education or contralateral effect. As a result, this might confound some of the findings. Note, there is no transfer in muscle growth between limbs, so this study design is appropriate for examining hypertrophy. For these reasons, while drop sets can clearly be effective for increasing strength, I do think normal sets often have the potential to be better. Regarding muscular endurance, which is often examined by the number of reps that can be completed with a given percentage of your one rep max, we don't have any meta-analytic data on this. But analyzing the two studies that measured endurance, we unsurprisingly see that drop sets often produce larger increases. Although, in the only paper to compare normal sets with lighter loads to drop sets, which was actually the paper by Okazi, the normal sets with lighter loads actually produced larger endurance increases. But this is merely one small study. All of the papers we have exploring drop sets only involve training one or a few exercises. The feasibility of performing drop sets for every exercise in a program is debatable due to how intense they are. And I do generally think it might be more practical just to implement drop sets on a select few movements in your program. Also, remember that you don't necessarily have to choose between using drop sets or normal sets on a given exercise. It is possible to train with both. Perhaps you just train with the normal sets, but when life gets in the way and limits the time you can spend in the gym, then you may switch to implementing drop sets. You could also perform a few normal sets on a given exercise and then on the final set have some load reductions. This can be a solid method to squeeze out some extra volume. In so far as exercise selection, there is a case to be made that drop sets are more suitable for isolation and or machine exercises. Although, if you do wish to experiment around, I wouldn't necessarily stop you from implementing drop sets on even more exercises. As shown in previous videos at the House hypertrophy, we have evidence that resting for longer than 60 seconds between sets tends to produce more muscle hypertrophy than resting for less. But to drop sets, particularly the style where you perform just one set but have multiple load reductions, might be thought of as having virtually no rest between sets. Given the evidence we have finds drop sets to be fairly similar to normal sets, it would appear to conflict with the idea that resting for longer between sets could be better. I will note that we're not dealing with a large quantity of data in either case, but I do think there are some possible explanations. Firstly, much of the evidence that finds resting longer between sets to be better for muscle growth used exercise is that train large amounts of muscle mass. It's possible that with exercises that involve smaller amounts of muscle mass, shorter rest between sets are fine. And we know that some of the evidence we have on drop sets, such as the papers by Fink and Ocazi, just used arm isolation movements. But then again, we don't have conclusive evidence that drop sets are ineffective with larger muscle mass movements. Another potential explanation is that in some of the drop set data, the drop set group ends up performing a greater number of hard reps. Perhaps this compensates for having virtually no rest. For instance, in the new paper, we know that the researchers designed it such that the drop set condition involved a greater proportion of reps closer to failure. Similarly, in the paper by Ocazi, we might technically consider the drop set group to have performed five sets, and thus they would have been performing a greater number of hard reps than the normal groups that were performing three sets. But then again, the paper by Fink had both the drop set and normal set groups performing three sets. Overall, as we get more research, we'll get greater insight into what might be going on. For now, it's not something I would worry about too much. If you wanted to err on the side of caution when implementing drop sets, I would go for the style of drop sets used by Ocazi, where you essentially perform more sets than you otherwise would with normal sets. If you're searching for further guidance on programming to obtain your goal for Zieg, our high quality partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate personalized programs that are truly comprehensive and well-rounded. Input key details such as what equipment you have, how often and how long you're able to train, and if you want to emphasize certain muscles. This generally takes less than a minute. The training philosophy is based on the latest scientific literature, and further customizations can easily be done, like changing any training variable or implementing things like supersets. During workouts, there's a built-in warm-up set calculator and rest interval timer. The app also provides progressive overload recommendations to assist you. Of course, the app can automatically log your progression across time. If you're unsure about exercise technique, there are straightforward video and text instructions on nearly 800 exercises. The reviews from Tens of Thousands is a testament to its exceptional quality, but we would love to know what you think. The link in the comments and description gives you a free two-week trial of all its features, plus 20% off a subscription if you decide to continue. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the House of Hypertrophy.