unciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunciunci one could go about pre-exhausting. But this paper explored the style outlined by Arthur Jones in the 1970s, where we perform an isolation exercise for a target muscle right before performing a compound exercise for that same muscle. It's proposed that isolation exercise pre-fatigues the target muscle, to the extent that it attains a greater stimulus in the ensuing compound exercise. But is this true? Let's dive into the new paper. 41 trained individuals were recruited to train twice per week for 8 weeks, training these 4 leg exercises, each for 4 sets per session. A traditional group performed all sets on one exercise before moving on to the next as normal in this order. A pre-exhaustion group performed one set on the leg curl right before one set on the Romanian deadlift and then rested before performing that 3 more times to total 4 sets on each exercise. Once that was done, they performed one set on the leg extension right before one set on the Smith Machine squat, then rested before performing that 3 more times to total 4 sets on each exercise. This is pretty much an agonist superset, and training sessions were approximately 36% shorter for the pre-exhaustion group. Both groups aimed to take every set to failure in the 8-12 rep range, with loads adjusted within and across training sessions to stay in this rep range. Although both groups were training hard each set, the pre-exhaustion group did report higher ratings of subjective perceived exertion, which is logical as performing two exercises consecutively with minimal rest, especially leg exercises, will be demanding. Additionally, the pre-exhaustion group, by way of the fatigue generated by performing an isolation exercise straight before the compound exercise, would have been forced to use lighter loads. This is reflected in the volume, low data, which was lower for the pre-exhaustion group. Interestingly, there were some intermittent reports of lower back pain primarily attributed to the Romanian deadlift. Does this mean the Romanian deadlift is dangerous? Probably not. Only 22% of the subjects were actively training with Romanian deadlifts prior to the study. So, the fact much subjects were unaccustomed to it and straightaway transitioned to training with multiple hard sets may have been too much too soon. Perhaps a more gradual progression or extensive prior experience would mean fewer issues. Nonetheless, before and after the study, muscle thickness across multiple regions of the anterior and posterior thigh were measured. Body composition, strength, and endurance were also assessed. There were slightly greater improvements in muscle size and body composition for the traditional group, but the differences were certainly not large and there was statistical uncertainty. Increases in strength and endurance were similar, which is somewhat surprising. You would expect endurance increases to favor pre-exhaustion, while strength gains to favor traditional training. Nonetheless, these results are pretty fascinating, and the researchers detail three practical points. Pre-exhaustion training is a time-efficient method to still see respectable gains. Pre-exhaustion allows us to use lighter loads on compound exercises effectively. That said, they suggest traditional training may likely still be the more effective choice. But again, the differences were small and not strongly supported by inferential evidence. I generally agree with the researchers, but some further points are worth recognizing. In the spirit of scientific accuracy, this is one study. In recent months, I've gone into some detail, including a simulated example, demonstrating why one study is rarely strong evidence. At the time of publishing, this is the only study directly exploring muscle hypertrophy from pre-exhaustion in this format. So this is an early piece of the puzzle. The results are also specific to what was tested, and measured. Questions remain about how growth of other muscles may have looked, or the effectiveness of employing pre-exhaustion with other exercises. Furthermore, due to the potential differences in muscle activation in a compound exercise between people, perhaps pre-exhaustion could work better for some people more than others. But this is speculative for now. In the absence of other research, I echo the researcher's sentiment in that there's no compelling evidence to recommend pre-exhaustion training. After all, traditional training seemingly had a slight edge with lower perceived exertion. That shouldn't be confused with me saying no one should ever pre-exhaust. If you enjoy it or if you've been having some success with it, then by all means continue. Furthermore, we know that pre-exhaustion does result in you handling lighter loads for a given rep range, which could be useful in some cases for one reason or another. We also know it saves some time. Although it's worth knowing there are other time-saving methods that do have a little more evidence behind them. For example, antagonist supersets appear to be able to effectively reduce training session durations, while not impairing muscle growth or training performance. There's also some reasonable evidence that rest, pause, or drop sets could be used in certain cases. If you're looking for an exceedingly effective customized muscle building program, our exceptionally rated partner, the Alpha Progression app, can help you. No other app gets close to creating personalized programs as comprehensive and well-rounded. Input key details, such as what equipment you have, if you want to emphasize some muscles more than others, and how often and how long you're able to train for. This generally takes less than a minute. The training philosophy is based on the latest scientific literature. Track each set with the app, and the app also provides progressive overload recommendations to assist you. And there's a nice workout summary at the end. Of course, the app automatically logs and displays your progression across time. If you're unsure about exercise technique, there are straightforward video and text instructions on over 600 exercises. The reviews from tens of thousands is a testament to its exceptional quality, but we would love to know what you think. The link in the comments and description gives you a free 2-week trial plus 20% off a subscription if you do continue. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the house of hypertrophy.