 Welcome to the House of Hypertrophy. Is training one limb at a time the secret to maximizing muscle growth? How many reps do you need to maximize hypertrophy? And how can you maximize quad hypertrophy? Three new studies add to our knowledge in these areas. Let's dive straight in. The first paper explored whether small muscle mass exercises couldn't enhance hypertrophy by comparing unilateral and bilateral training. Some may be wondering, why would we expect there to be a difference in hypertrophy? After all, if we're comparing a unilateral to a bilateral dumbbell curl, we're ultimately performing the same movement pattern. However, some have suggested that exercises that train a smaller amount of muscle mass, like unilateral exercises, could be superior for muscle hypertrophy for a variety of reasons. For example, as the authors described in the introduction, there is some evidence that the force produced when both limbs contract simultaneously is lower than the summed force from each limb contracting one at a time, a phenomenon known as the bilateral force deficit. One hypothesis behind this is that with exercises that involve smaller amounts of muscle mass, greater neural drive to the muscle and thus potentially higher muscle fiber recruitment can occur. Furthermore, exercises with smaller amounts of muscle mass tend to involve lower cardiovascular demand, which can permit greater local muscle fatigue. On the basis of these reasons, the authors hypothesized that unilateral training would be superior for muscle growth. Let's see if they ended up being right. The researchers recruited 54 untrained women to train three times per week for eight weeks. A bilateral group performed bilateral dumbbell curls, while a unilateral group trained unilateral dumbbell curls. That is, they trained one arm first and then moved on to training the other arm. Both groups trained their exercise for two sets of 8-12 reps to what the authors termed concentric task failure. Loads were adjusted when necessary to ensure subjects kept reaching failure in the 8-12 rep range. The unilateral group alternated which arm was trained first every session. Strength was measured by assessing bilateral dumbbell curl one rep max strength as well as unilateral dumbbell curl one rep max strength on both arms. Muscle growth was assessed through changes in thickness at 60 and 70% regions of the elbow flexors, which contained both the biceps and brachialis. Starting with strength, increases in bilateral dumbbell curl one rep max strength were not significantly different between both groups. Increases in unilateral right arm dumbbell curl one rep max strength was significantly greater for the unilateral group, while unilateral left arm strength was not significantly different, but did favor the unilateral group. This might be explained by the unilateral group ultimately lifting a heavier load per arm. Specifically, during the first session, the dumbbell load used by the bilateral group was a little more than the dumbbell loads used by the unilateral group. In other words, there was no apparent bilateral deficit between groups. But in the last session, the unilateral group trained with slightly heavier loads. As for muscle growth, changes in muscle thickness at both regions were not significantly different between both groups. Therefore, the findings do not support the notion that unilateral training is superior for muscle growth. In the spirit of scientific accuracy, this is merely just one study on untrained women utilizing the dumbbell curl. So, I would be cautious in over extrapolating these findings. In the discussion, the authors mentioned that while unilateral curls involve half the muscle mass compared to bilateral curls, the absolute difference is quite small given that the elbow flexors are not particularly large. So, they leave open the possibility that differences could exist between exercises that involve a larger difference in muscle mass. However, when looking at other areas of the literature, I am skeptical that exercises that involve small amounts of muscle mass are superior for muscle growth. We do have other studies that tend to find similar hypertrophy between unilateral and bilateral training. What's more, as described previously at the House Fypertrophy, we have a paper comparing glute max hypertrophy between back squats and hip thrusts. Back squats train a larger amount of muscle mass versus hip thrusts. Yet, the paper ultimately observes similar glute max hypertrophy between both exercises. Furthermore, we'll see how some of the data we're about to examine next also relates to this area. Nevertheless, with all this in mind, I currently think that whether an exercise is bilateral or unilateral isn't a critical consideration for hypertrophy. I would select things considering your preferences and goals. For instance, unilateral training requires you to train each limb independently, which, with all else equal, takes longer. But unilateral training could have potential benefits when it comes to reducing size imbalances. We have another study comparing heavier to lighter loads for muscle hypertrophy, and its design provides insight into some other questions. For example, it's not uncommon for some to suggest that they can grow certain muscles easier than others. This new study provides insight into the question. Do people who grow their arms well also tend to grow their legs well? Twenty previously untrained men were recruited to train three times per week for 10 weeks. Subjects had one arm and leg randomly assigned to train with heavier loads, while the contralateral arm and leg trained with lighter loads. They trained the unilateral leg extension and unilateral dumbbell preacher curl each for three sets per session. The side of the body training with heavier loads performed 8-12 reps, while the side of the body training with lighter loads performed 20-25 reps. Reps were performed to what the researchers termed volitional failure, and loads were adjusted when necessary across sets to continue reaching failure in the prescribed rep ranges. Strength was assessed both through one rep max on the unilateral leg extension and dumbbell preacher curl, as well as isometric knee extension and elbow flexion strength. Muscle growth was assessed through a range of measures. Thickness and cross-sectional area of the biceps and vascular lateralis were measured, fat and bone-free lean mass and muscle fibro cross-sectional area with fibres just from the vascular lateralis were also examined. Starting with strength, the increases across all measures were not significantly different between the heavier and lighter load conditions. When looking at the rest of the research, it is clear that lighter loads can still increase strength, but we do tend to see that heavier loads produce greater increases. I think the reason this study did not observe this is since it had within-subject design. The thing is, there can be a transfer of strength gains across limbs which can confound the results. Note, there is no transfer in muscle growth between limbs, so this study design is appropriate when the aim is to examine muscle growth. Speaking of muscle growth, changes in all the measures of growth were not significantly different between the heavier and lighter load conditions. If you are a regular viewer at the house viperchiphy, you will know these results align with the rest of the research, even research conducted on trained individuals. That is, provided your training to or close to failure, a wide range of loads, thus repetition numbers, produce similar muscle hypertrophy. For more details on how low you can go rep number wise, check out this fairly recent video. It is notable to mention that both slow and fast twitch fiber size increases were not significantly different between conditions. I bring this up since it has long been speculated that lighter loads and higher reps may build slow twitch fibers better, while heavier loads with fewer reps may build fast twitch fibers better. But this study, along with a couple others we have exploring this, fail to support this notion. Aggregating the arm measures, as well as the leg measures, the researchers ranked individuals on how much they grew both the arms and the legs. There was a correlation between the two. That is, high responders for the legs generally tended to be high responders with the arms. Technically, there was around 50% variant still unexplained. Moreover, do remember that this is just one study with a small sample size of 20, and the measures were largely just from the biceps and vastus lateralis. I do like that the researchers explored this, and hopefully future research continues providing insight about whether it's possible for certain individuals to be high responders with only certain muscle groups. Finally, we know that on average, growth was similar between higher and lighter loads. But could some people grow more with one over the other? Well, aggregating the hypertrophy measures, the researchers ranked responsiveness with the different loads. We generally see that those that grew well with the high loads also tended to grow well with the lighter loads. However, we do see some data points that would seem to suggest certain individuals may experience better growth with lighter loads and others higher loads. Although, as hinted at in recent videos, there are nuances when it comes to determining individual differences, I intend to have a future video diving deeper into this. In conclusion, this is yet another study suggesting that there's no superior rep range for muscle hypertrophy. Provided your pushing reps to or close to failure, a wide range of loads and thus repetition numbers can be highly effective. So, feel free to train according to your preference, and that can certainly include training with a variety of rep ranges. Over the last few years, we've seen an increase in the number of studies comparing different exercises for muscle hypertrophy. A few months ago, we had another study adding to this, comparing back squats to leg extensions. 63 untrained women were recruited to train twice per week for 8 weeks. One group trained Smith machine back squats, while another group trained machine leg extensions. Both groups trained their exercise for three sets of 8-12 reps to momentary muscular failure, with loads adjusted when necessary to stay in this rep range. Strength was assessed via three rep max on both the back squats and leg extension, while muscle growth was assessed by measuring thickness of the rectus femoris and vastus lateralis across three regions. Starting with strength, unsurprisingly, increases in back squat strength were greater for the back squat group, while interestingly, there was no statistically significant difference in leg extension strength between both groups. This suggests that the carryover from back squats to leg extensions may be better than the carryover from leg extensions to back squats. Regarding hypertrophy, rectus femoris growth across all three regions were greater for the leg extensions. Vastus lateralis growth at the proximal and middle regions were not significantly different, but growth at the distal region was greater for the back squat group. If you're a frequent viewer, you'll likely be aware that these findings generally align with the other research we have on the quadriceps. That is, compound exercises that involve simultaneous knee and hip extension, such as squats and leg presses, seem to be highly effective for growing the vastus heads of the quads, but fail to optimize development of the rectus femoris. This is likely explained by the fact that the rectus femoris crosses over two joints. It crosses over the knee and hip joints in a way that means it's involved in knee extension and hip flexion. During exercises like the squats, knee extension but also hip extension occur, so if the rectus femoris strongly contracted, it would partly fight against hip extension, so it makes sense that the nervous system would try to minimize the overall involvement of the rectus femoris. Conversely, isolated knee extension exercises, like leg extensions, better engage the rectus femoris and have been documented to effectively grow it. Note that reverse Nordics and city squats also involve isolated knee extension. While we have minimal data on these movements, I do think it's likely they grow the rectus femoris well. Now, this new paper was conducted on untrained women, but we do have evidence of this idea in trained individuals. Specifically, this paper on trained individuals compared leg presses to leg extensions. Again, rectus femoris growth was greater for the leg extensions, while vastus lateralis growth, interestingly across all three regions, favored the leg press. Circling back to the idea proposed by some that small muscle mass exercises could be superior via hypertrophy, the fact that squats and leg presses may grow the vastus lateralis little more than leg extensions is further evidence against this notion. That is, squats and leg presses train a larger amount of muscle mass than leg extensions, but are not in theory of foregrowing the vastus heads of the quads. To acquire your goal physique, there's no question that effective training is necessary. If you'd like assistance with this all while supporting what I do at the House of Hypotrophy, our highly rated partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate a comprehensive program 100% custom to your needs. Choose your goal, specify if there's muscles you want to focus on more, and let it know how often and how long you want to train for. This process can take less than a minute. There are well over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based on. Furthermore, the training philosophy is based on scientific literature. During workouts, the algorithm analyzes your past performance to derive progressive overload recommendations, thereby fostering long-term progress. Improve your understanding of your response with progression charts on a range of key metrics. The exercise database continues to grow, with just under 800 exercises. Each exercise has simplified instructions and further basic information. Try out all this free for two weeks with a link in the comments and description. And if you like it and continue, the link provides 20% off a subscription. Feel free to let me know what you think about the app anytime. Thank you for making it to the end. Here are the summary points. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the House of Hypotrophy.