 nadsads, trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash trash biceps hypertrophy than preacher curls. But does more training at longer muscle lengths produce more hypertrophy? Or is it okay or possibly even superior to have some training at shorter muscle lengths? This is what the brand new study explored. Let's dive in. 7 individuals with an average of 5.5 years of training experience were recruited I know what you're thinking. Just 7 individuals? That's close to nothing. There's no denying that's true, but the researchers did two important things. Firstly, each subject trained both conditions. We'll dissect the training details in a moment, but one arm was randomly assigned to train entirely at long muscle lengths, while the other arm trained with an even mix of long and short lengths. I say this often, but having the same subjects in both conditions reduces the influence of genetics, nutrition, and outside lifestyle factors on the results. Also, there is no transfer in growth between limbs, and there was an even balance of dominant arms in each condition, meaning that the overall results are not confounded by this. Secondly, the subjects trained for 8 weeks had a following 6-8 week washout period, and then had the arms randomly assigned to train either condition for another 8 weeks. Therefore, the number of observations is the same as having 14 subjects in a typical study. So, the researchers certainly did a good job of getting the most out of the 7 trained individuals. During both 8-week training blocks, the subjects trained twice per week. As mentioned, one arm was assigned to train entirely with long muscle lengths. This involved performing 6 sets on this lengthened cable curl each session. The other arm trained with an even mix of long and short lengths, performing 3 sets on the lengthened cable curl and 3 sets on this shortened cable curl each session. Every set was trained to momentary failure in the 8-12 rep range. The authors noted most subjects tended to fail on the lengthened curl near the start of the curl, and the shortened curl at the later portion of the curl. Loads were adjusted whenever necessary to stay in this rep range. The researchers took multiple hypertrophy measurements, elbow flexor cross-sectional area, elbow flexor thickness at 33% and 66% of the muscle length, and arm circumference at 30, 50, and 70% of arm length. The reason I said elbow flexor is that these measurements technically included both the biceps and brachialis. Both conditions meaningfully increased elbow flexor cross-sectional area, with the gains tending to be better for the long condition. However, the difference between groups did not exceed the region of practical equivalence which was defined by the typical measurement error, leading the authors to classify this as no difference. Both conditions numerically increased elbow flexor thickness at both regions, but the growth wasn't considered meaningful as the increases did not exceed the region of practical equivalence. From this, it's unsurprising there was no differences between the conditions for changes in thickness. This might confuse some of you. How come cross-sectional area meaningfully increased for both groups while muscle thickness did not? It could be because the thickness measurements were just measured at two regions, measurement error, or because the researchers' method for measuring thickness was novel and hasn't yet been validated. Finally, the long condition numerically increased arm circumference at all regions, whereas this wasn't the case for the mixed condition. So the growth tended to be greater for the long condition, with the difference being considered meaningful especially at the 70% region since the differences comfortably exceeded the region of practical equivalence. So what do these findings tell us? Allow me to present two ways you could interpret these findings. The first perspective says we cannot say there was a difference between conditions. This is because although cross-sectional area increases favored the long condition, the difference was not large enough to exceed the typical measurement error. And although the arm circumference gains favored the long condition, circumference is simply a far more imprecise estimate of growth than muscle cross-sectional area or thickness. So the circumference results should be taken with a grain of salt. The second perspective is closer to saying the long condition grew more because of the trends in cross-sectional area and circumference results. To further strengthen this, you could point out that although the researchers took steps to get the most out of the seven subjects, it is still underpowered. We are also not talking about a program entirely with long-length exercises versus short-length exercises, rather long versus mixed training. So the differences in the training program were modest, and expecting detectable differences in growth, particularly in well-trained individuals is hard to ask with a small sample size. These aren't the only interpretations you could have, and at the end of the day we're merely talking about one study. But I am leaning towards the second perspective. I think it's plausible that if there was a larger sample size, more detectable differences may have been found. But I do reserve the right to be wrong on this. In a situation like this, it can be all too easy to question the researchers, but conducting research isn't easy. You never know what you'll find. You can't imagine it's challenging to recruit trained individuals willing to train each arm differently and risk imbalances. So I commend the researchers. I still view this study as valuable, and there are some things we can be reasonably confident about. Considering these results and the results of multiple other exercise comparison studies, it's clear notable hypertrophy can be achieved with virtually any typical exercise provided you're training hard enough and with sufficient volume. If there are differences in growth between the long and mixed conditions, we're most likely not talking about enormous differences. So if you enjoy a mix of long and short length training, you can rest assured you'll still grow and progress. Science is ultimately a cumulative process, relying on multiple studies to build a comprehensive understanding of a topic. The biceps research is still developing, and it's not sufficient enough yet to draw exact and confident conclusions. Having said that, based on what we do have, I think it's a good idea to at least include or have a shoulder extended curl in your rotation. We mentioned this last video, where we saw evidence incline curls may produce greater overall biceps hypertrophy than preacher curls, with another paper possibly suggesting incline curls even grow an upper region of the biceps more than regular barbell curls. We did see, however, preacher curls possibly elicit greater brachialis and brachioradialis growth. Feel free to check out the video for more details. Considering this, some may have been wondering if the mix condition, since it involved a shoulder flex cable curl, could have seen more brachialis and brachioradialis growth. This is difficult to know since the researchers did not separately examine these muscles. Plus, the resistance challenge also differs between cable and free weight preacher curls. As time goes by, we'll get more research comparing various exercises. It will be interesting to see comparisons on shoulder extended cable and incline curls, as well as more comparisons involving the standard barbell curl and other variations. We will be updating you at the house of hypertrophy whenever new data comes along, but right now, there's not much else that can be said. If you're not a fan of any shoulder extended curls or if you enjoy a mixture of different curl variations in your program, that's more than fine and I would not stress at all, you're absolutely still going to make gains. If you're looking for an exceedingly effective customized muscle building program, our exceptionally rated partner, the Alpha Progression app can help you. No other app gets close to creating personalized programs as comprehensive and well-rounded. Input key details, such as what equipment you have, if you want to emphasize some muscles more than others, and how often and how long you're able to train for. This generally takes less than a minute. The training philosophy is based on the latest scientific literature, but further customizations can easily be done, reorder, swap out, remove, or add exercises. Change any training variable or add things such as supersets. During workouts, there's a built-in warm-up set calculator and rest interval timer. Track each set with the app, and the app also provides progressive overload recommendations to assist you, and there's a nice workout summary at the end. Of course, the app automatically locks and displays your progression across time. If you're unsure about exercise technique, there are straightforward video and text instructions on over 600 exercises. The reviews from tens of thousands is a testament to its exceptional quality, but we would love to know what you think. The link in the comments and description gives you a free 2-week trial plus 20% off a subscription if you do continue. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the house of hypertrophy. The