 ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج ج 24 trained individuals with an average of 7.1 years of experience were recruited. Each subject had one arm randomly assigned to train dumbbell lateral raises and the other arm assigned to train cable lateral raises. Interestingly, the researchers had subjects use cuffs to minimize grip fatigue. This design of all subjects training both exercises is great, as differences in genetics, nutrition, and outside lifestyle factors are less likely to confound the findings. I've said it before, but it's not like your right arm eats more protein or sleeps more than your left arm. With both the dumbbell and cable, subjects moved from 0 to 90 degrees of shoulder abduction straight out to the sides in what's known as the frontal plane. Some subjects did have pain, so instead, both exercises were raised in between the frontal and scapular planes. The cable was positioned so that the arm and cable formed a roughly 90-degree angle at the start. This results in the exercise being hardest at this position, where the side delts are at a longer length. With the dumbbells, we know they provide the greatest challenge when the arms are straight out, where the side delts are at a relatively shorter length. They train 2 times per week for 8 weeks. Each exercise was trained with 5 sets per session with repetitions to momentary muscular failure in the 12 to 16 rep range, with progressive overload applied to stay in this rep range across sessions. Side delts thickness was measured at a proximal and distal region. It was ultimately found that growth in both regions was similar between both exercises. Therefore, as the authors note, the findings suggest both dumbbells and cables present similarly effective options for eliciting hypertrophy of the side delts in trained individuals. Before describing how this study may fit into the overall literature on training muscles at long lengths, in the spirit of scientific accuracy, we need to keep some things in mind. Firstly, a single study is never definitive proof. Let's say we have a coin with A-50% chance of landing on heads. Although unlikely, it is still possible to flip heads 5 times in a row, which may lead you to think this coin is biased towards heads. But as we flip it more times, things will eventually reflect the truth. In the same way, a single study can find things that don't reflect reality due to chance, so additional studies are necessary to know we're on the right track. Nevertheless, this study is certainly a data point suggesting no meaningful difference between a dumbbell and cable lateral raise. Secondly, the amount of hypertrophy seen by both conditions was fairly small and not far off measurement error. This isn't too surprising as we're dealing with an 8-week study on already well-trained individuals. So we can't rule out the possibility this study was underpowered to detect potentially small growth differences between the exercises. Thirdly, remember range of motion was the same between the dumbbells and cables. But you can actually bring your arm across your body with cables to lengthen the side delts even more. It remains possible doing this does yield greater growth, we don't know, at least not yet. Fourth and finally, participants aim to maintain a similar rep tempo. But both conditions increased acceleration at the bottom as they approached failure. With the dumbbells, this will increase the tension at longer side delts lengths. Whether this influenced the findings is up to debate. When considering the literature on training muscles at long vs short lengths, I think we should split the data into three categories. Resistance challenge, range of motion, and biarticular muscles. With resistance challenge, with all else equal, we're comparing exercises that are harder at longer vs shorter lengths. The new lateral raise data belongs to this category. The only other study in this category was conducted on untrained subjects in 2020, comparing barbell preacher curls, which are harder near the start of the curl where the biceps are at a longer length, to cable preacher curls, which are harder later in the curl where the biceps are relatively shorter. Similar to the Seidel data, this study failed to find any difference, as biceps growth measured around the mid-region was comparable between both exercises. As for the range of motion category, with any given exercise, you can train with a full-range motion which moves the joints through the largest capacity possible. A shortened partial which moves through the half where the muscle is at a shorter length, or a lengthened partial which moves through the half where the muscle is at a longer length. It was once thought a full-range motion was best, but this was predominantly based on comparisons with shortened partials. Three studies, all on untrained individuals, fascinatingly found length and partials build overall more muscle than a full-range motion. However, two studies in 2024 on trained individuals, including a paper on just under 300 subjects that I detailed in our 2024 summary, largely found length and partials to be similar to a full-range motion. This isn't case closed due to some nuances, but it does seem clear that length and partials are not unequivocally superior, and both a full-range motion and length and partial are options on the table. With biarticulate muscles, these are muscles that cross over two joints. With these muscles, we can change the position of one of the joints to lengthen the muscle more. For example, the rectus femoris is the only head of the quads that crosses both the knee and hip. The rest of the quad head just cross the knee. Leaning back on the leg extension, which puts the hip joint in a more extended position, lengthens the rectus femoris part of the quads. This grew the rectus femoris more than normal leg extensions in one study, while growth of the vastus lateralis, which is trained at the same length between both, was similar. Many probably don't think about it in this way, but it also applies to the gastrocnemius heads of the calves, which cross both the ankle and knee. Compared to bent-legged calf raises, straight-legged calf raises have our knees extended which lengthens the gastrocnemius heads. The two papers found better gastrocnemius growth with a straight leg, while soleus growth, which is trained at the same length between both, was similar. Similar concepts may apply to the biceps, triceps, and hamstrings. However, nearly all of these studies have been done on untrained individuals. Does it apply to trained individuals? The spirit of scientific accuracy would haunt me if I said I was certain, so I'm not certain. But my suspicion is this is the category where trained individuals will see better growth from longer muscle lengths. Indeed, one of the papers finding straight leg calf raises built the gastrocnemius more involved trained individuals. Moreover, this study on competitive bodybuilders found they experienced greater overall rectus morse activity with leaning and lying back leg extensions versus normal leg extensions. The measure of activity used in this paper has been found to relate to muscle growth in a few studies. So right now, it tentatively seems except for the biarticulate muscle category, making the exercise harder at longer muscle lengths as well as using a lengthened partial may largely not be superior in trained individuals. But they crucially do not appear to be any worse either, so you have the freedom to choose what works best for you. All of this is very much a developing area of research. The quantity of quality research we're getting is increasing. In 2024, we had seven studies relating to training at different muscle lengths, with four being the first ever set of studies on trained individuals directly measuring hypertrophy in this area. I'm excited to see how our knowledge progresses in this area and other areas of muscle growth. It can be frustrating because we desperately want to know everything now, but we do know a lot more than 20 years ago. And if the literature has shown anything so far, it is that there are many different paths to growing muscle. For example, if we provisionally accept the findings of the latest study, if you've been training with dumbbell lateral raises, you haven't been missing out. All in all, it's pretty hard to do something tragically wrong, so don't be afraid to experiment around with things in your own training. Training hard with enough volume and consistency are the most important things for building muscle. Using the conflicting information across the web, things can get pretty confusing about how you may want to train. I hope the videos at the house of hypertrophy go some way to clearing up this confusion. But our high-quality partner, the Alpha Progression app, may also assist you. An extremely well-designed plan generator can help you generate an evidence-based muscle-building program 100% tailored to your needs. This can take you less than the time you take to brush your teeth. There are over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based, and you can still personalize things. During workouts, the app analyzes your performance and suggests how you may progress to sustain muscle gains. Graphs display your long-term progress, and there's a huge exercise database of some of the best muscle-building movements with simple video and text instructions. Buy out all the premium features free for two weeks with a link in the description and comments, and if you like it and choose to go beyond, the link gives you 20% off a subscription. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the house of hypertrophy.! Thank you.