 Welcome to the House of Hypertrophy, a brand new study on challenging muscles that longer versus shorter lengths for muscle growth has been released. The popular YouTuber Jeremy Etier was involved in the paper and made a video sharing the details and his thoughts. The study caused quite the controversy online. I believe a lot of this is fueled by various people missing key details of the overall literature or failing to think critically about certain variables. In this video, we'll break down the new study and then importantly explain how it fits within the rest of the scientific literature. I plan to touch on nearly every point related to this new study that I've seen circulating online, so if you're someone who already have certain thoughts on this paper, there's a good chance I'll address them. Let's dive in. 20 Previously Untrained Individuals were recruited to train twice per week for 10 weeks. The subject trains chest flies, reverse flies, hip extensions, and lateral raises. Prime fitness machines were used that had the option to vary the resistance challenge. With one side of their body, they set the machine on all exercises to have a lengthened bias resistance challenge. This means that the exercises provided peak torque at the start of the movement and became easier in the later part of the movement. Since muscles are at the longest length at the start of the concentric, the muscles were challenged more at longer lengths. With the other side of their body, they set the machine on all exercises to have a shortened bias resistance challenge. This means that the exercises were relatively easier at the start of the lift, but provided peak torque near the end of the rip. Since muscles are at a shorter length at the end of the concentric, the muscles were challenged more at shorter lengths. So just to be clear, both sides of the body trained with the same total range of motion, but differed in what part of the range of motion experienced peak difficulty. The researchers did a good job at standardizing tempo to avoid momentum distorting where peak difficulty occurred. Both conditions train the chest fly and hip extension exercises with 5 sets per session, while the reverse flies and lateral raises were trained with 4 sets per session. Each set involved 8-12 repetitions to momentary muscular failure, with 2 minutes of rest between sets. Loads were adjusted across sets and sessions to stay in the 8-12 rep range. Overall, this was quite a well designed paper. I've said this in many prior videos, but by having each subject train both conditions, we reduced the likelihood of differences in genetics, nutrition and outside lifestyle factors between subjects confounding the results. Now, I have seen some people criticize this, stating that training one side of the body can influence the adaptation seen by the opposite side. This is known as the Contralateral Effect or Cross-Education Effect. However, the evidence we have, including this paper on over 100 subjects, fails to find that training one limb meaningfully influences the muscle growth seen by the opposite limb. Rather, the Cross-Education Effect appears to largely apply to strength outcomes. I likely described this paper on more than 100 subjects in a future video, but as they concluded, within subject designs are potentially problematic when assessing strength, though not muscle growth. Back to the study. Muscle cross-sectional area of the side delts, rear delts and pectoralis major were measured across 3 regions, while muscle volume of the gluteus maximus was measured. Ultimately, there were no significant differences in growth between both conditions at any of the measurements. Fascinatingly, I have no idea where the measurement error is in play, but we can see some instances of folks increasing their muscle size upwards of 100%. In response to these findings of non-significant differences in growth, I've seen many suggest that this study conflicts with past research or even debunks all the other research exploring long muscle length training. The problem here is that many people simply batch all the studies that examine long muscle length training in some way without paying attention to the finer details. As I've argued in a video I released on lateral raises published at the start of this year, I think we should divide the literature on muscle lengths into three different categories. Resistance challenge, range of motion and exercise selection with biarticle muscles. The resistance change category is where we're comparing two exercises that are identical in body positions and move through the same total joint range of motion, but differ at which point of the range of motion provides peak difficulty. So just to be crystal clear, something like an incline versus preacher curl, although they indeed differ in peak difficulty across the joint range of motion, also differ in body positions. Thus as per the definition I outlined, this comparison isn't included in this category, but we'll talk about this a bit more later. The new study belongs to this category as both conditions involve training with identical body positions and moving through the same joint range of motion, but differ in where peak difficulty occurred. There are two other studies belonging to this category. The first was from 2020 which compared cable preacher curls to barbell preacher curls in previously untrained individuals. With cables and freeweights, there are technically finer details that can affect peak difficulty throughout the range of motion, but we can keep things easy here and focus on a simplified analysis on peak torque. Peak torque occurs when the line of force from the load is perpendicular to the body part that's moving. If that sounds confusing, let's explain it with the barbell preacher curl. Here the line of force is perpendicular to the body part that's moving, which is the forearm in this case, near the start of the curl, where the biceps are at a longer length. With the cables, they were set up so that the line of force from the cables was perpendicular with the forearm at a later point in the curl, where the biceps are at a relatively shorter length. Biceps growth measured at one region was similar between both. The second study was from earlier this year, comparing cable and dumbbell lateral raises in well-trained individuals. The cables were set up so that its line of force was perpendicular to the arm at the start, where the side delts are at a relatively longer length. Dumbbell lateral raises tend to be hardest when the arms are straight out, which is where the line of force is perpendicular to the arm, a position where the side delts are at a relatively shorter length. Side delts grow that a proximal and distal region were similar. Viewed in this light, the new study actually does not conflict with the evidence we have. All three studies find similar hypertrophy between different resistance challenges. The range of motion category is where we compare a given exercise performed with a different range of motion. This includes a full range of motion, a shortened partial, where you move through the part of the range of motion where the muscles are at a shorter length, which for instance would be the top part of a curl, and a lengthened partial, where you move through the part of the range of motion where the muscles are at a longer length, which would be the bottom part of a curl. Needless to say, the new study does not belong to this category since both conditions trained with the same range of motion. Here's a table summarizing all the papers we have comparing shortened partials to a full range of motion and or lengthened partial. Feel free to pause and skim through them. But the key point is demonstrated nicely by this meta analysis. Across three muscle regions, we tend to see that compared to using a shortened partial, using a full range of motion or lengthened partial produces a bit more hypertrophy, with an increasing effect as we go from proximal to more distal muscle regions. Specifically, at the distal region, we see that on the whole, a full range of motion or lengthened partial produces around 4.76% more growth than a shortened partial. Note that's an additive percentage. So if shortened partials grew the distal region by 4%, a full range of motion or lengthened partial would grow the distal region by 8.76%. As for how a full range of motion compares to a lengthened partial, we have six studies. Fascinatingly, the three studies done on previously untrained individuals all find overall more muscle hypertrophy from a lengthened partial. As for the studies on trained individuals, two find largely similar growth, while the third found fairly similar growth around mid-region, but a bit more growth with lengthened partial to add the distal region of the elbow flexors. So as of right now, lengthened partial appear to be at least as good as a full range of motion. Finally, the exercise selection with biarticular muscles category. Biarticular muscles cross over two joints, and here are the main biarticular muscles most of us care about. Different exercises can involve different joint positions, such that some exercises are going to train biarticular muscles at a longer muscle length than others. Take a seated leg curl and a lying leg curl. Both of these exercises have us flex our knees. However, the seated leg curl has our hip joint flexed at approximately 90 degrees, while the lying leg curl involves virtually no hip flexion. Three of the four hamstring heads are biarticular and are consequently lengthened more with hip flexion. Thus, seated leg curls train the biarticular hamstring muscles at a longer muscle length, and we have one paper finding greater growth of these biarticular hamstring heads from the seated leg curl. The head of the hamstrings that is not biarticular, the biceps femoris short head, grew similarly. As for the other biarticular muscles, the same pattern appears to apply to the biarticular head of the quadriceps, called the rectus femoris. Specifically, leaning back leg extensions lengthens this muscle more and grew it more than normal leg extensions in one paper. This paper also looked at growth of the vastus lateralis, which isn't biarticular. It grew similarly between both. This idea also applies to the biarticular gastrocnemius heads of the calves. Standing calf raises lengthen them more and grew them more compared to seated calf raises in three studies. As for the soleus, which isn't biarticular, it tended to grow fairly similar between both exercises, though one of the papers has numbers slightly favouring the seated calf raise. As for the biarticular head of the triceps, called the longhead, we have two studies comparing overhead extensions to pushdowns. The triceps longhead will be placed at a longer length with the arm overhead. The two papers have seemingly conflicting results. But, I'd argue that the stronger study design demonstrates greater longhead hyperchefee from overhead extensions, and even in the weaker studies some of the growth measures favour the overhead extensions. As for the other triceps heads, which aren't biarticular, only the stronger designed paper explored them by taking a combined measurement of the medial and lateral heads, which fascinatingly also increased more with the overhead extensions for reasons that aren't really known. As for the biceps, we have five studies comparing curling with the shoulder extended to curling with the shoulder flexed. The biceps are placed at a longer length with the shoulder extended. Four of them made this comparison by comparing inclined curls to preacher curls, while one of them compared cable-beijing curls to cable-preacher curls. The findings are mixed, but once again. I'd argue that the stronger study designs demonstrate greater biceps hyperchefee from shoulder extended curls, and I'll also add that one of the non-significant studies has numbers favouring the longer lengths. So overall, it's the range of motion and biarticular muscle categories where we see evidence that longer muscle lengths could be beneficial. Although I do believe this is the best way to think about the current literature we have on longer versus shorter muscle lengths, I should make it clear that the categories are not always completely independent of one another. In fact, I suspect some confusion stems from this, so let me address this. Take this paper by Petrosa and colleagues, which belongs to the range of motion category. It involves a comparison between a full range of motion and length and partial on the leg extension in previously untrained individuals, finding overall more growth with the length and partials. Leg extensions tend to be hardest at the top, so the full range of motion likely experienced peak difficulty at this shortened muscle length, whereas the length and partials likely experienced peak difficulty at their end point, which was still at a longer muscle length. Thus, both range of motion and location of peak difficulty were different between conditions, and this study may lead some to believe that having peak difficulty at longer muscle lengths is more favourable. And to be clear, there is a possible explanation for the results. However, the problem is that we can't rule out the possibility that there's some property of a length and partial besides the greater peak difficulty at a longer length that explains the greater growth. Ultimately, despite what some content creators may state across social media, there's still a lot we do not know about hypertrophy mechanisms. Just to demonstrate this point, take a look at this monster review and the conclusion they come to. Consequently, to truly isolate the variable of resistance challenge, we need to control total range of motion, which would make such a study belong to the resistance challenge category. As another example, take some of the biceps research in the biarticulate muscle category, which involves comparing incline to preacher curls. Incline curls place the shoulder into an extended position, which lengthens the biceps, but provide peak difficulty at the mid to later parts of the curl. Preacher curls place the shoulder into a flexed position, which shortens the biceps a bit, but provides peak difficulty near the start of the curl. One of the papers examined total muscle volume increases of the biceps, brachialis, and brachioradialis from these two exercises. Biceps volume increases were greater with the incline curls, in accordance with the notion that positioning biarticular muscles at longer lengths may be favorable for hypertrophy. But as for the brachialis and brachioradialis, growth was a bit better with the preacher curls. Since neither the brachialis nor brachioradialis are impacted by shoulder joint position, they are trained at the same muscle lengths during both exercises. But given the preacher curl provides greater peak difficulty at the start of the curl, where the brachialis and brachioradialis are at a longer length, this might lead you to believe that having peak difficulty at longer muscle lengths is what explains the preacher curls growing these two muscles more. But once again, although this is a possible explanation for the results, the issue is we can't completely rule out the possibility that there's some property of incline curls unrelated to the resistance challenge that explains the slightly reduced brachialis and brachioradialis growth. To truly isolate the variable of resistance challenge, what would be needed is to use the same curl variation, which recalls what this study by Nunes and colleagues in the resistance challenge category did. But unfortunately, this paper only assessed bicep growth. As a final point for this section, I haven't touched on the isometric literature comparing isometric contractions performed at short to longer muscle lengths. Although not a unanimous finding, we do have evidence that isometrics at a longer muscle length produce overall more muscle hypertrophy than isometrics at shorter muscle lengths. Again, this might lead some to believe that peak difficulty at longer muscle lengths is superior for muscle growth. But the fact is that comparing isometrics at short to longer lengths is not physiologically identical to comparing two exercises with the same total range of motion but differing in where they provide peak difficulty. For this reason, I think it is currently best to consider the isometric data as an entirely separate category. In the spirit of complete scientific accuracy, there are some other things we must not forget. Currently, we can't rule out that things differ between muscle groups. Much of the range of motion research involves the quads, but there's not a single quad study in the resistance challenge category. Inversely, two of the three studies in the resistance challenge category examine the side delts, but not a single range of motion study has examined the side delts. Some of you might know that across social media and even in some review papers, it's been suggested that some muscles will benefit more from being trained at a longer length than others. This is said because not all muscles have identical working sarcomere lengths. It's beyond the scope of this video to fully explore this. But if you're interested, I'll leave a link to an article I wrote explaining what this means and why I don't think we can draw definitive conclusions solely based on this idea. Finally, and quite importantly, much of the research we have involves varying levels of training experience as well as small sample sizes. The new study was conducted on previously untrained individuals and a number of other studies across the categories were also conducted on previously untrained individuals. Thus, it's impossible to be confident about whether certain things are more beneficial for untrained or trained individuals. Again, across social media, some have suggested that it is primarily untrained individuals that benefit from training at longer muscle lengths. They suggest that the extra growth seen from training at longer muscle lengths is a particular type of growth that plateaus very quickly and so will not be observed in trained lifters. I'll leave a link to an article I wrote exploring this idea more and why the evidence behind this isn't as clear as some think. Regarding small sample sizes, this is something that is often overlooked. This is unfortunate because the fact of the matter is that it's an extremely important point. One that we've discussed a number of times previously at the House of Hypertrophy, particularly this year. It is very much possible and often even more probable for a small sample size study to be insufficiently powered to detect real differences. For a clear demonstration of how we can get results from small sample sized studies that fail to reflect reality, see this video. In my eyes, the limitation of small sample sizes is likely most applicable to the Resistance Challenge category since we just have a total of three studies in this category. Now, the new paper and the paper by Larsson did use a within-subject design which we know has its advantages, but it is still nevertheless the case that even larger sample sizes are just simply having more similarly designed studies that can ultimately be combined into a meta-analysis will provide us with greater insights. Fortunately, the research is developing quite nicely. Quite a lot of the research across these three categories have come in the last few years, so I'm hopeful we'll be getting more data. With the two other categories, we do luckily have a larger number of studies. With the range of motion category particularly, as I showed you, we do have meta-analyses so we can have some more faith in these findings. So, there's no denying that the current research on long versus short muscle lengths isn't flawless. We've overviewed a number of considerations, but make no mistake, this does not mean the current research is useless. I believe that when we think about the literature in terms of these three categories, or four categories if you want to consider the isometric data, we can draw some reasonable inferences. When doing this, these are the takeaways. Regarding resistance challenge, it seems that you do not need to worry about where peak difficulty in the range of motion is. As for range of motion, I'd say a full range of motion is an excellent default option, but you can experiment around with length and partial since they perform reasonably well in the literature. As for exercise selection with biarticle muscles, these exercises have performed well in the literature, so including them in some way in your program may be a worthwhile bet. Again, I'm probably sounding like a broken record, but I want to make myself abundantly clear. These conclusions are not cast in stone, they are derived from the current evidence we have, not all the highest quality evidence we could ever wish to have. Finally, I will add that it is crystal clear that the muscle length you train at is certainly not the most important factor for growth. Training hard enough, performing sufficient volume and just plain old consistency are more important, so there's no need to excessively worry about exercise selection thinking that it will be the make or break factor for your gains, because it's not. To acquire your golphosique, there's no question that effective training is necessary. If you'd like assistance with this all while supporting what I do at the House Vipertrophy, our highly rated partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate a comprehensive program 100% custom to your needs. Choose your golph, specify if there's muscles you want to focus on more, and let it know how often and how long you want to train for. This process can take less than a minute. There are well over a quadrillion input combinations on which your plan is based on. Furthermore, the training philosophy is based on scientific literature. During workouts, the algorithm analyzes your past performance to derive progressive overload recommendations, thereby fostering long-term progress. Improve your understanding of your response with progression charts on a range of key metrics. The exercise database continues to grow, with just under 800 exercises. Each exercise has simplified instructions and further basic information. Try out all this free for two weeks with a link in the comments and description. And if you like it and continue, the link provides 20% off a subscription. Feel free to let me know what you think about the app anytime.