 Welcome to the House of Hypertrophy. How effective might compound exercises be for biceps and brachialis hypertrophy? A new study has been released addressing this question, and it's particularly interesting because it examined growth across two different muscle regions, providing insight into whether a compound and isolation exercise can produce different regional hypertrophy. The study also provides insight into other interesting questions, such as whether the pump can be a valid proxy for long-term growth. Let's dive in. The study had two different experiments. Experiment 1 examined acute muscle swelling, which we can think of as the pump, straight after a row and dumbbell curl, while Experiment 2 examined actual muscle growth after weeks of training with either exercise. Let's begin with Experiment 1. The researchers recruited 16 trained men to train one arm with a dumbbell row, and their other arm with a dumbbell curl. Both exercises were performed with four sets of 8-12 reps of failure. Most people performed dumbbell rows with a neutral grip, but the researchers had them use a supinated grip. The curls, of course, were also performed with a supinated grip. Muscle thickness of the elbow flexors, which consisted of both the biceps and brachialis, was assessed straight after performing both exercises at 25% and 75% of this distance. Because this measure was taken straight after the exercise, this is a measure of muscle swelling. It was found at both regions. Swelling was greater for the dumbbell curls, although the difference was only statistically significant at the 25% region. This is not all too surprising. Many would expect a much greater biceps and brachialis pump from curls, but the findings of Experiment 2 are where things get interesting. In Experiment 2, nine previously untrained men were recruited. Some may be thinking, why did they select untrained individuals for Experiment 2 instead of using the same trained individuals from Experiment 1? It is generally more challenging to get trained individuals to give up their normal training program and commit to a long-term study, but the researchers also say that trained individuals were selected for Experiment 1 to ensure proper exercise execution, while untrained subjects were used for Experiment 2 to avoid prior adaptation bias, ceiling effects, and diminishing returns. These are fairly reasonable points, but I still believe examining growth in trained individuals is useful. Nevertheless, like Experiment 1, the untrained subjects trained one arm with dumbbell rows and their other arm with dumbbell curls. This was done twice per week for eight weeks. They trained with four to six sets of 8 to 12 reps to failure for both. Loads were adjusted across training sessions to ensure they stayed in the 8 to 12 rep range. Growth of the 25% and 75% regions of the elbow flexors was assessed. Growth at the 75% region was greater with the dumbbell curls, but fascinatingly, growth at the 25% region ended up being similar between both exercises. Another worthwhile point is that we can see for the dumbbell curl. Unlike the swelling which was virtually similar between the 25 and 75% regions, the actual growth was not uniform. The 75% region grew more than the 25% region. So a back exercise like the row may be able to grow a region of the elbow flexors similarly to curls, while other areas grow more with curls. Before moving on to other research comparing lat pull downs to curls, as well as studies relating to swelling's relationship to growth, in the spirit of scientific accuracy, there are some things we must not forget. Firstly, you could speculate that the only reason the 25% region managed to grow similarly was because the subjects were previously untrained. Perhaps this would not be found in trained individuals. I think this is a possibility, but it's tough to say anything with certainty since we don't have any other data supporting or opposing this. Secondly, the biceps and brachialis were not separated. So how they each contributed to the results is unknown. However, there is not much if any brachialis at the 25% region, but it becomes more apparent at the 75% region. Lastly, this is just one study with a small sample size, and its results are specific to the comparison of dumbbell supinated rows versus dumbbell supinated curls. If a different back or biceps exercise were used, the findings could be different. For example, if the dumbbell rows were performed with a neutral grip, perhaps the 25% region would not have grown as much as the curls. Moreover, we've seen in prior videos that different curling exercises themselves can produce different regional hyperchvy across the elbow flexors. Feel free to check out these videos after. I should mention a 2019 study by the same research team used an identical design to experiment two of the new paper and found the elbow flexors grew more with dumbbell curls than with dumbbell rows. However, this earlier paper reported only total muscle growth, not regional changes. I contacted the authors and they confirmed that some of the same participants were included in both papers. It's just that the new paper is the first to present the regional hyperchvy data. We have one other study from 2015 exploring the effects of back movements on elbow flexor hyperchvy. 29 untrained men are either trained with lat pull downs or barbell curls, twice per week for 10 weeks. Each session, subjects train their respective exercise for three sets of 8-12 reps of failure, with loads adjusted across time to stay in this rep range. The lat pull downs were performed with a pronated wide grip. While the barbell curls were performed with a shoulder-width supinated grip, thickness of the elbow flexors was measured at this region. And it was found there was no significant differences in growth between the two exercises. This is quite fascinating, as I wouldn't have anticipated pronated wide grip pull downs to produce virtually identical growth to barbell curls. Now, the measure again included the biceps and brachialis, and I sort of do wonder if a greater proportion of the growth for the pull downs was from the brachialis, but it's difficult to be sure. We also know that just one region was assessed, and as the new study suggests, it is possible that other regions of the elbow flexors grew more with the curls. All in all, the current literature demonstrates that back movements can effectively grow the elbow flexors and may produce similar growth at certain regions. But unsurprisingly, isolation exercises are likely needed to maximize overall elbow flexor hypertrophy. Curls are also an ideal way to accumulate greater volume for the elbow flexors without involving the back, and we do know that higher volumes can generally be beneficial for growing more. Before exploring the pump's potential relationship with hypertrophy, I thought it would be fun to explore some data on this question. How long does it take for you to get as big as your pump? Of course, your pump will always be bigger than your current resting muscle size, so you will technically never be as big as your most recent pump. But what I mean is, if you train today and measure your temporary increase in muscle size, how many weeks or months of training would it take for you to genuinely achieve that size? In experiment one of the new study, we saw the dumbbell curls produce swelling in the range of 16-19%. In experiment two, we ended up seeing that after 8 weeks, the elbow flexors grew in the range of 5-11%. In other words, the subjects did not quite manage to get as big as the pump's seen in experiment one. Keep in mind again that experiments one and two were done on a different set of subjects. But there is this other study worth sharing. It was found that after a group of untrained subjects trained the bench press with these variables, the pecs experienced a temporary increase in muscle size of 8.6%. After training the bench press twice a week for 8 weeks with these variables, the pecs grew by 14.2%. So these subjects far surpassed the size of their initial pump in 8 weeks. So although it's not always a given, it may be possible for untrained individuals to get as big or bigger than their pump in around 2 months. Obviously the size of your pump in a training session will depend on how you trained and the genuine muscle growth you achieve will depend on an array of factors. So it's impossible for you to know truly how long it would take to get as big as one of your pumps. But I nonetheless thought it was interesting to share these aspects of the two studies. The findings of the new study partly question the validity of muscle as a proxy for muscle hypertrophy. At the 75% region, both swelling and subsequent muscle growth were greater for the dumbbell curls versus the dumbbell rows. But at the 25% region, although swelling was greater for the curls, growth ended up being similar between both exercises. What does other research suggest about the pump and muscle hypertrophy? It is clear that achieving a greater pump does not necessarily lead to more growth. Things like high reps, drop sets and using constant tension can cause a greater pump, but do not cause more hypertrophy. This does not necessarily mean the pump plays no role in hypertrophy, since maybe a small amount of it contributes to growth and many training styles pass that threshold. I also want to be clear that many of the things that lead to a greater pump are generally not inferior for hypertrophy, so training that achieves a great pump can often be similarly effective, which is great news if you enjoy the pump. So certain training styles that list a greater pump may not necessarily build more muscle, but when comparing two exercises performed with the same sets, reps and efforts, does the exercise that leads to a greater pump at a certain muscle region mean it will result in better growth? Of course, the latest study does not completely support this, but it is after all just one paper. Fortunately, there are two other studies providing further insights. This study found the flat bench press produced greater swelling of the mid-pecs compared to the inclined bench press, whereas upper-pec swelling was similar between both. In my ultimate guide to chest hypertrophy, I described how the flat barbell bench press may indeed grow the mid-pecs more than the inclined bench press, so the swelling data aligns with this, but as for the upper-pecs, I described how the upper-pecs likely grow more from the inclined bench press. So as the swelling data does not align with this, we might interpret this as further evidence of our swelling may not always be a valid proxy for hypertrophy. The second study compared straight-leg calf raises to bent-leg calf raises and found that swelling of both the lateral and medial gastrocnemius was greater for the straight-leg calf raises, while swelling of the soleus was greater for the bent-leg calf raises. In my ultimate guide to calf hypertrophy, I described how the straight-leg calf raise indeed grows the medial and lateral gastrocnemius more, and although it's somewhat debatable, I detailed why the soleus may indeed grow a bit better from bent-leg calf raises. Thus, this is a scenario where I think the swelling data better aligns with muscle growth. With all this considered, it currently seems like swelling may be hit or miss. It may sometimes be fairly useful, but other times not. More research is required. Given this uncertainty, I can't currently recommend using acute muscle swelling as an undeniable valid proxy for hypertrophy. I should also mention that outside of the lab, people aren't measuring their temporary increase in muscle size with ultrasound or MRI when discussing the pump. Rather, they're basing it off their own perception, which may not always be an accurate indicator of actual temporary changes in direct muscle size measurements. Again, none of this is to say that no one should take note of their pump. Enjoyment of training is an important factor, and you may simply select some exercises that give you a better pump for no other reason than you enjoy the pump. If you're searching for further guidance on programming to obtain your goal for Zieg, our high-quality partner, the Alpha Progression app, can generate personalized programs that are truly comprehensive and well-rounded. Input key details, such as what equipment you have, how often and how long you're able to train, and if you want to emphasize certain muscles. This generally takes less than a minute. The training philosophy is based on the latest scientific literature, and further customizations can easily be done, like changing any training variable or implementing things like supersets. During workouts, there's a built-in warm-up set calculator and rest interval timer. The app also provides progressive overload recommendations to assist you. Of course, the app can automatically log your progression across time. If you're unsure about exercise technique, there are straightforward video and text instructions on nearly 800 exercises. The reviews from tens of thousands is a testament to its exceptional quality, but we would love to know what you think. The link in the comments and description gives you a free two-week trial of all its features, plus 20% off a subscription if you decide to continue. Thank you for making it to the end. Feel free to check out another one of the videos at the House of Hypertrophy.